<html><body><pre>
[Congressional Bills 118th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[S. 883 Introduced in Senate (IS)]

&lt;DOC&gt;






118th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                 S. 883

To establish the National Office of New Americans, to reduce obstacles 
to United States citizenship, to support the integration of immigrants 
   into the social, cultural, economic, and civic life of the United 
                    States, and for other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                   IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

                             March 21, 2023

Mr. Markey (for himself and Ms. Warren) introduced the following bill; 
  which was read twice and referred to the Committee on the Judiciary

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
To establish the National Office of New Americans, to reduce obstacles 
to United States citizenship, to support the integration of immigrants 
   into the social, cultural, economic, and civic life of the United 
                    States, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE; TABLE OF CONTENTS.

    (a) Short Title.--This Act may be cited as the ``New Deal for New 
Americans Act of 2023''.
    (b) Table of Contents.--The table of contents for this Act is as 
follows:

Sec. 1. Short title; table of contents.
Sec. 2. Definitions.
                 TITLE I--NEW AMERICANS AND INTEGRATION

Sec. 101. Definitions.
Sec. 102. National Office of New Americans.
Sec. 103. Federal Initiative on New Americans.
 TITLE II--PROGRAMS TO PROMOTE CITIZENSHIP, INTEGRATION, AND PROSPERITY

Sec. 201. Definitions.
Sec. 202. Sense of Congress on access to legal counsel.
Sec. 203. Legal Services and Immigration Assistance grant program.
Sec. 204. English as a Gateway to Integration grant program.
Sec. 205. Workforce Development and Shared Prosperity grant program.
Sec. 206. Department of Homeland Security grants.
Sec. 207. United States Citizenship and Integration Foundation.
Sec. 208. Pilot program to promote immigrant integration at State and 
                            local levels.
Sec. 209. Authorization of appropriations for Foundation and pilot 
                            program.
              TITLE III--REDUCING BARRIERS TO CITIZENSHIP

Sec. 301. Sense of Congress.
Sec. 302. Immigration service fees.
Sec. 303. Waiver of English requirement for senior new Americans.
Sec. 304. Reduce financial obstacles to naturalization.
Sec. 305. Naturalization for certain United States high school 
                            graduates.
Sec. 306. Family integration.
Sec. 307. Revision of grounds for deportation.
Sec. 308. Waiver to ensure access to citizenship.
Sec. 309. Naturalization ceremonies.
Sec. 310. Proud to Be a United States Citizen Program.
Sec. 311. Mission of U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services.
Sec. 312. Automatic registration of eligible individuals.
Sec. 313. Department of Homeland Security assistance in registration.
Sec. 314. Voter protection and security in automatic registration.
Sec. 315. Effective date.
             TITLE IV--REFUGEE RESETTLEMENT AND INTEGRATION

Sec. 401. Definition of Secretary.
Sec. 402. Minimum number of refugees to be admitted.
Sec. 403. Pre-arrival English language and work orientation training 
                            for approved refugee applicants.
Sec. 404. Update of reception and placement grants.
Sec. 405. Case management grant program.
Sec. 406. Increase in cash payments.
                  TITLE V--PROTECTIONS FOR IMMIGRANTS

Sec. 501. Personally identifiable information.
Sec. 502. Voluntary participation in integration and inclusion 
                            activities.

SEC. 2. DEFINITIONS.

    In this Act:
            (1) Immigrant.--The term ``immigrant'' means an individual 
        who--
                    (A) is not a citizen or national of the United 
                States;
                    (B) is present in the United States; and
                    (C)(i) is in any status under the immigration laws; 
                or
                    (ii)(I) is not in any status under the immigration 
                laws; and
                    (II) intends to resident permanently in the United 
                States.
            (2) Immigration laws.--The term ``immigration laws'' has 
        the meaning given the term in section 101(a) of the Immigration 
        and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1101(a)).
            (3) Refugee.--The term ``refugee'' has the meaning given 
        the term in section 101(a) of the Immigration and Nationality 
        Act (8 U.S.C. 1101(a)).

                 TITLE I--NEW AMERICANS AND INTEGRATION

SEC. 101. DEFINITIONS.

    In this title:
            (1) Director.--The term ``Director'' means the Director of 
        the National Office of New Americans.
            (2) Federal agency.--The term ``Federal agency'' has the 
        meaning given the term ``agency'' in section 551 of title 5, 
        United States Code.
            (3) Office.--The term ``Office'' means the National Office 
        of New Americans established by section 102(a).

SEC. 102. NATIONAL OFFICE OF NEW AMERICANS.

    (a) Establishment of the National Office of New Americans.--There 
is established within the Executive Office of the President an office 
to be known as the ``National Office of New Americans''.
    (b) Purposes.--The purposes of the Office are the following:
            (1) To welcome and support immigrants and refugees in the 
        United States.
            (2) To promote and support immigrant and refugee 
        integration into, and inclusion in, the social, cultural, 
        economic, and civic life of the United States.
            (3) To ensure that the Federal Government and Federal 
        agencies promote the pursuit of United States citizenship among 
        immigrants and refugees.
            (4) To ensure access to quality English language learning 
        programs that support the successful integration of immigrant 
        adults, including by enhancing--
                    (A) employment and career prospects and economic 
                integration; and
                    (B) social integration in local communities and 
                participation in civic life, including engagement with 
                State and local governments, schools, and private and 
                nonprofit community institutions.
            (5) To improve access to workforce development programs, 
        including by ensuring that such programs meet the demand and 
        the unique language, training, and educational needs of 
        immigrants and refugees.
            (6) To coordinate the efforts of Federal, State, and local 
        entities to support the effective social, economic, linguistic, 
        and civic integration of immigrants, refugees, and the children 
        of immigrants and refugees.
            (7) To provide advice and leadership to the President, 
        Members of Congress, and other Federal Government officials on 
        the challenges and opportunities facing such entities with 
        respect to immigrant and refugee integration.
            (8) To evaluate the scale, quality, and effectiveness of 
        Federal Government efforts with respect to immigrant and 
        refugee social and economic integration, including access to 
        United States citizenship, English language learning, 
        education, and workforce development programs.
            (9) To identify the anticipated effects of new Federal 
        policies on existing integration efforts and advise the 
        President on how to address potential integration needs and the 
        effects of such policies.
            (10) With respect to immigrant and refugee integration 
        efforts, to consult on a biannual basis with State and local 
        government officials on challenges and opportunities presented 
        by such efforts.
            (11) With respect to the activities described in paragraphs 
        (8) through (10), to ensure the inclusion of the perspectives 
        of immigrants and refugees.
            (12) With respect to the administration of the grant 
        programs under title II, to consult with the applicable heads 
        of Federal agencies.
            (13) To submit to the President and the appropriate 
        committees of Congress a biannual report that describes the 
        activities of the Office and the results of the consultation 
        processes described in paragraphs (10) through (12).
    (c) Director.--
            (1) In general.--The Office shall be headed by a Director, 
        who shall be appointed by the President, by and with the advice 
        and consent of the Senate.
            (2) Responsibilities.--The Director shall--
                    (A) establish policies, objectives, and priorities 
                for the Office with respect to immigrant and refugee 
                integration;
                    (B) with the assistance of the Deputy Director for 
                Citizenship and Inclusion, the Deputy Director for 
                Workforce and the Economy, the Deputy Director for 
                Children's Integration Success, and the Associate 
                Director of State and Local Affairs, carry out the 
                purposes of the Office, as described in subsection (b);
                    (C) serve as the Chair of the Federal Initiative 
                for New Americans established under section 103;
                    (D) make recommendations to the President on 
                changes in the organization, management, programs, and 
                budget of the Federal agencies to promote the 
                integration of immigrants and refugees;
                    (E) with respect to efforts to promote United 
                States citizenship and the integration of immigrants 
                and refugees, consult, support, and coordinate with 
                State and local governments; and
                    (F) serve as a member of the Domestic Policy 
                Council and the National Economic Council.
            (3) Powers of the director.--In carrying out the 
        responsibilities under paragraph (2) and the purposes under 
        subsection (b), the Director may--
                    (A) select, appoint, employ, and fix compensation 
                of such officers and employees as may be necessary to 
                carry out such responsibilities and purposes;
                    (B) with the concurrence of the head of the 
                applicable Federal agency, direct the temporary 
                reassignment within the Federal Government of personnel 
                employed by such Federal agency;
                    (C) use for administrative purposes, on a 
                reimbursable basis, the available services, equipment, 
                personnel, and facilities of Federal, State, and local 
                agencies;
                    (D) procure the services of experts and 
                consultants, in accordance with section 3109 of title 
                5, United States Code (relating to appointments in the 
                Federal service) at rates of compensation for 
                individuals not to exceed the daily equivalent of the 
                rate of pay payable for level GS-18 of the General 
                Schedule under section 5332 of title 5, United States 
                Code;
                    (E) accept and use donations of property from 
                Federal, State, and local government agencies;
                    (F) use the mail in the same manner as other 
                Federal agencies; and
                    (G) monitor the implementation of immigrant and 
                refugee integration-related activities of the Federal 
                Government, including by--
                            (i) conducting program and performance 
                        audits and evaluations of each Federal agency; 
                        and
                            (ii) requesting assistance from the 
                        Inspector General of the applicable Federal 
                        agency in such audits and evaluations.
    (d) Deputy Directors.--
            (1) In general.--There shall be in the Office a Deputy 
        Director for Citizenship and Inclusion, a Deputy Director for 
        Workforce and the Economy, and a Deputy Director for Children's 
        Integration and Success, each of whom shall be appointed by the 
        President, in consultation with the Director.
            (2) Responsibilities.--
                    (A) Deputy director for citizenship and 
                inclusion.--The Deputy Director for Citizenship and 
                Inclusion shall, among other duties as assigned by the 
                Director, assist the Director in promoting--
                            (i) inclusion of immigrants and refugees in 
                        the social, economic, and civic life of their 
                        communities and the United States; and
                            (ii) access to United States citizenship.
                    (B) Deputy director for workforce and the 
                economy.--The Deputy Director for Workforce and the 
                Economy shall, among other duties as assigned by the 
                Director, assist the Director in--
                            (i) promoting participation of immigrants 
                        and refugees in the United States workforce; 
                        and
                            (ii) increasing the contributions of 
                        immigrants and refugees to the United States 
                        economy.
                    (C) Deputy director for children's integration 
                success.--The Deputy Director for Children's 
                Integration Success shall, among other duties as 
                assigned by the Director, assist the Director in 
                ensuring that Federal policies and programs intended to 
                support the healthy development and educational success 
                of children are effective in reaching and serving the 
                children of immigrant families.
    (e) Bureau of State and Local Affairs.--
            (1) In general.--There is established within the Office a 
        Bureau of State and Local Affairs.
            (2) Associate director.--
                    (A) In general.--The Bureau of State and Local 
                Affairs shall be headed by an Associate Director of 
                State and Local Affairs, who shall be appointed by the 
                President, in consultation with the Director.
                    (B) Duties.--The Associate Director of State and 
                Local Affairs shall, among other duties as assigned by 
                the Director, assist the Director in coordinating the 
                efforts of State and local entities to support the 
                economic, linguistic, and civic integration of 
                immigrants, refugees, and the children of immigrants 
                and refugees.
    (f) Limitation.--An individual may not serve as Director, Deputy 
Director for Citizenship and Inclusion, Deputy Director for Workforce 
and the Economy, Deputy Director for Children's Integration Success, or 
Associate Director of State and Local Affairs while serving in any 
other position in the Federal Government.
    (g) Access by Congress.--The establishment of the Office within the 
Executive Office of the President shall not affect access to the Office 
by a Member of Congress or any member of a committee of the Senate or 
the House of Representatives, including access to--
            (1) any information, document, or study in the possession 
        of, or conducted by or at the direction of, the Director; or
            (2) personnel of the Office.

SEC. 103. FEDERAL INITIATIVE ON NEW AMERICANS.

    (a) Establishment.--Not later than 180 days after the confirmation 
of the Director of the Office, the Director shall establish within the 
Office a Federal Initiative on New Americans (referred to in this 
section as the ``Initiative'').
    (b) Purpose.--The purposes of the Initiative are--
            (1) to welcome and support immigrants and refugees in the 
        United States;
            (2) to establish a coordinated Federal program to respond 
        effectively to immigrant and refugee integration issues; and
            (3) to advise and assist the Director in identifying and 
        implementing the necessary policies to carry out such program.
    (c) Membership.--The Initiative shall be composed of--
            (1) the Director, who shall serve as chairperson;
            (2) the Secretary of the Treasury;
            (3) the Attorney General;
            (4) the Secretary of Commerce;
            (5) the Secretary of Labor;
            (6) the Secretary of Health and Human Services;
            (7) the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development;
            (8) the Secretary of Education;
            (9) the Secretary of Homeland Security;
            (10) the Secretary of State;
            (11) the Director of the Office of Refugee Resettlement;
            (12) the Director of the Small Business Administration;
            (13) the Director of the Office of Management and Budget;
            (14) the Director of the Bureau of Consumer Financial 
        Protection; and
            (15) any other individual--
                    (A) invited by the Director to participate; and
                    (B) who occupies a position listed under level I or 
                II of the Executive Schedule, as provided in sections 
                5312 and 5313 of title 5, United States Code.
    (d) Duties.--
            (1) In general.--The Initiative shall meet at the call of 
        the chairperson and perform such duties as the chairperson 
        reasonably requires.
            (2) Coordinated response to immigrant and refugee issues.--
        The Initiative shall join with Federal agencies in providing a 
        coordinated Federal response to adequately address matters that 
        affect the lives of immigrant and refugee families and local 
        communities with growing immigrant and refugee populations, 
        including access to--
                    (A) English language learning;
                    (B) adult education and workforce training;
                    (C) occupational licensure;
                    (D) early childhood care and education;
                    (E) elementary, secondary, and postsecondary 
                education;
                    (F) health care;
                    (G) naturalization;
                    (H) civic engagement;
                    (I) immigration assistance and legal services;
                    (J) economic development;
                    (K) language access services; and
                    (L) other services the Director identifies as 
                aiding the integration of immigrants and refugees into 
                the social, cultural, economic, and civic life of the 
                United States.
            (3) Liaison with federal agencies.--
                    (A) In general.--Each member of the Initiative 
                shall serve as a liaison to the Federal agency of the 
                member to ensure that the Federal agency coordinates 
                with and responds to the recommendations of the 
                Initiative in a timely and meaningful manner.
                    (B) Duties of a liaison.--The duties of each member 
                as a Federal agency liaison include--
                            (i) developing, for the applicable Federal 
                        agency, immigrant and refugee integration goals 
                        and indicators;
                            (ii) implementing the biannual consultation 
                        process described in section 102(b)(10) by 
                        consulting with the State and local 
                        counterparts of the Federal agency;
                            (iii) reporting to the Initiative on the 
                        progress made by the Federal agency in 
                        achieving the goals and indicators described in 
                        clause (i); and
                            (iv) upon request by the Director and 
                        subject to laws governing disclosure of 
                        information, providing such information as may 
                        be required to carry out the responsibilities 
                        of the Director and the functions of the 
                        Office.
            (4) Recommendations of the initiative.--Not later than 1 
        year after the date on which the Initiative becomes fully 
        operational, and every 2 years thereafter, the Director shall 
        submit to Congress a report that includes the following:
                    (A) Findings from the consultation process 
                described in section 102(b)(10), including a 
                description of the immigrant and refugee integration 
                opportunities offered by, and integration challenges 
                facing, State and local governments.
                    (B) An assessment of the effects of, and 
                recommendations with respect to, pending legislation 
                and executive branch policy proposals.
                    (C) A description of the possible effects of 
                pending legislation and executive branch policy 
                proposals on immigrant and refugee integration.
                    (D) An identification of any Federal program or 
                policy that has a negative impact on immigrants, 
                refugees, and local communities with growing immigrant 
                and refugee populations, as compared to the general 
                population, and recommendations for changes to any such 
                program or policy.
                    (E) Recommendations on legislative solutions to 
                better support the successful integration of immigrants 
                and refugees and the children of immigrants and 
                refugees.

 TITLE II--PROGRAMS TO PROMOTE CITIZENSHIP, INTEGRATION, AND PROSPERITY

SEC. 201. DEFINITIONS.

    In this title:
            (1) Foundation.--The term ``Foundation'' means the United 
        States Citizenship and Integration Foundation established under 
        section 207.
            (2) Service area.--The term ``service area'' means the 
        jurisdiction or geographical area in which an entity carries 
        out activities using funds awarded under this title.
            (3) State.--The term ``State'' means each of the several 
        States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto 
        Rico, the United States Virgin Islands, Guam, American Samoa, 
        and the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands.

SEC. 202. SENSE OF CONGRESS ON ACCESS TO LEGAL COUNSEL.

    It is the sense of Congress that--
            (1) immigration law is so complex that it is nearly 
        impossible, and therefore unjust, for immigrants to navigate 
        the immigration system without legal assistance or represent 
        themselves in immigration court;
            (2) immigrants without legal counsel are far more likely, 
        as compared to immigrants with legal counsel, to be denied 
        immigration benefits or be deported, which may result in dire 
        consequences, including--
                    (A) the denial of lawful immigration status or 
                United States citizenship;
                    (B) loss of livelihood;
                    (C) the separation of an immigrant from, or the 
                inability of an immigrant to support, his or her 
                family;
                    (D) life-threatening danger in the country of 
                origin of an immigrant; and
                    (E) a long-term or permanent ban on reentering the 
                United States; and
            (3) consistent with the United States values of fairness 
        and justice and the Fifth Amendment to the Constitution of the 
        United States, which guarantees all individuals the due process 
        of law, any individual subject to immigration proceedings or 
        the appeal of a proceeding before an immigration judge or the 
        Attorney General should have the right to be represented by 
        counsel, including Government-funded counsel, regardless of the 
        ability of the individual to pay.

SEC. 203. LEGAL SERVICES AND IMMIGRATION ASSISTANCE GRANT PROGRAM.

    (a) In General.--The Attorney General, acting through the Director 
of the Executive Office for Immigration Review, in consultation with 
the Director of the National Office of New Americans, shall award legal 
services and immigration assistance grants to eligible entities.
    (b) Eligibility Criteria.--An entity eligible to receive a grant 
under this section is a State or unit of local government, a Tribal 
government, a private organization, a community-based organization, or 
a nonprofit organization that--
            (1) provides authorized direct legal assistance to 
        immigrants;
            (2) in the case of an entity that has previously been 
        awarded a grant under this section, uses matching funds from 
        non-Federal sources, which may include in-kind contributions, 
        equal to 25 percent of the amount received under this section;
            (3) provides immigration education, outreach, and quality 
        paralegal services to immigrants, in coordination with 
        immigration attorneys or representatives accredited by the 
        Recognition and Accreditation Program of the Executive Office 
        for Immigration Review; and
            (4) submits to the Director of the Executive Office for 
        Immigration Review an application at such time, in such manner, 
        and containing such information as the Director may reasonably 
        require.
    (c) Use of Funds.--
            (1) In general.--Funds awarded under this section shall be 
        used to provide to eligible immigrants legal assistance 
        relating to the immigration status of such immigrants, or 
        related services, which may include--
                    (A) outreach and education to identify and support 
                immigrants in need of legal services;
                    (B) liaison services to connect immigrants with 
                trusted legal service providers, social service 
                organizations, and government representatives;
                    (C) screening to assess the eligibility of an 
                immigrant for any status under the immigration laws;
                    (D) completing applications for immigration 
                benefits;
                    (E) translation and interpretation services;
                    (F) gathering documents, including documents 
                relating to proof of identification, employment, 
                residence, family relationships, and tax payment;
                    (G) completing applications for any waiver under 
                the immigration laws for which an eligible immigrant 
                and qualifying family members may be eligible; and
                    (H) with respect to applications relating to United 
                States citizenship, assistance with application 
                preparation and the naturalization process, including 
                preparation for the English and civics exams.
            (2) Eligible immigrants.--An immigrant shall be eligible to 
        receive the assistance described in paragraph (1) if the 
        immigrant is seeking--
                    (A) to become a lawful permanent resident or 
                naturalized citizen of the United States;
                    (B) to establish that he or she has derived or 
                acquired United States citizenship; or
                    (C) relief from removal and authorization to remain 
                lawfully in the United States.
    (d) Conditions.--As a condition of receiving a grant under this 
section, a participating entity shall--
            (1) submit to the Attorney General a certification that the 
        proposed uses of grant funds by the entity--
                    (A) are consistent with this section; and
                    (B) meet the criteria determined by the Attorney 
                General, in consultation with the Director of the 
                National Office of New Americans; and
            (2) make a reasonable effort to estimate the number of 
        immigrants who live in the service area.
    (e) Annual Report and Evaluation.--Not later than 90 days after the 
end of each fiscal year for which an entity receives grant funds under 
this section, the entity shall submit to the Director of the Executive 
Office for Immigration Review the following:
            (1) A report that describes--
                    (A) each activity carried out by the entity funded 
                entirely or partially by the grant funds;
                    (B) the service area;
                    (C) the estimate made under subsection (d)(2);
                    (D) the number of immigrants who received legal 
                assistance funded entirely or partially by the grant 
                funds;
                    (E) a disaggregation of the costs of each service 
                provided using the grant funds and the average per 
                capita cost of providing the service; and
                    (F) the primary languages spoken in the service 
                area.
            (2) An evaluation of any program of the entity for which 
        grant funds were used, including--
                    (A) an assessment of the effectiveness of the 
                program;
                    (B) recommendations for improving the program;
                    (C) an assessment of whether the legal services 
                needs of the service area have been met; and
                    (D) in the case of an assessment under subparagraph 
                (C) that such needs have not been met, a description of 
                the additional assistance required to meet such needs.
    (f) Authorization of Appropriations.--There is authorized to be 
appropriated to carry out this section $100,000,000 for fiscal years 
2024 through 2025.
    (g) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Service area.--The term ``service area'' means the 
        jurisdiction or geographical area in which an entity carries 
        out activities using funds awarded under this section.
            (2) State.--The term ``State'' means each of the several 
        States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto 
        Rico, the United States Virgin Islands, Guam, American Samoa, 
        and the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands.

SEC. 204. ENGLISH AS A GATEWAY TO INTEGRATION GRANT PROGRAM.

    (a) Authorization.--The Assistant Secretary for Career, Technical, 
and Adult Education at the Department of Education and the Assistant 
Secretary for the Administration for Children and Families at the 
Department of Health and Human Services (referred to in this section as 
the ``Assistant Secretaries''), in consultation with the Director of 
the National Office of New Americans, shall award English as a Gateway 
to Integration grants to eligible entities.
    (b) Eligibility.--An entity eligible to receive a grant under this 
section is a State or unit of local government, a Tribal government, a 
private organization, an educational institution, a community-based 
organization, or a nonprofit organization that--
            (1) in the case of any applicant that has previously 
        received a grant under this section, uses matching funds from 
        non-Federal sources, which may include in-kind contributions, 
        equal to 25 percent of the amount received from the English as 
        a Gateway to Integration program to carry out such program;
            (2) submits to the Assistant Secretaries an application at 
        such time, in such manner, and containing such information as 
        the Assistant Secretaries may reasonably require, including--
                    (A) a description of the target population to be 
                served, including demographics, literacy levels, 
                integration needs, and English language levels of the 
                target population; and
                    (B) the assessment and performance measures that 
                the grant recipient plans to use to evaluate the 
                integration and English language learning progress of 
                students and overall success of the instruction and 
                program;
            (3) demonstrates collaboration with public and private 
        entities to provide the instruction and assistance described in 
        subsection (c)(1);
            (4) provides integration-focused English language programs 
        that--
                    (A) teach integration and English language skills 
                to--
                            (i) lower-educated individuals;
                            (ii) limited English proficient (LEP) 
                        individuals; and
                            (iii) parents and others who are caretakers 
                        of young children;
                    (B) support and promote the social, economic, and 
                civic integration of adult English language learners 
                and their families; and
                    (C) equip adult English language learners for 
                ongoing independent study and learning beyond classroom 
                or formal instruction; and
            (5)(A) is located in 1 of the 10 States with the highest 
        rate of foreign-born residents; or
            (B) is located in an area that has experienced a large 
        increase in the population of immigrants during the most recent 
        10-year period relative to past migration patterns, based on 
        data compiled by the Office of Immigration Statistics or the 
        United States Census Bureau.
    (c) Use of Funds.--
            (1) In general.--Funds awarded under this section shall be 
        used to provide English language and integration knowledge and 
        skill instruction along with student guidance and navigation 
        services to learners. Such instruction shall advance the 
        integration of students in order to help them--
                    (A) build their knowledge of United States history 
                and civics;
                    (B) prepare for United States citizenship and the 
                naturalization process;
                    (C) gain digital literacy;
                    (D) understand and support children's success 
                within the early childhood, K-12, and postsecondary 
                education systems;
                    (E) gain financial literacy;
                    (F) build an understanding of the housing market 
                and systems in the United States;
                    (G) learn about and access the United States, 
                State, and local health care systems;
                    (H) prepare for a high school equivalency diploma 
                or postsecondary training or education; and
                    (I) prepare for and secure employment.
            (2) Design of program.--Funds awarded under this section 
        shall be used to support program designs that may include the 
        following elements:
                    (A) English language and integration knowledge and 
                skill instruction in a classroom setting, along with 
                associated guidance and navigation supports provided 
                that such setting is in a geographic location 
                accessible to the population served.
                    (B) English language and integration knowledge and 
                skill instruction programs that may incorporate online 
                and digital components, such as the use of mobile 
                phones, computers, and blended or distance learning 
                platforms.
                    (C) Educational support and specialized instruction 
                for adult English language learners with low levels of 
                literacy in their first language.
                    (D) Two-generation approaches designed to support 
                children's school success and lift family integration 
                trajectories.
    (d) Certification.--In order to receive a payment under this 
section, a participating entity shall submit to the Assistant 
Secretaries a certification that the proposed uses of grant funds by 
the entity are consistent with this section and meet all necessary 
criteria determined by the Assistant Secretaries.
    (e) Annual Report and Evaluation.--Not later than 90 days after the 
end of each fiscal year for which an entity receives grant funds under 
this section, the entity shall submit to the Assistant Secretaries the 
following:
            (1) A report that describes--
                    (A) the activities undertaken by the entity that 
                were funded entirely or partially by the grant funds;
                    (B) the service area;
                    (C) the number of immigrants in the service area;
                    (D) the primary languages spoken in the service 
                area;
                    (E) the number of adult English language learners 
                receiving assistance that was funded entirely or 
                partially by grant funds received by the entity under 
                this section; and
                    (F) a breakdown of the costs of the program 
                services provided and the average per capita cost of 
                providing such instruction.
            (2) An evaluation of any program of the entity using grant 
        funds under this section, including--
                    (A) an assessment of--
                            (i) the effectiveness of such program and 
                        recommendations for improving the program; and
                            (ii) whether the English language and 
                        integration knowledge and skill instruction 
                        needs of the service area have been met;
                    (B) in the case of an assessment under subparagraph 
                (A)(ii) that such needs have not been met, a 
                description of the additional assistance required to 
                meet such needs; and
                    (C) the results of any assessment or evaluation of 
                progress or success described in subsection (b)(2)(B).
    (f) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Adult english language learner.--The term ``adult 
        English language learner'' refers to an individual age 16 or 
        older who is not enrolled in secondary school and who is 
        limited English proficient.
            (2) English language learner; limited english proficient.--
        The terms ``English language learner'' and ``limited English 
        proficient'' describe an individual who does not speak English 
        as their primary language and who has a limited ability to 
        read, speak, write, or understand English.
    (g) Authorization of Appropriations.--There is authorized to be 
appropriated to carry out this section $100,000,000 for fiscal years 
2024 through 2025.

SEC. 205. WORKFORCE DEVELOPMENT AND SHARED PROSPERITY GRANT PROGRAM.

    (a) Declaration of Policy.--It is the policy of the United States--
            (1) that adults shall have equitable access to education 
        and workforce programs that--
                    (A) help them learn basic skills in reading, 
                writing, mathematics, and the English language; and
                    (B) equip them with occupational skills needed to 
                secure or advance in employment, fill employer needs, 
                and support themselves and their families;
            (2) to strengthen the economy by helping adults with 
        limited skills to attain recognized postsecondary credentials 
        (as defined in section 3 of the Workforce Innovation and 
        Opportunity Act (29 U.S.C. 3102)); and
            (3) that workforce programs for adults with limited skills 
        use a pre-apprenticeship or integrated education and training 
        approach that allows adults to acquire basic skills while 
        pursuing occupational or industry-specific training.
    (b) Authorization.--The Assistant Secretary for Career, Technical, 
and Adult Education at the Department of Education and the Assistant 
Secretary for Employment and Training at the Department of Labor 
(referred to in this section as the ``Assistant Secretaries''), in 
consultation with the Director of the National Office of New Americans, 
shall award Workforce Development and Shared Prosperity grants, on a 
competitive basis, to State, local, and Tribal governments or other 
qualifying entities described in subsection (c), in collaboration with 
State and local governments.
    (c) Qualifying Entities.--Qualifying entities under this section 
may include--
            (1) an educational institution;
            (2) a private organization;
            (3) a community-based organization; or
            (4) a nonprofit organization.
    (d) Eligibility.--A State, local, or Tribal government or 
qualifying entity in collaboration with a State, local, or Tribal 
government is eligible to receive a grant under this section provided 
that the State, local, or Tribal government or entity--
            (1) supports and promotes the economic integration of 
        immigrants;
            (2) has expertise in workforce development and adult 
        education for the purpose of developing and implementing pre-
        apprenticeship programs or integrated education and training 
        programs;
            (3) in carrying out the grant program, includes at least 
        one entity--
                    (A) with expertise in providing training in a 
                workforce sector in which immigrant workers are heavily 
                represented or in which there is a demonstrated need 
                for immigrant workers to fill jobs; and
                    (B) with expertise in providing adult basic 
                education services to immigrants;
            (4) uses matching funds from non-Federal sources, which may 
        include in-kind contributions, equal to 25 percent of the 
        amount received from the Workforce Development and Shared 
        Prosperity grants program to carry out such program; and
            (5) submits to the Assistant Secretaries an application at 
        such time, in such manner, and containing such information as 
        the Assistant Secretaries may reasonably require, including--
                    (A) a description of the target population to be 
                served, including demographics, and English 
                proficiency, educational, and skill levels of the 
                target population;
                    (B) the specific integrated education and training 
                model to be implemented;
                    (C) how the program will be designed and 
                implemented by educators with expertise in adult 
                education, English language instruction and 
                occupational skills training;
                    (D) the occupation or industry for which the 
                program will prepare students for employment and the 
                education and training progress or employer-recognized 
                credentials the program is designed to support 
                participants in achieving;
                    (E) evidence of employer demand for the skills or 
                occupational training offered by the grant program;
                    (F) how the program will provide student support 
                services including guidance counseling in order to 
                promote student success; and
                    (G) the assessment and performance measures that 
                the grant recipient plans to use to evaluate--
                            (i) the progress of adult learners in 
                        acquiring basic skills such as reading, 
                        writing, mathematics, and the English language; 
                        and
                            (ii) the success of the grant program in 
                        preparing students for employment and in 
                        helping them find employment or advance in 
                        employment.
    (e) Certification.--In order to receive a payment under this 
section, a participating entity shall submit to the Assistant 
Secretaries a certification that the proposed uses of grant funds by 
the entity are consistent with this section and meet all necessary 
criteria determined by the Assistant Secretaries in consultation with 
the Director of the National Office of New Americans.
    (f) Annual Report and Evaluation.--Not later than 90 days after the 
end of each fiscal year for which an entity receives grant funds under 
this section, the entity shall submit to the Assistant Secretaries the 
following:
            (1) A report that describes--
                    (A) the activities undertaken by the entity that 
                were funded entirely or partially by the grant funds;
                    (B) the service area;
                    (C) the number of immigrants in the service area;
                    (D) the primary languages spoken in the service 
                area; and
                    (E) a breakdown of the costs of each of the 
                services provided and the average per capita cost of 
                providing such services.
            (2) An evaluation of any program of the entity using grant 
        funds under this section, including--
                    (A) an assessment of--
                            (i) the effectiveness of such program and 
                        recommendations for improving the program; and
                            (ii) whether the adult education and 
                        workforce development needs of the service area 
                        have been met and if not, what further 
                        assistance is required to meet such need;
                    (B) in the case of an assessment under subparagraph 
                (A)(ii) that such needs have not been met, a 
                description of the additional assistance required to 
                meet such needs; and
                    (C) the results of any assessment or evaluation of 
                progress or success described in subsection (d)(5)(G).
    (g) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Adult education.--The term ``adult education'' means 
        academic instruction and education services below the 
        postsecondary level that increase an individual's ability to 
        read, write, and speak English and perform mathematics or other 
        activities necessary for the attainment of a secondary school 
        diploma or its recognized equivalent, transition to 
        postsecondary education and training, or obtain employment.
            (2) Integrated education and training.--The term 
        ``integrated education and training'' means instruction that 
        provides adult education, literacy and English language 
        activities concurrently and contextually with workforce 
        preparation activities and workforce training for a specific 
        occupation or occupational cluster for the purpose of 
        educational and career advancement.
            (3) Pre-apprenticeship program.--The term ``pre-
        apprenticeship program'' means a program or set of services 
        designed to prepare individuals to enter and succeed in a 
        registered apprenticeship program.
    (h) Authorization of Appropriations.--There is authorized to be 
appropriated to carry out this section $100,000,000 for fiscal years 
2024 through 2025.

SEC. 206. DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY GRANTS.

    (a) Consideration of Grant Recipients.--With respect to grants 
administered and awarded to public or private nonprofit organizations 
by the Secretary of Homeland Security, unless otherwise required by 
law, in making determinations about such grants, the Secretary shall 
not consider enrollment in or use by such organizations of the E-Verify 
Program described in section 403(a) of the Illegal Immigration Reform 
and Immigrant Responsibility Act of 1996 (8 U.S.C. 1324a note).
    (b) Authorization of Appropriations.--There is authorized to be 
appropriated $25,000,000 to the Secretary of Homeland Security for the 
Citizenship and Integration Grant Program of U.S. Citizenship and 
Immigration Services to award grants to public or private nonprofit 
organizations.

SEC. 207. UNITED STATES CITIZENSHIP AND INTEGRATION FOUNDATION.

    (a) Establishment.--The Secretary of Homeland Security, acting 
through the Director of U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services and 
in coordination with the Director of the National Office of New 
Americans, shall establish a nonprofit corporation or a not-for-profit, 
public benefit, or similar entity, which shall be known as the ``United 
States Citizenship and Integration Foundation''.
    (b) Purposes.--The purposes of the Foundation shall be--
            (1) to spur innovation in the promotion and expansion of 
        citizenship preparation programs for individuals lawfully 
        admitted for permanent residence (as defined in section 101(a) 
        of the Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1101(a)));
            (2) to evaluate and identify best practices in citizenship 
        promotion and preparation and to make recommendations to the 
        Director of U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services and the 
        Director of the National Office for New Americans about how to 
        bring such best practices to scale;
            (3) to support direct assistance for immigrants seeking 
        lawful permanent resident status (within the meaning of the 
        Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1101 et seq.)), or 
        naturalization as a United States citizen; and
            (4) to support immigrant integration efforts in partnership 
        with State and local entities.
    (c) Gifts to Foundation.--To carry out the purposes described in 
subsection (b), the Foundation may--
            (1) solicit, accept, and make gifts of money and other 
        property, in accordance with section 501(c)(3) of the Internal 
        Revenue Code of 1986;
            (2) engage in coordinated work with the Department of 
        Homeland Security, including U.S. Citizenship and Immigration 
        Services, and the National Office of New Americans; and
            (3) accept, hold, administer, invest, and spend any gift, 
        devise, or bequest of real or personal property made to the 
        Foundation.
    (d) Activities.--The Foundation shall carry out the purposes 
described in subsection (b) by--
            (1) making United States citizenship instruction and 
        naturalization application services accessible to low-income 
        and other underserved lawful permanent resident populations;
            (2) developing, identifying, and sharing best practices in 
        United States citizenship promotion and preparation;
            (3) supporting innovative and creative solutions to 
        barriers faced by individuals seeking--
                    (A) to become naturalized citizens of the United 
                States; or
                    (B) to obtain certificates of citizenship;
            (4) increasing the use of, and access to, technology in 
        United States citizenship preparation programs;
            (5) engaging communities in the process of United States 
        citizenship and civic integration;
            (6) fostering public education and awareness;
            (7) coordinating the immigrant integration efforts of the 
        Foundation with the integration efforts of U.S. Citizenship and 
        Immigration Services and the National Office of New Americans; 
        and
            (8) awarding grants to State and local governments 
        consistent with such purposes.
    (e) Council of Directors.--To the extent consistent with section 
501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, the Foundation shall 
have a council of directors (referred to in this section as the 
``Council''), which shall be comprised of--
            (1) the Director of U.S. Citizenship and Immigration 
        Services;
            (2) the Director of the National Office of New Americans;
            (3) the head of the Domestic Policy Council; and
            (4) 10 individuals from national private and public 
        nonprofit organizations that promote and assist lawful 
        permanent residents with naturalization.
    (f) Executive Director.--
            (1) In general.--The Council shall appoint an Executive 
        Director of the Foundation, who shall oversee the daily 
        operations of the Foundation.
            (2) Powers.--The Executive Director shall carry out the 
        purposes described in subsection (b) on behalf of the 
        Foundation by--
                    (A) accepting, holding, administering, investing, 
                and spending any gift, devise, or bequest of real or 
                personal property made to the Foundation;
                    (B) entering into contracts and other financial 
                assistance agreements with individuals, public and 
                private organizations, professional societies, and 
                government agencies to carry out the activities of the 
                Foundation;
                    (C) entering into such other contracts, leases, 
                cooperative agreements, and other transactions as the 
                Executive Director considers appropriate to carry out 
                the activities of the Foundation; and
                    (D) charging such fees for professional services 
                provided by the Foundation as the Executive Director 
                considers reasonable and appropriate.
    (g) Deadline.--The Secretary of Homeland Security shall ensure that 
the Foundation is established and operational not later than 1 year 
after the date of the enactment of this Act.

SEC. 208. PILOT PROGRAM TO PROMOTE IMMIGRANT INTEGRATION AT STATE AND 
              LOCAL LEVELS.

    (a) Grants Authorized.--The Director of the National Office of New 
Americans (referred to in this section as the ``Director''), in 
coordination with the Assistant Secretary for Career, Technical, and 
Adult Education and the Assistant Secretary for Elementary and 
Secondary Education at the Department of Education, the Assistant 
Secretary for Employment and Training at the Department of Labor, the 
Assistant Secretary for the Administration of Children and Families at 
the Department of Health and Human Services, and the Chief of the 
Office of Citizenship at U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services, 
shall establish a pilot program to award grants, on a competitive 
basis, to State, local, and Tribal governments--
            (1) to establish new immigrant councils to carry out 
        programs to integrate new immigrants; and
            (2) to carry out programs to integrate new immigrants.
    (b) Application.--To be considered for a grant under this section, 
a State, local, or Tribal government may submit an application to the 
Director at such time, in such manner, and containing such information 
as the Director may reasonably require, including--
            (1) a proposal to carry out 1 or more activities described 
        in subsection (c);
            (2) the number of new immigrants who live in the 
        jurisdiction of the applicant; and
            (3) a description of the challenges presented by 
        introducing and integrating new immigrants into the State, 
        local, or Tribal community, as applicable.
    (c) Activities.--A grant awarded under this section may be used--
            (1) to form a new immigrant council, which shall--
                    (A) consist of not fewer than 15 and not more than 
                19 representatives of the State, local, or Tribal 
                government, as applicable;
                    (B) include, to the extent practicable, 
                representatives from--
                            (i) the business community;
                            (ii) faith-based organizations;
                            (iii) civic organizations;
                            (iv) philanthropic organizations;
                            (v) nonprofit organizations, including 
                        nonprofit organizations with legal and advocacy 
                        experience working with immigrant communities;
                            (vi) key education stakeholders, such as 
                        State educational agencies, local educational 
                        agencies, community colleges, and teachers;
                            (vii) State, local, or Tribal economic 
                        development agencies;
                            (viii) State, local, or Tribal health and 
                        human services agencies;
                            (ix) State, local, or Tribal early 
                        childhood coordinating councils; and
                            (x) State, local, or Tribal public 
                        libraries; and
                    (C) meet not less frequently than once each 
                quarter;
            (2) to provide subgrants to local communities, units of 
        local government, Tribal governments, and nonprofit 
        organizations (including veterans and civic organizations);
            (3) to develop, implement, expand, or enhance a 
        comprehensive plan to introduce and integrate new immigrants 
        into the applicable State by--
                    (A) supporting English language and integration 
                knowledge and skills development;
                    (B) engaging with immigrant parents and other 
                primary caretakers to support the healthy development, 
                kindergarten readiness, and education success of 
                children;
                    (C) improving and expanding access to workforce 
                training programs;
                    (D) teaching United States history, civics, and 
                citizenship rights and responsibilities;
                    (E) improving financial literacy; and
                    (F) focusing on other key areas of importance with 
                respect to integration into the social, cultural, 
                economic, and civic life of the United States; and
            (4) to engage receiving communities in the citizenship and 
        civic integration process by--
                    (A) increasing local service capacity;
                    (B) building meaningful connections between newer 
                immigrants and long-time residents;
                    (C) publicizing the contributions of receiving 
                communities and new immigrants; and
                    (D) engaging leaders from all sectors of receiving 
                communities.
    (d) Reporting and Evaluation.--
            (1) Annual report.--Not later than 90 days after the end of 
        each fiscal year for which an entity receives a grant under 
        this section, the entity shall submit to the Director an annual 
        report that describes--
                    (A) each activity carried out by the grant 
                recipient using grant funds;
                    (B) the service;
                    (C) the number of new immigrants in the service 
                area; and
                    (D) the primary languages spoken in the service 
                area.
            (2) Annual evaluation.--Not later than 90 days after the 
        end of each fiscal year for which an entity receives a grant 
        under this section, the Director shall conduct an annual 
        evaluation of the grant program established under this 
        section--
                    (A) to assess and improve the effectiveness of the 
                grant program;
                    (B) to assess the future needs of--
                            (i) new immigrants; and
                            (ii) with respect to immigrant integration, 
                        State, local, and Tribal governments; and
                    (C) to ensure that grant recipients and subgrantees 
                use grant funds in accordance with this section.

SEC. 209. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS FOR FOUNDATION AND PILOT 
              PROGRAM.

    There are authorized to be appropriated for the first 2 fiscal 
years after the date of the enactment of this Act such sums as may be 
necessary to establish the Foundation and the pilot program described 
in section 208. Such amounts may be invested and any amounts resulting 
from such investments shall remain available for the operations of the 
Foundation and such pilot program without further appropriation.

              TITLE III--REDUCING BARRIERS TO CITIZENSHIP

SEC. 301. SENSE OF CONGRESS.

    It is the sense of Congress that--
            (1) the naturalization of immigrants--
                    (A) brings civic, economic, and social benefits to 
                the United States;
                    (B) enhances the richness and diversity of the 
                United States; and
                    (C) strengthens the United States;
            (2) millions of immigrants are eligible for naturalization 
        but cannot access citizenship due a variety of reasons, 
        including cost barriers, language access, and a lack of legal 
        services and information;
            (3) the inability of millions of eligible immigrants to 
        become citizens of the United States deprives the United States 
        and the people of the United States of civic, economic, and 
        social benefits; and
            (4) consistent with the process for naturalization 
        established by the Constitution of the United States, codified 
        by statute, and strengthened by regulations, the Federal 
        Government, in coordination with State and local governments, 
        community-based organizations, and other stakeholders, should 
        establish policies and programs to encourage eligible 
        immigrants to apply for naturalization and to facilitate the 
        naturalization process, with the objective of helping 2,000,000 
        new Americans naturalize by the end of 2024.

SEC. 302. IMMIGRATION SERVICE FEES.

    (a) In General.--Section 286(m) of the Immigration and Nationality 
Act (8 U.S.C. 1356(m)) is amended to read as follows:
    ``(m) Immigration Service Fees.--
            ``(1) In general.--Except as provided in paragraph (2), all 
        fees designated by the Secretary of Homeland Security in 
        regulations as `immigration adjudication fees' shall be 
        deposited as offsetting receipts into the `Immigration 
        Examinations Fee Account' in the Treasury of the United States, 
        whether such fees are collected directly by the Secretary or 
        through clerks of courts.
            ``(2) Guam and virgin islands.--
                    ``(A) Guam.--All fees described in paragraph (1) 
                that are received by the Secretary of Homeland Security 
                from applicants residing in Guam shall be remitted to 
                the Department of Revenue and Taxation of Guam.
                    ``(B) Virgin islands.--All fees described in 
                paragraph (1) that are received by the Secretary of 
                Homeland Security from applicants residing in the 
                United States Virgin Islands shall be remitted to the 
                Treasury Division of the United States Virgin Islands.
                    ``(C) Restrictions.--All fees remitted pursuant to 
                subparagraph (A) or (B) may not be expended for costs 
                associated with--
                            ``(i) the civil revocation of 
                        naturalization;
                            ``(ii) Operation Second Look;
                            ``(iii) Operation Janus;
                            ``(iv) any activities or operations 
                        conducted by U.S. Immigration and Customs 
                        Enforcement (including Homeland Security 
                        Investigations) or U.S. Customs and Border 
                        Protection; or
                            ``(v) any other activity or operation that 
                        is not directly related to immigration 
                        adjudications.
            ``(3) Fees for adjudication and naturalization services.--
                    ``(A) In general.--Subject to subparagraph (B), the 
                Secretary of Homeland Security may set fees for 
                providing adjudication and naturalization services at a 
                level that will--
                            ``(i) ensure recovery of the full costs of 
                        providing such services, or a portion of such 
                        services, including the costs of naturalization 
                        and similar services provided without charge to 
                        asylum applicants or other immigrants; and
                            ``(ii) recover the full cost of 
                        administering the collection of fees under this 
                        paragraph, or a portion of such administrative 
                        costs.
                    ``(B) Report requirement before fee increase.--The 
                Secretary of Homeland Security may not increase any fee 
                under this paragraph above the level of such fee as of 
                January 1, 2019, before the date that is 60 days after 
                the date on which the Secretary submits a report to the 
                Committee on the Judiciary of the Senate and the 
                Committee on the Judiciary of the House of 
                Representatives that--
                            ``(i) identifies the direct and indirect 
                        costs associated with providing adjudication 
                        and naturalization services;
                            ``(ii) distinguishes the costs referred to 
                        in clause (i) from immigration enforcement and 
                        national security costs;
                            ``(iii) identifies the costs allocated for 
                        premium processing services to business 
                        customers, as prescribed under subsection (u);
                            ``(iv) describes the extent to which the 
                        fee prescribed in subsection (u) is set at a 
                        level that ensures full recovery of the costs 
                        referred to in clause (iii);
                            ``(v) identifies the amount of funding that 
                        is being allocated for the infrastructure 
                        improvements in the adjudications and customer-
                        service processes prescribed under subsection 
                        (u); and
                            ``(vi) contains information regarding the 
                        amount by which such fee will be increased.
                    ``(C) Adjudications delay and backlog report.--The 
                Secretary of Homeland Security shall submit a quarterly 
                report to the congressional committees referred to in 
                subparagraph (B) that identifies each instance in 
                which--
                            ``(i) the processing time of more than 10 
                        percent of adjudications in any single category 
                        of immigration benefits surpasses the agency's 
                        stated processing goal as of January 1, 2019;
                            ``(ii) the processing time of more than 5 
                        percent of applications for legal permanent 
                        residence surpasses 150 days; and
                            ``(iii) the processing time of more than 5 
                        percent of applications for naturalization 
                        surpasses 150 days.
            ``(4) Fee waivers for adjudication and naturalization 
        services.--
                    ``(A) No fee.--Except as provided in subparagraph 
                (E), if an alien's income is less than 150 percent of 
                the Federal poverty line, no fee shall be charged or 
                collected for--
                            ``(i) an application, petition, appeal, 
                        motion, or other service described in this 
                        subsection; or
                            ``(ii) the biometrics capture or background 
                        check associated with the items described in 
                        clause (i).
                    ``(B) Reduced fee.--If an alien's income is less 
                than 250 percent of the Federal poverty line, not more 
                than 50 percent of the applicable fee shall be charged 
                or collected for an application, petition, appeal, 
                motion, or service described in this subsection.
                    ``(C) Special circumstances.--If an alien is under 
                financial hardship due to extraordinary expenses or 
                other circumstances affecting his or her financial 
                situation to the degree that he or she is unable to pay 
                a fee, no fee shall be charged or collected for--
                            ``(i) an application, petition, appeal, 
                        motion, or other service described in this 
                        subsection; or
                            ``(ii) the biometrics capture or background 
                        check associated with the items described in 
                        clause (i).
                    ``(D) No fee charged for waiver request.--No fee 
                shall be charged for a fee waiver or reduction request 
                described in subparagraph (A), (B), or (C).
                    ``(E) No waiver for certain fees.--The fee for 
                employment-based petitions and applications prescribed 
                under subsection (u) may not be waived.
                    ``(F) Means-tested benefits.--The Secretary of 
                Homeland Security shall consider the receipt of means-
                tested benefits as a criterion for the purpose of 
                demonstrating eligibility for a fee waiver or reduction 
                under subparagraph (A), (B), or (C).
                    ``(G) Application for fee waiver.--An alien 
                requesting a waiver or reduction of fees under 
                subparagraph (A), (B), or (C) may submit--
                            ``(i) a completed form, as prescribed by 
                        the Secretary; or
                            ``(ii) an applicant-generated, written 
                        request for permission to have their 
                        immigration benefit request processed without 
                        payment of the required fee.
                    ``(H) Federal poverty line defined.--In this 
                paragraph, the term `Federal poverty line' has the 
                meaning given the term `poverty line' in section 673(2) 
                of the Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1981 (42 
                U.S.C. 9902(2)), including any revision required under 
                such section applicable to a family of the size 
                involved.''.
    (b) Sense of Congress.--It is the sense of Congress that--
            (1) the Secretary of Homeland Security should set fees 
        under section 286(m)(3) of the Immigration and Nationality Act 
        (8 U.S.C. 1356(m)(3)) at a level that ensures recovery of only 
        the direct costs associated with the services described in such 
        section; and
            (2) Congress should appropriate to the Secretary of 
        Homeland Security such funds as may be necessary to pay for--
                    (A) the indirect costs associated with the services 
                described in such section;
                    (B) the adjudication of refugee and asylum 
                processing;
                    (C) the costs of administering the Systematic Alien 
                Verification for Entitlements Program (commonly known 
                as ``SAVE'');
                    (D) the adjudication of naturalization applications 
                not covered in full by the fees paid by applicants;
                    (E) the reduction or elimination of fees granted to 
                fee waiver applicants; and
                    (F) grants to public and private nonprofit 
                organizations for the purposes of citizenship and 
                training.
    (c) Technical Amendment.--Section 286 of the Immigration and 
Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1356) is amended--
            (1) in subsections (a) and (b), by striking ``Service'' 
        each place such term appears and inserting ``Department of 
        Homeland Security'';
            (2) in subsections (d), (e), (f), (h), (i), (j), (k), (l), 
        (n), (o), (q), (t), and (u), by striking ``Attorney General'' 
        each place such term appears and inserting ``Secretary of 
        Homeland Security'';
            (3) in subsection (k), (l), and (t), by striking 
        ``Immigration and Naturalization Service'' each place such term 
        appears and inserting ``Department of Homeland Security''; and
            (4) in subsection (r)--
                    (A) in paragraph (2), by striking ``Department of 
                Justice'' and inserting ``Department of Homeland 
                Security''; and
                    (B) in paragraphs (3) and (4), by striking 
                ``Attorney General'' each place it appears and 
                inserting ``Secretary of Homeland Security''.

SEC. 303. WAIVER OF ENGLISH REQUIREMENT FOR SENIOR NEW AMERICANS.

    Section 312 of the Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1423) 
is amended by striking subsection (b) and inserting the following:
    ``(b) The requirements under subsection (a) shall not apply to any 
person who--
            ``(1) is unable to comply with such requirements because of 
        physical or mental disability, including developmental or 
        intellectual disability; or
            ``(2) on the date on which the person's application for 
        naturalization is filed under section 334--
                    ``(A) is older than 65 years of age; and
                    ``(B) has been living in the United States for 
                periods totaling at least 5 years after being lawfully 
                admitted for permanent residence.
    ``(c) The requirement under subsection (a)(1) shall not apply to 
any person who, on the date on which the person's application for 
naturalization is filed under section 334--
            ``(1) is older than 50 years of age and has been living in 
        the United States for periods totaling at least 20 years after 
        being lawfully admitted for permanent residence;
            ``(2) is older than 55 years of age and has been living in 
        the United States for periods totaling at least 15 years after 
        being lawfully admitted for permanent residence; or
            ``(3) is older than 60 years of age and has been living in 
        the United States for periods totaling at least 10 years after 
        being lawfully admitted for permanent residence.
    ``(d) The Secretary of Homeland Security may waive, on a case-by-
case basis, the requirement under subsection (a)(2) on behalf of any 
person who, on the date on which the person's application for 
naturalization is filed under section 334--
            ``(1) is older than 60 years of age; and
            ``(2) has been living in the United States for periods 
        totaling at least 10 years after being lawfully admitted for 
        permanent residence.''.

SEC. 304. REDUCE FINANCIAL OBSTACLES TO NATURALIZATION.

    Section 316 of the Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1427) 
is amended--
            (1) by redesignating subsection (f) as subsection (g); and
            (2) by inserting after subsection (e) the following:
    ``(f) The Secretary of Homeland Security shall impose a fee in an 
amount not to exceed $50 for the consideration of an application for 
naturalization. Nothing in this subsection may be construed to limit 
the authority of the Secretary to set adjudication fees for other 
benefit applications other than naturalization in accordance with 
section 286(m).''.

SEC. 305. NATURALIZATION FOR CERTAIN UNITED STATES HIGH SCHOOL 
              GRADUATES.

    (a) In General.--Title III of the Immigration and Nationality Act 
(8 U.S.C. 1401 et seq.) is amended by inserting after section 320 the 
following:

``SEC. 321. CITIZENSHIP FOR CERTAIN UNITED STATES HIGH SCHOOL 
              GRADUATES.

    ``(a) Requirements Deemed Satisfied.--An alien described in 
subsection (b) shall be deemed to have satisfied the requirements under 
section 312(a).
    ``(b) Aliens Described.--An alien is described in this subsection 
if the alien submits an application for naturalization under section 
334 that contains--
            ``(1) transcripts from public or private schools in the 
        United States demonstrating that the alien completed--
                    ``(A) grades 9 through 12 in the United States and 
                was graduated with a high school diploma; and
                    ``(B) a curriculum that reflects knowledge of 
                United States history, government, and civics; and
            ``(2) a copy of the alien's high school diploma.''.
    (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of contents for the Immigration 
and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1101 et seq.) is amended by inserting 
after the item relating to section 320 the following:

``Sec. 321. Citizenship for certain United States high school 
                            graduates.''.
    (c) Applicability.--The amendments made by this section--
            (1) shall take effect on the date of the enactment of this 
        Act; and
            (2) shall apply to applicants for naturalization who apply 
        for naturalization on or after such date.
    (d) Rulemaking.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Homeland Security shall 
promulgate regulations to carry out the amendment made by subsection 
(a).

SEC. 306. FAMILY INTEGRATION.

    Section 201(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Immigration and Nationality Act (8 
U.S.C. 1151(b)(2)(A)(i)) is amended by striking ``21 years of age'' and 
inserting ``18 years of age''.

SEC. 307. REVISION OF GROUNDS FOR DEPORTATION.

    Section 237(a) of the Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 
1227(a)) is amended by striking paragraph (5).

SEC. 308. WAIVER TO ENSURE ACCESS TO CITIZENSHIP.

    The Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1101 et seq.) is 
amended--
            (1) in section 212 (8 U.S.C. 1182)--
                    (A) in subsection (a)(6)(C)--
                            (i) in clause (ii)--
                                    (I) by inserting ``and willfully'' 
                                after ``falsely'' each place such term 
                                appears; and
                                    (II) in subclause (I), by striking 
                                ``or any other Federal or State law''; 
                                and
                            (ii) by striking clause (iii); and
                    (B) in subsection (i), by amending paragraph (1) to 
                read as follows:
            ``(1) The Attorney General or the Secretary of Homeland 
        Security may, in the discretion of the Attorney General or the 
        Secretary, waive the application of subsection (a)(6)(C)(ii) 
        with respect to an immigrant who is the parent, spouse, son, or 
        daughter of a United States citizen or of an alien lawfully 
        admitted for permanent residence, or with respect to an alien 
        granted classification under clause (iii) or (iv) of section 
        204(a)(1)(A), if the Attorney General or the Secretary 
        determines that the admission to the United States of such 
        alien would not be contrary to the national welfare, safety, or 
        security of the United States.''; and
            (2) in section 237(a)(3)(D) (8 U.S.C. 1227(a)(3)(D)), by 
        inserting ``and willfully'' after ``falsely'' each place such 
        term appears.

SEC. 309. NATURALIZATION CEREMONIES.

    (a) In General.--The Chief of the Office of Citizenship of the 
External Affairs Directorate of U.S. Citizenship and Immigration 
Services, in consultation with the Deputy Director for Citizenship and 
Inclusion of the National Office of New Americans, the Director of the 
National Park Service, the Archivist of the United States, and other 
appropriate Federal officials, shall develop and implement a strategy 
to enhance the public awareness of naturalization ceremonies.
    (b) Venues.--In developing a strategy under subsection (a), the 
Chief and the Deputy Director shall consider the use of outstanding and 
historic locations as venues for select naturalization ceremonies.
    (c) Reporting Requirement.--The Secretary shall annually submit a 
report to Congress that describes--
            (1) the content of the strategy developed under subsection 
        (a); and
            (2) the progress made towards the implementation of such 
        strategy.

SEC. 310. PROUD TO BE A UNITED STATES CITIZEN PROGRAM.

    (a) Establishment.--Not later than January 1, 2024, the Secretary 
of Homeland Security shall establish the ``Proud to Be a United States 
Citizen Program'' (referred to in this section as the ``Program'') to 
promote United States citizenship.
    (b) Outreach Activities.--In carrying out the Program, the 
Secretary shall--
            (1) develop outreach materials targeted to noncitizens who 
        have been lawfully admitted for permanent residence to 
        encourage such aliens to apply to become citizens of the United 
        States;
            (2) disseminate the outreach materials developed pursuant 
        to paragraph (1) through public service announcements, 
        advertisements, and such other media as the Secretary 
        determines is appropriate;
            (3) conduct outreach activities targeted to noncitizens 
        believed to be eligible to apply for naturalization through 
        communications by text, email, and the United States postal 
        service, including--
                    (A) notifying individuals of their possible 
                eligibility to apply for naturalization;
                    (B) informing such individuals about the 
                requirements and benefits of United States citizenship;
                    (C) providing such individuals with partially 
                completed naturalization applications, using available 
                data about such individuals and instructions about how 
                to complete the application; and
                    (D) providing such individuals with information 
                about where to get free or low-cost assistance to apply 
                for naturalization and to prepare for the required 
                English and civics exams.

SEC. 311. MISSION OF U.S. CITIZENSHIP AND IMMIGRATION SERVICES.

    Section 451 of the Homeland Security Act of 2002 (6 U.S.C. 271) is 
amended--
            (1) by striking ``Bureau of'' each place such term appears 
        and inserting ``U.S.''; and
            (2) in subsection (a)--
                    (A) by redesignating paragraphs (2), (3), (4), and 
                (5) as paragraphs (3), (4), (5), and (6), respectively; 
                and
                    (B) by inserting after paragraph (1) the following:
            ``(2) Mission statement.--The mission of U.S. Citizenship 
        and Immigration Services is to secure America's promise as a 
        Nation that welcomes immigrants and refugees by--
                    ``(A) providing accurate and useful information to 
                its customers;
                    ``(B) granting humanitarian, immigration, and 
                citizenship benefits;
                    ``(C) promoting an awareness and understanding of 
                citizenship; and
                    ``(D) ensuring the integrity of the United States 
                immigration system.''.

SEC. 312. AUTOMATIC REGISTRATION OF ELIGIBLE INDIVIDUALS.

    (a) Definitions.--In this section and section 313:
            (1) Automatic registration system.--The term ``automatic 
        registration system'' means a system developed by a State 
        that--
                    (A) except as provided in subparagraph (B), 
                registers all newly naturalized individuals to vote in 
                elections for Federal office conducted in such State by 
                transferring the information necessary for voter 
                registration from the Department of Homeland Security 
                to the State voter registration database; and
                    (B) excludes from registration--
                            (i) any individual who affirmatively 
                        declines to be registered; and
                            (ii) any individual who is determined to be 
                        ineligible for registration.
            (2) Newly naturalized citizen.--The term ``newly 
        naturalized citizen'' means an individual who--
                    (A) has an approved application for naturalization 
                as a United States citizen;
                    (B) has taken the oath described in section 337 of 
                the Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1448); 
                and
                    (C) has received a certificate of naturalization 
                under section 338 of such Act (8 U.S.C. 1449).
            (3) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary 
        of Homeland Security.
    (b) Automatic Registration System for the Newly Naturalized.--
            (1) In general.--The chief election official of each State 
        shall establish and operate an automatic registration system 
        for newly naturalized citizens to vote in elections for Federal 
        office conducted in the State, in accordance with this section.
            (2) Use of department of homeland security records.--The 
        chief election official of each State shall--
                    (A) upon receiving information from the Secretary 
                about a newly naturalized citizen who has not declined 
                voter registration--
                            (i) ensure that such individual fulfills 
                        any local or State qualifications to register 
                        to vote relating to legal competency and past 
                        criminal convictions; and
                            (ii) determine whether such individual is 
                        subject to privacy protections for victims of 
                        domestic violence or people with sensitive or 
                        high-profile professions;
                    (B) not later than 15 days after receiving 
                information from the Secretary about an individual 
                pursuant to section 313, ensure that the individual is 
                registered to vote in elections for Federal office 
                conducted in the State unless the individual is 
                disqualified from voting by reason of incompetency or 
                past criminal conviction;
                    (C) not later than 45 days after receiving 
                information from the Secretary about an individual 
                pursuant to section 313, send written notice to the 
                individual, in addition to other means of notice 
                established under this section, of the individual's 
                voter registration status; and
                    (D) exclude from all public availability or 
                disclosure the voter registration records of any newly 
                naturalized citizens who are protected by applicable 
                State or local laws that prevent publication of the 
                home address and other personally identifying 
                information about victims of domestic violence and 
                people with sensitive or high-profile professions.
    (c) Contents of Written Notice to Newly Registered Voters.--The 
written notice required under subsection (b)(2)(C) shall--
            (1) indicate the individual has been registered to vote;
            (2) describe the substantive qualifications of an elector 
        in the State, as listed in the mail voter registration 
        application form for elections for Federal office prescribed 
        pursuant to section 9 of the National Voter Registration Act of 
        1993 (52 U.S.C. 20508);
            (3) set forth the consequences for false registration;
            (4) instruct the individual to cancel his or her voter 
        registration if he or she does not meet all of the 
        qualifications referred to in paragraph (2); and
            (5) providing instructions for--
                    (A) cancelling voter registration, if necessary 
                pursuant to paragraph (4); and
                    (B) correcting any erroneous information in the 
                individual's voter registration record.
    (d) Treatment of Individuals Younger Than 18 Years of Age.--A State 
may not refuse to register a newly naturalized citizen under this 
section on the grounds that the individual is younger than 18 years of 
age on the date on which the Secretary receives information with 
respect to the individual if the individual is at least 16 years of age 
on such date.

SEC. 313. DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY ASSISTANCE IN REGISTRATION.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary shall--
            (1) assist the chief election official of each State to 
        carry out the functions set forth in section 312(b) in 
        accordance with this section; and
            (2) provide each individual approved for naturalization 
        with a document that--
                    (A) informs the individual of--
                            (i) the substantive qualifications of an 
                        elector in the State, as set forth in the mail 
                        voter registration application form for 
                        elections for Federal office prescribed 
                        pursuant to section 9 of the National Voter 
                        Registration Act of 1993 (52 U.S.C. 20508); and
                            (ii) the consequences of false voter 
                        registration;
                    (B) instructs the individual to decline to register 
                to vote if the individual does not meet all of the 
                qualifications referred to in subparagraph (A)(i);
                    (C) informs the individual that--
                            (i) voter registration is voluntary; and
                            (ii) registering to voter or declining to 
                        register to vote--
                                    (I) will not affect the 
                                individual's citizenship status;
                                    (II) will not affect the 
                                availability of services or benefits to 
                                which the individual is entitled; and
                                    (III) will not be used for other 
                                purposes;
                    (D) informs the individual that affiliation or 
                enrollment with a political party may be required to 
                participate in an election to select the party's 
                candidate in an election for Federal office;
                    (E) provides any individual who accepts voter 
                registration the option of affiliating or enrolling 
                with a political party;
                    (F) informs the individual that he or she will not 
                be registered to vote if he or she--
                            (i) signs the document;
                            (ii) does not take the oath of allegiance 
                        to the United States required for 
                        naturalization under section 337 of the 
                        Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 
                        1448); and
                            (iii) is not issued a certificate of 
                        naturalization;
                    (G) instructs any individual who accepts voter 
                registration to provide his or her residential address 
                or coordinates if different from his or her mailing 
                address on file with U.S. Citizenship and Immigration 
                Services;
                    (H) directs individuals to--
                            (i) sign in a designated space to decline 
                        voter registration; or
                            (ii) sign in a different designated space 
                        to attest that the individual--
                                    (I) affirms that information 
                                provided on the document is true and 
                                complete to the best of the 
                                individual's knowledge;
                                    (II) will fulfill nationally 
                                applicable age, citizenship, and 
                                residency requirements to vote upon the 
                                individual's naturalization; and
                                    (III) accepts voter registration if 
                                determined by State election officials 
                                to be eligible to register in the 
                                individual's State and municipality of 
                                residence; and
                    (I) provides a phone number and other widely 
                accessible means of contacting U.S. Citizenship and 
                Immigration Services with questions about, or for 
                assistance with, completing sections of the document 
                concerning automatic voter registration, as set forth 
                in subsection (d).
    (b) Instructions on Automatic Registration.--The Secretary shall 
require each individual approved for naturalization to sign and submit 
to the Secretary the document received pursuant to subsection (a)(2) at 
the time he or she takes the oath described in section 337 of the 
Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1448) to acknowledge that he 
or she understands the information contained in the document and will 
comply with the applicable requirement.
    (c) Information Submission.--Not later than 15 days after a newly 
naturalized citizen submits a signed document to the Secretary in 
accordance with subsection (b), unless the individual declines to be 
registered to vote when signing the document, the Secretary shall 
submit to the appropriate State election official, in a format 
compatible with the statewide voter database maintained under section 
303 of the Help America Vote Act of 2002 (52 U.S.C. 21083) to the 
extent possible--
            (1) the individual's given names and surnames;
            (2) the individual's date of birth;
            (3) the individual's residential address or coordinates;
            (4) confirmation that the individual is a citizen of the 
        United States;
            (5) the date on which the individual was sworn in as a 
        United States citizen;
            (6) the individual's signature in electronic form, if 
        available; and
            (7) information regarding the individual's affiliation or 
        enrollment with a political party, if the individual provides 
        such information.
    (d) Registration Assistance.--The Secretary shall--
            (1) publish information about, and instructions for, 
        accepting or declining automatic voter registration for newly 
        naturalized citizens--
                    (A) on the U.S. Citizenship and Immigration 
                Services website; and
                    (B) in materials routinely provided to approved 
                applicants for United States citizenship; and
            (2) create a telephonic hotline staffed by live operators 
        to provide assistance with registration to approved applicants 
        for United States citizenship.

SEC. 314. VOTER PROTECTION AND SECURITY IN AUTOMATIC REGISTRATION.

    (a) Protections for Errors in Registration.--An individual may not 
be prosecuted under any Federal or State law, adversely affected in any 
civil adjudication concerning immigration status or naturalization, or 
subject to an allegation in any legal proceeding that the individual is 
not a citizen of the United States on the ground that the individual--
            (1) is not eligible to vote in elections for Federal 
        office, but--
                    (A) was automatically registered to vote under this 
                title; or
                    (B) was automatically registered to vote under this 
                title and subsequently voted without willful intent to 
                do so unlawfully;
            (2) was automatically registered to vote under this title 
        at an incorrect address; or
            (3) declined the opportunity to register to vote or did not 
        make an affirmation of citizenship, including through automatic 
        registration, under this title.
    (b) Limits on Use of Automatic Registration.--The automatic 
registration of any individual, an individual's declination to register 
to vote, or an individual's failure to make an affirmation of 
citizenship under this title may not be used as evidence against that 
individual in any State or Federal law enforcement proceeding. An 
individual's lack of knowledge or willfulness of such registration may 
be conclusively demonstrated by the individual's testimony.
    (c) Contributing Agencies' Protection of Information.--Nothing in 
this title may be construed to authorize the Department of Homeland 
Security to collect, retain, transmit, or publicly disclose, except to 
State election officials, as authorized under this title--
            (1) an individual's decision to decline to register to vote 
        or to not register to vote;
            (2) an individual's decision to not affirm his or her 
        citizenship; or
            (3) any information that a contributing agency transmits 
        pursuant to section 313(c), except in pursuing the agency's 
        ordinary course of business.
    (d) Public Disclosure Prohibited.--State election officials may not 
publicly disclose, with respect to any individual for whom any a State 
election official receives information from the Department of Homeland 
Security--
            (1) any information that is not necessary to voter 
        registration;
            (2) any voter information otherwise shielded from 
        disclosure under State law or section 8(a) of the National 
        Voter Registration Act of 1993 (52 U.S.C. 20507(a));
            (3) any portion of the individual's Social Security number;
            (4) any portion of the individual's motor vehicle driver's 
        license number;
            (5) the individual's signature;
            (6) the individual's telephone number; or
            (7) the individual's email address.

SEC. 315. EFFECTIVE DATE.

    Sections 312, 313, and 314 shall take effect on January 1, 2024.

             TITLE IV--REFUGEE RESETTLEMENT AND INTEGRATION

SEC. 401. DEFINITION OF SECRETARY.

    In this title, the term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary of State.

SEC. 402. MINIMUM NUMBER OF REFUGEES TO BE ADMITTED.

    Section 207(a)(2) of the Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 
1157(a)(2)) is amended by inserting after ``as the President 
determines'' the following: ``(except that in any fiscal year after 
fiscal year 2018, such number may not be less than 125,000)''.

SEC. 403. PRE-ARRIVAL ENGLISH LANGUAGE AND WORK ORIENTATION TRAINING 
              FOR APPROVED REFUGEE APPLICANTS.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary shall establish overseas refugee 
training programs to offer to refugees described in subsection (b) 
optional English-as-a-second-language and work orientation training 
before departure for the United States.
    (b) Refugees Described.--Refugees described in this subsection are 
refugees who have been--
            (1) approved for admission to the United States;
            (2) conditionally approved for admission to the United 
        States; or
            (3) selected at the discretion of the U.S. Refugee 
        Admission Program.
    (c) Design and Implementation.--In designing and implementing the 
programs referred to in subsection (a), the Secretary shall consult 
with or enter into a contract with 1 or more nongovernmental or 
international organizations that has--
            (1) direct affiliation with the United States refugee 
        resettlement program; and
            (2) appropriate expertise in developing curriculum and 
        teaching English as a second language.
    (d) Impact on Processing Times.--The Secretary shall ensure that 
training programs under this section--
            (1) are offered to refugees as strictly optional;
            (2) occur within applicable processing times; and
            (3) do not delay or prevent the departure for the United 
        States of any refugee who has been approved for admission to 
        the United States.
    (e) Timeline for Implementation.--
            (1) Initial implementation.--Not later than 1 year after 
        the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall 
        ensure that training programs under this section are fully and 
        consistently operational in not fewer than 3 refugee processing 
        regions.
            (2) Additional implementation.--Not later than 2 years 
        after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary 
        shall notify the appropriate committees of Congress that such 
        training programs are fully and consistently operational in not 
        fewer than 5 refugee processing regions.
    (f) GAO Study and Report.--
            (1) Study.--The Comptroller General of the United States 
        shall conduct a study on the implementation of this section 
        that includes--
                    (A) an assessment of--
                            (i) the quality of English-as-a-second-
                        language curricula and instruction; and
                            (ii) the benefits to refugees of the work 
                        orientation and English-as-a-second-language 
                        training programs; and
                    (B) recommendations on whether such programs should 
                be continued, broadened, or modified.
            (2) Report.--Not later than 4 years after the date of the 
        enactment of this Act, the Comptroller General shall submit to 
        the appropriate committees of Congress a report on the findings 
        of the study under paragraph (1).
    (g) Rule of Construction.--Nothing in this section shall be 
construed to require a refugee to participate in a training program 
under this section as a precondition for the admission of the refugee 
to the United States.

SEC. 404. UPDATE OF RECEPTION AND PLACEMENT GRANTS.

    Beginning in fiscal year 2023, in setting the amount of reception 
and placement grants for refugees, the Secretary shall ensure that--
            (1) the grant amount is adjusted to an amount that is 
        adequate to provide for the anticipated initial resettlement 
        needs of refugees and includes adjustments for inflation and 
        the cost of living;
            (2) the administrative portion of such grants provided at 
        the beginning of the fiscal year to each national resettlement 
        agency is sufficient to ensure adequate local and national 
        capacity to serve the initial resettlement needs of the number 
        of refugees the Secretary anticipates the agency will resettle 
        during the fiscal year; and
            (3) additional amounts are provided to each national 
        resettlement agency promptly upon the arrival of refugees that, 
        exclusive of the amounts provided pursuant to paragraph (2), 
        are sufficient to meet the anticipated initial resettlement 
        needs of such refugees and support local and national 
        operational costs in excess of the amount described in 
        paragraph (1).

SEC. 405. CASE MANAGEMENT GRANT PROGRAM.

    (a) Establishment.--The Director of the Office of Refugee 
Resettlement shall make grants to national resettlement agencies to 
operate a case management system for the purpose of offering case 
management to qualified individuals to assist in accessing any service, 
benefit, or assistance for which qualified individuals are eligible 
provided by--
            (1) the Office of Refugee Resettlement;
            (2) any other Federal, State, or local agency; and
            (3) a private entity or a nonprofit organization.
    (b) Period of Qualification.--
            (1) In general.--Except as provided in paragraph (2), a 
        qualified individual may receive case management services under 
        this section during the period beginning on the date on which 
        the qualified individual was determined to be eligible for 
        resettlement, acculturation, or subsistence services provided 
        by the Office of Refugee Resettlement and ending on the date 
        that is 1 year after the date on which the qualified individual 
        ceases to be so eligible.
            (2) Exceptional circumstances.--
                    (A) In general.--Notwithstanding paragraph (1), an 
                individual described in subparagraph (B) may receive 
                such case management services during the period 
                beginning on the date on which such individual was 
                determined to be eligible for resettlement, 
                acculturation, or subsistence services provided by the 
                Office of Refugee Resettlement and ending on the date 
                that is 3 years after the date on which such individual 
                ceases to be so eligible.
                    (B) Exceptional circumstances.--An individual 
                described in this subparagraph is a qualified 
                individual who--
                            (i) is 65 years of age or older;
                            (ii) has extraordinary resettlement or 
                        acculturation needs that impede the ability of 
                        the individual to achieve durable self-
                        sufficiency;
                            (iii) is a refugee resettled from a 
                        situation of protracted displacement;
                            (iv) is a member of a family caring for an 
                        unattached refugee minor; or
                            (v) on the date on which the individual was 
                        admitted to the United States--
                                    (I) had a disability or serious 
                                medical condition;
                                    (II) had a mental health condition;
                                    (III) was part of a household 
                                headed by a single parent; or
                                    (IV) was a victim of a severe form 
                                of violence.
    (c) Savings Clause.--Nothing in this section shall be construed as 
affecting the authority of the Director of the Office of Refugee 
Resettlement under section 412(e)(7)(A) of the Immigration and 
Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1522(e)(7)(A)) or of any other section of 
such Act to provide case management services to qualified individuals 
who have been in the United States for longer than 3 years.
    (d) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Qualified individual.--The term ``qualified 
        individual'' means an individual who was, at any time, eligible 
        for resettlement, acculturation, or subsistence services 
        provided by the Office of Refugee Resettlement.
            (2) Resettlement, acculturation, or subsistence services.--
        The term ``resettlement, acculturation, or subsistence 
        services'' includes each of the services provided by the Office 
        of Refugee Resettlement to aliens (as defined in section 101(a) 
        of the Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1101(a))), 
        except the case management services under this section.

SEC. 406. INCREASE IN CASH PAYMENTS.

    (a) In General.--Section 412 of the Immigration and Nationality Act 
(8 U.S.C. 1522) is amended--
            (1) in subsection (a)--
                    (A) in paragraph (1), by adding at the end the 
                following:
            ``(C) Subject to the availability of funds, assistance and 
        social services for employment and health and living expenses 
        under this section shall be available to refugees for a period 
        of not less than 1 year.'';
                    (B) in paragraph (5), by adding at the end the 
                following: ``Subject to the availability of funds, such 
                assistance and services shall be made available to 
                refugees for a period of not less than 1 year.''; and
            (2) in subsection (e)(1)--
                    (A) by striking ``(1)'' and inserting ``(1)(A)''; 
                and
                    (B) by adding at the end the following:
            ``(B) Subject to the availability of funds, such assistance 
        shall be provided for not less than 1 year beginning on the 
        first day of the month in which a refugee enters the United 
        States.''.
    (b) Effective Date.--The amendments made by subsection (a) shall 
take effect on the date that is the earlier of--
            (1) the first day of the first fiscal year beginning after 
        the date of the enactment of this Act; or
            (2) the date on which a final rule is promulgated to 
        implement such amendments.
    (c) Rule of Construction.--Nothing in this section or in the 
amendments made by this section shall be construed as limiting or 
reducing assistance provided for a period that is more than 1 year.

                  TITLE V--PROTECTIONS FOR IMMIGRANTS

SEC. 501. PERSONALLY IDENTIFIABLE INFORMATION.

    A recipient of a grant described in, or established under, this 
title may not be required, as a condition of receiving such a grant, to 
transmit the personally identifiable information of an immigrant, or a 
family member or household member of an immigrant, served by the 
recipient.

SEC. 502. VOLUNTARY PARTICIPATION IN INTEGRATION AND INCLUSION 
              ACTIVITIES.

    The participation of an immigrant in any integration or inclusion 
activity under this Act shall be strictly voluntary.
                                 &lt;all&gt;
</pre></body></html>
