<html><body><pre>
[Congressional Bills 111th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H. Res. 529 Engrossed in House (EH)]

H. Res. 529

                In the House of Representatives, U. S.,

                                                         June 11, 2009.
Whereas, on June 10, 2009, an armed assailant with ties to white supremacist 
        organizations, a conviction for a violent crime and a history of anti-
        Semitic and racist activities opened fire at the U.S. Holocaust Memorial 
        Museum;
Whereas, the gunman was a convicted felon and obtained a firearm in violation of 
        Federal law;
Whereas, security personnel at the U.S. Holocaust Memorial Museum, U.S. Park 
        Police, and other emergency responders, responded quickly and valiantly 
        to ensure the safety of museum visitors and staff and other bystanders;
Whereas, Officer Stephen Tyrone Johns, who had worked at the Museum for 6 years, 
        was fired upon by the gunman and later tragically succumbed to his 
        wounds;
Whereas, the U.S. Holocaust Memorial Museum was established by the U.S. 
        Holocaust Memorial Council, which was created by Congress in 1980 
        (Public Law 96-388) and mandated to create a permanent living memorial 
        museum to the victims of the Holocaust;
Whereas, the U.S. Holocaust Memorial Museum was dedicated on April 22, 1993, and 
        has since welcomed nearly 30 million visitors, including more than 8 
        million school children and 85 heads of state;
Whereas, the primary mission of the U.S. Holocaust Memorial Museum is ``to 
        advance and disseminate knowledge about this unprecedented tragedy; to 
        preserve the memory of those who suffered; and to encourage its visitors 
        to reflect upon the moral and spiritual questions raised by the events 
        of the Holocaust as well as their own responsibilities as citizens of a 
        democracy.'';
Whereas, the U.S. Holocaust Memorial Museum serves as one of the world's leading 
        authorities on the Holocaust;
Whereas, the U.S. Holocaust Memorial Museum, created to remind us of what 
        happened and what could happen when hatred turns into violence, has 
        tragically become a target itself;
Whereas, the attack at the U.S. Holocaust Memorial Museum is a horrific reminder 
        of the violence that can stem from anti-Semitism, racism, hatred, 
        intolerance, and Holocaust denial; and
 Whereas, President Obama stated, ``This outrageous act reminds us that we must 
        remain vigilant against anti-Semitism and prejudice in all its forms. No 
        American institution is more important to this effort than the Holocaust 
        Museum, and no act of violence will diminish our determination to honor 
        those who were lost by building a more peaceful and tolerant world'': 
        Now, therefore, be it
    Resolved, That the House of Representatives--
            (1) condemns the violent attack on the U.S. Holocaust Memorial 
        Museum on June 10, 2009;
            (2) honors the bravery and dedication of the employees and security 
        personnel at the U.S. Holocaust Memorial Museum and rededicates itself 
        to the safety and the security of the Museum and its visitors;
            (3) offers its condolences to the family of Officer Stephen Tyrone 
        Johns who was killed in the line of duty;
            (4) redoubles its commitment to advance the mission of the U.S. 
        Holocaust Memorial Museum to educate people about the Holocaust and 
        fight against anti-Semitism, racism, hatred, and intolerance; and
            (5) urges the American people to join the United States House of 
        Representatives in condemning this act of hateful violence and 
        intolerance.
            Attest:

                                                                          Clerk.
</pre></body></html>
