<html><body><pre>
[Congressional Bills 110th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H.R. 1221 Introduced in House (IH)]







110th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                H. R. 1221

  To provide for cancellation of removal and adjustment of status for 
 certain long-term residents who entered the United States as children.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                           February 28, 2007

 Mr. Gillmor introduced the following bill; which was referred to the 
                       Committee on the Judiciary

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
  To provide for cancellation of removal and adjustment of status for 
 certain long-term residents who entered the United States as children.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as--
            (1) the ``Education Access for Rightful Noncitizens Act''; 
        or
            (2) the ``EARN Act''.

SEC. 2. DEFINITIONS.

    In this Act:
            (1) Institution of higher education.--The term 
        ``institution of higher education'' has the meaning given that 
        term in section 101 of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (20 
        U.S.C. 1001).
            (2) Uniformed services.--The term ``uniformed services'' 
        has the meaning given that term in section 101(a) of title 10, 
        United States Code.

SEC. 3. CANCELLATION OF REMOVAL AND ADJUSTMENT OF STATUS OF CERTAIN 
              LONG-TERM RESIDENTS WHO ENTERED THE UNITED STATES AS 
              CHILDREN.

    (a) Special Rule for Certain Long-Term Residents Who Entered the 
United States as Children.--
            (1) In general.--Notwithstanding any other provision of law 
        and except as otherwise provided in this Act, the Secretary may 
        cancel removal of, and adjust to the status of an alien 
        lawfully admitted for permanent residence, subject to the 
        conditional basis described in section 625, an alien who is 
        inadmissible or deportable from the United States, if the alien 
        demonstrates that--
                    (A) the alien has been physically present in the 
                United States for a continuous period of not less than 
                5 years immediately preceding the date of enactment of 
                this Act, and had not yet reached the age of 16 years 
                at the time of initial entry;
                    (B) the alien has been a person of good moral 
                character since the time of application;
                    (C) the alien--
                            (i) is not inadmissible under paragraph 
                        (2), (3), (6)(B), (6)(C), (6)(E), (6)(F), or 
                        (6)(G) of section 212(a) of the Immigration and 
                        Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1182(a)), or, if 
                        inadmissible solely under subparagraph (C) or 
                        (F) of paragraph (6) of such subsection, the 
                        alien was under the age of 16 years at the time 
                        the violation was committed; and
                            (ii) is not deportable under paragraph 
                        (1)(E), (1)(G), (2), (3)(B), (3)(C), (3)(D), 
                        (4), or (6) of section 237(a) of the 
                        Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 
                        1227(a)), or, if deportable solely under 
                        subparagraphs (C) or (D) of paragraph (3) of 
                        such subsection, the alien was under the age of 
                        16 years at the time the violation was 
                        committed;
                    (D) the alien, at the time of application, has been 
                admitted to an institution of higher education in the 
                United States, or has earned a high school diploma or 
                obtained a general education development certificate in 
                the United States; and
                    (E) the alien has never been under a final 
                administrative or judicial order of exclusion, 
                deportation, or removal, unless the alien has remained 
                in the United States under color of law or received the 
                order before attaining the age of 16 years.
            (2) Waiver.--The Secretary may waive the grounds of 
        ineligibility under section 212(a)(6) of the Immigration and 
        Nationality Act and the grounds of deportability under 
        paragraphs (1), (3), and (6) of section 237(a) of that Act for 
        humanitarian purposes or family unity or when it is otherwise 
        in the public interest.
            (3) Procedures.--The Secretary shall provide a procedure by 
        regulation allowing eligible individuals to apply affirmatively 
        for the relief available under this subsection without being 
        placed in removal proceedings.
    (b) Termination of Continuous Period.--For purposes of this 
section, any period of continuous residence or continuous physical 
presence in the United States of an alien who applies for cancellation 
of removal under this section shall not terminate when the alien is 
served a notice to appear under section 239(a) of the Immigration and 
Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1229(a)).
    (c) Treatment of Certain Breaks in Presence.--
            (1) In general.--An alien shall be considered to have 
        failed to maintain continuous physical presence in the United 
        States under subsection (a) if the alien has departed from the 
        United States for any period in excess of 90 days or for any 
        periods in the aggregate exceeding 180 days.
            (2) Extensions for exceptional circumstances.--The 
        Secretary may extend the time periods described in paragraph 
        (1) if the alien demonstrates that the failure to timely return 
        to the United States was due to exceptional circumstances. The 
        exceptional circumstances determined sufficient to justify an 
        extension should be no less compelling than serious illness of 
        the alien, or death or serious illness of a parent, 
        grandparent, sibling, or child.
    (d) Exemption From Numerical Limitations.--Nothing in this section 
may be construed to apply a numerical limitation on the number of 
aliens who may be eligible for cancellation of removal or adjustment of 
status under this section.
    (e) Regulations.--
            (1) Proposed regulations.--Not later than 180 days after 
        the date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall publish 
        proposed regulations implementing this section. Such 
        regulations shall be effective immediately on an interim basis, 
        but are subject to change and revision after public notice and 
        opportunity for a period for public comment.
            (2) Interim, final regulations.--Within a reasonable time 
        after publication of the interim regulations in accordance with 
        paragraph (1), the Secretary shall publish final regulations 
        implementing this section.
    (f) Removal of Alien.--The Secretary may not remove any alien who 
has a pending application for conditional status under this Act.

SEC. 4. CONDITIONAL PERMANENT RESIDENT STATUS.

    (a) In General.--
            (1) Conditional basis for status.--Notwithstanding any 
        other provision of law, and except as provided in section 626, 
        an alien whose status has been adjusted under section 624 to 
        that of an alien lawfully admitted for permanent residence 
        shall be considered to have obtained such status on a 
        conditional basis subject to the provisions of this section. 
        Such conditional permanent resident status shall be valid for a 
        period of 6 years, subject to termination under subsection (b).
            (2) Notice of requirements.--
                    (A) At time of obtaining permanent residence.--At 
                the time an alien obtains permanent resident status on 
                a conditional basis under paragraph (1), the Secretary 
                shall provide for notice to the alien regarding the 
                provisions of this section and the requirements of 
                subsection (c) to have the conditional basis of such 
                status removed.
                    (B) Effect of failure to provide notice.--The 
                failure of the Secretary to provide a notice under this 
                paragraph--
                            (i) shall not affect the enforcement of the 
                        provisions of this Act with respect to the 
                        alien; and
                            (ii) shall not give rise to any private 
                        right of action by the alien.
    (b) Termination of Status.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary shall terminate the 
        conditional permanent resident status of any alien who obtained 
        such status under this Act, if the Secretary determines that 
        the alien--
                    (A) ceases to meet the requirements of subparagraph 
                (B) or (C) of section 624(a)(1);
                    (B) has become a public charge; or
                    (C) has received a dishonorable or other than 
                honorable discharge from the uniformed services.
            (2) Return to previous immigration status.--Any alien whose 
        conditional permanent resident status is terminated under 
        paragraph (1) shall return to the immigration status the alien 
        had immediately prior to receiving conditional permanent 
        resident status under this Act.
    (c) Requirements of Timely Petition for Removal of Condition.--
            (1) In general.--In order for the conditional basis of 
        permanent resident status obtained by an alien under subsection 
        (a) to be removed, the alien must file with the Secretary, in 
        accordance with paragraph (3), a petition which requests the 
        removal of such conditional basis and which provides, under 
        penalty of perjury, the facts and information so that the 
        Secretary may make the determination described in paragraph 
        (2)(A).
            (2) Adjudication of petition to remove condition.--
                    (A) In general.--If a petition is filed in 
                accordance with paragraph (1) for an alien, the 
                Secretary shall make a determination as to whether the 
                alien meets the requirements set out in subparagraphs 
                (A) through (E) of subsection (d)(1).
                    (B) Removal of conditional basis if favorable 
                determination.--If the Secretary determines that the 
                alien meets such requirements, the Secretary shall 
                notify the alien of such determination and immediately 
                remove the conditional basis of the status of the 
                alien.
                    (C) Termination if adverse determination.--If the 
                Secretary determines that the alien does not meet such 
                requirements, the Secretary shall notify the alien of 
                such determination and terminate the conditional 
                permanent resident status of the alien as of the date 
                of the determination.
            (3) Time to file petition.--An alien may petition to remove 
        the conditional basis to lawful resident status during the 
        period beginning 180 days before and ending 2 years after 
        either the date that is 6 years after the date of the granting 
        of conditional permanent resident status or any other 
        expiration date of the conditional permanent resident status as 
        extended by the Secretary in accordance with this Act. The 
        alien shall be deemed in conditional permanent resident status 
        in the United States during the period in which the petition is 
        pending.
    (d) Details of Petition.--
            (1) Contents of petition.--Each petition for an alien under 
        subsection (c)(1) shall contain information to permit the 
        Secretary to determine whether each of the following 
        requirements is met:
                    (A) The alien has demonstrated good moral character 
                during the entire period the alien has been a 
                conditional permanent resident.
                    (B) The alien is in compliance with section 
                3(a)(1)(C).
                    (C) The alien has not abandoned the alien's 
                residence in the United States. The Secretary shall 
                presume that the alien has abandoned such residence if 
                the alien is absent from the United States for more 
                than 365 days, in the aggregate, during the period of 
                conditional residence, unless the alien demonstrates 
                that alien has not abandoned the alien's residence. An 
                alien who is absent from the United States due to 
                active service in the uniformed services has not 
                abandoned the alien's residence in the United States 
                during the period of such service.
                    (D) The alien has completed at least 1 of the 
                following:
                            (i) The alien has acquired a degree from an 
                        institution of higher education in the United 
                        States or has completed at least 2 years, in 
                        good standing, in a program for a bachelor's 
                        degree or higher degree in the United States.
                            (ii) The alien has served in the uniformed 
                        services for at least 2 years and, if 
                        discharged, has received an honorable 
                        discharge.
                    (E) The alien has provided a list of all of the 
                secondary educational institutions that the alien 
                attended in the United States.
            (2) Hardship exception.--
                    (A) In general.--The Secretary may, in the 
                Secretary's discretion, remove the conditional status 
                of an alien if the alien--
                            (i) satisfies the requirements of 
                        subparagraphs (A), (B), and (C) of paragraph 
                        (1);
                            (ii) demonstrates compelling circumstances 
                        for the inability to complete the requirements 
                        described in paragraph (1)(D); and
                            (iii) demonstrates that the alien's removal 
                        from the United States would result in 
                        exceptional and extremely unusual hardship to 
                        the alien or the alien's spouse, parent, or 
                        child who is a citizen or a lawful permanent 
                        resident of the United States.
                    (B) Extension.--Upon a showing of good cause, the 
                Secretary may extend the period of the conditional 
                resident status for the purpose of completing the 
                requirements described in paragraph (1)(D).
    (e) Treatment of Period for Purposes of Naturalization.--For 
purposes of title III of the Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 
1401 et seq.), in the case of an alien who is in the United States as a 
lawful permanent resident on a conditional basis under this section, 
the alien shall be considered to have been admitted as an alien 
lawfully admitted for permanent residence and to be in the United 
States as an alien lawfully admitted to the United States for permanent 
residence. However, the conditional basis must be removed before the 
alien may apply for naturalization.

SEC. 5. RETROACTIVE BENEFITS.

    If, on the date of enactment of this Act, an alien has satisfied 
all the requirements of subparagraphs (A) through (E) of section 
3(a)(1) and section 4(d)(1)(D), the Secretary may adjust the status of 
the alien to that of a conditional resident in accordance with section 
3. The alien may petition for removal of such condition at the end of 
the conditional residence period in accordance with section 4(c) if the 
alien has met the requirements of subparagraphs (A), (B), and (C) of 
section 4(d)(1) during the entire period of conditional residence.

SEC. 6. EXCLUSIVE JURISDICTION.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary shall have exclusive jurisdiction to 
determine eligibility for relief under this Act, except where the alien 
has been placed into deportation, exclusion, or removal proceedings 
either prior to or after filing an application for relief under this 
Act, in which case the Attorney General shall have exclusive 
jurisdiction and shall assume all the powers and duties of the 
Secretary until proceedings are terminated, or if a final order of 
deportation, exclusion, or removal is entered the Secretary shall 
resume all powers and duties delegated to the Secretary under this Act.
    (b) Stay of Removal of Certain Aliens Enrolled in Primary or 
Secondary School.--The Attorney General shall stay the removal 
proceedings of any alien who--
            (1) meets all the requirements of subparagraphs (A), (B), 
        (C), and (E) of section 3(a)(1);
            (2) is at least 12 years of age; and
            (3) is enrolled full time in a primary or secondary school.
    (c) Employment.--An alien whose removal is stayed pursuant to 
subsection (b) may be engaged in employment in the United States, 
consistent with the Fair Labor Standards Act (29 U.S.C. 201 et seq.), 
and State and local laws governing minimum age for employment.
    (d) Lift of Stay.--The Attorney General shall lift the stay granted 
pursuant to subsection (b) if the alien--
            (1) is no longer enrolled in a primary or secondary school; 
        or
            (2) ceases to meet the requirements of subsection (b)(1).

SEC. 7. PENALTIES FOR FALSE STATEMENTS IN APPLICATION.

    Whoever files an application for relief under this Act and 
willfully and knowingly falsifies, misrepresents, or conceals a 
material fact or makes any false or fraudulent statement or 
representation, or makes or uses any false writing or document knowing 
the same to contain any false or fraudulent statement or entry, shall 
be fined in accordance with title 18, United States Code, or imprisoned 
not more than 5 years, or both.

SEC. 8. CONFIDENTIALITY OF INFORMATION.

    (a) Prohibition.--No officer or employee of the United States may--
            (1) use the information furnished by the applicant pursuant 
        to an application filed under this Act to initiate removal 
        proceedings against any persons identified in the application;
            (2) make any publication whereby the information furnished 
        by any particular individual pursuant to an application under 
        this Act can be identified; or
            (3) permit anyone other than an officer or employee of the 
        United States Government or, in the case of applications filed 
        under this Act with a designated entity, that designated 
        entity, to examine applications filed under this Act.
    (b) Required Disclosure.--The Attorney General or the Secretary 
shall provide the information furnished under this section, and any 
other information derived from such furnished information, to--
            (1) a duly recognized law enforcement entity in connection 
        with an investigation or prosecution of an offense described in 
        paragraph (2) or (3) of section 212(a) of the Immigration and 
        Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1182(a)), when such information is 
        requested in writing by such entity; or
            (2) an official coroner for purposes of affirmatively 
        identifying a deceased individual (whether or not such 
        individual is deceased as a result of a crime).
    (c) Penalty.--Whoever knowingly uses, publishes, or permits 
information to be examined in violation of this section shall be fined 
not more than $10,000.

SEC. 9. EXPEDITED PROCESSING OF APPLICATIONS; PROHIBITION ON FEES.

    Regulations promulgated under this Act shall provide that 
applications under this Act will be considered on an expedited basis 
and without a requirement for the payment by the applicant of any 
additional fee for such expedited processing.

SEC. 10. GAO REPORT.

    Seven years after the date of enactment of this Act, the 
Comptroller General of the United States shall submit a report to the 
Committee on the Judiciary of the Senate and the Committee on the 
Judiciary of the House of Representatives, which sets forth--
            (1) the number of aliens who were eligible for cancellation 
        of removal and adjustment of status under section 3(a);
            (2) the number of aliens who applied for adjustment of 
        status under section 3(a);
            (3) the number of aliens who were granted adjustment of 
        status under section 3(a); and
            (4) the number of aliens whose conditional permanent 
        resident status was removed under section 4.
                                 &lt;all&gt;
</pre></body></html>
