<html><body><pre>
[116th Congress Public Law 26]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]



[[Page 1017]]

 EMERGENCY SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS FOR HUMANITARIAN ASSISTANCE AND 
                SECURITY AT THE SOUTHERN BORDER ACT, 2019

[[Page 133 STAT. 1018]]

Public Law 116-26
116th Congress

                                 An Act


 
Making emergency supplemental appropriations for the fiscal year ending 
      September 30, 2019, and for other purposes. &lt;&lt;NOTE: July 1, 
                         2019 -  [H.R. 3401]&gt;&gt; 

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,  That &lt;&lt;NOTE: Emergency 
Supplemental Appropriations for Humanitarian Assistance and Security at 
the Southern Border Act, 2019.&gt;&gt;  the following sums are appropriated, 
out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, for the 
fiscal year ending September 30, 2019, and for other purposes, namely:

                                 TITLE I

                          DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

                         General Administration

                 executive office for immigration review

    For an additional amount for ``Executive Office for Immigration 
Review'', $65,000,000, of which $45,000,000 shall be for the hiring of 
30 additional Immigration Judge Teams, of which $10,000,000 shall be 
used for the purchase or lease of immigration judge courtroom space and 
equipment, and of which $10,000,000 shall be used only for services and 
activities provided by the Legal Orientation Program:  Provided, That 
Immigration Judge Teams shall include appropriate attorneys, law clerks, 
paralegals, court administrators, and other support staff:  Provided 
further, That such amount is designated by the Congress as being for an 
emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the 
Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                     United States Marshals Service

                       federal prisoner detention

    For an additional amount for ``Federal Prisoner Detention'', for 
necessary expenses related to United States prisoners in the custody of 
the United States Marshals Service, to be used only as authorized by 
section 4013 of title 18, United States Code, $155,000,000, to remain 
available until expended:  Provided, That such amount is designated by 
the Congress as being for an emergency requirement pursuant to section 
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act 
of 1985.

[[Page 133 STAT. 1019]]

                                TITLE II

                          DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE

                        Operation and Maintenance

                     operation and maintenance, army

    For an additional amount for ``Operation and Maintenance, Army'', 
$92,800,000, for necessary expenses to respond to the significant rise 
in unaccompanied minors and family unit aliens at the southwest border 
and related activities:  Provided, That such amount is designated by the 
Congress as being for an emergency requirement pursuant to section 
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act 
of 1985.

                 operation and maintenance, marine corps

    For an additional amount for ``Operation and Maintenance, Marine 
Corps'', $13,025,000, for necessary expenses to respond to the 
significant rise in unaccompanied minors and family unit aliens at the 
southwest border and related activities:  Provided, That such amount is 
designated by the Congress as being for an emergency requirement 
pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency 
Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                  operation and maintenance, air force

    For an additional amount for ``Operation and Maintenance, Air 
Force'', $18,000,000, for necessary expenses to respond to the 
significant rise in unaccompanied minors and family unit aliens at the 
southwest border and related activities:  Provided, That such amount is 
designated by the Congress as being for an emergency requirement 
pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency 
Deficit Control Act of 1985.

             operation and maintenance, army national guard

    For an additional amount for ``Operation and Maintenance, Army 
National Guard'', $21,024,000, for necessary expenses to respond to the 
significant rise in unaccompanied minors and family unit aliens at the 
southwest border and related activities:  Provided, That such amount is 
designated by the Congress as being for an emergency requirement 
pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency 
Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                                TITLE III

                     DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY

                   U.S. Customs and Border Protection

                         operations and support

    For an additional amount for ``Operations and Support'' for 
necessary expenses to respond to the significant rise in aliens at the 
southwest border and related activities, $1,015,431,000; of which 
$819,950,000 shall be available until September 30, 2020:

[[Page 133 STAT. 1020]]

 Provided, That of the amounts provided under this heading, $708,000,000 
is for establishing and operating migrant care and processing 
facilities, $111,950,000 is for consumables and medical care, 
$35,000,000 is for transportation, $110,481,000 is for temporary duty 
and overtime costs including reimbursements, and $50,000,000 is for 
mission support data systems and analysis:  Provided further, That such 
amount is designated by the Congress as being for an emergency 
requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget 
and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

               procurement, construction, and improvements

    For an additional amount for ``Procurement, Construction, and 
Improvements'' for migrant care and processing facilities, $85,000,000, 
to remain available until September 30, 2023:  Provided, That such 
amount is designated by the Congress as being for an emergency 
requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget 
and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement

                         operations and support

    For an additional amount for ``Operations and Support'' for 
necessary expenses to respond to the significant rise in aliens at the 
southwest border and related activities, $208,945,000:  Provided, That 
of the amounts provided under this heading, $35,943,000 is for 
transportation of unaccompanied alien children, $11,981,000 is for 
detainee transportation for medical needs, court proceedings, or 
relocation from U.S. Customs and Border Protection custody, $20,000,000 
is for alternatives to detention, $45,000,000 is for detainee medical 
care, $69,735,000 is for temporary duty, overtime, and other on-board 
personnel costs including reimbursements, $5,000,000 is for the Office 
of Professional Responsibility for background investigations and 
facility inspections, and $21,286,000 is for Homeland Security 
Investigations human trafficking investigations:  Provided further, That 
such amount is designated by the Congress as being for an emergency 
requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget 
and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                   Federal Emergency Management Agency

                           federal assistance

    For an additional amount for ``Federal Assistance'', $30,000,000, to 
remain available until September 30, 2020, for the emergency food and 
shelter program under title III of the McKinney-Vento Homeless 
Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 11331 et seq.) for the purposes of providing 
assistance to aliens released from the custody of the Department of 
Homeland Security:  Provided, That &lt;&lt;NOTE: Deadline.&gt;&gt;  notwithstanding 
sections 315 and 316(b) of such Act, funds made available under this 
section shall be disbursed by the Emergency Food and Shelter Program 
National Board not later than 30 days after the date on which such funds 
become available:  Provided further, That the

[[Page 133 STAT. 1021]]

Emergency Food and Shelter Program National Board shall distribute such 
funds only to jurisdictions or local recipient organizations serving 
communities that have experienced a significant influx of such aliens:  
Provided further, That &lt;&lt;NOTE: Reimbursement. Effective date.&gt;&gt;  such 
funds may be used to reimburse such jurisdictions or local recipient 
organizations for costs incurred in providing services to such aliens on 
or after January 1, 2019:  Provided further, That such amount is 
designated by the Congress as being for an emergency requirement 
pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency 
Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                     GENERAL PROVISIONS--THIS TITLE

    Sec. 301.  Notwithstanding any other provision of law, funds made 
available under each heading in this title shall only be used for the 
purposes specifically described under that heading.
    Sec. 302.  Division A of the Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2019 
(Public Law 116-6) &lt;&lt;NOTE: Ante, p. 44.&gt;&gt;  is amended by adding after 
section 540 the following:

    ``Sec. 541. (a) &lt;&lt;NOTE: 6 USC 391 note.&gt;&gt;  Section 831 of the 
Homeland Security Act of 2002 (6 U.S.C. 391) shall be applied--
            ``(1) In subsection (a), by substituting `September 30, 
        2019,' for `September 30, 2017,'; and
            ``(2) In subsection (c)(1), by substituting `September 30, 
        2019,' for `September 30, 2017'.

    ``(b) The Secretary of Homeland Security, under the authority of 
section 831 of the Homeland Security Act of 2002 (6 U.S.C. 391(a)), may 
carry out prototype projects under section 2371b of title 10, United 
States Code, and the Secretary shall perform the functions of the 
Secretary of Defense as prescribed.
    ``(c) The Secretary of Homeland Security under section 831 of the 
Homeland Security Act of 2002 (6 U.S.C. 391(d)) may use the definition 
of nontraditional government contractor as defined in section 2371b(e) 
of title 10, United States Code.''.
    Sec. 303.  None &lt;&lt;NOTE: Policies.&gt;&gt;  of the funds provided in this 
Act under ``U.S. Customs and Border Protection--Operations and Support'' 
for facilities shall be available until U.S. Customs and Border 
Protection establishes policies (via directive, procedures, guidance, 
and/or memorandum) and training programs to ensure that such facilities 
adhere to the National Standards on Transport, Escort, Detention, and 
Search, published in October of 2015:  Provided, 
That &lt;&lt;NOTE: Reports.&gt;&gt;  not later than 90 days after the date of 
enactment of this Act, U.S. Customs and Border Protection shall provide 
a detailed report to the Committees on Appropriations of the Senate and 
the House of Representatives, the Committee on the Judiciary of the 
Senate, and the House Judiciary Committee regarding the establishment 
and implementation of such policies and training programs.

    Sec. 304.  No &lt;&lt;NOTE: Reports.&gt;&gt;  later than 30 days after the date 
of enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Homeland Security shall 
provide a report on the number of U.S. Customs and Border Protection 
Officers assigned to northern border land ports of entry and temporarily 
assigned to the ongoing humanitarian crisis:  Provided, That the report 
shall outline what resources and conditions would allow a return to 
northern border staffing levels that are no less than the number 
committed in the June 12, 2018 Department of Homeland Security Northern 
Border Strategy:  Provided further, That the report shall include the 
number of officers temporarily assigned

[[Page 133 STAT. 1022]]

to the southwest border in response to the ongoing humanitarian crisis, 
the number of days the officers will be away from their northern border 
assignment, the northern border ports from which officers are being 
assigned to the southwest border, and efforts being made to limit the 
impact on operations at each northern border land port of entry where 
officers have been temporarily assigned to the southwest border.

    Sec. 305.  None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made 
available by this Act or division A of the Consolidated Appropriations 
Act, 2019 (Public Law 116-6) for the Department of Homeland Security may 
be used to relocate to the National Targeting Center the vetting of 
Trusted Traveler Program applications and operations currently carried 
out at existing locations unless specifically authorized by a statute 
enacted after the date of enactment of this Act.
    Sec. 306.  The personnel, supplies, or equipment of any component of 
the Department of Homeland Security may be deployed to support 
activities of the Department of Homeland Security related to the 
significant rise in aliens at the southwest border and related 
activities, and for the enforcement of immigration and customs laws, 
detention and removals of aliens crossing the border unlawfully, and 
investigations without reimbursement as jointly agreed by the detailing 
components.

                                TITLE IV

                 DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES

                Administration for Children and Families

                     refugee and entrant assistance

    For an additional amount for ``Refugee and Entrant Assistance'', 
$2,881,552,000, to be merged with and available for the same period as 
funds appropriated in Public Law 115-245 ``for carrying out such 
sections 414, 501, 462, and 235'', which shall be available for any 
purpose funded under such heading in such law:  Provided, That if any 
part of the reprogramming described in the notification submitted by the 
Secretary of Health and Human Services (the ``Secretary'') to the 
Committees on Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the 
Senate on May 16, 2019 has been executed, such amounts provided by this 
Act as are necessary shall be used to reverse such reprogramming:  
Provided further, That amounts allocated by the Secretary for costs of 
leases of property that include facilities to be used as hard-sided 
dormitories for which the Secretary intends to seek State licensure for 
the care of unaccompanied alien children, and that are executed under 
authorities transferred to the Director of the Office of Refugee 
Resettlement (ORR) under section 462 of the Homeland Security Act of 
2002, shall remain available until 
expended: &lt;&lt;NOTE: Notification. Deadlines. Assessment.&gt;&gt;   Provided 
further, That ORR shall notify the Committees on Appropriations of the 
House of Representatives and the Senate within 72 hours of conducting a 
formal assessment of a facility for possible lease or acquisition and 
within 7 days of any acquisition or lease of real property:  Provided 
further, That not less than $866,000,000 of amounts provided under this 
heading shall be used for the provision of care in licensed shelters and 
for expanding the supply of shelters for which State licensure will be 
sought, of which not less than $27,000,000 shall be available for the 
purposes of adding shelter

[[Page 133 STAT. 1023]]

beds in State-licensed facilities in response to funding opportunity 
HHS-2017-ACF-ORR-ZU-1132, and of which not less than $185,000,000 shall 
be available for expansion grants to add beds in State-licensed 
facilities and open new State-licensed facilities, and for contract 
costs to acquire, activate, and operate facilities that will include 
small- and medium-scale hard-sided facilities for which the Secretary 
intends to seek State licensure in an effort to phase out the need for 
shelter beds in unlicensed facilities:  Provided further, That not less 
than $100,000,000 of amounts provided under this heading shall be used 
for post-release services, child advocates, and legal services:  
Provided further, That not less than $8,000,000 of amounts provided 
under this heading shall be used for the purposes of hiring additional 
Federal Field Specialists and for increasing case management and case 
coordination services, with the goal of more expeditiously placing 
unaccompanied alien children with sponsors and reducing the length of 
stay in ORR custody:  Provided further, That not less than $1,000,000 of 
amounts provided under this heading shall be used for the purposes of 
hiring project officers and program monitor staff dedicated to pursuing 
strategic improvements to the Unaccompanied Alien Children program and 
for the development of a discharge rate improvement plan which shall be 
submitted to the Committees on Appropriations of the House of 
Representatives and the Senate within 120 days of enactment of this Act: 
 Provided further, That of the amounts provided under this heading, 
$5,000,000 shall be transferred to ``Office of the Secretary--Office of 
Inspector General'' and shall remain available until expended for 
oversight of activities supported with funds appropriated under this 
heading:  Provided further, That such amount is designated by the 
Congress as being for an emergency requirement pursuant to section 
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act 
of 1985.

                     GENERAL PROVISIONS--THIS TITLE

    Sec. 401.  The Secretary of Health and Human Services (the 
``Secretary'') shall prioritize use of community-based residential care 
(including long-term and transitional foster care and small group homes) 
and shelter care other than large-scale institutional shelter facilities 
to house unaccompanied alien children in its custody. The Secretary 
shall prioritize State-licensed and hard-sided dormitories.
    Sec. 402.  The Office of Refugee Resettlement shall ensure that its 
grantees and, to the greatest extent practicable, potential sponsors of 
unaccompanied alien children are aware of current law regarding the use 
of information collected as part of the sponsor suitability 
determination process.
    Sec. 403. (a) None of the funds provided by this or any prior 
appropriations Act may be used to reverse changes in procedures made by 
operational directives issued to providers by the Office of Refugee 
Resettlement on December 18, 2018, March 23, 2019, and June 10, 2019 
regarding the Memorandum of Agreement on Information Sharing executed 
April 13, 2018.
    (b) &lt;&lt;NOTE: Determination.&gt;&gt;  Notwithstanding subsection (a), the 
Secretary may make changes to such operational directives upon making a 
determination that such changes are necessary to prevent unaccompanied 
alien children from being placed in danger, and the Secretary shall 
provide a written justification to Congress and the Inspector General

[[Page 133 STAT. 1024]]

of the Department of Health and Human Services in advance of 
implementing such changes.

    (c) &lt;&lt;NOTE: Deadline. Assessment.&gt;&gt;  Within 15 days of the 
Secretary's communication of the justification, the Inspector General of 
the Department of Health and Human Services shall provide an assessment, 
in writing, to the Secretary and to Committees on Appropriations of the 
House of Representatives and the Senate of whether such changes to 
operational directives are necessary to prevent unaccompanied children 
from being placed in danger.

    Sec. 404.  None &lt;&lt;NOTE: Determination.&gt;&gt;  of the funds made 
available in this Act under the heading ``Department of Health and Human 
Services--Administration for Children and Families--Refugee and Entrant 
Assistance'' may be obligated to a grantee or contractor to house 
unaccompanied alien children (as such term is defined in section 
462(g)(2) of the Homeland Security Act of 2002 (6 U.S.C. 279(g)(2))) in 
any facility that is not State-licensed for the care of unaccompanied 
alien children, except in the case that the Secretary determines that 
housing unaccompanied alien children in such a facility is necessary on 
a temporary basis due to an influx of such children or an emergency, 
provided that--
            (1) &lt;&lt;NOTE: Compliance.&gt;&gt;  the terms of the grant or 
        contract for the operations of any such facility that remains in 
        operation for more than six consecutive months shall require 
        compliance with--
                    (A) the same requirements as licensed placements, as 
                listed in Exhibit 1 of the Flores Settlement Agreement 
                that the Secretary determines are applicable to non-
                State licensed facilities; and
                    (B) staffing ratios of one (1) on-duty Youth Care 
                Worker for every eight (8) children or youth during 
                waking hours, one (1) on-duty Youth Care Worker for 
                every sixteen (16) children or youth during sleeping 
                hours, and clinician ratios to children (including 
                mental health providers) as required in grantee 
                cooperative agreements;
            (2) &lt;&lt;NOTE: Waiver authority. Certification. Reports.&gt;&gt;  the 
        Secretary may grant a 60-day waiver for a contractor's or 
        grantee's non-compliance with paragraph (1) if the Secretary 
        certifies and provides a report to Congress on the contractor's 
        or grantee's good-faith efforts and progress towards compliance;
            (3) not more than four consecutive waivers under paragraph 
        (2) may be granted to a contractor or grantee with respect to a 
        specific facility;
            (4) ORR shall ensure full adherence to the monitoring 
        requirements set forth in section 5.5 of its Policies and 
        Procedures Guide as of May 15, 2019;
            (5) &lt;&lt;NOTE: Time period.&gt;&gt;  for any such unlicensed facility 
        in operation for more than three consecutive months, ORR shall 
        conduct a minimum of one comprehensive monitoring visit during 
        the first three months of operation, with quarterly monitoring 
        visits thereafter; and
            (6) &lt;&lt;NOTE: Deadline. Briefing.&gt;&gt;  not later than 60 days 
        after the date of enactment of this Act, ORR shall brief the 
        Committees on Appropriations of the House of Representatives and 
        the Senate outlining the requirements of ORR for influx 
        facilities including any requirement listed in paragraph (1)(A) 
        that the Secretary has determined are not applicable to non-
        State licensed facilities.

[[Page 133 STAT. 1025]]

    Sec. 405.  In &lt;&lt;NOTE: Notification. Time periods. Analysis.&gt;&gt;  
addition to the existing Congressional notification for formal site 
assessments of potential influx facilities, the Secretary shall notify 
the Committees on Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the 
Senate at least 15 days before operationalizing an unlicensed facility, 
and shall (1) specify whether the facility is hard-sided or soft-sided, 
and (2) provide analysis that indicates that, in the absence of the 
influx facility, the likely outcome is that unaccompanied alien children 
will remain in the custody of the Department of Homeland Security for 
longer than 72 hours or that unaccompanied alien children will be 
otherwise placed in danger. &lt;&lt;NOTE: Reports.&gt;&gt;  Within 60 days of 
bringing such a facility online, and monthly thereafter, the Secretary 
shall provide to the Committees on Appropriations of the House of 
Representatives and the Senate a report detailing the total number of 
children in care at the facility, the average length of stay and average 
length of care of children at the facility, and, for any child that has 
been at the facility for more than 60 days, their length of stay and 
reason for delay in release.

    Sec. 406. (a) The Secretary shall ensure that, when feasible, no 
unaccompanied alien child is at an unlicensed facility if the child--
            (1) &lt;&lt;NOTE: Time period.&gt;&gt;  is not expected to be placed 
        with a sponsor within 30 days;
            (2) is under the age of 13;
            (3) does not speak English or Spanish as his or her 
        preferred language;
            (4) has known special needs, behavioral health issues, or 
        medical issues that would be better served at an alternative 
        facility;
            (5) is a pregnant or parenting teen; or
            (6) would have a diminution of legal services as a result of 
        the transfer to such an unlicensed facility.

    (b) &lt;&lt;NOTE: Notification.&gt;&gt;  ORR shall notify a child's attorney of 
record in advance of any transfer, where applicable.

    Sec. 407.  None &lt;&lt;NOTE: Time period.&gt;&gt;  of the funds made available 
in this Act may be used to prevent a United States Senator or Member of 
the House of Representatives from entering, for the purpose of 
conducting oversight, any facility in the United States used for the 
purpose of maintaining custody of, or otherwise housing, unaccompanied 
alien children (as defined in section 462(g)(2) of the Homeland Security 
Act of 2002 (6 U.S.C. 279(g)(2))), provided that such Senator or Member 
has coordinated the oversight visit with the Office of Refugee 
Resettlement not less than two business days in advance to ensure that 
such visit would not interfere with the operations (including child 
welfare and child safety operations) of such facility.

    Sec. 408.  Not &lt;&lt;NOTE: Public information. Reports.&gt;&gt;  later than 14 
days after the date of enactment of this Act, and monthly thereafter, 
the Secretary shall submit to the Committees on Appropriations of the 
House of Representatives and the Senate, and make publicly available 
online, a report with respect to children who were separated from their 
parents or legal guardians by the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) 
(regardless of whether or not such separation was pursuant to an option 
selected by the children, parents, or guardians), subsequently 
classified as unaccompanied alien children, and transferred to the care 
and custody of ORR during the previous month. Each report shall contain 
the following information:

[[Page 133 STAT. 1026]]

            (1) the number and ages of children so separated subsequent 
        to apprehension at or between ports of entry, to be reported by 
        sector where separation occurred; and
            (2) the documented cause of separation, as reported by DHS 
        when each child was referred.

    Sec. 409.  Funds made available in this Act under the heading 
``Department of Health and Human Services--Administration for Children 
and Families--Refugee and Entrant Assistance'' shall be subject to the 
authorities and conditions of section 224 of division A of the 
Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2019 (Public Law 116-6).
    Sec. 410.  Not &lt;&lt;NOTE: Deadline. Spend plan.&gt;&gt;  later than 30 days 
after the date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall submit to 
the Committees on Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the 
Senate a detailed spend plan of anticipated uses of funds made available 
in this account, including the following: &lt;&lt;NOTE: Lists.&gt;&gt;  a list of 
existing grants and contracts for both permanent and influx facilities, 
including their costs, capacity, and timelines; &lt;&lt;NOTE: Costs.&gt;&gt;  costs 
for expanding capacity through the use of community-based residential 
care placements (including long-term and transitional foster care and 
small group homes) through new or modified grants and contracts; current 
and planned efforts to expand small-scale shelters and available foster 
care placements, including collaboration with state child welfare 
providers; influx facilities being assessed for possible use, costs and 
services to be provided for legal services, child advocates, and post 
release services; program administration; and the average number of 
weekly referrals and discharge rate assumed in the spend 
plan: &lt;&lt;NOTE: Time period.&gt;&gt;   Provided, That such plan shall be updated 
to reflect changes and expenditures and submitted to the Committees on 
Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the Senate every 60 
days until all funds are expended or expired.

                                 TITLE V

                      GENERAL PROVISIONS--THIS ACT

    Sec. 501.  Each amount appropriated or made available by this Act is 
in addition to amounts otherwise appropriated for the fiscal year 
involved.
    Sec. 502.  No part of any appropriation contained in this Act shall 
remain available for obligation beyond the current fiscal year unless 
expressly so provided herein.
    Sec. 503.  Unless otherwise provided for by this Act, the additional 
amounts appropriated by this Act to appropriations accounts shall be 
available under the authorities and conditions applicable to such 
appropriations accounts for fiscal year 2019.
    Sec. 504.  Each amount designated in this Act by the Congress as 
being for an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) 
of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985 shall 
be available (or rescinded or transferred, if applicable) only if the 
President subsequently so designates all such amounts and transmits such 
designations to the Congress.
    Sec. 505.  Any amount appropriated by this Act, designated by the 
Congress as an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) 
of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985 and 
subsequently so designated by the President,

[[Page 133 STAT. 1027]]

and transferred pursuant to transfer authorities provided by this Act 
shall retain such designation.
    Sec. 506.  Not &lt;&lt;NOTE: Reports.&gt;&gt;  later than 180 days after the 
date of the enactment of this Act, the Comptroller General of the United 
States shall submit a report to the Committees on Appropriations of the 
House of Representatives and the Senate on the number of asylum officers 
and immigration judges, including temporary immigration judges, and the 
corresponding number of support staff necessary--
            (1) to fairly and effectively make credible fear 
        determinations with respect to individuals within family units 
        and unaccompanied alien children;
            (2) to ensure that the credible fear determination and 
        asylum interview is completed not later than 20 days after the 
        date on which a family unit is apprehended; and
            (3) to fairly and effectively review appeals of credible 
        fear determinations with respect to individuals within family 
        units and unaccompanied alien children.

In addition, &lt;&lt;NOTE: Determination.&gt;&gt;  the report shall determine if 
there is any physical infrastructure such as hearing or courtroom space 
needed to achieve these goals.
    This Act may be cited as the ``Emergency Supplemental Appropriations 
for Humanitarian Assistance and Security at the Southern Border Act, 
2019''.

    Approved July 1, 2019.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY--H.R. 3401:
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD, Vol. 165 (2019):
            June 25, considered and passed House.
            June 26, considered and passed Senate, amended.
            June 27, House concurred in Senate amendment.
DAILY COMPILATION OF PRESIDENTIAL DOCUMENTS (2019):
            July 1, Presidential remarks.

                                  &lt;all&gt;
</pre></body></html>
