<html><body><pre>
[Congressional Bills 115th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[S. 2099 Introduced in Senate (IS)]

&lt;DOC&gt;






115th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                S. 2099

   To provide for the management by the Secretary of Agriculture of 
             certain Federal land, and for other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                   IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

                            November 8, 2017

  Mr. Roberts (for himself and Ms. Stabenow) introduced the following 
      bill; which was read twice and referred to the Committee on 
                  Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
   To provide for the management by the Secretary of Agriculture of 
             certain Federal land, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE; TABLE OF CONTENTS.

    (a) Short Title.--This Act may be cited as the ``Federal Land 
Management Act of 2017''.
    (b) Table of Contents.--The table of contents for this Act is as 
follows:

Sec. 1. Short title; table of contents.
Sec. 2. Definition of Secretary.
Sec. 3. Release of reversionary interest of United States in and to 
                            certain land in Old Town, Maine.
Sec. 4. Chattahoochee-Oconee National Forest land adjustment.
Sec. 5. Tennessee wilderness.
Sec. 6. Additions to Rough Mountain and Rich Hole Wildernesses.
Sec. 7. Kisatchie National Forest land conveyance.
Sec. 8. Purchase of Natural Resources Conservation Service property, 
                            Riverside County, California.

SEC. 2. DEFINITION OF SECRETARY.

    In this Act, the term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary of 
Agriculture.

SEC. 3. RELEASE OF REVERSIONARY INTEREST OF UNITED STATES IN AND TO 
              CERTAIN LAND IN OLD TOWN, MAINE.

    (a) In General.--Notwithstanding section 32(c) of the Bankhead-
Jones Farm Tenant Act (7 U.S.C. 1011(c)), if the City of Old Town, 
Maine, makes a written request to the Secretary, the Secretary shall 
release, convey, and quitclaim, without monetary consideration, all 
rights, title, and interest of the United States in and to the land 
described in subsection (b).
    (b) Land Described.--The land referred to in subsection (a) is the 
land--
            (1) conveyed by the United States to the City of Old Town, 
        Maine, under section 32(c) of the Bankhead-Jones Farm Tenant 
        Act (7 U.S.C. 1011(c)) by the deed dated June 5, 1941;
            (2) proposed for conveyance by the City of Old Town, Maine, 
        for the purpose of economic development; and
            (3) described in the written request submitted by the City 
        of Old Town, Maine, to the Secretary pursuant to subsection 
        (a).

SEC. 4. CHATTAHOOCHEE-OCONEE NATIONAL FOREST LAND ADJUSTMENT.

    (a) Findings.--Congress finds that--
            (1) certain National Forest System land in the State of 
        Georgia consists of isolated tracts that are inefficient to 
        manage or have lost their principal value for National Forest 
        purposes;
            (2) the disposal of that land would be in the public 
        interest; and
            (3) proceeds from the sale of land authorized by this 
        section would be used best by the Forest Service to purchase 
        land for National Forest purposes in the State of Georgia.
    (b) Land Conveyance Authority.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary is authorized, under such 
        terms and conditions as the Secretary may prescribe, to sell or 
        exchange any or all rights, title, and interest of the United 
        States in the National Forest System land described in 
        paragraph (2).
            (2) Land authorized for disposal.--
                    (A) In general.--The National Forest System land 
                subject to sale or exchange under this section are 30 
                tracts of land totaling approximately 3,841 acres, 
                which are generally depicted on 2 maps entitled 
                ``Priority Land Adjustments, State of Georgia, U.S. 
                Forest Service-Southern Region, Oconee and 
                Chattahoochee National Forests, U.S. Congressional 
                Districts-8, 9, 10 & 14'' and dated September 24, 2013.
                    (B) Maps.--The maps described in subparagraph (A) 
                shall be on file and available for public inspection in 
                the Office of the Forest Supervisor, Chattahoochee-
                Oconee National Forest, until such time as the land is 
                sold or exchanged.
                    (C) Modification of boundaries.--The Secretary may 
                modify the boundaries of the land described in 
                subparagraph (A) based on land management 
                considerations.
            (3) Form of conveyance.--
                    (A) Quitclaim deed.--The Secretary shall convey 
                land sold under this section by quitclaim deed.
                    (B) Reservations.--The Secretary may reserve any 
                rights-of-way or other rights or interests in land sold 
                or exchanged under this section that the Secretary 
                considers necessary for management purposes or to 
                protect the public interest.
            (4) Valuation.--
                    (A) Market value.--The Secretary may not sell or 
                exchange land under this section for less than market 
                value, as determined by appraisal or through 
                competitive bid.
                    (B) Appraisal requirements.--Any appraisal shall 
                be--
                            (i) consistent with the Uniform Appraisal 
                        Standards for Federal Land Acquisitions or the 
                        Uniform Standards of Professional Appraisal 
                        Practice; and
                            (ii) subject to the approval of the 
                        Secretary.
            (5) Consideration.--
                    (A) Cash.--Consideration for a sale of land or 
                equalization of an exchange under this section shall be 
                paid in cash.
                    (B) Exchange.--Notwithstanding section 206(b) of 
                the Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 1976 (43 
                U.S.C. 1716(b)), the Secretary may accept a cash 
                equalization payment in excess of 25 percent of the 
                value of any land exchanged under this section.
            (6) Method of sale.--
                    (A) Options.--The Secretary may sell land under 
                paragraph (1) at public or private sale, including 
                competitive sale by auction, bid, or otherwise, in 
                accordance with such terms, conditions, and procedures 
                as the Secretary determines are in the best interest of 
                the United States.
                    (B) Solicitations.--The Secretary may--
                            (i) make public or private solicitations 
                        for the sale or exchange of land authorized by 
                        this section; and
                            (ii) reject any offer that the Secretary 
                        determines is not adequate or not in the public 
                        interest.
            (7) Brokers.--The Secretary may--
                    (A) use brokers or other third parties in the 
                disposition of the land authorized by this section; and
                    (B) from the proceeds of a sale, pay reasonable 
                commissions or fees.
    (c) Treatment of Proceeds.--
            (1) Deposit.--Subject to subsection (b)(7)(B), the 
        Secretary shall deposit the proceeds of a sale or cash 
        equalizations payments authorized by this section in the fund 
        established under Public Law 90-171 (commonly known as the 
        ``Sisk Act'') (16 U.S.C. 484a).
            (2) Availability.--Subject to paragraph (3), amounts 
        deposited under paragraph (1) shall be available to the 
        Secretary until expended, without further appropriation, for 
        the acquisition of land for National Forest purposes in the 
        State of Georgia.
            (3) Private property protection.--Nothing in this section 
        authorizes the use of funds deposited under paragraph (1) to be 
        used to acquire land without the written consent of the owner 
        of the land.

SEC. 5. TENNESSEE WILDERNESS.

    (a) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Map.--The term ``Map'' means the map entitled 
        ``Proposed Wilderness Areas and Additions-Cherokee National 
        Forest'' and dated January 20, 2010.
            (2) State.--The term ``State'' means the State of 
        Tennessee.
    (b) Additions to Cherokee National Forest.--
            (1) Designation of wilderness.--In accordance with the 
        Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1131 et seq.), the following parcels 
        of Federal land in the Cherokee National Forest in the State 
        are designated as wilderness and as additions to the National 
        Wilderness Preservation System:
                    (A) Certain land comprising approximately 9,038 
                acres, as generally depicted as the ``Upper Bald River 
                Wilderness'' on the Map and which shall be known as the 
                ``Upper Bald River Wilderness''.
                    (B) Certain land comprising approximately 348 
                acres, as generally depicted as the ``Big Frog 
                Addition'' on the Map and which shall be incorporated 
                in, and shall be considered to be a part of, the Big 
                Frog Wilderness.
                    (C) Certain land comprising approximately 630 
                acres, as generally depicted as the ``Little Frog 
                Mountain Addition NW'' on the Map and which shall be 
                incorporated in, and shall be considered to be a part 
                of, the Little Frog Mountain Wilderness.
                    (D) Certain land comprising approximately 336 
                acres, as generally depicted as the ``Little Frog 
                Mountain Addition NE'' on the Map and which shall be 
                incorporated in, and shall be considered to be a part 
                of, the Little Frog Mountain Wilderness.
                    (E) Certain land comprising approximately 2,922 
                acres, as generally depicted as the ``Sampson Mountain 
                Addition'' on the Map and which shall be incorporated 
                in, and shall be considered to be a part of, the 
                Sampson Mountain Wilderness.
                    (F) Certain land comprising approximately 4,446 
                acres, as generally depicted as the ``Big Laurel Branch 
                Addition'' on the Map and which shall be incorporated 
                in, and shall be considered to be a part of, the Big 
                Laurel Branch Wilderness.
                    (G) Certain land comprising approximately 1,836 
                acres, as generally depicted as the ``Joyce Kilmer-
                Slickrock Addition'' on the Map and which shall be 
                incorporated in, and shall be considered to be a part 
                of, the Joyce Kilmer-Slickrock Wilderness.
            (2) Maps and legal descriptions.--
                    (A) In general.--As soon as practicable after the 
                date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall file 
                maps and legal descriptions of the wilderness areas 
                designated by paragraph (1) with the appropriate 
                committees of Congress.
                    (B) Public availability.--The maps and legal 
                descriptions filed under subparagraph (A) shall be on 
                file and available for public inspection in the office 
                of the Chief of the Forest Service and the office of 
                the Supervisor of the Cherokee National Forest.
                    (C) Force of law.--The maps and legal descriptions 
                filed under subparagraph (A) shall have the same force 
                and effect as if included in this Act, except that the 
                Secretary may correct typographical errors in the maps 
                and descriptions.
            (3) Administration.--
                    (A) In general.--Subject to valid existing rights, 
                the Federal land designated as wilderness by paragraph 
                (1) shall be administered by the Secretary in 
                accordance with the Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1131 et 
                seq.), except that any reference in that Act to the 
                effective date of that Act shall be deemed to be a 
                reference to the date of enactment of this Act.
                    (B) Fish and wildlife management.--In accordance 
                with section 4(d)(7) of the Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 
                1133(d)(7)), nothing in this section affects the 
                jurisdiction of the State with respect to fish and 
                wildlife management (including the regulation of 
                hunting, fishing, and trapping) in the wilderness areas 
                designated by paragraph (1).

SEC. 6. ADDITIONS TO ROUGH MOUNTAIN AND RICH HOLE WILDERNESSES.

    (a) Rough Mountain Addition.--Section 1 of Public Law 100-326 (16 
U.S.C. 1132 note; 102 Stat. 584; 114 Stat. 2057; 123 Stat. 1002) is 
amended by adding at the end the following:
            ``(21) Rough mountain addition.--Certain land in the George 
        Washington National Forest comprising approximately 1,000 
        acres, as generally depicted as the `Rough Mountain Addition' 
        on the map entitled `GEORGE WASHINGTON NATIONAL FOREST - South 
        half - Alternative I - Selected Alternative Management 
        Prescriptions - Land and Resources Management Plan Final 
        Environmental Impact Statement' and dated March 4, 2014, which 
        is incorporated in the Rough Mountain Wilderness Area 
        designated by paragraph (1).''.
    (b) Rich Hole Addition.--
            (1) Potential wilderness designation.--In furtherance of 
        the purposes of the Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1131 et seq.), 
        certain land in the George Washington National Forest 
        comprising approximately 4,600 acres, as generally depicted as 
        the ``Rich Hole Addition'' on the map entitled ``GEORGE 
        WASHINGTON NATIONAL FOREST - South half - Alternative I - 
        Selected Alternative Management Prescriptions - Land and 
        Resources Management Plan Final Environmental Impact 
        Statement'' and dated March 4, 2014, is designated as a 
        potential wilderness area for incorporation in the Rich Hole 
        Wilderness Area designated by section 1(2) of Public Law 100-
        326 (16 U.S.C. 1132 note; 102 Stat. 584; 114 Stat. 2057; 123 
        Stat. 1002).
            (2) Wilderness designation.--The potential wilderness area 
        designated by paragraph (1) shall be designated as wilderness 
        and incorporated in the Rich Hole Wilderness Area designated by 
        section 1(2) of Public Law 100-326 (16 U.S.C. 1132 note; 102 
        Stat. 584; 114 Stat. 2057; 123 Stat. 1002) on the earlier of--
                    (A) the date on which the Secretary publishes in 
                the Federal Register notice that the activities 
                permitted under paragraph (4) have been completed; or
                    (B) the date that is 5 years after the date of 
                enactment of this Act.
            (3) Management.--Except as provided in paragraph (4), the 
        Secretary shall manage the potential wilderness area designated 
        by paragraph (1) in accordance with the Wilderness Act (16 
        U.S.C. 1131 et seq.).
            (4) Water quality improvement activities.--
                    (A) In general.--To enhance natural ecosystems 
                within the potential wilderness area designated by 
                paragraph (1) by implementing certain activities to 
                improve water quality and aquatic passage, as set forth 
                in the Forest Service document entitled ``Decision 
                Notice for the Lower Cowpasture Restoration and 
                Management Project'' and dated December 2015, the 
                Secretary may use motorized equipment and mechanized 
                transport in the potential wilderness area until the 
                date on which the potential wilderness area is 
                incorporated into the Rich Hole Wilderness Area under 
                paragraph (2).
                    (B) Requirement.--In carrying out subparagraph (A), 
                the Secretary, to the maximum extent practicable, shall 
                use the minimum tool or administrative practice 
                necessary to carry out that subparagraph with the least 
                amount of adverse impact on wilderness character and 
                resources.

SEC. 7. KISATCHIE NATIONAL FOREST LAND CONVEYANCE.

    (a) Finding.--Congress finds that it is in the public interest to 
authorize the conveyance of certain Federal land in the Kisatchie 
National Forest in the State of Louisiana for market value 
consideration.
    (b) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Collins camp properties.--The term ``Collins Camp 
        Properties'' means Collins Camp Properties, Inc., a corporation 
        incorporated under the laws of the State.
            (2) State.--The term ``State'' means the State of 
        Louisiana.
    (c) Authorization of Conveyances, Kisatchie National Forest, 
Louisiana.--
            (1) Authorization.--
                    (A) In general.--Subject to valid existing rights 
                and paragraph (2), the Secretary may convey the Federal 
                land described in subparagraph (B) by quitclaim deed at 
                public or private sale, including competitive sale by 
                auction, bid, or other methods.
                    (B) Description of land.--The Federal land referred 
                to in subparagraph (A) consists of--
                            (i) all Federal land within sec. 9, T. 10 
                        N., R. 5 W., Winn Parish, Louisiana; and
                            (ii) a 2.16-acre parcel of Federal land 
                        located in the SW\1/4\ of sec. 4, T. 10 N., R. 
                        5 W., Winn Parish, Louisiana, as depicted on a 
                        certificate of survey dated March 7, 2007, by 
                        Glen L. Cannon, P.L.S. 4436.
            (2) First right of purchase.--Subject to valid existing 
        rights and subsection (e), during the 1-year period beginning 
        on the date of enactment of this Act, on the provision of 
        consideration by the Collins Camp Properties to the Secretary, 
        the Secretary shall convey, by quitclaim deed, to Collins Camp 
        Properties all right, title and interest of the United States 
        in and to--
                    (A) not more than 47.92 acres of Federal land 
                comprising the Collins Campsites within sec. 9, T. 10 
                N., R. 5 W., in Winn Parish, Louisiana, as generally 
                depicted on a certificate of survey dated February 28, 
                2007, by Glen L. Cannon, P.L.S. 4436; and
                    (B) the parcel of Federal land described in 
                paragraph (1)(B)(ii).
            (3) Terms and conditions.--The Secretary may--
                    (A) configure the Federal land to be conveyed under 
                this section--
                            (i) to maximize the marketability of the 
                        conveyance; or
                            (ii) to achieve management objectives; and
                    (B) establish any terms and conditions for the 
                conveyances under this section that the Secretary 
                determines to be in the public interest.
            (4) Consideration.--Consideration for a conveyance of 
        Federal land under this section shall be--
                    (A) in the form of cash; and
                    (B) in an amount equal to the market value of the 
                Federal land being conveyed, as determined under 
                paragraph (5).
            (5) Market value.--The market value of the Federal land 
        conveyed under this section shall be determined--
                    (A) in the case of Federal land conveyed under 
                paragraph (2), by an appraisal that is--
                            (i) conducted in accordance with the 
                        Uniform Appraisal Standards for Federal Land 
                        Acquisitions; and
                            (ii) approved by the Secretary; or
                    (B) if conveyed by a method other than the methods 
                described in paragraph (2), by competitive sale.
            (6) Hazardous substances.--
                    (A) In general.--In any conveyance of Federal land 
                under this section, the Secretary shall meet disclosure 
                requirements for hazardous substances, but shall 
                otherwise not be required to remediate or abate the 
                substances.
                    (B) Effect.--Nothing in this subsection otherwise 
                affects the application of the Comprehensive 
                Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act 
                of 1980 (42 U.S.C. 9601 et seq.) to the conveyances of 
                Federal land.
    (d) Proceeds From the Sale of Land.--The Secretary shall deposit 
the proceeds of a conveyance of Federal land under subsection (c) in 
the fund established under Public Law 90-171 (commonly known as the 
``Sisk Act'') (16 U.S.C. 484a).
    (e) Administration.--
            (1) Costs.--As a condition of a conveyance of Federal land 
        to Collins Camp Properties under subsection (c), the Secretary 
        shall require Collins Camp Properties to pay at closing--
                    (A) reasonable appraisal costs; and
                    (B) the cost of any administrative and 
                environmental analyses required by law (including 
                regulations).
            (2) Permits.--
                    (A) In general.--An offer by Collins Camp 
                Properties for the acquisition of the Federal land 
                under subsection (c) shall be accompanied by a written 
                statement from each holder of a Forest Service special 
                use authorization with respect to the Federal land that 
                specifies that the holder agrees to relinquish the 
                special use authorization on the conveyance of the 
                Federal land to Collins Camp Properties.
                    (B) Special use authorizations.--If any holder of a 
                special use authorization described in subparagraph (A) 
                fails to provide a written authorization in accordance 
                with that subparagraph, the Secretary shall require, as 
                a condition of the conveyance, that Collins Camp 
                Properties administer the special use authorization 
                according to the terms of the special use authorization 
                until the date on which the special use authorization 
                expires.

SEC. 8. PURCHASE OF NATURAL RESOURCES CONSERVATION SERVICE PROPERTY, 
              RIVERSIDE COUNTY, CALIFORNIA.

    (a) Findings.--Congress finds as follows:
            (1) Since 1935, the United States has owned a parcel of 
        land in Riverside, California, consisting of approximately 8.75 
        acres, more specifically described in subsection (b)(1) (in 
        this section referred to as the ``property'').
            (2) The property is under the jurisdiction of the 
        Department of Agriculture and has been variously used for 
        research and plant materials purposes.
            (3) Since 1998, the property has been administered by the 
        Natural Resources Conservation Service of the Department of 
        Agriculture.
            (4) Since 2002, the property has been co-managed under a 
        cooperative agreement between the Natural Resources 
        Conservation Service and the Riverside Corona Resource 
        Conservation District, which is a legal subdivision of the 
        State of California under section 9003 of the California Public 
        Resources Code.
            (5) The Conservation District wishes to purchase the 
        property and use it for conservation, environmental, and 
        related educational purposes.
            (6) As provided in subsection (b), the purchase of the 
        property by the Conservation District would promote the 
        conservation education and related activities of the 
        Conservation District and result in savings to the Federal 
        Government.
    (b) Land Purchase, Natural Resources Conservation Service Property, 
Riverside County, California.--
            (1) Purchase authorized.--The Secretary shall sell and 
        quitclaim to the Riverside Corona Resource Conservation 
        District (in this section referred to as the ``Conservation 
        District'') all right, title, and interest of the United States 
        in and to a parcel of real property, including improvements 
        thereon, that is located at 4500 Glenwood Drive in Riverside, 
        California, consists of approximately 8.75 acres, and is 
        administered by the Natural Resources Conservation Service of 
        the Department of Agriculture. As necessary or desirable to 
        facilitate the purchase of the property under this subsection, 
        the Secretary or the Conservation District may survey all or 
        portions of the property.
            (2) Consideration.--As consideration for the purchase of 
        the property under this subsection, the Conservation District 
        shall pay to the Secretary an amount equal to the appraised 
        value of the property.
            (3) Prohibition on reservation of interest.--The Secretary 
        shall not reserve any future interest in the property to be 
        conveyed under this subsection, except such interest as may be 
        acceptable to the Conservation District.
            (4) Hazardous substances.--Notwithstanding section 120(h) 
        of the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and 
        Liability Act of 1980 (42 U.S.C. 9620(h)) or the Solid Waste 
        Disposal Act (42 U.S.C. 6901 et seq.), in the case of the 
        property purchased by the Conservation District under this 
        subsection, the Secretary shall be only required to meet the 
        disclosure requirements for hazardous substances, pollutants, 
        or contaminants, but shall otherwise not be required to 
        remediate or abate any such releases of hazardous substances, 
        pollutants, or contaminants, including petroleum and petroleum 
        derivatives.
            (5) Cooperative authority.--
                    (A) Leases, contracts, and cooperative agreements 
                authorized.--In conjunction with, or in addition to, 
                the purchase of the property by the Conservation 
                District under this subsection, the Secretary may enter 
                into leases, contracts and cooperative agreements with 
                the Conservation District.
                    (B) Sole source.--Notwithstanding sections 3105, 
                3301, and 3303 to 3305 of title 41, United States Code, 
                or any other provision of law, the Secretary may lease 
                real property from the Conservation District on a 
                noncompetitive basis.
                    (C) Non-exclusive authority.--The authority 
                provided by this subsection is in addition to any other 
                authority of the Secretary.
                                 &lt;all&gt;
</pre></body></html>
