<html><body><pre>
[Congressional Bills 109th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[S. 3636 Introduced in Senate (IS)]








109th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                S. 3636

  To establish wilderness areas, promote conservation, improve public 
 land, and provide for high quality economic development in Washington 
                 County, Utah, and for other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                   IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

                             July 11, 2006

Mr. Bennett (for himself and Mr. Hatch) introduced the following bill; 
   which was read twice and referred to the Committee on Energy and 
                           Natural Resources

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
  To establish wilderness areas, promote conservation, improve public 
 land, and provide for high quality economic development in Washington 
                 County, Utah, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE; TABLE OF CONTENTS.

    (a) Short Title.--This Act may be cited as the ``Washington County 
Growth and Conservation Act of 2006''.
    (b) Table of Contents.--The table of contents for this Act is as 
follows:

Sec. 1. Short title; table of contents.
Sec. 2. Definitions.
                         TITLE I--LAND DISPOSAL

Sec. 101. Definitions.
Sec. 102. Conveyance of public land in Washington County.
Sec. 103. Disposition of Proceeds.
                       TITLE II--WILDERNESS AREAS

Sec. 201. Additions to National Wilderness Preservation System.
Sec. 202. Administration.
Sec. 203. Adjacent Management.
Sec. 204. Native American cultural and religious uses.
Sec. 205. Release of wilderness study areas.
Sec. 206. Wildlife management.
Sec. 207. Wildfire management.
Sec. 208. Climatological data collection.
Sec. 209. National Park Service land.
              TITLE III--WILD AND SCENIC RIVER DESIGNATION

Sec. 301. Zion National Park Wild and Scenic Rivers.
                      TITLE IV--UTILITY CORRIDORS

Sec. 401. Utility corridors and rights-of way.
             TITLE V--HIGH DESERT OFF-HIGHWAY VEHICLE TRAIL

Sec. 501. High Desert Off-Highway Vehicle Trail.
            TITLE VI--RED CLIFFS NATIONAL CONSERVATION AREA

Sec. 601. Short title.
Sec. 602. Purpose.
Sec. 603. Definitions.
Sec. 604. Establishment of the Conservation Area.
Sec. 605. Management.
Sec. 606. Management plan amendments.
Sec. 607. Acquisition of additional land.
Sec. 608. Withdrawal.
Sec. 609. Cooperative agreements.
Sec. 610. No buffer zones.
               TITLE VII--AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS

Sec. 701. Authorization of appropriations.

SEC. 2. DEFINITIONS.

    In this Act:
            (1) Central map.--The term ``Central Map'' means the map 
        entitled ``Central Washington County, Utah'' and dated [_____].
            (2) County.--The term ``County'' means Washington County, 
        Utah.
            (3) Eastern map.--The term ``Eastern Map'' means the map 
        entitled ``Eastern Washington County, Utah'' and dated [_____].
            (4) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary 
        of the Interior.
            (5) State.--The term ``State'' means the State of Utah.
            (6) Western map.--The term ``Western Map'' means the map 
        entitled ``Western Washington County, Utah'' and dated [_____].

                         TITLE I--LAND DISPOSAL

SEC. 101. DEFINITIONS.

    In this title:
            (1) Management plan.--The term ``management plan'' means 
        the Bureau of Land Management St. George Field Office Resource 
        Management Plan.
            (2) Special account.--The term ``special account'' means 
        the special account established under section 103(a)(4).

SEC. 102. CONVEYANCE OF PUBLIC LAND IN WASHINGTON COUNTY.

    (a) In General.--Notwithstanding sections 202 and 203 of the 
Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1712, 1713), 
the Secretary, in cooperation with the County, in accordance with that 
Act, this title, and other applicable law and subject to valid existing 
rights, shall--
            (1) conduct sales of the land described in subsection 
        (b)(1) to qualified bidders; and
            (2) with respect to the parcels of land described in 
        subsection (b)(2)--
                    (A) conduct sales of the parcels to qualified 
                bidders as the parcels becomes available for disposal; 
                or
                    (B) at the election of the Secretary, exchange the 
                parcels of land for parcels of non-Federal land or 
                interests in non-Federal land in accordance with 
                section 206 of the Federal Land Policy and Management 
                Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1716) and other applicable laws.
    (b) Description of Land.--The land referred to in subsection (a) 
consists of--
            (1) the land identified on the Central Map as ``Directed 
        Sale Lands'', totaling approximately 4,300 acres; and
            (2) not less than 20,000 acres of land from the land that 
        is identified on the Central Map and the Eastern Map as ``Lands 
        Eligible for Consideration Under Section 102 Disposal'', 
        excluding any land that is--
                    (A) designated as wilderness by section 201(a);
                    (B) an area of critical environmental concern; or
                    (C) in the Red Cliffs National Conservation Area 
                established by section 604(a).
    (c) Availability of Map and Legal Descriptions.--The Central Map 
and Eastern Map shall be on file and available for public inspection in 
(as appropriate)--
            (1) the Office of the Director of the Bureau of Land 
        Management;
            (2) the Office of the Utah State Director of the Bureau of 
        Land Management; and
            (3) the St. George Field Office of the Bureau of Land 
        Management.
    (d) Joint Selection Required.--The Secretary and the County shall 
jointly select which parcels of land described in subsection (b)(2) to 
offer for sale or exchange.
    (e) Compliance With Local Planning and Zoning Laws.--Before a sale 
or exchange of land under subsection (a), the County shall submit to 
the Secretary a certification that qualified bidders have agreed to 
comply with--
            (1) County and city zoning and other applicable ordinances; 
        and
            (2) any general plan for the area approved by the County, 
        including any revisions to the general plan that are adopted by 
        the County after the date of enactment of this Act.
    (f) Method of Sale; Consideration.--The sale of land under 
subsection (a) shall be--
            (1) consistent with subsections (d) and (f) of section 203 
        of the Federal Land Management Policy Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 
        1713);
            (2) through a competitive bidding process unless otherwise 
        determined by the Secretary; and
            (3) for not less than fair market value.
    (g) Withdrawal.--
            (1) In general.--Subject to valid existing rights and 
        except as provided in paragraph (2), the land described in 
        subsection (b) is withdrawn from--
                    (A) all forms of entry and appropriation under the 
                public land laws, including the mining laws;
                    (B) location, entry, and patent under the mining 
                laws; and
                    (C) operation of the mineral leasing, geothermal 
                leasing, and mineral materials laws.
            (2) Exceptions.--Paragraph (1)(A) shall not apply to a 
        competitive sale, a land exchange between the United States and 
        a non-Federal party, or an election by the County to obtain the 
        land described in subsection (b)(2) for public purposes under 
        the Act of June 14, 1926 (commonly known as the ``Recreation 
        and Public Purposes Act'') (43 U.S.C. 869 et seq.).
    (h) Timing of Sales.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary shall--
                    (A) with respect to the land described in 
                subsection (b)(1)--
                            (i) not later than 1 year after the date of 
                        enactment of this Act, offer for sale the land 
                        identified on the Central Map as ``First 
                        Directed Sale''; and
                            (ii) beginning 1 year after the date of the 
                        sale of land under clause (i) and at least 
                        annually thereafter until the date on which all 
                        of the parcels of land described in subsection 
                        (b)(1) are sold, conduct sales of the land 
                        described in subsection (b)(1), except that all 
                        of the parcels of land shall be offered for 
                        sale not later than January 1, 2013; and
                    (B) with respect to the land described in 
                subsection (b)(2), conduct sales or exchanges--
                            (i)(I) not earlier than January 1, 2010; or
                            (II) if the County requests an earlier 
                        date, the date that is requested by the County, 
                        subject to approval by the Secretary; and
                            (ii) except as provided in paragraph (2), 
                        at least annually thereafter until the date on 
                        which all of the parcels of land described in 
                        subsection (b)(2) are sold or exchanged.
            (2) Postponement; exclusion from sale.--
                    (A) Request by county for postponement or 
                exclusion.--At the request of the County, the Secretary 
                shall postpone or exclude from sale or exchange all or 
                a portion of the land described in subsection (b)(2).
                    (B) Indefinite postponement.--Unless specifically 
                requested by the County, a postponement under 
                subparagraph (A) shall not be indefinite.
    (i) Restrictive Covenants.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary may include in the deed of 
        transfer of any parcel of land disposed of under this section 
        any restrictive covenant that the Secretary determines to be 
        necessary to protect the interests of the United States.
            (2) Notice.--At least 30 days before the date on which a 
        land sale is to be conducted under this section, the Secretary 
        shall publish in 1 or more local newspapers a notice that 
        describes any parcels of land that would be subject to a 
        restrictive covenant.

SEC. 103. DISPOSITION OF PROCEEDS.

    (a) Disposition of Proceeds.--Of the gross proceeds from a sale of 
land described in section 102(b)--
            (1) 5 percent shall be paid directly to the State, for the 
        support of schools in accordance with section 9 of the Act of 
        July 16, 1894 (28 Stat. 107, chapter 138);
            (2) 2 percent shall be paid directly to the County for--
                    (A) administrative costs; and
                    (B) the costs of fire protection, flood control, 
                public safety, and transportation;
            (3) 8 percent shall be paid directly to the Washington 
        County Water Conservancy District for water treatment, 
        transmission facility infrastructure, and water conservation in 
        the County; and
            (4) the remainder shall be deposited in a special account 
        in the Treasury of the United States and shall be available 
        without further appropriation to the Secretary until expended 
        for--
                    (A) the reimbursement of costs incurred by the Utah 
                State Office of the Bureau of Land Management and the 
                St. George Field Office of the Bureau of Land 
                Management in preparing for the sale of land described 
                in section 102(b), including the costs of--
                            (i) surveys;
                            (ii) appraisals; and
                            (iii) compliance with--
                                    (I) the National Environmental 
                                Policy Act of 1969 (42 U.S.C. 4321 et 
                                seq.); and
                                    (II) sections 201 and 202 of the 
                                Federal Land Policy and Management Act 
                                of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1711, 1712);
                    (B) conservation projects within the County, 
                including--
                            (i) the acquisition, in accordance with the 
                        Washington County Habitat Conservation Plan 
                        dated December 1995, of non-Federal land for 
                        inclusion in the Red Cliffs National 
                        Conservation Area established by section 
                        604(a);
                            (ii) trail repair and reconstruction within 
                        the Dixie National Forest;
                            (iii) projects relating to parks, trails, 
                        and natural areas; and
                            (iv) other conservation projects that the 
                        Secretary, after consultation with the County, 
                        determine to be appropriate;
                    (C) the protection and management of the Red Cliffs 
                National Conservation Area established by section 
                604(a), including the development of any necessary 
                amendments to the management plan under section 606;
                    (D) processing wilderness designation, including 
                the costs of appropriate fencing, signage, public 
                education, and enforcement for the wilderness areas 
                designated;
                    (E) establishing the High Desert Off-Highway 
                Vehicle Trail under section 501, including--
                            (i) completing the travel plan required 
                        under section 501(b); and
                            (ii) developing, implementing, and 
                        enforcing the management plan for the Trail 
                        developed under section 501(e)(2); and
                    (F) the processing of public land use 
                authorizations and rights-of-way relating to the 
                development of land conveyed under this title.
    (b) Investment of Special Account.--Any amounts deposited in the 
special account shall earn interest in an amount determined by the 
Secretary of the Treasury on the basis of the current average market 
yield on outstanding marketable obligations of the United States of 
comparable maturities, and may be expended according to the provisions 
of this section.

                       TITLE II--WILDERNESS AREAS

SEC. 201. ADDITIONS TO NATIONAL WILDERNESS PRESERVATION SYSTEM.

    (a) Additions.--The following land in the State is designated as 
wilderness and as components of the National Wilderness Preservation 
System:
            (1) Beartrap canyon.--Certain Federal land managed by the 
        Bureau of Land Management, comprising approximately 40 acres, 
        as generally depicted on the Eastern Map, which shall be known 
        as the ``Beartrap Canyon Wilderness''.
            (2) Blackridge.--Certain Federal land managed by the Bureau 
        of Land Management, comprising approximately 7,145 acres, as 
        generally depicted on the Eastern Map, which shall be known as 
        the ``Blackridge Wilderness''.
            (3) Canaan mountain.--Certain Federal land in the County 
        managed by the Bureau of Land Management, comprising 
        approximately 35,344 acres, as generally depicted on the 
        Eastern Map, which shall be known as the ``Canaan Mountain 
        Wilderness''.
            (4) Cottonwood.--Certain Federal land managed by the Bureau 
        of Land Management, comprising approximately 11,650 acres, as 
        generally depicted on the Central Map, which shall be known as 
        the ``Cottonwood Wilderness''.
            (5) Cottonwood forest.--Certain Federal land managed by the 
        Forest Service, comprising approximately 2,642 acres, as 
        generally depicted on the Central Map, which shall be known as 
        the ``Cottonwood Forest Wilderness.''
            (6) Cougar canyon.--Certain Federal land managed by the 
        Bureau of Land Management, comprising approximately 10,568 
        acres, as generally depicted on the Western Map, which shall be 
        known as the ``Cougar Canyon Wilderness.''
            (7) Deep creek.--Certain Federal land managed by the Bureau 
        of Land Management, comprising approximately 3,320 acres, as 
        generally depicted on the Eastern Map, which shall be known as 
        the ``Deep Creek Wilderness''.
            (8) Deep creek north.--Certain Federal land managed by the 
        Bureau of Land Management, comprising approximately 4,264 
        acres, as generally depicted on the Eastern Map, which shall be 
        known as the ``Deep Creek North Wilderness''.
            (9) Goose creek.--Certain Federal land managed by the 
        Bureau of Land Management, comprising approximately 89 acres, 
        as generally depicted on the Eastern Map, which shall be known 
        as the ``Goose Creek Wilderness''.
            (10) Laverkin creek.--Certain Federal land managed by the 
        Bureau of Land Management, comprising approximately 445 acres, 
        as generally depicted on the Eastern Map, which shall be known 
        as the ``LaVerkin Creek Wilderness'' .
            (11) Red butte.--Certain Federal land managed by the Bureau 
        of Land Management, comprising approximately 1,124 acres, as 
        generally depicted on the Eastern Map, which shall be known as 
        the ``Red Butte Wilderness''.
            (12) Red mountain.--Certain Federal land managed by the 
        Bureau of Land Management, comprising approximately 18,716 
        acres, as generally depicted on the Central Map, which shall be 
        known as the ``Red Mountain Wilderness''.
            (13) Taylor creek.--Certain Federal land managed by the 
        Bureau of Land Management, comprising approximately 35 acres, 
        as generally depicted on the Eastern Map, which shall be known 
        as the ``Taylor Creek Wilderness''.
            (14) Watchman.--Certain Federal land managed by the Bureau 
        of Land Management, comprising approximately 600 acres, as 
        generally depicted on the Eastern Map, which shall be known as 
        the ``Watchman Wilderness''.
            (15) Zion.--
                    (A) In general.--Certain Federal land in the County 
                managed by the National Park Service, comprising 
                approximately 123,743 acres, as generally depicted on 
                the Eastern Map, which shall be known as the ``Zion 
                Wilderness''.
                    (B) Subsequent acquisition.--Any land within Zion 
                National Park that is subsequently acquired by the 
                National Park Service by purchase from a willing 
                seller, exchange, or donation, may become wilderness on 
                the recommendation of the Secretary, in accordance with 
                the Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1131 et seq.).
                    (C) Transfer of bureau of land management land to 
                national park service.--
                            (i) In general.--Administrative 
                        jurisdiction over approximately 1,009 acres of 
                        Bureau of Land Management land, as depicted on 
                        the Eastern Map, shall be transferred from the 
                        Director of the Bureau of Land Management to 
                        the Director of the National Park Service.
                            (ii) Nonwilderness.--Approximately 390 
                        acres of the land transferred under clause (i) 
                        shall be managed by the Director of the 
                        National Park Service as a nonwilderness area 
                        under the Zion National Park General Management 
                        Plan of 2001 and in accordance with the Act of 
                        August 25, 1916 (commonly known as the 
                        ``National Park Service Organic Act'') (16 
                        U.S.C. 1 et seq.).
                    (D) Boundary adjustment.--Any adjustments to the 
                boundary of Zion National Park under this paragraph 
                shall be depicted on the Eastern Map, Central Map, or 
                Western Map, as appropriate.
    (b) Boundary.--The boundary of any portion of a wilderness area 
designated by subsection (a) that is bordered by a road shall be at 
least 100 feet from the center line of the road to allow public access.
    (c) Map and Legal Description.--
            (1) In general.--As soon as practicable after the date of 
        enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall file a map and legal 
        description of each wilderness area designated by subsection 
        (a) with the Committee on Resources of the House of 
        Representatives and the Committee on Energy and Natural 
        Resources of the Senate.
            (2) Effect.--Each map and legal description shall have the 
        same force and effect as if included in this section, except 
        that the Secretary may correct clerical and typographical 
        errors in the map or legal description.
            (3) Availability.--Each map and legal description shall be 
        on file and available for public inspection in (as 
        appropriate)--
                    (A) the Office of the Director of the Bureau of 
                Land Management;
                    (B) the Office of the Utah State Director of the 
                Bureau of Land Management;
                    (C) the St. George Field Office of the Bureau of 
                Land Management;
                    (D) the Dixie National Forest Supervisor's Office; 
                and
                    (E) the Office of the Superintendent of Zion 
                National Park.
    (d) Withdrawal.--Subject to valid existing rights, the wilderness 
areas designated by subsection (a) are withdrawn from--
            (1) all forms of entry, appropriation, and disposal under 
        the public land laws;
            (2) location, entry, and patent under the mining laws; and
            (3) operation of the mineral leasing, geothermal leasing, 
        and mineral materials laws.

SEC. 202. ADMINISTRATION.

    (a) Management.--Subject to valid existing rights, each area 
designated as wilderness by this title shall be administered by the 
Secretary in accordance with the Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1131 et 
seq.), except that--
            (1) any reference in that Act to the effective date shall 
        be considered to be a reference to the date of enactment of 
        this Act; and
            (2) any reference in that Act to the Secretary of 
        Agriculture shall be considered to be a reference to the 
        Secretary of the Interior with respect to land under the 
        jurisdiction of the Secretary of the Interior.
    (b) Livestock.--Within the wilderness areas designated under this 
title that are administered by the Bureau of Land Management, the 
grazing of livestock in areas in which grazing is established as of the 
date of enactment of this Act shall be allowed to continue--
            (1) subject to such reasonable regulations, policies, and 
        practices that the Secretary considers necessary; and
            (2) consistent with section 4(d)(4) of the Wilderness Act 
        (16 U.S.C. 1133(d)(4)), including the guidelines set forth in 
        Appendix A of House Report 101-405.
    (c) Incorporation of Acquired Land and Interests.--Any land or 
interest in land within the boundaries of an area designated as 
wilderness by this title that is acquired by the United States after 
the date of enactment of this Act shall be added to and administered as 
part of the wilderness area within which the acquired land or interest 
is located.
    (d) Water Rights.--
            (1) Findings.--Congress finds that--
                    (A) the land designated as wilderness by section 
                201(a)--
                            (i) is arid in nature; and
                            (ii) includes ephemeral streams;
                    (B) the hydrology of the land designated as 
                wilderness by section 201(a) is locally characterized 
                by complex flow patterns and alluvial fans with 
                impermanent channels;
                    (C) the subsurface hydrogeology of the region of 
                the wilderness is characterized by groundwater subject 
                to local and regional flow gradients and artesian 
                aquifers;
                    (D) the land designated as wilderness is generally 
                not suitable for use or development of new water 
                resource facilities;
                    (E) there are no actual or proposed water resource 
                facilities and no opportunities for diversion, storage, 
                or other uses of water occurring outside the land 
                designated as wilderness that would adversely affect 
                the wilderness or other values of the land; and
                    (F) because of the unique nature and hydrology of 
                the desert land designated as wilderness and the 
                existence of the Virgin River Resource Management and 
                Recovery Program, it is possible to provide for proper 
                management and protection of the wilderness, perennial 
                springs and other values of the land in ways not used 
                in other legislation.
            (2) Statutory construction.--Nothing in this title--
                    (A) shall constitute or be construed to constitute 
                either an express or implied reservation by the United 
                States of any water or water rights with respect to the 
                land designated as wilderness by this title;
                    (B) shall affect any water rights in the State 
                existing on the date of enactment of this Act, 
                including any water rights held by the United States;
                    (C) shall be construed as establishing a precedent 
                with regard to any future wilderness designations;
                    (D) shall affect the interpretation of, or any 
                designation made pursuant to, any other Act; or
                    (E) shall be construed as limiting, altering, 
                modifying, or amending any of the interstate compacts 
                or equitable apportionment decrees that apportion water 
                among and between the State and other States.
            (3) Utah water law.--The Secretary shall follow the 
        procedural and substantive requirements of the law of the State 
        in order to obtain and hold any water rights not in existence 
        on the date of enactment of this Act with respect to the 
        wilderness areas designated by this title.
            (4) New projects.--
                    (A) Water resource facility.--As used in this 
                paragraph, the term ``water resource facility''--
                            (i) means irrigation and pumping 
                        facilities, reservoirs, water conservation 
                        works, aqueducts, canals, ditches, pipelines, 
                        wells, hydropower projects, and transmission 
                        and other ancillary facilities, and other water 
                        diversion, storage, and carriage structures; 
                        and
                            (ii) does not include wildlife guzzlers.
                    (B) Restriction on new water resource facilities.--
                Except as otherwise provided in this title, on and 
                after the date of enactment of this Act, neither the 
                President nor any other officer, employee, or agent of 
                the United States shall fund, assist, authorize, or 
                issue a license or permit for the development of any 
                new water resource facility within the wilderness areas 
                designated by this title.
    (e) Military Overflights.--Nothing in this title precludes or 
restricts--
            (1) low-level overflights and operations of military 
        aircraft, helicopters, missiles, or unmanned aerial vehicles 
        over wilderness areas designated under this title, including 
        military overflights and operations that can be seen or heard 
        within the wilderness areas;
            (2) flight testing and evaluation; or
            (3) the designation or creation of new units of special use 
        airspace, or the establishment of military flight training 
        routes over the wilderness areas designated under this title.

SEC. 203. ADJACENT MANAGEMENT.

    (a) In General.--Congress does not intend for the designation of 
wilderness in the State pursuant to this title to lead to the creation 
of protective perimeters or buffer zones around any such wilderness 
area.
    (b) Nonwilderness Activities.--The fact that nonwilderness 
activities or uses can be seen or heard from areas within a wilderness 
designated under this title shall not preclude the conduct of those 
activities or uses outside the boundary of the wilderness area.

SEC. 204. NATIVE AMERICAN CULTURAL AND RELIGIOUS USES.

    Nothing in this title diminishes--
            (1) the rights of any Indian tribe; or
            (2) any tribal rights regarding access to Federal land for 
        tribal activities, including spiritual, cultural, and 
        traditional food-gathering activities.

SEC. 205. RELEASE OF WILDERNESS STUDY AREAS.

    (a) Finding.--Congress finds that, for the purposes of section 603 
of the Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1782), 
any public land in the County administered by the Bureau of Land 
Management in the wilderness study areas that is not designated as 
wilderness by section 201(a) or depicted as released on the Central 
Map, Eastern Map, or Western Map has been adequately studied for 
wilderness designation.
    (b) Release.--Any public land described in subsection (a) that is 
not designated as wilderness by this title--
            (1) is no longer subject to section 603(c) of the Federal 
        Land Policy and Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1782(c));
            (2) shall be managed in accordance with--
                    (A) land management plans adopted under section 202 
                of that Act (43 U.S.C. 1712); and
                    (B) existing cooperative conservation agreements; 
                and
            (3) shall be subject to the Endangered Species Act of 1973 
        (16 U.S.C. 1531 et seq.).

SEC. 206. WILDLIFE MANAGEMENT.

    (a) In General.--In accordance with section 4(d)(7) of the 
Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1133(d)(7)), nothing in this title affects or 
diminishes the jurisdiction of the State with respect to fish and 
wildlife management, including the regulation of hunting, fishing, and 
trapping, in the wilderness areas designated by this title.
    (b) Management Activities.--In furtherance of the purposes and 
principles of the Wilderness Act, management activities to maintain or 
restore fish and wildlife populations and the habitats to support such 
populations may be carried out within wilderness areas designated by 
this title where consistent with relevant wilderness management plans, 
in accordance with appropriate policies such as those set forth in 
Appendix B of House Report 101-405, including the occasional and 
temporary use of motorized vehicles, if such use, as determined by the 
Secretary, would promote healthy, viable, and more naturally 
distributed wildlife populations that would enhance wilderness values 
and accomplish those purposes with the minimum impact necessary to 
reasonably accomplish the task.
    (c) Existing Activities.--Consistent with section 4(d)(1) of the 
Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1133(d)) and in accordance with appropriate 
policies such as those set forth in Appendix B of House Report 101-405, 
the State may continue to use aircraft, including helicopters, to 
survey, capture, transplant, monitor, and provide water for wildlife 
populations.
    (d) Wildlife Water Development Projects.--Subject to subsection 
(f), the Secretary shall authorize structures and facilities, including 
existing structures and facilities, for wildlife water development 
projects, including guzzlers, in the wilderness areas designated by 
this title if--
            (1) the structures and facilities will, as determined by 
        the Secretary, enhance wilderness values by promoting healthy, 
        viable, and more naturally distributed wildlife populations; 
        and
            (2) the visual impacts of the structures and facilities on 
        the wilderness areas can reasonably be minimized.
    (e) Hunting, Fishing, and Trapping.--In consultation with the 
appropriate State agency (except in emergencies), the Secretary may 
designate by regulation areas in which, and establish periods during 
which, for reasons of public safety, administration, or compliance with 
applicable laws, no hunting, fishing, or trapping will be permitted in 
the wilderness areas designated by this title.
    (f) Cooperative Agreement.--Not later than 1 year after the date of 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall enter into a cooperative 
agreement with the State that specifies the terms and conditions under 
which the State or a designee of the State may carry out wildlife 
management activities in the wilderness areas designated by this title.

SEC. 207. WILDFIRE MANAGEMENT.

    Consistent with section 4 of the Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1133), 
nothing in this title precludes a Federal, State, or local agency from 
conducting wildfire and management operations (including operations 
using aircraft or mechanized equipment) to manage wildfires in the 
wilderness areas designated by this title.

SEC. 208. CLIMATOLOGICAL DATA COLLECTION.

    Subject to such terms and conditions as the Secretary may 
prescribe, nothing in this title precludes the installation and 
maintenance of hydrologic, meteorologic, or climatological collection 
devices in the wilderness areas designated by this title if the 
facilities and access to the facilities are essential to flood warning, 
flood control, and water reservoir operation activities.

SEC. 209. NATIONAL PARK SERVICE LAND.

    To the extent any of the provisions of this title conflict with the 
laws applicable to the National Park Service for Zion National Park, 
the laws shall control.

              TITLE III--WILD AND SCENIC RIVER DESIGNATION

SEC. 301. ZION NATIONAL PARK WILD AND SCENIC RIVERS.

    (a) Designation.--Section 3(a) of the Wild and Scenic Rivers Act 
(16 U.S.C. 1274(a)) is amended by adding at the end the following:
            ``(167) Zion national park, utah.--The approximately 165.5 
        miles of segments of the Virgin River and tributaries of the 
        Virgin River across Federal land within and adjacent to Zion 
        National Park, to be administered by the Secretary of the 
        Interior, subject to, and in accordance with, the agreement 
        between the United States, the State of Utah, the Washington 
        County Water Conservancy District, and the Kane County Water 
        Conservancy District entitled `Zion National Park Water Rights 
        Settlement Agreement' and dated December 4, 1996, in the 
        following classifications:
                    ``(A) Taylor creek.--The 4.5-mile segment from the 
                junction of the north, middle, and south forks of 
                Taylor Creek, west to the park boundary and adjacent 
                land rim-to-rim, as a scenic river.
                    ``(B) North fork of taylor creek.--The segment from 
                the head of North Fork to the junction with Taylor 
                Creek and adjacent land rim-to-rim, as a wild river.
                    ``(C) Middle fork of taylor creek.--The segment 
                from the head of Middle Fork on Bureau of Land 
                Management land to the junction with Taylor Creek and 
                adjacent land rim-to-rim, as a wild river.
                    ``(D) South fork of taylor creek.--The segment from 
                the head of South Fork to the junction with Taylor 
                Creek and adjacent land rim-to-rim, as a wild river.
                    ``(E) Timber creek and tributaries.--The 3.1-mile 
                segment from the head of Timber Creek and tributaries 
                of Timber Creek to the junction with LaVerkin Creek and 
                adjacent land rim-to-rim, as a wild river.
                    ``(F) Laverkin creek.--The 16.1-mile segment 
                beginning in T. 38 S., R. 11 W., sec. 21, on Bureau of 
                Land Management land, southwest through Zion National 
                Park, and ending at the south end of T. 40 S., R. 12 
                W., sec. 7, and adjacent land \1/2\-mile wide, as a 
                wild river.
                    ``(G) Willis creek.--The 1.9-mile segment beginning 
                on Bureau of Land Management land in the SWSW sec. 27, 
                T. 38 S., R. 11 W., to the junction with LaVerkin Creek 
                in Zion National Park and adjacent land rim-to-rim, as 
                a wild river.
                    ``(H) Beartrap canyon.--The 2.3-mile segment 
                beginning on Bureau of Management land in the SWNW sec. 
                3, T. 39 S., R. 11 W., to the junction with LaVerkin 
                Creek and the segment from the headwaters north of Long 
                Point to the junction with LaVerkin Creek and adjacent 
                land rim-to-rim, as a wild river.
                    ``(I) Hop valley creek.--The 3.3-mile segment 
                beginning at the southern boundary of T. 39 S., R. 11 
                W., sec. 20, to the junction with LaVerkin Creek and 
                adjacent land \1/2\-mile wide, as a wild river.
                    ``(J) Current creek.--The 1.4-mile segment from the 
                head of Current Creek to the junction with LaVerkin 
                Creek and adjacent land rim-to-rim, as a wild river.
                    ``(K) Cane creek.--The 0.6-mile segment from the 
                head of Smith Creek to the junction with LaVerkin Creek 
                and adjacent land \1/2\-mile wide, as a wild river.
                    ``(L) Smith creek.--The 1.3-mile segment from the 
                head of Smith Creek to the junction with LaVerkin Creek 
                and adjacent land \1/2\-mile wide, as a wild river.
                    ``(M) North creek left and right forks.--The 
                segment of the Left Fork from the junction with Wildcat 
                Canyon to the junction with Right Fork, from the head 
                of Right Fork to the junction with Left Fork, and from 
                the junction of the Left and Right Forks southwest to 
                Zion National Park boundary and adjacent land rim-to-
                rim, as a wild river.
                    ``(N) Wildcat canyon (blue creek).--The segment of 
                Blue Creek from the Zion National Park boundary to the 
                junction with the Right Fork of North Creek and 
                adjacent land rim-to-rim, as a wild river.
                    ``(O) Little creek.--The segment beginning at the 
                head of Little Creek to the junction with the Left Fork 
                of North Creek and adjacent land \1/2\-mile wide, as a 
                wild river.
                    ``(P) Russell gulch.--The segment from the head of 
                Russell Gulch to the junction with the Left Fork of 
                North Creek and adjacent land rim-to-rim, as a wild 
                river.
                    ``(Q) Grapevine wash.--The 2.6-mile segment from 
                the Lower Kolob Plateau to the junction with the Left 
                Fork of North Creek and adjacent land rim-to-rim, as a 
                scenic river.
                    ``(R) Pine spring wash.--The 4.6-mile segment to 
                the junction with the left fork of North Creek and 
                adjacent land \1/2\-mile, as a scenic river.
                    ``(S) Wolf springs wash.--The 1.4-mile segment from 
                the head of Wolf Springs Wash to the junction with Pine 
                Spring Wash and adjacent land \1/2\-mile wide, as a 
                scenic river.
                    ``(T) Kolob creek.--The 5.9-mile segment of Kolob 
                Creek beginning in T. 39 S., R. 10 W., sec. 30, through 
                Bureau of Land Management land and Zion National Park 
                land to the junction with the North Fork of the Virgin 
                River and adjacent land rim-to-rim, as a wild river.
                    ``(U) Oak creek.--The 1-mile stretch of Oak Creek 
                beginning in T. 39 S., R. 10 W., sec. 19, to the 
                junction with Kolob Creek and adjacent land rim-to-rim, 
                as a wild river.
                    ``(V) Goose creek.--The 4.6-mile segment of Goose 
                Creek from the head of Goose Creek to the junction with 
                the North Fork of the Virgin River and adjacent land 
                rim-to-rim, as a wild river.
                    ``(W) Deep creek.--The 5.3-mile segment of Deep 
                Creek beginning on Bureau of Land Management land at 
                the northern boundary of T. 39 S., R. 10 W., sec. 23, 
                south to the junction of the North Fork of the Virgin 
                River and adjacent land rim-to-rim, as a wild river.
                    ``(X) North fork of the virgin river.--The 10.8-
                mile segment of the North Fork of the Virgin River 
                beginning on Bureau of Land Management land at the 
                eastern border of T. 39 S., R. 10 W., sec. 35, to 
                Temple of Sinawava and adjacent land rim-to-rim, as a 
                wild river.
                    ``(Y) North fork of the virgin river.--The 8-mile 
                segment of the North Fork of the Virgin River from 
                Temple of Sinawava south to the Zion National Park 
                boundary and adjacent land \1/2\-mile wide, as a scenic 
                river.
                    ``(Z) Imlay canyon.--The segment from the head of 
                Imlay Creek to the junction with the North Fork of the 
                Virgin River and adjacent land rim-to-rim, as a wild 
                river.
                    ``(AA) Orderville canyon.--The segment from the 
                eastern boundary of Zion National Park to the junction 
                with the North Fork of the Virgin River and adjacent 
                land rim-to-rim, as a wild river.
                    ``(BB) Mystery canyon.--The segment from the head 
                of Mystery Canyon to the junction with the North Fork 
                of the Virgin River and adjacent land rim-to-rim, as a 
                wild river.
                    ``(CC) Echo canyon.--The segment from the eastern 
                boundary of Zion National Park to the junction with the 
                North Fork of the Virgin River and adjacent land rim-
                to-rim, as a wild river.
                    ``(DD) Behunin canyon.--The segment from the head 
                of Behunin Canyon to the junction with the North Fork 
                of the Virgin River and adjacent land rim-to-rim, as a 
                wild river.
                    ``(EE) Heaps canyon.--The segment from the head of 
                Heaps Canyon to the junction with the North Fork of the 
                Virgin River and adjacent land rim-to-rim, as a wild 
                river.
                    ``(FF) Birch creek.--The segment from the head of 
                Birch Creek to the junction with the North Fork of the 
                Virgin River and adjacent land \1/2\-mile wide, as a 
                wild river.
                    ``(GG) Oak creek.--The segment of Oak Creek from 
                the head of Oak Creek to where the forks join and 
                adjacent land \1/2\-mile wide, as a wild river.
                    ``(HH) Oak creek.--The 1-mile segment of Oak Creek 
                from the point at which the 2 forks of Oak Creek join 
                to the junction with the North Fork of the Virgin River 
                and adjacent land \1/2\-mile wide, as a recreational 
                river.
                    ``(II) Clear creek.--The 6.4-mile segment of Clear 
                Creek from the eastern boundary of Zion National Park 
                to the junction with Pine Creek and adjacent land rim-
                to-rim, as a recreational river.
                    ``(JJ) Pine creek.--The 2-mile segment of Pine 
                Creek from the head of Pine Creek to the junction with 
                Clear Creek and adjacent land rim-to-rim, as a wild 
                river.
                    ``(KK) Pine creek.--The 3-mile segment of Pine 
                Creek from the junction with Clear Creek to the 
                junction with the North Fork of the Virgin River and 
                adjacent land rim-to-rim, as a recreational river.
                    ``(LL) East fork of the virgin river.--The 8-mile 
                segment of the East Fork of the Virgin River from the 
                eastern boundary of Zion National Park through 
                Parunuweap Canyon to the western boundary of Zion 
                National Park and adjacent land \1/2\-mile wide, as a 
                wild river.
                    ``(MM) Shunes creek.--The 3-mile segment of Shunes 
                Creek from the dry waterfall on land administered by 
                the Bureau of Land Management through Zion National 
                Park to the western boundary of Zion National Park and 
                adjacent land \1/2\-mile wide as a wild river.''.
    (b) Incorporation of Acquired Non-Federal Land.--If the United 
States acquires any non-Federal land within or adjacent to Zion 
National Park that includes a river segment that is contiguous to a 
river segment of the Virgin River designated as a wild, scenic, or 
recreational river by paragraph (167) of section 3(a) of the Wild and 
Scenic Rivers Act (16 U.S.C. 1274(a)), the acquired river segment shall 
be incorporated in, and be administered as part of, the applicable 
wild, scenic, or recreational river.

                      TITLE IV--UTILITY CORRIDORS

SEC. 401. UTILITY CORRIDORS AND RIGHTS-OF WAY.

    (a) Utility Corridor.--
            (1) In general.--Consistent with title II and 
        notwithstanding sections 202 and 503 of the Federal Land Policy 
        and Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1712, 1763), the 
        Secretary shall establish on public land--
                    (A) corridors for utilities, water infrastructure, 
                and transportation purposes, in the County, as 
                generally depicted on the Central Map, Eastern Map, and 
                Western Map; and
                    (B) a corridor for transportation purposes in the 
                County, to be identified by the Secretary, after--
                            (i) consultation with the County and the 
                        Habitat Conservation Advisory Committee;
                            (ii) complying with the National 
                        Environmental Policy Act of 1969 (42 U.S.C. 
                        4321 et seq.); and
                            (iii) evaluating, at a minimum--
                                    (I) a corridor within the Red 
                                Cliffs National Conservation Area 
                                established by section 604(a), 
                                beginning on the western boundary of 
                                the Conservation Area at a point, to be 
                                identified by the Secretary, between 
                                Diamond Valley and Winchester Hills, 
                                and ending on the eastern boundary of 
                                the Conversation Area at a point, to be 
                                identified by the Secretary, between 
                                milepost 10 and milepost 16 of 
                                Interstate 15; and
                                    (II) a corridor outside the Red 
                                Cliffs National Conservation Area.
            (2) Width.--The utility corridors established under 
        paragraph (1) shall be--
                    (A) 2,640-feet wide; or
                    (B) if the St. George Field Office Resource 
                Management Plan of 1999 provides for a width other than 
                2,640 feet in a particular portion of the corridor, the 
                width provided by the Plan for the particular portion.
    (b) Rights-of-Way.--
            (1) In general.--Notwithstanding sections 202 and 503 of 
        the Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 
        1712, 1763), and subject to valid and existing rights, the 
        Secretary shall grant to the County and the Washington County 
        Water Conservancy District nonexclusive rights-of-way to 
        nonwilderness Federal land in the County, as generally depicted 
        on the Central Map and Eastern Map, for any reservoirs, canals, 
        channels, ditches, pipes, pipelines, tunnels, wells, well 
        fields, pump stations, storage facilities, and other facilities 
        and systems that are necessary for--
                    (A) the impoundment, storage, treatment, 
                transportation, or distribution of water or wastewater; 
                or
                    (B) flood control management.
            (2) Applicable requirements.--Any right-of-way granted 
        under paragraph (1) shall be consistent with any general plan 
        adopted by the County.
            (3) Duration; waiver of fees.--A right-of-way granted under 
        paragraph (1)--
                    (A) shall be valid in perpetuity; and
                    (B) shall not require the payment of rental fees.
            (4) Compliance with nepa.--Before granting a right-of-way 
        under paragraph (1), the Secretary shall comply with the 
        National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 (42 U.S.C. 4321 et 
        seq.), including the identification of potential impacts to 
        fish and wildlife resources and habitat.
    (c) State Water Law.--Nothing in this title shall--
            (1) prejudice the decisions or abrogate the jurisdiction of 
        the Utah State Engineer with respect to the appropriation, 
        permitting, certification, or adjudication of water rights;
            (2) preempt State water law; or
            (3) limit or supersede existing water rights or interest in 
        water rights under State law.
    (d) Withdrawal.--Subject to valid existing rights, the areas 
designated as utility corridors or rights-of-way by subsections (a) and 
(b) are withdrawn from location, entry, and patent under the mining 
laws.

             TITLE V--HIGH DESERT OFF-HIGHWAY VEHICLE TRAIL

SEC. 501. HIGH DESERT OFF-HIGHWAY VEHICLE TRAIL.

    (a) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Trail.--The term ``Trail'' means the High Desert Off-
        Highway Vehicle Trail designated under subsection (c).
            (2) Travel plan.--The term ``travel plan'' means the travel 
        plan developed under subsection (b).
    (b) Travel Plan.--Not later than 2 years after the date of 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary and the Secretary of Agriculture 
shall jointly complete a travel plan that identifies routes for the 
Trail.
    (c) Designation of Trail.--Not later than 30 days after the date on 
which the travel plan is completed under subsection (b), the Secretary 
and the Secretary of Agriculture shall jointly designate a system of 
trails, identified in the travel plan, to be known as the ``High Desert 
Off-Highway Vehicle Trail''.
    (d) Requirements.--To be eligible for inclusion in the Trail, a 
route shall be--
            (1) open to motorized and mechanized uses on and after the 
        date of enactment of this Act; and
            (2) located on land managed by the Director of the Bureau 
        of Land Management or the Chief of the Forest Service.
    (e) Management.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary or the Secretary of 
        Agriculture shall manage portions of the Trail under the 
        jurisdiction of the Secretary or the Secretary of Agriculture, 
        as appropriate, in a manner that--
                    (A) is consistent with motorized and mechanized use 
                of the Trail that is authorized on the date of 
                enactment of this Act pursuant to applicable Federal 
                and State laws and regulations;
                    (B) ensures the safety of the people who use the 
                Trail; and
                    (C) does not damage sensitive habitat or cultural 
                resources.
            (2) Management plan.--
                    (A) In general.--Not later than 2 years after the 
                date on which the travel plan is completed under 
                subsection (b), the Secretary and the Secretary of 
                Agriculture, in consultation with the State, the 
                County, and any other interested persons, shall jointly 
                complete a management plan for the Trail that includes 
                a description of the routes identified in the travel 
                plan for inclusion in the Trail.
                    (B) Components.--The management plan shall--
                            (i) describe the appropriate uses and 
                        management of the Trail;
                            (ii) authorize the use of motorized and 
                        mechanized vehicles on the Trail; and
                            (iii) describe actions carried out to 
                        periodically evaluate and manage the 
                        appropriate levels of use and location of the 
                        Trail to minimize environmental impacts and 
                        prevent damage to cultural resources from the 
                        use of the Trail.
            (3) Monitoring and evaluation.--
                    (A) Annual assessment.--The Secretary and the 
                Secretary of Agriculture shall annually assess the 
                effects of the use of off-highway vehicles on the Trail 
                on land and, in consultation with the Utah Department 
                of Natural Resources, assess the effects of the Trail 
                on wildlife and wildlife habitat to minimize 
                environmental impacts and prevent damage to cultural 
                resources from the use of the Trail.
                    (B) Closure.--Subject to valid existing rights, the 
                Secretary and the Secretary of Agriculture, as 
                appropriate, in consultation with the State and the 
                County, may temporarily close or permanently reroute, 
                subject to subparagraph (C), a portion of the Trail if 
                the Secretary determines that--
                            (i) the Trail is having an adverse impact 
                        on--
                                    (I) natural resources; or
                                    (II) cultural resources;
                            (ii) the Trail threatens public safety;
                            (iii) closure of the Trail is necessary to 
                        repair damage to the Trail; or
                            (iv) closure of the Trail is necessary to 
                        repair resource damage.
                    (C) Rerouting.--Portions of the Trail that are 
                temporarily closed may be permanently rerouted along 
                existing roads and trails on public land currently open 
                to motorized use if the Secretary determines, after 
                consultation with the Utah Department of Natural 
                Resources, that such rerouting will not significantly 
                increase or decrease the length of the Trail.
                    (D) Notice.--The Secretary and the Secretary of 
                Agriculture shall provide information to the public 
                regarding any routes on the Trail that are closed under 
                subparagraph (B), including by providing appropriate 
                signage along the Trail.
            (4) Notice of open routes.--The Secretary and the Secretary 
        of Agriculture shall ensure that visitors to the Trail have 
        access to adequate notice regarding the routes on the Trail 
        that are open through use of appropriate signage along the 
        Trail and through the distribution of maps, safety education 
        materials, and other information considered appropriate by the 
        Secretary and the Secretary of Agriculture.
    (f) No Effect on Non-Federal Land and Interests in Land.--Nothing 
in this section shall be construed to affect ownership, management, or 
other rights related to non-Federal land or interests in land.
    (g) Map on File.--The appropriate maps shall be kept on file at the 
appropriate offices of the Secretary and the Secretary of Agriculture.

            TITLE VI--RED CLIFFS NATIONAL CONSERVATION AREA

SEC. 601. SHORT TITLE.

    This title may be cited as the ``Red Cliffs National Conservation 
Area Act''.

SEC. 602. PURPOSE.

    The purpose of this title is to establish the Red Cliffs National 
Conservation Area--
            (1) to conserve, protect, and enhance for the benefit and 
        enjoyment of present and future generations the ecological 
        resources, wildlife, endangered species, and recreational 
        resources of the Conservation Area, in accordance with the 
        management plan; and
            (2) to serve the needs of communities in the vicinity of 
        the Conservation Area, in accordance with the management plan.

SEC. 603. DEFINITIONS.

    In this title:
            (1) Conservation area.--The term ``Conservation Area'' 
        means the Red Cliffs National Conservation Area established by 
        section 604(a).
            (2) Management plan.--The term ``management plan'' means--
                    (A) the management plan entitled the ``Washington 
                County Habitat Conservation Plan'' and dated December 
                1995, as approved by the Director of the United States 
                Fish and Wildlife Service on February 23, 1996; and
                    (B) the St. George Field Office Resource Management 
                Plan of March 15, 1999.
            (3) Public land.--The term ``public land'' has the meaning 
        given the term ``public lands'' in section 103 of the Federal 
        Land Policy and Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1702).

SEC. 604. ESTABLISHMENT OF THE CONSERVATION AREA.

    (a) In General.--There is established in the State the Red Cliffs 
National Conservation Area.
    (b) Area Included.--The Conservation Area shall consist of 
approximately 61,473 acres of public land, as generally depicted on the 
Central Map.
    (c) Map and Legal Description.--
            (1) Map.--The Central Map shall be on file and available 
        for public inspection in the appropriate offices of the Bureau 
        of Land Management.
            (2) Legal description.--
                    (A) In general.--As soon as practicable after the 
                date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall 
                submit to the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources 
                of the Senate and the Committee on Resources of the 
                House of Representatives a legal description of the 
                Conservation Area.
                    (B) Force and effect.--The legal description 
                submitted under subparagraph (A) shall have the same 
                force and effect as if included in this Act, except 
                that the Secretary may--
                            (i) correct minor errors in the legal 
                        description; and
                            (ii) in consultation with the County and 
                        the Habitat Conservation Advisory Committee, 
                        make any minor boundary adjustments that the 
                        Secretary, the County, and the Habitat 
                        Conservation Advisory Committee determine to be 
                        necessary.
                    (C) Availability.--The legal description submitted 
                under subparagraph (A) shall be on file and available 
                for public inspection in the office of the Director of 
                the Bureau of Land Management.
            (3) Conflict.--If there is a conflict among the Central 
        Map, the acreage described in subsection (b), or the legal 
        description submitted under paragraph (1), the Central Map 
        shall control with respect to determining the boundaries of the 
        Conservation Area.

SEC. 605. MANAGEMENT.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary, acting through the Director of the 
Bureau of Land Management, shall, subject to valid existing rights, 
manage the Conservation Area--
            (1) in a manner that conserves, protects, and enhances the 
        resources of the Conservation Area described in section 602(1); 
        and
            (2) in accordance with--
                    (A) the management plan;
                    (B) this Act; and
                    (C) any other applicable laws.
    (b) Use.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary shall only allow uses of the 
        Conservation Area--
                    (A) in accordance with the St. George Field Office 
                Resource Management Plan dated March 15, 1999;
                    (B) that are described in the Washington County 
                Habitat Conservation Plan dated December 1995 
                (including any appendices to the plan);
                    (C) in accordance with the Red Cliffs Desert 
                Reserve Public Use Plan dated June 12, 2000; and
                    (D) that the Secretary determines would further the 
                purposes described in section 602.
            (2) Motorized and mechanized vehicles.--Except in cases in 
        which motorized or mechanized vehicles are needed for 
        administrative purposes or to respond to an emergency, the use 
        of motorized or mechanized vehicles in the Conservation Area 
        shall be permitted only on roads and trails designated for the 
        use of motorized or mechanized vehicles.
    (c) Preventive Measures.--Nothing in this Act precludes any 
measures that the Secretary determines to be necessary to prevent 
devastating fire or infestation of insects or disease within the 
Conservation Area.
    (d) Water Rights.--
            (1) State water law.--The laws of the State relating to 
        water rights shall apply to the acquisition and holding of any 
        water rights in the Conservation Area that are not in existence 
        as of the date of enactment of this Act.
            (2) Effect.--Nothing in this title--
                    (A) creates an express or implied reservation by 
                the United States of any water or water rights in the 
                Conservation Area;
                    (B) affects any water rights in the State 
                (including any water rights held by the United States) 
                in existence on the date of enactment of this Act;
                    (C) establishes a precedent with regard to any 
                future conservation area designations;
                    (D) affects the interpretation of, or any 
                designation made pursuant to, any other Act;
                    (E) limits, alters, modifies, or amends any 
                interstate compact or equitable apportionment decree 
                that apportions water among and between the State and 
                other States; or
                    (F) prohibits the funding of, assistance with, 
                authorizing of, or issuance of a license, permit, 
                easement, or right-of-way for the development of any 
                new water resource facility within the Conservation 
                Area consistent with utility development protocols 
                provided in the management plan.

SEC. 606. MANAGEMENT PLAN AMENDMENTS.

    (a) In General.--The management plan may be amended as the 
Secretary determines to be necessary to achieve the purposes of the 
Conservation Area described in section 602.
    (b) Requirements.--Any amendments to the management plan adopted 
under subsection (a) shall comply with the procedures for amendments 
outlined in the management plan, including the requirements that any 
amendments shall--
            (1) be developed with full public participation; and
            (2) take into consideration affected landowners, Federal, 
        State, and local agencies, and affected Indian tribes.

SEC. 607. ACQUISITION OF ADDITIONAL LAND.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary may acquire land or interests in 
land in the Conservation Area--
            (1) by donation;
            (2) by purchase with donated or appropriated funds;
            (3) in exchange for Federal land outside the Conservation 
        Area, in accordance with--
                    (A) section 206 of the Federal Land Management and 
                Policy Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1716); and
                    (B) any other applicable law;
            (4) with the concurrence of the appropriate agency head, 
        transfer from another Federal agency; or
            (5) in accordance with section 103(a)(4)(B)(i).
    (b) State Land.--Land or interests in land owned by the State or a 
political subdivision of the State may only be acquired by donation, 
exchange, or purchase.
    (c) Private Land.--Private land or interests in private land may 
only be acquired from willing sellers.
    (d) Subsequent Acquisition.--Any land or interests in land within 
the boundaries of the Conservation Area that is acquired after the date 
of enactment of this Act shall be--
            (1) incorporated into the Conservation Area; and
            (2) managed as part of the Conservation Area, in accordance 
        with--
                    (A) this Act; and
                    (B) any other applicable laws.

SEC. 608. WITHDRAWAL.

    (a) In General.--Subject to valid existing rights, all public land 
in the Conservation Area is withdrawn from--
            (1) all forms of entry, appropriation, and disposal under 
        the public land laws;
            (2) location, entry, and patent under the mining laws; and
            (3) operation of the mineral leasing, geothermal leasing, 
        and mineral materials laws.
    (b) Additional Land.--Notwithstanding any other provision of law, 
if the Secretary acquires additional land within the Conservation Area 
after the date of enactment of this Act, the land is withdrawn from 
operation of the laws referred to in subsection (a) on the date of 
acquisition of the land.

SEC. 609. COOPERATIVE AGREEMENTS.

    The Secretary may enter into cooperative agreements with other 
Federal agencies, State and local agencies, and nonprofit entities that 
provide for the management and interpretation of natural and cultural 
resources in the Conservation Area.

SEC. 610. NO BUFFER ZONES.

    (a) In General.--The establishment of the Conservation Area shall 
not create protective perimeters or buffer zones around the 
Conservation Area.
    (b) Private Land.--If the use of, or conduct of an activity on, 
private land outside the boundaries of the Conservation Area is 
consistent with applicable law, nothing in this title concerning the 
establishment of the Conservation Area shall prohibit or limit the use 
or conduct of the activity.

               TITLE VII--AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS

SEC. 701. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.

    There are authorized to be appropriated such sums as are necessary 
to carry out this Act.
                                 &lt;all&gt;
</pre></body></html>
