<html><body><pre>
[Congressional Bills 107th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[S. 2535 Introduced in Senate (IS)]







107th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                S. 2535

 To designate certain public lands as wilderness and certain rivers as 
wild and scenic rivers in the State of California, to designate Salmon 
     Restoration Areas, to establish the Sacramento River National 
 Conservation Area and Ancient Bristlecone Pine Forest, and for other 
                               purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                   IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

                              May 21, 2002

  Mrs. Boxer introduced the following bill; which was read twice and 
       referred to the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
 To designate certain public lands as wilderness and certain rivers as 
wild and scenic rivers in the State of California, to designate Salmon 
     Restoration Areas, to establish the Sacramento River National 
 Conservation Area and Ancient Bristlecone Pine Forest, and for other 
                               purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``California Wild Heritage Act of 
2002''.

SEC. 2. FINDINGS.

    (a) The Congress finds and declares that--
            (1) the publically owned lands and rivers of California are 
        a wildland resource of extraordinary value for this and future 
        generations;
            (2) increasing pressure from California's rapidly growing 
        population threatens to irrevocably harm these remaining wild 
        areas and wild rivers;
            (3) statutory protection is needed for these areas to 
        ensure that they remain a part of our natural heritage and 
        continue to be a source of solitude and inspiration for all 
        Americans;
            (4) continuation of military activities, including 
        overflights, military maneuvers, testing and evaluation, and 
        other activities without limit to frequency is not incompatible 
        with the protection and proper management of the wilderness and 
        wild and scenic river resources designated by this Act;
            (5) wildfire management activities necessary to protect 
        public health and safety and private property are fully 
        allowable in wilderness areas and the Secretary may take any 
        measures deemed necessary to control or prevent fires; and
            (6) these lands shall be included in the National 
        Wilderness Preservation System and the National Wild and Scenic 
        Rivers System, in order to--
                    (A) preserve the unique wild and natural features 
                of these landscapes;
                    (B) protect a diverse array of ecosystems, plants, 
                animals, geologic structures, and hydrologic features 
                that represent the natural splendor of California;
                    (C) protect and preserve historical and cultural 
                archaeological sites associated with ancient Indian 
                cultures and the settlement of California;
                    (D) protect and preserve areas that continue to be 
                used by Indian Tribes for spiritual, cultural, or 
                subsistence practices;
                    (E) protect watersheds, including those that play 
                an essential role in providing municipal and 
                agricultural water supplies;
                    (F) provide opportunities for compatible outdoor 
                recreation, including horseback riding on saddle and 
                pack stock, hunting and fishing, hiking and camping, 
                whitewater rafting, trail running, and excursions led 
                by commercial outfitters;
                    (G) retain and enhance opportunities for scientific 
                research in pristine ecosystems; and
                    (H) promote the recovery of threatened and 
                endangered species, including salmon and steelhead.

  TITLE I--DESIGNATION OF WILDERNESS AREAS TO BE ADMINISTERED BY THE 
       BUREAU OF LAND MANAGEMENT AND UNITED STATES FOREST SERVICE

SEC. 101. DESIGNATION OF WILDERNESS.

    (a) In furtherance of the purposes of the Wilderness Act, the 
following public lands in the State of California are hereby designated 
as wilderness, and therefore, as components of the National Wilderness 
Preservation System:
            (1) Certain lands in the Angeles National Forest which 
        compromise approximately 3,200 acres as generally depicted on a 
        map entitled ``West Fork Wilderness Area--Proposed'', dated May 
        2002, and which shall be known as the West Fork Wilderness.
            (2) Certain lands in the Angeles National Forest which 
        comprise approximately 7,680 acres as generally depicted on a 
        map entitled ``Silver Mountain Wilderness Area--Proposed'', 
        dated May 2002, and which shall be known as the Silver Mountain 
        Wilderness.
            (3) Certain lands in the Angeles National Forest which 
        comprise approximately 56,320 acres as generally depicted on a 
        map entitled ``Castaic Wilderness Area--Proposed'', dated May 
        2002, and which shall be known as the Castaic Wilderness.
            (4) Certain lands in the Angeles National Forest which 
        comprise approximately 12,160 acres as generally depicted on a 
        map entitled ``Magic Mountain Wilderness Area--Proposed'', 
        dated May 2002, and which shall be known as the Magic Mountain 
        Wilderness.
            (5) Certain lands in the Angeles National Forest which 
        comprise approximately 19,200 acres as generally depicted on a 
map entitled ``Pleasant View Wilderness Area--Proposed'', dated May 
2002, and which shall be known as the Pleasant View Wilderness.
            (6) Certain lands in the Angeles National Forest which 
        comprise approximately 8,960 acres as generally depicted on a 
        map entitled ``Sheep Mountain Wilderness Area Additions--
        Proposed'', dated May 2002, and which are hereby incorporated 
        in, and which shall be deemed to be a part of the Sheep 
        Mountain Wilderness designated by Public Law 98-425.
            (7) Certain lands in the Angeles National Forest which 
        comprise approximately 14,720 acres as generally depicted on a 
        map entitled ``Condor Peak Wilderness Area--Proposed'', dated 
        May 2002, and which shall be known as the Condor Peak 
        Wilderness.
            (8) Certain lands in the Angeles National Forest which 
        comprise approximately 2,560 acres as generally depicted on a 
        map entitled ``Santa Clarita Canyons Wilderness Area--
        Proposed'', dated May 2002, and which shall be known as the 
        Santa Clarita Canyons Wilderness.
            (9) Certain lands in the Cleveland National Forest which 
        comprise approximately 23,369 acres as generally depicted on a 
        map entitled ``Eagle Peak Wilderness Area--Proposed'', dated 
        May 2002, and which shall be known as the Eagle Peak 
        Wilderness: Provided, That this designation shall not preclude 
        entry into this area by horses or pack stock.
            (10) Certain lands in the El Dorado and Humboldt-Toiyabe 
        National Forests which comprise approximately 22,360 acres as 
        generally depicted on a map entitled ``Caples Creek Wilderness 
        Area--Proposed'', dated May 2002, and which shall be known as 
        the Caples Creek Wilderness.
            (11) Certain lands in the El Dorado and Humboldt-Toiyabe 
        National Forests which comprise approximately 19,380 acres as 
        generally depicted on a map entitled ``Meiss Meadows Wilderness 
        Area--Proposed'', dated May 2002, and which shall be known as 
        the Meiss Meadows Wilderness.
            (12) Certain lands in the Humboldt-Toiyabe and Inyo 
        National Forests which comprise approximately 79,360 acres as 
        generally depicted on a map entitled ``Hoover Wilderness Area 
        Additions--Proposed'', dated May 2002, and which are hereby 
        incorporated in, and which shall be deemed to be a part of the 
        Hoover Wilderness as designated by Public Law 88-577: Provided, 
        That--
                    (A) the designation shall not preclude operation 
                and maintenance of the existing historic Piute Cabin, 
                located in the western portion of the Hoover Wilderness 
                Area Additions, in the same manner and degree in which 
                operation and maintenance of such cabin were occurring 
                as of the date of introduction of this Act; and
                    (B) the designation is not intended to restrict the 
                ongoing activities of the adjacent United States Marine 
                Corps Mountain Warfare Training Center on lands under 
                agreement with the Humboldt-Toiyabe National Forest.
            (13) Certain lands in the Inyo National Forest which 
        comprise approximately 14,800 acres as generally depicted on a 
        map entitled ``Owens River Headwaters Additions to Ansel Adams 
        Wilderness Area--Proposed'', dated May 2002, and which are 
        hereby incorporated in, and which shall be deemed to be a part 
        of the Ansel Adams Wilderness as designated by Public Law 98-
        425.
            (14) Certain lands in the Inyo National Forest and the 
        Bishop Field Office of the Bureau of Land Management which 
        comprise approximately 136,320 acres as generally depicted on a 
        map entitled ``John Muir Wilderness Area Additions--Proposed'', 
        dated May 2002, and which are hereby incorporated in, and which 
        shall be deemed to be a part of the John Muir Wilderness as 
        designated by Public Laws 88-577 and 98-425.
            (15) Certain lands in the Inyo National Forest and the 
        Bishop Field Office and Ridgecrest Field Office of the Bureau 
        of Land Management which comprise approximately 297,000 acres 
        as generally depicted on a map entitled ``White Mountains 
        Wilderness Area--Proposed'', dated May 2002, and which shall be 
        known as the White Mountains Wilderness: Provided, That 
        scientific research conducted at the White Mountains Research 
        Station Facilities operated by the University of California 
        shall be permitted to continue.
            (16) Certain lands in the Klamath National Forest which 
        comprise approximately 64,160 acres as generally depicted on a 
        map entitled ``Marble Mountain Wilderness Area Additions--
        Proposed'', dated May 2002, and which are hereby incorporated 
        in, and which shall be deemed to be a part of the Marble 
        Mountain Wilderness as designated by Public Laws 88-577 and 98-
        425.
            (17) Certain lands in the Klamath National Forest which 
        comprise approximately 51,600 acres as generally depicted on a 
        map entitled ``Red Butte Wilderness Area Additions--Proposed'', 
        dated May 2002, and which are hereby incorporated in, and which 
        shall be deemed to be a part of the Red Butte Wilderness as 
        designated by Public Laws 98-425 and 98-328.
            (18) Certain lands in the Klamath National Forest which 
        comprise approximately 19,360 acres as generally depicted on a 
        map entitled ``Russian Wilderness Area Additions--Proposed'', 
        dated May 2002, and which are hereby incorporated in, and which 
        shall be deemed to be a part of the Russian Wilderness as 
        designated by Public Law 98-425.
            (19) Certain lands in the Lassen National Forest which 
        comprise approximately 12,000 acres as generally depicted on a 
        map entitled ``Heart Lake Wilderness Area--Proposed'', dated 
        May 2002, and which shall be known as the Heart Lake 
        Wilderness.
            (20) Certain lands in the Lassen National Forest which 
        comprise approximately 4,760 acres as generally depicted on a 
        map entitled ``Wild Cattle Mountain Wilderness Area-- 
Proposed'', dated May 2002, and which shall be known as the Wild Cattle 
Mountain Wilderness.
            (21) Certain lands in the Lassen National Forest which 
        comprise approximately 6,400 acres as generally depicted on a 
        map entitled ``Caribou Wilderness Area Additions--Proposed'', 
        dated May 2002, and which are hereby incorporated in, and which 
        shall be deemed to be a part of the Caribou Wilderness as 
        designated by Public Laws 88-577 and 98-425.
            (22) Certain lands in the Los Padres National Forest which 
        comprise approximately 11,500 acres as generally depicted on a 
        map entitled ``Black Mountain Wilderness Area--Proposed'', 
        dated May 2002, and which shall be known as the Black Mountain 
        Wilderness.
            (23) Certain lands in the Los Padres National Forest which 
        comprise approximately 48,625 acres as generally depicted on a 
        map entitled ``Dick Smith Wilderness Area Additions--
        Proposed'', dated May 2002, and which are hereby incorporated 
        in, and which shall be deemed to be a part of the Dick Smith 
        Wilderness as designated by Public Law 98-425.
            (24) Certain lands in the Los Padres National Forest which 
        comprise approximately 3,550 acres as generally depicted on a 
        map entitled ``Garcia Wilderness Area Additions--Proposed'', 
        dated May 2002, and which are hereby incorporated in, and which 
        shall be deemed to be a part of the Garcia Wilderness as 
        designated by Public Law 102-301.
            (25) Certain lands in the Los Padres National Forest which 
        comprise approximately 9,050 acres as generally depicted on a 
        map entitled ``Machesna Wilderness Area Additions--Proposed'', 
        dated May 2002, and which are hereby incorporated in, and which 
        shall be deemed to be a part of the Machesna Wilderness as 
        designated by Public Law 98-425.
            (26) Certain lands in the Los Padres National Forest which 
        comprise approximately 47,400 acres as generally depicted on a 
        map entitled ``Matilija Wilderness Area Additions--Proposed'', 
        dated May 2002, and which are hereby incorporated in, and which 
        shall be deemed to be a part of the Matilija Wilderness as 
        designated by Public Law 102-301.
            (27) Certain lands in the Los Padres National Forest which 
        comprise approximately 64,500 acres as generally depicted on a 
        map entitled ``San Rafael Wilderness Area Additions--
        Proposed'', dated May 2002, and which are hereby incorporated 
        in, and which shall be deemed to be a part of the San Rafael 
        Wilderness as designated by Public Laws 90-271, 98-425, and 
        102-301.
            (28) Certain lands in the Los Padres National Forest which 
        comprise approximately 37,110 acres as generally depicted on a 
        map entitled ``Ventana Wilderness Area Additions--Proposed'', 
        and dated May 2002, and which are hereby incorporated in and 
        shall be deemed to be a part of the Ventana Wilderness as 
        designated by Public Laws 91-58, 95-237, 98-425, and 102-301: 
        Provided, That non-motorized access to and use of the Ventana 
        Wilderness Area Additions, designated by this Act, for military 
        training shall be permitted to continue in the same manner and 
        degree as provided prior to enactment and described in an 
        existing Memorandum of Understanding, subject to reasonable 
        regulations by the Secretary.
            (29) Certain lands in the Los Padres National Forest which 
        comprise approximately 17,055 acres as generally depicted on a 
        map entitled ``Silver Peak Wilderness Area Additions--
        Proposed'' and dated May 2002, and which are hereby 
        incorporated in and shall be deemed to be a part of the Silver 
        Peak Wilderness as designated by Public Law 102-301: Provided, 
        That non-motorized access to and use of the Silver Peak 
        Wilderness Area Additions, designated by this Act, for military 
        training shall be permitted to continue in the same manner and 
        degree as provided prior to enactment and as described in an 
        existing Memorandum of Understanding, subject to reasonable 
        regulations by the Secretary.
            (30) Certain lands in the Los Padres National Forest which 
        comprise approximately 47,050 acres as generally depicted on a 
        map entitled ``Chumash Wilderness Area Additions--Proposed'', 
        dated May 2002, and which are hereby incorporated in, and which 
        shall be deemed to be a part of the Chumash Wilderness as 
        designated by Public Law 102-301.
            (31) Certain lands in the Los Padres National Forest which 
        comprise approximately 14,350 acres as generally depicted on a 
        map entitled ``Sespe Wilderness Area Additions--Proposed'', 
        dated May 2002, and which are hereby incorporated in, and which 
        shall be deemed to be a part of the Sespe Wilderness as 
        designated by Public Law 102-301.
            (32) Certain lands in the Mendocino National Forest which 
        comprise approximately 23,800 acres as generally depicted on a 
        map entitled ``Snow Mountain Wilderness Area Additions--
        Proposed'', dated May 2002, and which are hereby incorporated 
        in, and which shall be deemed to be a part of the Snow Mountain 
        Wilderness as designated by Public Law 98-425.
            (33) Certain lands in the Mendocino National Forest which 
        comprise approximately 10,160 acres as generally depicted on a 
        map entitled ``Sanhedrin Wilderness Area--Proposed'', dated May 
        2002, and which shall be known as the Sanhedrin Wilderness.
            (34) Certain lands in the Mendocino National Forest and the 
        Arcata Field Office of the Bureau of Land Management which 
        comprise approximately 51,790 acres as generally depicted on a 
        map entitled ``Yuki Wilderness Area--Proposed'', dated May 
        2002, and which shall be known as the Yuki Wilderness.
            (35) Certain lands in the Plumas National Forest which 
        comprise approximately 9,000 acres as generally depicted on a 
        map entitled ``Feather Falls Wilderness Area--Proposed'', dated 
        May 2002, and which shall be known as the Feather Falls 
        Wilderness.
            (36) Certain lands in the San Bernardino National Forest 
        which comprise approximately 7,040 acres as generally depicted 
        on a map entitled ``Cahuilla Wilderness Area--Proposed'', dated 
        May 2002, and which shall be known as the Cahuilla Wilderness.
            (37) Certain lands in the San Bernardino National Forest 
        which comprise approximately 8,320 acres as generally depicted 
        on a map entitled ``South Fork San Jacinto Wilderness Area--
        Proposed'', dated May 2002, and which shall be known as the 
        South Fork San Jacinto Wilderness.
            (38) Certain lands in the San Bernardino National Forest 
        which comprise approximately 12,480 acres as generally depicted 
        on a map entitled ``Cucamonga Wilderness Area Additions--
        Proposed'', dated May 2002, and which are hereby incorporated 
        in, and which shall be deemed to be a part of the Cucamonga 
        Wilderness as designated by Public Laws 88-577 and 98-425.
            (39) Certain lands in the San Bernardino National Forest 
        and the California Desert District of the Bureau of Land 
        Management which comprise approximately 17,920 acres as 
        generally depicted on a map entitled ``San Gorgonio Wilderness 
        Area Additions--Proposed'', dated May 2002, and which are 
        hereby incorporated in, and which shall be deemed to be a part 
        of the San Gorgonio Wilderness as designated by Public Laws 88-
        577, 98-425, and 103-433.
            (40) Certain lands in the San Bernardino National Forest 
        which comprise approximately 8,320 acres as generally depicted 
        on a map entitled ``Sugarloaf Wilderness Area--Proposed'', 
        dated May 2002, and which shall be known as the Sugarloaf 
        Wilderness.
            (41) Certain lands in the Sequoia National Forest which 
        comprise approximately 11,200 acres as generally depicted on a 
        map entitled ``Domeland Wilderness Area Additions--Proposed'', 
        dated May 2002, and which are hereby incorporated in, and which 
        shall be deemed to be a part of the Domeland Wilderness as 
        designated by Public Laws 88-577, 98-425, and 103-433.
            (42) Certain lands in the Sequoia National Forest which 
        comprise approximately 41,280 acres as generally depicted on a 
        map entitled ``Golden Trout Wilderness Area Additions--
        Proposed'', dated May 2002, and which are hereby incorporated 
        in, and which shall be deemed to be a part of the Golden Trout 
        Wilderness as designated by Public Law 95-237.
            (43) Certain lands in the Sequoia National Forest and the 
        Bakersfield Field Office of the Bureau of Land Management which 
        comprise approximately 48,000 acres as generally depicted on a 
        map entitled ``Bright Star Wilderness Area Additions--
        Proposed'', dated May 2002, and which are hereby incorporated 
        in, and which shall be deemed to be a part of the Bright Star 
        Wilderness as designated by Public Law 103-433.
            (44) Certain lands in the Sierra National Forest which 
        comprise approximately 39,360 acres as generally depicted on a 
        map entitled ``South Fork Merced Wilderness Area--Proposed'', 
        dated May 2002, and which shall be known as the South Fork 
        Merced Wilderness.
            (45) Certain lands in the Six Rivers National Forest which 
        comprise approximately 7,300 acres as generally depicted on a 
        map entitled ``Mt. Lassic Wilderness Area--Proposed'', dated 
        May 2002, and which shall be known as the Mt. Lassic 
        Wilderness.
            (46) Certain lands in the Six Rivers National Forest which 
        comprise approximately 5,740 acres as generally depicted on a 
        map entitled ``Mad River Buttes Wilderness Area--Proposed'', 
        dated May 2002, and which shall be known as the Mad River 
        Buttes Wilderness.
            (47) Certain lands in the Six Rivers and Klamath National 
        Forest which comprise approximately 86,470 acres as generally 
        depicted on a map entitled ``Siskiyou Wilderness Area 
        Additions--Proposed'', dated May 2002, and which are hereby 
        incorporated in, and which shall be deemed to be a part of the 
        Siskiyou Wilderness as designated by Public Law 98-425.
            (48) Certain lands in the Six Rivers, Mendocino and Shasta-
        Trinity National Forests and the Redding and Arcata Field 
        Offices of the Bureau of Land Management which comprise 
        approximately 40,550 acres as generally depicted on a map 
        entitled ``Yolla Bolly-Middle Eel Wilderness Area Additions--
        Proposed'', dated May 2002, and which are hereby incorporated 
        in, and which shall be deemed to be a part of the Yolla Bolly-
        Middle Eel Wilderness as designated by Public Laws 88-577 and 
        98-425.
            (49) Certain lands in the Six Rivers, Klamath and Shasta-
        Trinity National Forests which comprise approximately 97,590 
        acres as generally depicted on a map entitled ``Trinity Alps 
        Wilderness Area Additions--Proposed'', dated May 2002, and 
        which are hereby incorporated in, and which shall be deemed to 
        be a part of the Trinity Alps Wilderness as designated by 
        Public Law 98-425.
            (50) Certain lands in the Six Rivers and Shasta-Trinity 
        National Forests which comprise approximately 12,750 acres as 
        generally depicted on a map entitled ``Underwood Wilderness 
        Area--Proposed'', dated May 2002, and which shall be known as 
        the Underwood Wilderness.
            (51) Certain lands in the Stanislaus National Forest which 
        comprise approximately 25,280 acres as generally depicted on a 
        map entitled ``Emigrant Wilderness Area Additions--Proposed'', 
        dated May 2002, and which are hereby incorporated in, and which 
        shall be deemed to be a part of the Emigrant Wilderness as 
        designated by Public Laws 93-632 and 98-425.
            (52) Certain lands in the Stanislaus and Humboldt-Toiyabe 
        National Forests which comprise approximately 35,200 acres as 
        generally depicted on a map entitled ``Carson Iceberg 
        Wilderness Area Additions--Proposed'', dated May 2002, and 
        which are hereby incorporated in, and which shall be deemed to 
        be a part of the Carson Iceberg Wilderness as designated by 
Public Law 98-425.
            (53) Certain lands in the Tahoe National Forest which 
        comprise approximately 12,160 acres as generally depicted on a 
        map entitled ``Black Oak Wilderness Area--Proposed'', dated May 
        2002, and which shall be known as the Black Oak Wilderness: 
        Provided, That this designation shall not interfere with the 
        operation of the Western States Endurance Run and the Western 
        States Trail Ride (Tevis Cup) in the same manner and degree in 
        which these events are operating as of the date of introduction 
        of this Act.
            (54) Certain lands in the Tahoe National Forest which 
        comprise approximately 2,880 acres as generally depicted on a 
        map entitled ``Duncan Canyon Wilderness Area--Proposed'', dated 
        May 2002, and which shall be known as the Duncan Canyon 
        Wilderness: Provided, That this designation shall not interfere 
        with the operation of the Western States Endurance Run and the 
        Western States Trail Ride (Tevis Cup) in the same manner and 
        degree in which these events are operating as of the date of 
        introduction of this Act.
            (55) Certain lands in the Tahoe National Forest which 
        comprise approximately 20,480 acres as generally depicted on a 
        map entitled ``North Fork American Wilderness Area--Proposed'', 
        dated May 2002, and which shall be known as the North Fork 
        American Wilderness.
            (56) Certain lands in the Tahoe National Forest which 
        comprise approximately 4,480 acres as generally depicted on a 
        map entitled ``Granite Chief Wilderness Area Additions--
        Proposed'', dated May 2002, and which are hereby incorporated 
        in, and which shall be deemed to be a part of the Granite Chief 
        Wilderness as designated by Public Law 98-425: Provided, That 
        this designation shall not interfere with the operation of the 
        Western States Endurance Run and the Western States Trail Ride 
        (Tevis Cup) in the same manner and degree in which these events 
        are operating as of the date of introduction of this Act and 
        pursuant to the April 13, 1988 determination of the Chief of 
        the U.S. Forest Service.
            (57) Certain lands in the Tahoe National Forest which 
        comprise approximately 16,350 acres as generally depicted on a 
        map entitled ``Castle Peak Wilderness Area--Proposed'', dated 
        May 2002, and which shall be known as the Castle Peak 
        Wilderness: Provided, That the designation shall not preclude 
        operation and maintenance of the existing historic U.S. Forest 
        Service Meiss Hut in the same manner and degree in which 
        operation and maintenance of such cabin were occurring as of 
        the date of introduction of the Act.
            (58) Certain lands in the Tahoe National Forest which 
        comprise approximately 17,280 acres as generally depicted on a 
        map entitled ``Grouse Lakes Wilderness Area--Proposed'', dated 
        May 2002, and which shall be known as the Grouse Lakes 
        Wilderness.
            (59) Certain lands in the Bishop Field Office of the Bureau 
        of Land Management which comprise approximately 17,920 acres as 
        generally depicted on a map entitled ``Granite Mountain 
        Wilderness Area--Proposed'', dated May 2002, and which shall be 
        known as the Granite Mountain Wilderness.
            (60) Certain lands in the Bakersfield Field Office of the 
        Bureau of Land Management which comprise approximately 24,680 
        acres as generally depicted on a map entitled ``Caliente 
        Mountain Wilderness Area--Proposed'', dated May 2002, and which 
        shall be known as the Caliente Mountain Wilderness.
            (61) Certain lands in the California Desert District of the 
        Bureau of Land Management which comprise approximately 6,508 
        acres as generally depicted on a map entitled ``Carrizo Gorge 
        Wilderness Area Additions--Proposed'', dated May 2002, and 
        which are hereby incorporated in, and which shall be deemed to 
        be a part of the Carrizo Gorge Wilderness as designated by 
        Public Law 103-433.
            (62) Certain lands in the California Desert District of the 
        Bureau of Land Management which comprise approximately 6,518 
        acres as generally depicted on a map entitled ``Sawtooth 
        Mountains Wilderness Area Additions--Proposed'', dated May 
        2002, and which are hereby incorporated in, and which shall be 
        deemed to be a part of the Sawtooth Mountains Wilderness as 
        designated by Public Law 103-433.
            (63) Certain lands in the California Desert District of the 
        Bureau of Land Management and the Cleveland National Forest 
        which comprise approximately 7,361 acres as generally depicted 
        on a map entitled ``Hauser Wilderness Area Additions--
        Proposed'', dated May 2002, and which are hereby incorporated 
        in, and which shall be deemed to be a part of the Hauser 
        Wilderness as designated by Public Law 98-425.
            (64) Certain lands in the California Desert District of the 
        Bureau of Land Management which comprise approximately 1,920 
        acres as generally depicted on a map entitled ``Bighorn 
        Mountain Wilderness Area Additions--Proposed'', dated May 2002, 
        and which are hereby incorporated in, and which shall be deemed 
        to be a part of the Bighorn Mountain Wilderness as designated 
        by Public Law 103-433.
            (65) Certain lands in the California Desert District of the 
        Bureau of Land Management which comprise approximately 64,300 
        acres as generally depicted on a map entitled ``Avawatz 
        Mountains Wilderness--Proposed'', dated May 2002, and which 
        shall be known as the Avawatz Mountains Wilderness.
            (66) Certain lands in the California Desert District of the 
        Bureau of Land Management which comprise approximately 92,878 
        acres as generally depicted on a map entitled ``Cady Mountains 
        Wilderness--Proposed'', dated May 2002, and which shall be 
        known as the Cady Mountains Wilderness.
            (67) Certain lands in the California Desert District of the 
        Bureau of Land Management which comprise approximately 110,800 
        acres as generally depicted on a map entitled ``Soda Mountains 
        Wilderness--Proposed'', dated May 2002, and which shall be 
        known as the Soda Mountains Wilderness.
            (68) Certain lands in the California Desert District of the 
        Bureau of Land Management which comprise approximately 41,400 
        acres as generally depicted on a map entitled ``Kingston Range 
        Wilderness Area Additions--Proposed'', dated May 2002, and 
        which are hereby incorporated in, and which shall be deemed to 
be a part of the Kingston Range Wilderness as designated by Public Law 
103-433.
            (69) Certain lands in the California Desert District of the 
        Bureau of Land Management which comprise approximately 19,580 
        acres as generally depicted on a map entitled ``Denning Springs 
        Wilderness Area--Proposed'', dated May 2002, and which shall be 
        known as the Denning Springs Wilderness.
            (70) Certain lands in the Alturas Field Office of the 
        Bureau of Land Management which comprise approximately 6,600 
        acres as generally depicted on a map entitled ``Pit River 
        Wilderness Area--Proposed'', dated May 2002, and which shall be 
        known as the Pit River Wilderness.
            (71) Certain lands in the Ukiah Field Office of the Bureau 
        of Land Management which comprise approximately 45,434 acres as 
        generally depicted on a map entitled ``Cache Creek Wilderness 
        Area--Proposed'', dated May 2002, and which shall be known as 
        the Cache Creek Wilderness.
            (72) Certain lands in the Ukiah District of the Bureau of 
        Land Management which comprise approximately 10,880 acres as 
        generally depicted on a map entitled ``Blue Ridge Wilderness 
        Area--Proposed'', dated May 2002, and which shall be known as 
        the Blue Ridge Wilderness.
            (73) Certain lands in the Ukiah District of the Bureau of 
        Land Management which comprise approximately 9,120 acres as 
        generally depicted on a map entitled ``Berryessa Peak 
        Wilderness Area--Proposed'', dated May 2002, and which shall be 
        known as the Berryessa Peak Wilderness.
            (74) Certain lands in the Ukiah District of the Bureau of 
        Land Management which comprise approximately 5,880 acres as 
        generally depicted on a map entitled ``Cedar Roughs Wilderness 
        Area--Proposed'', dated May 2002, which shall be known as the 
        Cedar Roughs Wilderness.
            (75) Certain lands in the Arcata Field Office of the Bureau 
        of Land Management which comprise approximately 41,000 acres as 
        generally depicted on a map entitled ``King Range Wilderness 
        Area--Proposed'', dated May 2002, and which shall be known as 
        the King Range Wilderness: Provided, That in case of conflict 
        between the provisions of this Act and the provisions of the 
        existing King Range National Conservation Area, established by 
        Public Law 91-476, the more restrictive provisions shall apply.
            (76) Certain lands in the Arcata Field Office of the Bureau 
        of Land Management which comprise approximately 14,000 acres as 
        generally depicted on a map entitled ``South Fork Eel 
        Wilderness Area--Proposed'', dated May 2002, and which shall be 
        known as the South Fork Eel Wilderness.

SEC. 102. ADMINISTRATION OF WILDERNESS AREAS.

            (a) Management.--Subject to valid existing rights, the 
        wilderness areas designated by this Act shall be administered 
        by the Secretary of the Interior or the Secretary of 
        Agriculture (hereinafter referred to as the ``Secretary''), 
        whichever has administrative jurisdiction over the area, in 
        accordance with the provisions of the Wilderness Act governing 
        areas designated by that Act as wilderness, except that any 
        reference in such provisions to the effective date of the 
        Wilderness Act (or any similar reference) shall be deemed to be 
        a reference to the date of enactment of this Act.
            (b) Map and Legal Description.--As soon as practicable, but 
        not later than three years after enactment of this Act, the 
        Secretary shall file a map and a legal description of each 
        wilderness area designated in this title with the Committee on 
        Energy and Natural Resources of the United States Senate and 
        the Committee on Resources of the United States House of 
        Representatives. Such map and description shall have the same 
        force and effect as if included in this title, except that the 
        correction of clerical and typographical errors in such legal 
        description may be made. Copies of such map and legal 
        description shall be on file and available for public 
        inspection in the Office of the Secretary with jurisdiction 
        over the relevant wilderness areas.
            (c) Wilderness Character.--As provided in section 4(b) of 
        the Wilderness Act, the Secretary administering any area 
        designated as wilderness in this Act shall be responsible for 
        preserving the wilderness character of the area. All activities 
        in the areas designated by this Act shall be subject to 
        regulations the Secretary deems necessary to fulfill the 
        provisions of this Act.
            (d) Fire Management Activities.--The Secretary may take 
        such measures in the wilderness areas designated by this Act as 
        necessary in the control and prevention of fire, insects, and 
        diseases, as provided in section 4(d)(1) of the Wilderness Act 
        and in accordance with the guidelines contained in the Report 
        of the Committee on Interior and Insular Affairs (H. Rept. 98-
        40) to accompany the California Wilderness Act of 1984 (Public 
        Law 98-425). Such measures may include the use of mechanized 
        and motorized equipment for fire suppression where necessary to 
        protect public health and safety and private property. Within 
        one year after the date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary 
        shall review existing policy to ensure that authorized approval 
        procedures for any such measures permit a timely and efficient 
        response in case of fire emergencies in the wilderness areas 
        designated by this Act. In areas of extreme fire hazard the 
        Secretary shall consider whether the authority to take whatever 
        appropriate actions are necessary for fire management shall be 
        delegated to the Forest Supervisor, or Bureau of Land 
        Management District Manager or field manager.
            (e) Access to Private Property.--The Secretary shall 
        provide adequate access to nonfederally owned land or interests 
        in land within the boundaries of the wilderness area designated 
        by this Act which will provide the owner of such lands or 
        interest the reasonable use and enjoyment thereof.
            (f) Management of Private Property.--Nothing in this Act 
        shall enlarge or diminish the private property rights of 
        nonfederal landowners with property within the boundaries of 
        the wilderness areas designated by this Act.
            (g) Snow Sensors and Stream Gauges.--Nothing in this Act 
        shall be construed to prevent the installation and maintenance 
        of hydrologic, meteorologic, or climatological devices or 
facilities and communication equipment associated with such devices, or 
any combination of the foregoing, or limited motorized access to such 
facilities when non-motorized access means are not reasonably available 
or when time is of the essence, where such facilities or access are 
essential to flood warning, flood control, water supply forecasting, or 
reservoir operation purposes.
    (h) Military Activities.--Nothing in this Act shall preclude or 
restrict low level overflights of military aircraft and air vehicles, 
testing and evaluation, the designation of new units of special use 
airspace, or the use or establishment of military flight training 
routes over wilderness areas designated by this Act.
    (i) Horses.--Nothing in this Act shall preclude horseback riding, 
or the entry of recreational saddle or pack stock into wilderness areas 
designated by this Act.
    (j) Livestock Grazing.--Grazing of livestock and maintenance of 
previously existing facilities which are directly related to permitted 
livestock grazing activities in wilderness areas designated by this 
Act, where established prior to the date of enactment of this Act, 
shall be permitted to continue as provided in section 4(d)(4) of the 
Wilderness Act and section 108 of Public Law 96-560.
    (k) Fish and Wildlife.--Nothing in this Act shall affect hunting 
and fishing, under applicable State and Federal laws and regulations, 
within the boundaries of wilderness areas designated by this Act. 
Nothing in this Act shall be construed as affecting the jurisdiction or 
responsibilities of the State of California with respect to wildlife 
and fish on the public lands in that State as provided in section 
4(d)(7) of the Wilderness Act.
    (l) Wildlife Management.--In furtherance of the purposes and 
principles of the Wilderness Act management activities to maintain or 
restore fish and wildlife populations and the habitats to support such 
populations may be carried out within wilderness areas designated by 
this Act, where consistent with relevant wilderness management plans, 
in accordance with appropriate policies and guidelines.
    (m) Law Enforcement Activities.--Nothing in this Act shall be 
construed as precluding or otherwise affecting border operations by the 
Immigration and Naturalization Service, the Drug Enforcement 
Administration, the United States Customs Service, or State and local 
law enforcement agencies within wilderness areas designated by these 
titles.
    (n) Native American Uses and Interests.--In recognition of the past 
use of wilderness areas designated under this Act by Indian people for 
traditional cultural and religious purposes, the Secretary shall ensure 
access to such wilderness areas by Indian people for such traditional 
cultural and religious purposes. In implementing this section, the 
Secretary, upon the request of an Indian tribe or Indian religious 
community, shall temporarily close to the general public use of one or 
more specific portions of the wilderness area in order to protect the 
privacy of traditional cultural and religious activities in such areas 
by Indian people. Any such closure shall be made to affect the smallest 
practicable area for the minimum period necessary for such purposes. 
Such access shall be consistent with the purpose and intent of Public 
Law 95-341 (42 U.S.C. 1996) commonly referred to as the ``American 
Indian Religious Freedom Act'', and the Wilderness Act (78 Stat. 890; 
16 U.S.C. 1131).
    (o) Commercial Outfitters.--Commercial outfitters may use the 
wilderness areas designated by this Act consistent with this Act and 
section 4(d)(5) of the Wilderness Act.
    (p) No Buffer Zones.--The Congress does not intend for the 
designation of wilderness areas in the State of California pursuant to 
this Act to lead to the creation of protective perimeters or buffer 
zones around any such wilderness areas. The fact that nonwilderness 
activities or uses can be seen or heard from areas within a wilderness 
shall not, of itself, preclude such activities or uses up to the 
boundary of the wilderness area.
    (q) Water Resources Projects.--Nothing in this Act shall preclude 
relicensing of, assistance to, or operation and maintenance of, 
developments below or above a wilderness area or on any stream 
tributary thereto which will not invade the area or unreasonably 
diminish the existing wilderness, scenic, recreational, and fish and 
wildlife values present in the area as of the date of enactment of this 
Act.

SEC. 103. DESIGNATION OF SALMON RESTORATION AREAS.

    (a) Findings.--The Congress finds and declares that--
            (1) once magnificent salmon and steelhead runs throughout 
        the State of California have generally experienced severe 
        declines resulting in the listing of these runs as threatened 
        and endangered under both State and Federal law;
            (2) economically important commercial, recreational, and 
        Tribal salmon and steelhead fisheries have collapsed in many 
        parts of the State leading to economic crises for many fishing-
        dependent communities;
            (3) salmon and steelhead are essential to the spiritual and 
        cultural practices of many Tribes in California and these 
        Tribes have suffered as a result of the decline in salmon and 
        steelhead runs throughout the State;
            (4) habitat protection is an essential component in the 
        recovery of endangered salmon and steelhead in sustainable, 
        harvestable levels; and
            (5) certain pristine areas in the State warrant special 
        protection because they offer vital, irreplaceable habitat for 
        salmon and steelhead.
    (b) The following public lands in the State of California are 
hereby designated Salmon Restoration Area:
            (1) Certain lands in the Shasta-Trinity National Forest 
        which comprise approximately 24,267 acres as generally depicted 
        on a map entitled ``Chinquapin Salmon Restoration Area--
        Proposed'', dated May 2002, and which shall be known as the 
        Chinquapin Salmon Restoration Area.
            (2) Certain lands in the Shasta-Trinity National Forest 
        which comprise approximately 28,400 acres as generally depicted 
        on a map entitled ``Pattison Salmon Restoration Area--
        Proposed'', dated May 2002, and which shall be known as the 
        Pattison Salmon Restoration Area.
            (3) Certain lands in the Shasta-Trinity National Forest 
        which comprise approximately 22,000 acres as generally depicted 
        on a map entitled ``South Fork Trinity Salmon Restoration 
        Area--Proposed'', dated May 2002, and which shall be known as 
        the South Fork Trinity Salmon Restoration Area.
    (c) Management.--The Salmon Restoration Areas shall be reviewed by 
the Secretary as to their suitability for designation as wilderness. 
Until Congress acts on the suitability of these areas for wilderness, 
the Salmon Restoration Areas shall be managed to promote the 
restoration of self-sustaining salmon and steelhead populations. The 
Secretary shall submit the report and findings to the President, and 
the President shall submit a recommendation to the United States Senate 
and United States House of Representatives no later than three years 
from the date of enactment of this Act. Subject to valid existing 
rights, the Salmon Restoration Areas designated by this section shall 
be administered by the Secretary so as to maintain their presently 
existing wilderness character and potential for inclusion in the 
National Wilderness Preservation System. The use of mechanized 
transport or motorized equipment shall be based on the selection of the 
minimum tool or administrative practice necessary to accomplish the 
purpose of maximum salmon habitat protection with the least amount of 
adverse impact on wilderness character and resources.

SEC. 104. DESIGNATION OF WILDERNESS STUDY AREAS.

    (a) In furtherance of the provisions of the Wilderness Act, the 
following public lands in the State of California are designated 
wilderness study areas and shall be reviewed by the Secretary as to 
their suitability for preservation as wilderness. The Secretary shall 
submit the report and findings to the President, and the President 
shall submit a recommendation to the United States Senate and United 
States House of Representatives no later than three years from the date 
of enactment of this Act:
            (1) Certain lands in the Shasta-Trinity National Forest 
        which comprise approximately 35,000 acres as generally depicted 
        on a map entitled ``Girard Ridge Wilderness Study Area--
        Proposed'', dated May 2002, and which shall be known as the 
        Girard Ridge Wilderness Study Area.
            (2) Certain lands in the Lassen National Forest which 
        comprise approximately 48,000 acres as generally depicted on a 
        map entitled ``Ishi Wilderness Additions Wilderness Study 
        Area--Proposed'', dated May 2002, and which shall be known as 
        the Ishi Additions Wilderness Study Area.
    (b) Subject to valid existing rights, the wilderness study areas 
designated by this section shall be administered by the Secretary so as 
to maintain their presently existing wilderness character and potential 
for inclusion in the National Wilderness Preservation System.

SEC. 105. DESIGNATION OF POTENTIAL WILDERNESS AREAS.

    (a) In furtherance of the provisions of the Wilderness Act, the 
following public lands in the State of California are designated 
potential wilderness areas:
            (1) Certain lands in the Arcata Field Office of the Bureau 
        of Land Management which comprise approximately 8,000 acres as 
        generally depicted on a map entitled ``Elkhorn Ridge Potential 
        Wilderness Area--Proposed'', dated May 2002, and which shall be 
        known as the Elkhorn Ridge Potential Wilderness Area.
            (2) Certain lands in the Ukiah Field Office of the Bureau 
        of Land Management which comprise approximately 12,806 acres as 
        generally depicted on a map entitled ``Payne Ranch Potential 
        Wilderness Addition to Cache Creek Wilderness Area--Proposed'', 
        dated May 2002, and which shall be known as the Payne Ranch 
        Proposed Wilderness Addition to the Cache Creek Wilderness Area 
        as designated by this Act.
    (b) Subject to valid existing rights, the potential wilderness 
areas designated by this Act shall be administered by the Secretary as 
wilderness except as provided for in subsection (c) until such time as 
said lands are designated as wilderness.
    (c) Ecological Restoration.--For purposes of ecological 
restoration, including the elimination of non-native species, road 
removal, repair of skid tracks, and other actions necessary to restore 
the natural ecosystems in these areas, the Secretary may use motorized 
equipment and mechanized transport until such time as the potential 
wilderness areas are designated as wilderness.
    (d) Wilderness Designation.--Upon removal of conditions 
incompatible with the Wilderness Act and publication by the Secretary 
in the Federal Register of notice of such removal or 5 years after the 
date of enactment of this Act, whichever comes first, the potential 
wilderness areas designated by this Act shall be designated wilderness.
    (e) Authorization of Appropriations.--There are authorized to be 
appropriated $5,000,000 annually for five years to the Secretary to 
carry out the ecological restoration purposes in subsection (c).

TITLE II--DESIGNATION OF WILDERNESS AREAS TO BE MANAGED BY THE NATIONAL 
                              PARK SERVICE

SEC. 201. DESIGNATION OF WILDERNESS AREAS.

    (a) In furtherance of the purposes of the Wilderness Act, the 
following public lands in the State of California are hereby designated 
as wilderness, and therefore, as components of the National Wilderness 
Preservation System:
            (1) Certain lands in Joshua Tree National Park which 
        comprise approximately 36,672 acres as generally depicted on a 
        map entitled ``Joshua Tree National Park Wilderness Area 
Additions--Proposed'', dated May 2002, and which are hereby 
incorporated in, and which shall be deemed to be a part of the Joshua 
Tree National Park Wilderness as designated by Public Laws 94-567 and 
103-433.
            (2) Certain lands in Lassen Volcanic National Park which 
        comprise approximately 26,366 acres as generally depicted on a 
        map entitled ``Lassen Volcanic National Park Wilderness Area 
        Additions--Proposed'', dated May 2002, and which are hereby 
        incorporated in, and which shall be deemed to be a part of the 
        Lassen Volcanic National Park Wilderness as designated by 
        Public law 92-510.
            (3) Certain lands in Sequoia-Kings Canyon National Park 
        which comprise approximately 68,480 acres as generally depicted 
        on a map entitled ``Mineral King Wilderness Area--Proposed'', 
        dated May 2002, and which shall be known as the John Krebs 
        Wilderness: Provided, That--
                    (A) the designation shall not preclude operation 
                and maintenance of the existing Hockett Meadow Cabin 
                and Quinn Patrol Cabin in the same manner and degree in 
                which operation and maintenance of such cabins were 
                occurring as of the date of enactment of this Act; and
                    (B) nothing in this Act shall be construed to 
                prohibit the periodic maintenance, as presently 
                permitted by the National Park Service, of the small 
                check dams on Lower Franklin, Crystal, Upper Monarch 
                and Eagle Lakes.
            (4) Certain lands in the Pinnacles National Monument which 
        comprise approximately 2,715 acres as generally depicted on a 
        map entitled ``Pinnacles National Monument Wilderness Area 
        Additions--Proposed'', dated May 2002, and which are hereby 
        incorporated in, and which shall be deemed to be part of the 
        Pinnacles National Monument Wilderness as designated by Public 
        Law 94-567.
            (5) Lands transferred to Death Valley National Park in 
        section 203 of this Act and additional lands in Death Valley 
        National Park, which together comprise approximately 57,680 
        acres as generally depicted on a map entitled ``Death Valley 
        National Park Wilderness Area Additions--Proposed'', dated May 
        2002, and which are hereby incorporated in, and which shall be 
        deemed to be a part of the Death Valley National Park 
        Wilderness as designated by Public Law 103-433.

SEC. 202. ADMINISTRATION OF WILDERNESS AREAS.

            (a) Management.--Subject to valid rights, the wilderness 
        areas designated by this Act shall be administered by the 
        Secretary of the Interior in accordance with the provisions of 
        the Wilderness Act governing areas designated by that Act as 
        wilderness, except that any reference in such provisions to the 
        effective date of the Wilderness Act (or any similar reference) 
        shall be deemed to be reference to the date of the enactment of 
        this Act.
            (b) Map and Legal Description.--As soon as practicable, but 
        not later than three years after enactment of this Act, the 
        Secretary shall file a map and a legal description of each 
        wilderness area designated in this Title with the Committee on 
        Energy and Natural Resources of the United States Senate and 
        the Committee on Resources of the United States House of 
        Representatives. Such map and description shall have the same 
        force and effect as if included in this title, except that the 
        correction of clerical and typographical errors in such legal 
        description may be made. Copies of such map and legal 
        description shall be on file and available for public 
        inspection in the Office of the Secretary with jurisdiction 
        over the relevant wilderness areas.
            (c) Wilderness Character.--As provided in section 4(b) of 
        the Wilderness Act, the Secretary administering any areas 
        designated as wilderness in this Act shall be responsible for 
        preserving the wilderness character of the area. All activities 
        in the area designated by this Act shall be subject to 
        regulations the Secretary deems necessary to fulfill the 
        provisions of this Act.

SEC. 203. DEATH VALLEY BOUNDARY ADJUSTMENT.

            (a) Boundary Adjustment.--The boundary of Death Valley 
        National Park (hereinafter referred to in this section as the 
        ``park'') is revised to include the lands designated as the 
        Boundary Adjustment Area as shown on the map entitled 
        ``Boundary Adjustment Map'', numbered 143-80, 172 and dated 
        October 2001.
            (b) Transfer and Administration of Lands.--The Secretary 
        shall transfer the lands under the jurisdiction of the Bureau 
        of Land Management within the Boundary Adjustment Area to the 
        administrative jurisdiction of the National Park Service. The 
        Secretary shall administer the lands transferred under this 
        section as part of the park in accordance with applicable laws 
        and regulations.
            (c) Military Operations at Fort Irwin.--Nothing in this 
        section shall be construed as altering any authority of the 
        Secretary of the Army to conduct military operations at Fort 
        Irwin and the National Training Center that are authorized in 
        any other provision of law.

             TITLE III--WILD AND SCENIC RIVER DESIGNATIONS

SEC. 301. DESIGNATION OF WILD AND SCENIC RIVERS.

            (a) In order to preserve and protect for present and future 
        generations the outstanding scenic, natural, wildlife, fishery, 
        recreational, scientific, historic, and ecological values of 
        the following rivers in the State of California Section 3(a) of 
        the Wild and Scenic Rivers Act (16 U.S.C. 1274(a)) is amended 
        by adding the following new paragraph at the end:
            ( ) Black butte river, california.--The 2 miles of Black 
        Butte River from the confluence of Estell and Sheep Creeks to 
        Spanish Creek confluence, as a scenic river. The 18.5 miles of 
        Black Butte River from Spanish Creek confluence to Jumpoff 
        Creek, confluence, as a wild river. The 3.5 miles of Black 
        Butte River from Jumpoff Creek confluence to confluence with 
        Middle Eel River, as a scenic river. The 5 miles of Cold Creek 
        from Plaskett Creek confluence to confluence with Black Butte 
        River, as a wild river.
            ``( ) Buckhorn creek, california.--The 4.25 mile of 
        Buckhorn Creek from the source to Lower Buckhorn Campground, as 
        a wild river. The .25 mile of Buckhorn Creek from Lower 
        Buckhorn Campground to the confluence with Indian Creek, as a 
        scenic river.
            ``( ) Cedar creek, california.--The 4 mile segment from 
        Inaja Reservation boundary to 0.125 mile upstream of Cedar 
        Creek Road crossing, as a wild river. The 0.25 mile from 0.125 
        mile upstream of Cedar Creek Road crossing to 0.125 mile 
        downstream of Cedar Creek Road crossing, as a scenic river. The 
        1.75 miles from 0.125 mile downstream of Cedar Creek Road to 
        the private property boundary in Sec. 1 T14S R2E at Cedar Creek 
        Falls, as a wild river.
            ``( ) Clavey river, california.--
                    ``(A) The 5 mile segment of the Lily Creek 
                tributary from the Emigrant Wilderness boundary to a 
                point 0.1 mile downstream of an unnamed tributary at 
                the lower end of Coffin Hollow, as a wild river. The 2 
                mile segment of the Lily Creek tributary from a point 
                0.1 mile downstream of an unnamed tributary at the 
                lower end of Coffin Hollow to its confluence with Bell 
                Creek, as a scenic river. The 6 mile segment of the 
                Bell Creek tributary from the Emigrant Wilderness 
                boundary to its confluence with Lily Creek, as a wild 
                river, except the 1.0 mile segment beginning a point 
                500 feet upstream from the Crabtree trail bridge shall 
                be administered as a scenic river. The 10.4 mile 
                segment of the Clavey River from the confluence of Bell 
                Creek with Lily Creek to a point where the eastern 
                boundary of the river corridor intersects with the Mi-
                Wok and Groveland Ranger districts boundary, as a 
                scenic river. The 3.2 mile segment of the Clavey River 
                from the Mi-Wok and Groveland Ranger districts boundary 
                to 0.25 mile upstream of the Cottonwood Road, (Forest 
                Route 14) crossing, as a wild river. The 1.75 mile 
                segment of the Clavey River from 0.25 mile upstream of 
                the Cottonwood Road to 1.5 mile below it, as a scenic 
                river. The 6.6 mile segment of the Clavey River from 
                1.5 mile downstream of the Cottonwood Road to 0.25 mile 
                upstream of Forest Road 1N01, as wild river. The 2 mile 
                segment of the Clavey River from 0.25 mile above Forest 
                Road 1N01 crossing to 1.75 miles downstream, as a 
                scenic river. The 7.0 mile segment of the Clavey River 
                from 1.75 miles downstream from the Forest Road 1N01 
                crossing to the confluence with the Tuolumne River, as 
                a wild river. The 2 mile segment of the Bourland Creek 
                tributary from its origin to the western boundary of 
                Bourland Research Natural Area, as a wild river. The 
                10.3 mile segment of the Bourland Creek tributary form 
                the western boundary of Bourland Research Natural Area 
                to its confluence with Reynolds Creek, as a 
                recreational river.
                    ``(B) Within 18 months of the date of enactment of 
                this Act, the Secretary shall prepare a fire management 
                plan and a report on the cultural and historic 
                resources within the river designations in this sub-
                paragraph and submit the report to the United States 
                Senate and United States House of Representatives, and 
                provide a copy to the Tuolumne County board of 
                supervisors.
            ``( ) Cottonwood creek, california.--The 18.1 miles from 
        spring source in Sec. 27 T4S R34E to the confluence with 
        unnamed tributary directly east of Peak 6887T near the center 
        of Sec. 2 T6S R36E, as a wild river. The 3.8 miles from the 
        unnamed tributary confluence near the center of Sec. 2 T6S R36E 
        to the northern boundary of Sec. 5 T6S R37E, as a scenic river.
            ``( ) Deep creek, california.--The 6.5 mile segment from 
        0.125 mile downstream of the Rainbow Dam site in Sec. 33, T2N 
        R2W to 0.25 mile upstream of the Road 3N34 crossing, as a wild 
        river. The 2.5 mile segment from 0.25 mile downstream of the 
        Road 3N34 crossing to 0.25 mile upstream of the Trail 2W01 
        crossing, as a wild river. The 10 mile segment from 0.25 mile 
        downstream of the Trail 2W01 crossing to the upper limit of the 
        Mojave dam flood zone in Sec. 17, T3N R3W, as a wild river. The 
        3.5 mile segment of the Holcomb Creek tributary from 0.25 mile 
        downstream of Holcomb crossing (Trail 2W08/2W03), as a wild 
        river.
            ``( ) Dinkey creek, california.--The 3 mile from First 
        Dinkey Lake to 0.25 mile upstream of Road 9S62 crossing, as a 
        wild river. The 0.5 mile from 0.25 mile upstream of Road 9S62 
        crossing to 0.25 mile downstream of crossing, as a scenic 
        river. The 7 miles from 0.25 mile downstream of Road 9S62 
        crossing to confluence with Rock Creek, as a wild river. The 
        4.5 miles from Rock Creek confluence to the confluence with 
        Laurel Creek, as a recreation river. The 4.5 miles from Laurel 
        Creek confluence to 0.25 mile upstream of Ross Crossing (Road 
        10S24), as a wild river. The 1 mile from 0.25 mile upstream of 
        Ross Crossing to 0.75 mile downstream of Ross Crossing, as a 
        scenic river. The 5.25 miles from 0.75 mile downstream of Ross 
        Crossing to 2 miles upstream of North Fork Kings confluence, as 
        a wild river. The 2 miles upstream of North Fork Kings 
        confluence to North Fork Kings confluence, as a recreational 
        river.
            ``( ) Downie river and tributaries, california.--The 2 
        miles of the West Downie River from the northern boundary of 
        Sec. 27 T21N R10E to Rattlesnake Creek confluence, as a wild 
        river. The 3 miles of Rattlesnake Creek from the source in Sec. 
        24 T21N R10E to West Branch confluence, as a wild river. The 3 
        miles of Downie River from the confluence of West Branch and 
        Rattlesnake Creek to the confluence with Grant Ravine, as a 
        wild river. The 1.75 miles of Downie River from Grant Ravine 
        confluence to the confluence with Lavezzola Creek, as a 
        recreational river. The 2 miles of Red Oak Canyon from the 
        source in Sec. 18 T21N R11E to 0.5 mile upstream of confluence 
        with Empire Creek, as a wild river. The 0.5 mile of Red Oak 
        Canyon from 0.5 mile upstream of Empire Creek confluence to 
        Empire Creek confluence, as a scenic river. The 2 miles of 
        Empire Creek from the source in Sec. 17 T12N R11E to 0.5 mile 
        upstream of confluence with Red Oak Canyon, as a wild river. 
        The 4.5 miles of Empire Creek from 0.5 mile upstream of Red Oak 
        Canyon confluence to confluence with Lavezzola Creek, as a 
        scenic river. The 1.5 miles of Sunnyside Creek from the 
        confluence of Sunnyside Creek and unnamed tributary in Sec. 8 
        T21N R11E to Spencer Creek confluence, as a wild river. The 1.5 
        miles of Spencer Creek from Lower Spencer Lake to confluence 
        with Sunnyside Creek, as a wild river. The 5 miles of Lavezzola 
        Creek, from the confluence of Sunnyside and Spencer Creeks to 
        unnamed tributary in Sec. 33 T21N R11E, as a wild river. The 7 
        miles of Lavezzola Creek, from the confluence with unnamed 
        tributary in Sec. 33 to Downie River confluence, as a scenic 
river. The 3.5 miles of Pauley Creek from Hawley and Snake Lakes to the 
southern boundary of Sec. 26 T21N R11E, as a scenic river. The 7.5 
miles of Pauley Creek from Sec. 26 to the western boundary of Sec. 18 
T20N R11E, as a wild river. The 4 miles of Pauley Creek from Sec. 18 to 
confluence with Downie River, as a scenic river. The 1.5 miles of 
Butcher Ranch Creek from the eastern boundary of Sec. 2 T20N R11E to 
the confluence with Pauley Creek, as a wild river.
            ``( ) Independence creek, california.--The 2 miles from the 
        source in Sec. 13 T18N R14E to the high water line of 
        Independence Lake, as a wild river.
            ``( ) Lower kern river, california.--The 7 miles from 
        Highway 155 bridge to 100 feet upstream of Borel powerhouse, as 
        a recreational river. The 12.7 miles from 100 feet downstream 
        of Borel powerhouse to confluence with Willow Spring Creek, as 
        a scenic river. The 9.75 miles from 0.25 mile downstream of 
        Democrat Dam to 0.25 mile upstream of the Kern River 
        powerhouse, as a recreational river. Provided, That the 
        designation shall not impact the continued operation and 
        maintenance of existing water and energy facilities on or near 
        the river.
            ``( ) Kings river, california.--The 4 miles from the 
        existing wild river boundary to the end of road 12S01 (at the 
        Kings River NRT trailhead), as a wild river. The 4 miles from 
        12S01 road end to the confluence with Mill Creek, as a scenic 
        river. The 3 miles from the Mill Creek confluence to the Bailey 
        Bridge (Road 11S12), as a recreational river: Provided, That in 
        the case of conflict between the provisions of this Act and the 
        provisions of the existing Kings River Special Management Area, 
        established by Public Law 100-150, the more restrictive 
        provisions shall apply.
            ``( ) Matilija creek, california.--The 7 miles from the 
        source to the confluence with Old Man Canyon, as a wild river. 
        The 2 miles from Old Man Canyon to Murrieta Canyon, as a scenic 
        river. The 7 miles from the source of the North Fork of 
        Matilija Creek to the confluence with Matilija Creek, as a wild 
        river.
            ``( ) Mokelumne, north fork, california.--The 5.75 miles 
        from 0.25 mile downstream of Salt Springs dam to 0.5 mile 
        downstream of Bear River confluence, as a recreational river. 
        The 11 miles from 0.5 mile downstream of Bear River confluence 
        to National Forest boundary in Sec. 19 T7N R14E, as a wild 
        river.
            ``( ) Niagara creek, california.--The 1 mile from Highway 
        108 to the high water line of Donnell Reservoir, as a scenic 
        river.
            ``( ) Owens river headwaters complex, california.--The 2.99 
        miles of Deadman Creek from the two-forked source east of San 
        Joaquin Peak to the confluence with the unnamed tributary 
        flowing south into Deadman Creek from Sec. 12 T3S R26E, as a 
        wild river. The 1.71 miles of Deadman Creek from the unnamed 
        tributary confluence in Sec. 12 T3S R26E to Road 3S22 crossing, 
        as a scenic river. The 3.91 miles of Deadman Creek from the 
        Road S322 crossing to three hundred feet downstream of the 
        Highway 395 crossing, as a recreational river. The 2.97 miles 
        of Deadman Creek from three hundred feet downstream of the 
        Highway 395 crossing to one hundred feet upstream of Big 
        Springs, as a scenic river. The 0.88 mile of the Upper Owens 
        River from one hundred feet upstream of Big Springs to the 
        private property boundary in Sec. 19 T2S R28E, as a 
        recreational river. The 3.98 miles of Glass Creek from its two-
        forked source to one hundred feet upstream of the Glass Creek 
        Meadow Trailhead parking area in Sec. 29 T2S R27E, as a wild 
        river. The 1.42 miles of Glass Creek from one hundred feet 
        upstream of the trailhead parking area in Sec. 29 to the end of 
        the Glass Creek road in Sec. 21 T2S R27E, as a scenic river. 
        The 0.96 mile of Glass Creek from the end of Glass Creek road 
        in Sec. 21 to the confluence with Deadman Creek in Sec. 27, as 
        a recreational river.
            ``( ) Pine valley creek, california.--The 1.5 miles from 
        the private property boundary in Sec. 26 T15S R14E to the Pine 
        Creek Wilderness Boundary, as a recreational river. The 5.75 
        miles from the Pine Creek Wilderness Boundary to 0.25 mile 
        upstream of Barrett Reservoir, as a wild river.
            ``( ) Piru creek, california.--The 9 miles of the North 
        Fork Piru Creek from the source to private property in Sec. 4, 
        T6N R21W, as a wild river. The 1 mile of the North Fork Piru 
        Creek from the private property boundary in Sec. 4 to the South 
        Fork confluence, as a scenic river. The 3.5 miles of the South 
        Fork Piru Creek from the source to the confluence with the 
        unnamed tributary in Thorn Meadows, as a wild river. The 1 mile 
        of South Fork Piru Creek from the confluence with the unnamed 
        tributary in Thorn Meadows to the confluence with North Fork 
        Piru Creek, as a scenic river. The 15 miles of Piru Creek from 
        the North and South Forks confluence to 0.125 mile downstream 
        of Road 18N01 crossing, as a scenic river. The 3 miles of Piru 
        Creek from 0.125 mile downstream of Road 18N01 crossing to 
        0.125 mile upstream of Castaic Mine, as a wild river. The 7.75 
        miles of Piru Creek from 0.125 mile downstream of Castaic Mine 
        to 0.25 mile upstream of Pyramid reservoir, as a scenic river. 
        The 2.75 miles of Piru Creek from 0.25 mile downstream of 
        Pyramid dam to Osito Canyon, as a recreational river. The 11 
        miles from Osito Canyon to the southern boundary of the Sespe 
        Wilderness, as a wild river.
            ``( ) Sagehen creek, california.--The 7.75 miles from the 
        source in Sec. 10 T18N R15E to 0.25 mile upstream of Stampede 
        reservoir, as a scenic river.
            ``( ) San diego river, california.--The 9 miles from the 
        northern boundary of Sec. 34 T12S R3E to the private property 
        boundary in Sec. 36 T13S R2E, as a wild river.
            ``( ) Upper sespe creek, california.--The 1.5 miles from 
        the source to the private property boundary in Sec. 10 T6N 
        R24W, as a scenic river. The 2 miles from the private property 
        boundary in Sec. 10 T6N R24W to the Hartman Ranch boundary in 
        Sec. 14 T6N R24W, as a wild river. The 14.5 miles from the 
        Hartman Ranch boundary in Sec. 14 T6N R24W to 0.125 mile 
        downstream of Beaver Campground, as a recreational river. The 2 
        miles from 0.125 mile downstream of Beaver Campground to Rock 
        Creek confluence, as a scenic river.
            ``( ) Stanislaus river, north fork, california.--The 5.5 
        mile of Highland Creek from 0.5 mile downstream of New Spicer 
dam to North Fork confluence, as a wild river. The 8.5 miles of North 
Fork Stanislaus River, from Highland Creek confluence to Little 
Rattlesnake Creek confluence, as a wild river. The 2.25 miles of the 
North Fork Stanislaus River, from Little Rattlesnake Creek confluence 
to the northern edge of the private property boundary in Sec. 8 T5N 
R16E, 0.25 mile upstream of Boards Crossing, as a recreational river. 
The 2 miles of the North Fork Stanislaus River, from 1 mile downstream 
of Boards Crossing to the western boundary of Calaveras Big Trees State 
Park, as a scenic river. The 7 miles of the North Fork Stanislaus River 
from 0.25 mile downstream of Road 4N38 crossing to Middle Fork 
Stanislaus River confluence, as a wild river.
            ``( ) Tuolumne, south fork.--The 0.2 mile from the Rainbow 
        Pool Bridge to the Highway 120 Bridge, as a recreational river. 
        The 3.0 miles from the Highway 120 Bridge to the Tuolumne Wild 
        and Scenic River confluence, as a scenic river: Provided, That 
        within 18 months of the date of enactment of this Act, the 
        Secretary shall prepare a fire management plan and a report on 
        the cultural and historic resources within the river 
        designations in this sub-paragraph and submit the report to the 
        United States Senate, United States House of Representatives, 
        and provide a copy to the Tuolumne County board of 
        supervisors.''.
    (b) Water Resources Projects.--Nothing in this Act shall preclude 
relicensing of, assistance to, or operation and maintenance of, 
developments below or above a wild, scenic, or recreational river area 
or on any stream tributary thereto which will not invade the area or 
unreasonably diminish the existing scenic, recreational, and fish and 
wildlife values present in the area as of the date of enactment of this 
Act.

SEC. 302. DESIGNATION OF WILD AND SCENIC RIVERS STUDY AREAS.

    In furtherance of the provisions of the Wild and Scenic Rivers Act, 
the following rivers in the State of California shall be reviewed by 
the Secretary as to their suitability for designations as wild, scenic, 
and recreational rivers. The Secretary shall submit a report and 
findings to the President, and the President shall submit a 
recommendation to the United States Senate and United States House of 
Representatives no later than three years from the date of enactment of 
this Act. Section 5(a) of the Wild and Scenic Rivers Act (16 U.S.C. 
1276(a)) is amended by adding the following new paragraphs at the end:
            ``( ) Cache creek, california.--The approximately 32 miles 
        of Cache Creek from 0.25 mile downstream of Clear Lake dam to 
        Camp Haswell. The approximately 2 miles of the North Fork Cache 
        Creek from the Highway 20 crossing to its confluence with Cache 
        Creek.
            ``( ) Carson river, east fork, california.--The 
        approximately 46.5 miles from the source to the Nevada 
        border.''.

         TITLE IV--SACRAMENTO RIVER NATIONAL CONSERVATION AREA

SEC. 401. DESIGNATION AND MANAGEMENT.

    (a) Purposes.--In order to conserve, protect, and enhance the 
riparian and associated areas described in subsection (b) and the 
outstanding ecological, geological, scenic, recreational, cultural, 
historical, fish and wildlife values, and other resources of such 
areas, there is hereby established the Sacramento River National 
Conservation Area (hereinafter referred to in this title as the 
``conservation area'').
    (b) Areas Included.--The conservation areas shall consist of the 
public lands in Tehama and Shasta Counties generally depicted on a map 
entitled ``Sacramento River National Conservation Area'', dated May 
2002, and comprising approximately 17,000 acres adjacent to the 
Sacramento River, lower Battle Creek, and lower Paynes Creek.
    (c) Map.--As soon as practicable, but not later than three years 
after the date of enactment of this Act, a map and legal description of 
the conservation area shall be filed by the Secretary with the 
Committee on Energy and Natural Resources of the United States Senate 
and the Committee on Resources of the United States House of 
Representatives. Such map shall have the same force and effect as if 
included in this section. Copies of such map shall be on file and 
available for public inspection in the Office of the Director of the 
Bureau of Land Management, Department of the Interior, and in the 
appropriate office of the Bureau of Land Management in California.
    (d) Management of Conservation Area.--The Secretary shall manage 
the conservation area in a manner that conserves, protects, and 
enhances its resources and values, including the resources specified in 
subsection (a), pursuant to the Federal Land Policy and Management Act 
of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.) and other applicable provisions of 
law, including this title.
    (e) Withdrawal.--Subject to valid existing rights, all Federal 
lands within the conservation area are hereby withdrawn from all forms 
of entry, appropriation or disposal under the public land laws, from 
location, entry, and patent under the mining laws; and from disposition 
under all laws relating to mineral and geothermal leasing, and all 
amendments thereto.
    (f) Hunting and Fishing.--The Secretary shall permit hunting and 
fishing within the conservation area in accordance with applicable laws 
and regulations of the United States and the State of California.
    (g) Motorized Vehicles.--Use of motorized vehicles on public lands 
shall be restricted to established roadways.
    (h) Motorized Boats.--Nothing in this Act is intended to restrict 
the use of motorized boats on the Sacramento River. The Counties of 
Tehama and Shasta and California Department of Boating and Waterways 
shall retain their respective authority to regulate motorized boating 
for the purpose of ensuring public safety and environmental protection.
    (i) Grazing.--The grazing of livestock on public lands, where 
authorized under permits or leases in existence as of the date of 
enactment of this Act, shall be permitted to continue subject to such 
reasonable regulations, policies, and practices as the Secretary deems 
necessary, consistent with this Act, the Federal Land Policy Management 
Act, and Bureau of Land Management regulations.
    (j) Acquisition of Property.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary may acquire land or 
        interests in land within the boundaries of the conservation 
        area depicted on the Map by donation, transfer, purchase with 
        donated or appropriated funds, or exchange.
            (2) Consent.--No land or interest in land may be acquired 
        without the consent of the owner of the land.
    (k) Conservation Area Management Plan.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 3 years after the date of 
        enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall--
                    (A) develop a comprehensive plan for the long-range 
                protection and management of the conservation area; and
                    (B) transmit the plan to--
                            (i) the Committee on Energy and Natural 
                        Resources of the Senate; and
                            (ii) the Committee on Resources of the 
                        House of Representatives.
            (2) Contents of plan.--The plan--
                    (A) shall describe the appropriate uses and 
                management of the conservation area in accordance with 
                this Act;
                    (B) may incorporate appropriate decisions contained 
                in any management or activity plan for the area 
                completed prior to the date of enactment of this Act;
                    (C) may incorporate appropriate wildlife habitat 
                management plans or other plans prepared for the land 
                within or adjacent to the conservation area prior to 
                the date of enactment of this Act;
                    (D) shall be prepared in close consultation with 
                appropriate Federal, State, Tehama and Shasta Counties, 
                and local agencies; adjacent landowners; and other 
                stakeholders; and
                    (E) may use information developed prior to the date 
                of enactment of this Act in studies of the land within 
                or adjacent to the conservation area.
    (l) Authorization of Appropriations.--There are authorized such 
sums as may be necessary to carry out this title.

                TITLE V--ANCIENT BRISTLECONE PINE FOREST

SEC. 501. DESIGNATION AND MANAGEMENT.

    (a) Purposes.--In order to conserve and protect, by maintaining 
near-natural conditions, the Ancient Bristlecone Pines for public 
enjoyment and scientific study there is hereby established the Ancient 
Bristlecone Pine Forest.
    (b) Areas Included.--The Ancient Bristlecone Pine Forest shall 
consist of the public lands generally depicted on a map entitled 
``Ancient Bristlecone Pine Forest--Proposed'', dated May 2002, and 
comprising approximately 28,991 acres.
    (c) Map.--As soon as practicable, but no later than three years 
after the date of enactment of this Act, a map and legal description of 
the Ancient Bristlecone Pine Forest shall be filed by the Secretary 
with the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources of the United States 
Senate and the Committee on Resources of the United States House of 
Representatives. Such map shall have the same force and effect as if 
included in this section. Copies of such map shall be on file and 
available for public inspection in the Office of the Chief of the U.S. 
Forest Service, Department of Agriculture, and in the appropriate 
office of the U.S. Forest Service in California.
    (d) Management of Ancient Bristlecone Pine Forest.--
            (1) The Ancient Bristlecone Pine Forest designated by this 
        title shall be administered by the Secretary to protect the 
        resources and values of the area in accordance with the 
        purposes in subsection (a) and pursuant to the National Forest 
        Management Act of 1976 (16 U.S.C. 1600 et seq.) and other 
        applicable provisions of law, including this title, and in a 
        manner that promotes the objectives of the management plan for 
        this area as of the date of enactment of this Act, including--
                    (A) the protection of the Ancient Bristlecone Pines 
                for public enjoyment and scientific study;
                    (B) the recognition of the botanical, scenic, and 
                historical values of the area; and
                    (C) the maintenance of near-natural conditions by 
                ensuring that all activities are subordinate to the 
                needs of protecting and preserving bristlecone pines 
                and wood remnants.
            (2) The Secretary shall allow only such uses of the forest 
        as the Secretary finds will further the purposes for which the 
        forest is established.
    (e) Withdrawal.--Subject to valid existing rights, all Federal 
lands within the Ancient Bristlecone Pine Forest are hereby withdrawn 
from all forms of entry, appropriation or disposal under the public 
land laws; from location, entry, and patent under the mining laws; and 
from disposition under all laws relating to mineral and geothermal 
leasing, and all amendments thereto.
    (f) Ancient Bristlecone Pine Forest Management Plan.--Within 18 
months after the date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall 
develop and submit to the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources of 
the United States Senate and to the Committee on Resources of the 
United States House of Representatives a comprehensive management plan 
for the Ancient Bristlecone Pine Forest designated by this title.
    (g) Existing Management.--Management guidance for the Ancient 
Bristlecone Pine Forest adopted in 1988 as part of the Inyo National 
Forest Land and Resource Management Plan regarding roads, trails, and 
facilities development, motor vehicle use, pest management, energy 
exploration, land acquisition, utilities placement, wildfire 
management, grazing, timber, riparian areas, hunting, and recreation 
shall be maintained and incorporated into the management plan in 
subsection (f). Scientific research shall be allowed according to the 
1988 plan. In all other cases of conflict between the provisions of 
this Act and the provisions of the existing management plan for the 
Ancient Bristlecone Pine Forest the more restrictive provisions shall 
apply.
    (h) Acquisition of Property.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary may acquire land or 
        interests in land within the boundaries of the Ancient 
        Bristlecone Pine Forest depicted on the map by donation, 
        transfer, purchase with donated or appropriated funds, or 
        exchange.
            (2) Consent.--No land or interest in land may be acquired 
        without the consent of the owner of the land.
    (i) Authorization of Appropriations.--There are authorized such 
sums as may be necessary to carry out this title.

               TITLE VI--AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS

SEC. 601. WILDERNESS AND WILD AND SCENIC RIVER TOURISM DEVELOPMENT.

    There is authorized to be appropriated $5,000,000 annually to the 
Secretary of Agriculture and $5,000,000 annually to the Secretary of 
the Interior to establish a program to provide ``Wilderness and Wild 
and Scenic Economic Development'' grants to communities surrounded by 
or adjacent to wilderness areas and wild, scenic, and recreational 
rivers designated by this Act, for use in creating and promoting 
wilderness and recreation related jobs, developing visitors' centers, 
informational brochures and kiosks, or other methods for promoting 
wilderness and wild and scenic river tourism in these areas.

SEC. 602. WILDERNESS AND WILD AND SCENIC RIVER RECREATION.

    There is authorized to be appropriated $2,500,000 annually to the 
Secretary of Agriculture and $2,500,000 annually to the Secretary of 
the Interior for use in wilderness areas and wild, scenic, and 
recreational rivers designated by this Act to develop trails and other 
facilities that will promote and enhance the wilderness and wild and 
scenic river recreation experiences.

SEC. 603. FIRE FIGHTING.

    There is authorized to be appropriated $5,000,000 annually to the 
Secretary of Agriculture and $5,000,000 annually to the Secretary of 
the Interior for use in wilderness areas and wild, scenic, and 
recreational river segments designated by this Act to support 
firefighting activities.

SEC. 604. LAW ENFORCEMENT.

    There is authorized to be appropriated $2,000,000 annually to the 
Secretary of Agriculture and $2,000,000 annually to the Secretary of 
the Interior for use in wilderness areas and wild, scenic, and 
recreational rivers designated by this Act to support law enforcement 
activities necessary to protect visitors and the natural resources of 
these wild areas.

SEC. 605. ACQUISITION OF INHOLDINGS.

    There is authorized to be appropriated $5,000,000 annually to the 
Secretary of Agriculture and $5,000,000 annually to the Secretary of 
the Interior to acquire inholdings on a willing seller basis within the 
wilderness areas and wild, scenic, and recreational rivers designated 
by this Act.
                                 &lt;all&gt;
</pre></body></html>
