<html><body><pre>
[Congressional Bills 118th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H.R. 7782 Introduced in House (IH)]

&lt;DOC&gt;






118th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                H. R. 7782

  To provide economic empowerment opportunities in the United States 
  through the modernization of public housing, and for other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                             March 21, 2024

   Ms. Ocasio-Cortez (for herself, Mrs. Ramirez, Ms. Schakowsky, Mr. 
   Bowman, Mr. Grijalva, Mr. Nadler, Mr. Blumenauer, Ms. Tlaib, Mr. 
   Khanna, Mr. Huffman, Mr. Robert Garcia of California, Ms. Lee of 
 Pennsylvania, Mr. Espaillat, Mr. McGovern, Ms. Pingree, Mr. Garcia of 
 Illinois, Ms. Barragan, Ms. Velazquez, Ms. Bush, Mrs. Watson Coleman, 
    Ms. Lee of California, Mrs. Dingell, Ms. Norton, Mr. Gomez, Ms. 
 Pressley, Mrs. Napolitano, Ms. Stansbury, Mr. Mullin, Mr. Raskin, Mr. 
 Johnson of Georgia, Ms. Clarke of New York, Mr. Jackson of Illinois, 
Mr. Boyle of Pennsylvania, Ms. Balint, Mr. Tonko, Ms. Meng, Mr. Casar, 
   Ms. Jayapal, Mr. Torres of New York, Mr. Smith of Washington, Mr. 
  Goldman of New York, Mr. Meeks, Mr. Frost, Mr. Lieu, Mr. Carter of 
Louisiana, Ms. Sanchez, Mr. Thanedar, Ms. Wilson of Florida, Ms. Omar, 
  Mr. Swalwell, Ms. McCollum, Mr. Davis of Illinois, Mr. Suozzi, Mr. 
 Ivey, Mr. Cohen, and Mr. Takano) introduced the following bill; which 
          was referred to the Committee on Financial Services

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
  To provide economic empowerment opportunities in the United States 
  through the modernization of public housing, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Green New Deal for Public Housing 
Act''.

SEC. 2. PURPOSES.

    The purpose of this Act is--
            (1) to stimulate, gather, and develop the workforce 
        capacity, tools, financing, and materials needed to 
        rehabilitate, upgrade, modernize, maintain, staff, and 
        transition public housing;
            (2) to rehabilitate and preserve public housing that is 
        severely distressed and causing residents to be exposed to 
        unhealthy and unsafe environments;
            (3) to upgrade and equip all public housing with cutting-
        edge materials, infrastructure, and all-electric appliances 
        made in the United States in order to improve energy 
        efficiency, water quality, and material living standards in 
        public housing and to support United States manufacturing;
            (4) to ensure that public housing laws maximize tenant 
        participation and management by low- and very low-income 
        individuals in the rehabilitation, upgrade, and transition of 
        public housing through education, training, and jobs; and
            (5) to modernize the entire public housing stock of the 
        United States, as swiftly and seamlessly as possible, into 
        highly energy-efficient homes that produce on-site, or procure, 
        enough carbon-free renewable energy to meet total energy 
        consumption annually.

SEC. 3. DEFINITIONS.

    In this Act:
            (1) Eligible entity.--The term ``eligible entity'' means--
                    (A) a public housing agency;
                    (B) an Indian tribe or a tribally designated 
                housing entity that is eligible to receive assistance 
                under the Native American Housing Assistance and Self-
                Determination Act of 1996 (25 U.S.C. 4101 et seq.); and
                    (C) the Department of Hawaiian Home Lands, as 
                defined in section 801 of the Native American Housing 
                Assistance and Self-Determination Act of 1996 (25 
                U.S.C. 4221).
            (2) Environmental justice community.--The term 
        ``environmental justice community'' means a community with 
        significant representation of communities of color, low-income 
        communities, or Tribal and indigenous communities, that 
        experiences, or is at risk of experiencing, higher or more 
        adverse human health or environmental effects.
            (3) Indian tribe; tribally designated housing entity.--The 
        terms ``Indian tribe'' and ``tribally designated housing 
        entity'' have the meanings given those terms in section 4 of 
        the Native American Housing Assistance and Self-Determination 
        Act of 1996 (25 U.S.C. 4103).
            (4) Public housing.--The term ``public housing''--
                    (A) has the meaning given the term in section 3(b) 
                of the United States Housing Act of 1937 (42 U.S.C. 
                1437a(b)); and
                    (B) includes--
                            (i) any dwelling unit owned by an Indian 
                        tribe that is or was a dwelling unit in public 
                        housing;
                            (ii) any low-income housing dwelling unit 
                        described in section 302(b)(1) of the Native 
                        American Housing Assistance and Self-
                        Determination Act of 1996 (25 U.S.C. 
                        4152(b)(1));
                            (iii) any dwelling unit assisted under 
                        section 802 of the Native American Housing 
                        Assistance and Self-Determination Act of 1996 
                        (25 U.S.C. 4222); and
                            (iv) any dwelling unit that--
                                    (I) was a low-income housing 
                                dwelling unit described in section 
                                302(b)(1) of the Native American 
                                Housing Assistance and Self-
                                Determination Act of 1996 (25 U.S.C. 
                                4152(b)(1)); and
                                    (II) is rented only to households 
                                with an income that is not more than 80 
                                percent of the area median income.
            (5) Public housing agency.--The term ``public housing 
        agency'' has the meaning given the term in section 3(b) of the 
        United States Housing Act of 1937 (42 U.S.C. 1437a(b)).
            (6) Renewable energy.--The term ``renewable energy'' 
        means--
                    (A) utility-, community-, and small-scale 
                photovoltaic and thermal solar energy;
                    (B) utility- and small-scale wind energy;
                    (C) geothermal energy;
                    (D) microturbine hydroelectricity;
                    (E) energy efficiency;
                    (F) building electrification;
                    (G) energy storage;
                    (H) microgrids; and
                    (I) modern distribution grid infrastructure.
            (7) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary 
        of Housing and Urban Development.
            (8) Subsidized housing resident-owned business.--The term 
        ``subsidized housing resident-owned business'' means a business 
        concern that--
                    (A) provides economic opportunities, as defined in 
                section 3(e) of the Housing and Urban Development Act 
                of 1968 (12 U.S.C. 1701u(e)); and
                    (B) is owned by subsidized housing residents.
            (9) Zero-carbon home.--The term ``zero-carbon home'' means 
        a highly energy-efficient home that produces on-site, or 
        procures, enough carbon-free renewable energy to meet the total 
        annual energy consumption of the home.

SEC. 4. CONGRESSIONAL FINDINGS AND SENSE OF CONGRESS FOR IMPROVED 
              ARCHITECTURAL DESIGN IN GOVERNMENT HOUSING PROGRAMS.

    Section 4 of the Housing and Urban Development Act of 1968 (12 
U.S.C. 1701v) is amended to read as follows:

``SEC. 4. IMPROVED ARCHITECTURAL DESIGN IN GOVERNMENT HOUSING PROGRAMS.

    ``(a) Findings.--Congress finds that--
            ``(1) if Federal aid is to make its full community-wide 
        contribution toward improving our urban and rural environments, 
        Federal aid must have a greater impact on improvements in 
        architectural design; and
            ``(2) even within the necessary budget limitations on 
        housing for low- and moderate-income families, architectural 
        design and environmental performance can be improved not only 
        to make the housing more livable, but also to better suit the 
        needs of occupants including human and environmental health, 
        zero carbon emissions, well-being, accessibility, and equity.
    ``(b) Sense of Congress.--It is the sense of Congress that in the 
administration of housing programs that assist in the provision of 
housing for low- and moderate-income families, emphasis should be given 
to--
            ``(1) encouraging good architectural design that yields 
        maximal environmental performance and adheres to accessibility 
        guidelines established in accordance with the Americans With 
        Disabilities Act of 1990 (42 U.S.C. 12101 et seq.) as an 
        essential component of such housing, and adequate staffing to 
        maintain that design and environmental performance; and
            ``(2) developing, with opportunities for resident 
        involvement, housing that will be of such quality as to reflect 
        the highest international architectural standards and the 
        architectural standards of the neighborhood and the community 
        in which it is situated, consistent with prudent budgeting.''.

SEC. 5. DECLARATION OF POLICY.

    Section 2(a) of the United States Housing Act of 1937 (42 U.S.C. 
1437(a)) is amended to read as follows:
    ``(a) Declaration of Policy.--It is the policy of the United 
States--
            ``(1) to modernize the intersections of Federal and local 
        government by employing the funds and credit of the United 
        States, as provided in this Act--
                    ``(A) to guarantee the right to housing for every 
                individual;
                    ``(B) to assist States and political subdivisions 
                of States in ensuring that--
                            ``(i) all housing in the United States is 
                        habitable, highly energy-efficient, and safe; 
                        and
                            ``(ii) housing conditions lead to good 
                        health, security, and adequate protection from 
                        the economic fears relating to old age, 
                        disability, sickness, accident, and 
                        unemployment; and
                    ``(C) to protect, maintain, preserve, and expand 
                public housing as a sustainable safety net for all 
                people;
            ``(2) that it is the responsibility of the Federal 
        Government, in conjunction with public housing agencies, to 
        incentivize, promote, and protect the independent, 
        collaborative, and collective actions of public housing 
        residents and other private citizens to develop housing in a 
        manner that strengthens entire neighborhoods; and
            ``(3) that the Federal Government should act and create new 
        public housing where there is a serious need that the free 
        market cannot address or is not addressing responsibly and 
        support the staffing needed to maintain and sustain the quality 
        of this public housing.''.

SEC. 6. GREEN NEW DEAL PUBLIC HOUSING GRANTS.

    (a) Establishment of Grant Programs.--
            (1) Grants for public housing community workforce 
        development.--
                    (A) In general.--The Secretary, in consultation 
                with the Secretary of Labor, shall establish a grant 
                program that provides amounts to eligible entities to 
                facilitate workforce development projects and high-
                income employment transition at public housing.
                    (B) Preference.--In awarding grants under this 
                paragraph, the Secretary shall give preference to 
                applications submitted by--
                            (i) eligible entities described in 
                        subparagraph (B) or (C) of section 3(1);
                            (ii) eligible entities that have formed 
                        partnerships with an existing registered 
                        apprenticeship, pre-apprenticeship, internship, 
                        vocal rehabilitation agency, labor-management 
                        partnership, or other partnerships with labor 
                        organizations;
                            (iii) eligible entities that demonstrate a 
                        capacity to facilitate a workforce development 
                        program that leads to--
                                    (I) the development of career and 
                                related skills, including general 
                                educational development support and 
                                financial and economic empowerment 
                                education;
                                    (II) direct entry to registered 
                                apprenticeship programs;
                                    (III) certification or associate 
                                degree acquisition;
                                    (IV) technical assistance and 
                                resources for subsidized housing 
                                resident-owned businesses for purposes 
                                of compliance with the requirements 
                                under section 3 of the Housing and 
                                Urban Development Act of 1968 (12 
                                U.S.C. 1701u), including--
                                            (aa) legal or compliance 
                                        services on behalf of 
                                        subsidized housing resident-
                                        owned businesses for purposes 
                                        of helping them access and 
                                        apply for government 
                                        procurement and contracting 
                                        opportunities;
                                            (bb) education on starting 
                                        and sustaining a business;
                                            (cc) accessing insurance 
                                        and bonds; and
                                            (dd) demonstrating capacity 
                                        and sustainable operations;
                                    (V) training and development of 
                                skills necessary for career development 
                                in the fields, trades, and services 
                                reasonably determined during the first 
                                public comment period held in 
                                accordance with subsection (b)(3) to be 
                                of interest to public housing 
                                residents;
                                    (VI) educational and organizational 
                                tools for public housing residents in 
                                order to advance the models of worker 
                                cooperatives and collective bargaining;
                                    (VII) education, engagement, and 
                                empowerment resources to help both 
                                residents of public housing and local 
                                low- and very low-income individuals 
                                avail themselves of opportunities made 
                                available under the workforce 
                                development program, including 
                                education, engagement, and empowerment 
                                resources provided in partnership 
                                with--
                                            (aa) a local entity that 
                                        operates a Family Self-
                                        Sufficiency program under 
                                        section 23 of the United States 
                                        Housing Act of 1937 (42 U.S.C. 
                                        1437u); and
                                            (bb) community-based 
                                        organizations that demonstrate 
                                        a commitment to and history of 
                                        organizing with public housing 
                                        residents;
                                    (VIII) innovative design 
                                partnerships with local schools and 
                                architectural firms;
                                    (IX) training and employment 
                                opportunities reserved specifically for 
                                local low- and very low-income people 
                                that were formerly incarcerated;
                                    (X) stipends valued at not less 
                                than $250 per week to individuals 
                                participating in the workforce 
                                development program; and
                                    (XI) childcare and financial 
                                literacy courses for individuals 
                                participating in the workforce 
                                development program; and
                            (iv) eligible entities in the construction 
                        or maintenance sector seeking to carry out a 
                        project to develop pre-apprenticeships that 
                        prepare individuals for acceptance into 
                        registered programs in that sector, as well as 
                        technical and vocational colleges.
                    (C) Compliance managers.--Not more than 10 percent 
                of the amount of a grant received by an eligible entity 
                under this paragraph may be used by an eligible entity 
                to hire or otherwise retain reporting and compliance 
                managers with sufficient expertise to ensure that the 
                eligible entity can comply with the requirements of 
                section 3 of the Housing and Urban Development Act of 
                1968 (12 U.S.C. 1701u).
                    (D) Additional eligible entities.--In addition to 
                the eligible entities described in section 3(1), the 
                following shall be eligible for grants under this 
                paragraph:
                            (i) An organization that has demonstrated 
                        effectiveness in providing adult education and 
                        literacy activities, which may include--
                                    (I) a local educational agency;
                                    (II) a community-based organization 
                                or faith-based organization;
                                    (III) a volunteer literacy 
                                organization;
                                    (IV) an institution of higher 
                                education, as defined in section 101 of 
                                the Higher Education Act of 1965 (20 
                                U.S.C. 1001);
                                    (V) a public or private nonprofit 
                                agency;
                                    (VI) a library;
                                    (VII) a public housing authority;
                                    (VIII) a nonprofit institution that 
                                is not described in any of subclauses 
                                (I) through (VII) and has the ability 
                                to provide adult education and literacy 
                                activities to eligible individuals;
                                    (IX) a consortium or coalition of 
                                the agencies, organizations, 
                                institutions, libraries, or authorities 
                                described in any of subclauses (I) 
                                through (VII); and
                                    (X) a partnership between an 
                                employer and an entity described in any 
                                of subclauses (I) through (VIII).
                            (ii) Labor organizations.
                            (iii) Nonprofit organizations.
                    (E) Partnership with department of labor.--The 
                Secretary shall partner with the Secretary of Labor to 
                develop all grants in this section, in particular--
                            (i) gathering expertise and providing 
                        guidance on worker training funds; and
                            (ii) ensuring that work requirements do not 
                        become a condition of accessing public housing.
            (2) Green new deal for public housing grants.--
                    (A) Establishment.--The Secretary shall establish a 
                grant program that provides amounts to eligible 
                entities for the eligible activities described in 
                subparagraph (B).
                    (B) Eligible activities.--The eligible activities 
                described in this subparagraph are--
                            (i) conducting physical needs assessments 
                        and subsequent deep energy retrofits in public 
                        housing, including--
                                    (I) retrofits for--
                                            (aa) energy-efficient 
                                        windows;
                                            (bb) super insulation of 
                                        roofs and exterior walls, 
                                        including the addition of new 
                                        cladding to buildings and the 
                                        rerouting of plumbing and 
                                        electricity;
                                            (cc) electrification of 
                                        water heating and building 
                                        heating systems using electric 
                                        heat pumps; and
                                            (dd) electric heat pumps to 
                                        provide air conditioning, where 
                                        feasible;
                                    (II) strategies to increase 
                                airtightness of building envelope, 
                                including air sealant paints; and
                                    (III) acquisition and installation 
                                of heat-recovery ventilation systems;
                            (ii) repairs and upgrades to public housing 
                        to ensure compliance with the physical 
                        condition standards under section 5.703 of 
                        title 24, Code of Federal Regulations, or any 
                        successor regulation;
                            (iii) upgrading, replacing, and improving 
                        public housing to energy efficiency, building 
                        electrification, including--
                                    (I) conducting physical needs 
                                assessments of public housing dwelling 
                                units;
                                    (II) in-unit energy efficiency 
                                product upgrades, including upgrading 
                                to--
                                            (aa) modern, energy-
                                        efficient insulation;
                                            (bb) all-electric state-of-
                                        the-art efficient appliances;
                                            (cc) energy-efficient 
                                        bathroom plumbing, including 
                                        low-flow toilets;
                                            (dd) energy-efficient 
                                        laundry machines;
                                            (ee) energy-efficient air 
                                        filters;
                                            (ff) energy monitoring 
                                        devices including smart meters 
                                        and smart thermostats;
                                            (gg) energy-efficient 
                                        lightbulbs;
                                            (hh) highly insulated 
                                        windows;
                                            (ii) reflective roofing;
                                            (jj) smart Supervisory 
                                        Control and Data Acquisition 
                                        systems and building-to-grid 
                                        integration; and
                                            (kk) passive cooling 
                                        measures;
                                    (III) upgrading infrastructure 
                                related to building electrification, 
                                including upgrading--
                                            (aa) electric heating, 
                                        ventilation, and air 
                                        conditioning systems, including 
                                        cold-climate heat pumps;
                                            (bb) electrical panels;
                                            (cc) electric appliances to 
                                        replace appliances reliant on 
                                        fossil fuels, such as gas 
                                        stoves and hot water heaters; 
                                        and
                                            (dd) related 
                                        infrastructure, including 
                                        flooring, walls, and roofs, 
                                        that is necessary to complete 
                                        before electrification upgrades 
                                        can occur; and
                                    (IV) water quality upgrades, 
                                including replacing water pipes in 
                                public housing if a quality test of 
                                drinking water concentrations in public 
                                housing exceeds--
                                            (aa) 1 part per billion of 
                                        lead;
                                            (bb) 4.0 parts per trillion 
                                        of perfluorooctanoic acid;
                                            (cc) 4.0 parts per trillion 
                                        of perfluorooctane sulfonate;
                                            (dd) a combined Hazard 
                                        Index of 1.0, as described in 
                                        the proposed rule of the 
                                        Environmental Protection Agency 
                                        entitled, ``Per- and 
                                        polyfluroalkyl substances 
                                        (PFAS): Perflurooctanoic acid 
                                        (PFOA) and 
                                        Perflurorooctanesulfonic acid 
                                        (PFOS) National Primary 
                                        Drinking Water Regulation 
                                        Rulemaking'' (88 Fed. Reg. 
                                        18638; March 29, 2023);
                                            (ee) 4.0 parts per trillion 
                                        of arsenic;
                                            (ff) 0.3 parts per million 
                                        of copper;
                                            (gg) drinking water 
                                        standards of the Environmental 
                                        Protection Agency for organic 
                                        and inorganic contaminants, 
                                        radionuclides, and 
                                        microbiological contaminants; 
                                        and
                                            (hh) any other 
                                        Environmental Protection Agency 
                                        standard adopted under the Safe 
                                        Drinking Water Act (42 U.S.C. 
                                        300f et seq.);
                            (iv) building, expanding, and maintaining 
                        community energy generation in public housing, 
                        including the construction of and ongoing costs 
                        associated with--
                                    (I) renewable energy rooftops;
                                    (II) renewable energy generation;
                                    (III) photovoltaic glass windows;
                                    (IV) the bulk purchase of clean 
                                energy grid supply from energy 
                                utilities; and
                                    (V) community-scale energy storage 
                                systems;
                            (v) establishing or expanding recycling and 
                        zero-waste programs in public housing, 
                        including the recycling of appliances and 
                        machines that were replaced through activities 
                        described in clause (iii);
                            (vi) community resilience and 
                        sustainability projects in public housing, 
                        including--
                                    (I) the purchase and installation 
                                of energy storage, including batteries, 
                                flywheels, compressed air, and pumped 
                                hydroelectric or thermal energy 
                                storage, in order to ensure energy 
                                backup of not less than 48 hours in the 
                                event of an emergency or disaster;
                                    (II) the construction of childcare 
                                centers and ongoing costs associated 
                                with childcare centers;
                                    (III) the construction of senior 
                                centers and ongoing costs associated 
                                with senior centers;
                                    (IV) the construction of community 
                                gardens and ongoing costs associated 
                                with community gardens;
                                    (V) the maintenance of entire 
                                public housing developments;
                                    (VI) the installation of publicly 
                                owned high speed internet in order to 
                                provide universal internet access for 
                                all residents with an upload speed of 
                                not less than 100Mbps and a download 
                                speed of not less than 100Mbps, and the 
                                ongoing costs associated with providing 
                                that internet infrastructure and 
                                access;
                                    (VII) the establishment or 
                                improvement, and painting, of community 
                                centers and other shared community 
                                spaces, the personnel of which shall 
                                earn the higher of--
                                            (aa) the local prevailing 
                                        wage; or
                                            (bb) a wage of $17 per 
                                        hour;
                                    (VIII) the establishment or 
                                improvement of dedicated infrastructure 
                                for transportation by bicycle, 
                                including lanes, parking spots, and the 
                                bulk purchase of enough bicycles to 
                                offer 1 bicycle to every low- and very 
                                low-income public housing resident;
                                    (IX) the deployment of electric 
                                vehicle charging infrastructure for 
                                public housing residents and visitors; 
                                and
                                    (X) the establishment and leasing 
                                of commercial activity that offers 
                                public housing residents on-site access 
                                to goods and services, including good-
                                quality healthcare clinics, dental 
                                clinics, bookstores, learning and 
                                tutoring centers, and affordable 
                                organic groceries; and
                            (vii) construction and ongoing costs 
                        associated with climate adaptation and 
                        emergency disaster response for public housing, 
                        including--
                                    (I) integrated solutions that 
                                combine better walls, heating, cooling, 
                                ventilation, solar, and storage into a 
                                single easy-to-install and affordable 
                                retrofit for public housing;
                                    (II) additional solar and storage 
                                on site, or through a local community 
                                microgrid, in order to allow residents 
                                to access essential energy during power 
                                outages;
                                    (III) insulating and eliminating 
                                air leakage in order to ensure that 
                                individual dwelling units can retain a 
                                safe temperature during a power outage 
                                until power is restored or emergency 
                                assistance arrives; and
                                    (IV) installing rigid foam wall 
                                insulation in hurricane and earthquake-
                                prone areas in order to create shear 
                                walls to resist structural damage from 
                                walls tilting or falling during high 
                                winds and earthquakes.
    (b) Grant Application.--
            (1) Required contents.--As a condition of receiving a grant 
        under subsection (a), each eligible entity shall include in the 
        grant application submitted to the Secretary--
                    (A) a signed acknowledgment indicating a commitment 
                to transition all public housing owned or managed by 
                the eligible entity into zero-carbon homes not later 
                than 10 years after the date on which the eligible 
                entity receives the grant;
                    (B) a signed acknowledgment indicating a commitment 
                to hiring, training, and retaining needed public 
                housing agency employees associated with the activities 
                of the grant;
                    (C) a full accounting, including pre-approved 
                financing plans and post-completion expense reports, of 
                the amount of funds required to complete the activities 
                under the grant, under enforcement by the Secretary, 
                which shall--
                            (i) be complete and reasonably calculated 
                        to accomplish the purposes of this Act;
                            (ii) include costs related to complying 
                        with local wage and labor laws;
                            (iii) include the amount of funds expended 
                        by the eligible entity to comply with the 
                        resident and community engagement requirements 
                        under paragraph (3); and
                            (iv) be updated and submitted to Congress 
                        on a quarterly basis; and
                            (v) include a 10-year decarbonization plan 
                        meeting decarbonization requirements determined 
                        by the Secretary;
                    (D) a community impact assessment and analysis of--
                            (i) the likely direct and indirect impact 
                        the grant funds, if awarded, will have on the 
                        economic empowerment and social mobility of 
                        environmental justice communities; and
                            (ii) whether the proposed actions to be 
                        taken under the grant would be affirmatively 
                        furthering fair housing, as defined in section 
                        5.152 of title 24, Code of Federal Regulations, 
                        or any successor regulation;
                    (E) the written concurrence of any local labor 
                organization representing employees of the eligible 
                entity who are engaged in the same or substantially 
                similar work that is proposed to be carried out does 
                not displace or supplant the work performed by those 
                represented employees;
                    (F) a certification that none of the funds under 
                the grant shall be used for prohibited purposes, 
                including--
                            (i) any activity that is subject to the 
                        reporting requirements set forth in section 
                        203(a) of the Labor-Management Reporting and 
                        Disclosure Act of 1959 (29 U.S.C. 433(a));
                            (ii) to abrogate a collective bargaining 
                        agreement; or
                            (iii) to replace an employee who is on 
                        strike or who is being locked out; and
                    (G) a plan to expand accessibility for persons with 
                disabilities to full compliance with the Americans with 
                Disabilities Act of 1990 (42 U.S.C. 12101 et seq.) and 
                that all projects shall at least meet the new 
                construction standards of title II of the Americans 
                with Disabilities Act of 1990 (42 U.S.C. 12131 et 
                seq.).
            (2) Resident and community engagement before submitting 
        application.--Before submitting an application for a grant 
        under this subsection, an eligible entity shall--
                    (A) solicit and consider community and public 
                feedback, to the maximum extent possible, by providing 
                for opportunities to comment via an in-person 
                accessible location with interpretation available, as 
                well as via a cloud-based content collaboration 
                provider that is certified by the Federal Risk and 
                Authorization Management Program, and that comply with 
                the most recent final version of the Web Content 
                Accessibility Guidelines, through--
                            (i) an initial public comment period, for 
                        which the eligible entity shall--
                                    (I) publish--
                                            (aa) a description of each 
                                        of the grant programs 
                                        established under subsection 
                                        (a); and
                                            (bb) a form to be used to 
                                        submit comments that complies 
                                        with public notice standards 
                                        and the public comment 
                                        requirements in the 
                                        consolidated plan of the 
                                        Department of Housing and Urban 
                                        Development; and
                                    (II) give interested persons 90 
                                days to--
                                            (aa) submit draft text 
                                        directly into the application;
                                            (bb) submit written data 
                                        and accounting estimates; and
                                            (cc) submit general 
                                        comments;
                            (ii) a second public comment period 
                        beginning not later than 30 days after the end 
                        of the initial public comment period under 
                        clause (i), for which the eligible entity 
                        shall--
                                    (I) publish a draft version of the 
                                completed common application form 
                                described in subsection (a) that 
                                contains, at a minimum--
                                            (aa) a short analysis and 
                                        evaluation of the relevant 
                                        significant proposals set forth 
                                        during the initial public 
                                        comment period; and
                                            (bb) a clear and concise 
                                        statement of the basis, 
                                        purpose, and goals of the 
                                        application; and
                                    (II) give interested persons 30 
                                days to submit feedback on and 
                                recommended improvements to the draft 
                                final grant application;
                    (B) host not less than 2 public hearings, which 
                shall be recorded and held at a convenient and 
                accessible location with interpretation available for 
                public housing residents, for each public comment 
                period described in subparagraph (A), to provide public 
                housing residents with an opportunity to comment, with 
                not less than 1 occurring in the afternoon and not less 
                than 1 occurring in the evening;
                    (C) solicit input and acquire signed approval of 
                the completed common application form from the resident 
                council or resident councils, if existing and active, 
                of the public housing that will receive assistance 
                under the grant; and
                    (D) solicit input and acquire signed approval of 
                the complete common application from any local labor 
                organization representing employees of the eligible 
                entity that will receive assistance under the grant, to 
                ensure compliance with existing collective bargaining 
                agreement and to ensure that grants funds will not be 
                used to displace or supplant existing staff, positions, 
                or vacancies.
            (3) Priority among applications for community energy 
        generation.--In reviewing applications for grants to carry out 
        activities described in subsection (a)(2)(B)(iv), the Secretary 
        shall give preference to applications submitted by eligible 
        entities that--
                    (A) demonstrate an ability to generate the greatest 
                amount of renewable energy that can be consumed by 
                public housing projects and transferred to the local 
                energy grid; and
                    (B) demonstrate a commitment to provide job 
                training and contracting opportunities to public 
                housing residents and subsidized housing resident-owned 
                businesses.
            (4) Exceptions for indigenous groups and tribes.--
                    (A) In general.--Any eligible entity described in 
                section 3(2) that submits an application for a grant 
                program described in this subsection--
                            (i) is exempt from compliance with 
                        subclauses (I), (II), and (III) of paragraph 
                        (2)(A)(i) and paragraph (2)(A)(ii)(I); and
                            (ii) is empowered to self-determine 
                        guidelines and standards pertaining to ensuring 
                        community and resident engagement.
                    (B) Submission by tribally designated housing 
                entities.--An application for a grant under subsection 
                (a) for an Indian tribe may be prepared and submitted 
                on behalf of the Indian tribe by the tribally 
                designated housing entity for the Indian tribe, if the 
                application contains a certification by the recognized 
                tribal government of the grant beneficiary that the 
                Indian tribe--
                            (i) has had an opportunity to review the 
                        application and has authorized the submission 
                        of the application by the tribally designated 
                        housing entity; or
                            (ii) has delegated to the tribally 
                        designated housing entity the authority to 
                        submit an application on behalf of the Indian 
                        tribe without prior review by the Indian tribe.
            (5) Benchmarking energy and water consumption.--An eligible 
        entity desiring a grant to carry out activities described in 
        subsection (a)(2)(B)(ii) shall include in the grant application 
        a commitment to benchmarking energy and water consumption using 
        ENERGY STAR Portfolio Manager, or another system approved by 
        the Department of Housing and Urban Development, for a period 
        of not less than 5 years beginning on the date on which the 
        eligible entity receives the grant.
    (c) Selection of Grant Recipients.--
            (1) In general.--If an eligible entity submits to the 
        Secretary an application for a grant under subsection (a) that 
        complies with the requirements under subsection (b), the 
        Secretary shall award the funds to the eligible entity that are 
        required to complete the grant, as specified in the accounting 
        submitted under subsection (b)(2)(C).
            (2) Reapplication.--If the Secretary determines that an 
        application submitted by an eligible entity under this section 
        does not comply with the requirements under subsection (b)--
                    (A) the Secretary shall provide to the eligible 
                entity a summary of the requirements that the eligible 
                entity has failed to meet; and
                    (B) the eligible entity may reapply for the grant.
            (3) Expedited review.--The Secretary shall ensure a timely 
        review of applications submitted by eligible entities that own 
        or manage public housing in a congressional district--
                    (A) with an aggregate total of not less than 5,000 
                public housing residents;
                    (B) in which--
                            (i) not less than 40 percent of the 
                        residents are not less than 62 years old;
                            (ii) not less than 25 percent of the 
                        residents are disabled; or
                            (iii) not less than 5 percent of all heads 
                        of household are not more than 24 years old; or
                    (C) with an average household income of less than 
                $40,000.
    (d) Use of Grant Amounts for Capacity Building.--An eligible entity 
shall use not more than 5 percent of grant funds received under this 
section for activities to expand the capacity of the eligible entity to 
carry out the grant activities, including--
            (1) hiring staff;
            (2) training residents for staff positions;
            (3) providing technical assistance;
            (4) community engagement; and
            (5) other necessary administrative activities.
    (e) Resident Protection.--Each eligible entity that is the 
recipient of a grant under subsection (a) shall--
            (1) comply with the requirements under part 24 of title 49, 
        Code of Federal Regulations, and provide relocation assistance 
        for any and all residents of public housing managed by the 
        eligible entity who may be displaced during rehabilitation or 
        new construction, and ensure that all temporarily displaced 
        residents can return to their homes once retrofitting is 
        completed;
            (2) provide robust temporary relocation assistance and 
        alternate housing options in cases where phased improvements 
        temporarily prevent tenant occupancy;
            (3) ensure that activities undertaken as part of the grant 
        do not result in a reduction of total public housing dwelling 
        units; and
            (4) to the greatest extent practicable, complete 
        construction, modernization, or retrofitting of replacement 
        dwellings prior to demolishing existing public housing units.
    (f) Profits Related to Community Energy Generation.--
            (1) In general.--With respect to any energy produced by an 
        eligible entity carrying out activities described in subsection 
        (a)(2)(B)(iii), the eligible entity may retain 90 percent of 
        any profits earned from selling the energy.
            (2) Vote.--An eligible entity described paragraph (1) with 
        not less than 50 public housing dwelling units shall provide 
        residents of the public housing the opportunity to vote on how 
        the profits earned under paragraph (1) shall be used.
            (3) Other revenue.--Any profits not retained under this 
        subsection shall be transferred to the Department of the 
        Treasury for deposit in the General Fund.
    (g) Labor and Buy American Provisions.--
            (1) In general.--In carrying out grant activities under 
        this section, each contractor or subcontractor for a project 
        funded under this section shall carry out the following:
                    (A) Ensure that the materials used by the 
                contractor or subcontractor are substantially 
                manufactured, mined, and produced in the United States 
                in accordance with chapter 83 of title 41, United 
                States Code (commonly known as the ``Buy American 
                Act'').
                    (B) Ensure that all laborers and mechanics employed 
                by the contractor or subcontractor in the performance 
                of construction, alteration, or repair work financed in 
                whole or in part with assistance under this section 
                shall be paid wages at rates not less than those 
                prevailing on similar construction in the locality, as 
                determined by the Secretary of Labor, in accordance 
                with subchapter IV of chapter 31 of title 40, United 
                States Code (commonly known as the ``Davis-Bacon 
                Act''). With respect to the labor standards in this 
                subparagraph, the Secretary of Labor shall have the 
                authority and functions set forth in Reorganization 
                Plan Numbered 14 of 1950 (64 Stat. 1267; 5 U.S.C. App.) 
                and section 3145 of title 40, United States Code.
                    (C) With respect to a project that costs not less 
                than $25,000,000, consent to a project labor agreement.
                    (D) Require each project labor agreement to be in 
                compliance with the hiring and contracting requirements 
                described in subsections (c) and (d) of section 3 of 
                the Housing and Urban Development Act of 1968 (12 
                U.S.C. 1701u).
                    (E) Not hire employees through a temporary staffing 
                agency unless the relevant State workforce agency 
                certifies that temporary employees are necessary to 
                address an acute, short-term labor demand.
                    (F) Adopt--
                            (i) an explicit policy on any issue 
                        involving the organization of employees of the 
                        eligible entity, or contractor or 
                        subcontractor, and all contractors and 
                        subcontractors, for purposes of collective 
                        bargaining not to deter employees with respect 
                        to--
                                    (I) labor organizing for the 
                                employees engaged in activities under 
                                the grant; and
                                    (II) such employees' choice to form 
                                and join labor organizations; and
                            (ii) such policies that require--
                                    (I) the posting and maintenance of 
                                notices in the workplace to such 
                                employees of their rights under the 
                                National Labor Relations Act (29 U.S.C. 
                                151 et seq.);
                                    (II) that such employees are, at 
                                the beginning of their employment, 
                                provided notice and information 
                                regarding the employees' rights under 
                                such Act; and
                                    (III) the employer to voluntarily 
                                recognize a union in cases where a 
                                majority of such workers of the 
                                employer have joined and requested 
                                representation.
                    (G) For each project employing union workers to 
                rehabilitate, upgrade, innovate and transition public 
                housing developments, demonstrate an ability to use and 
                to commit to use individuals enrolled in a registered 
                apprenticeship program who shall, to the greatest 
                extent practicable, constitute not less than 20 percent 
                of the individuals working on the project.
                    (H) Not require mandatory arbitration for any 
                dispute involving a worker engaged in a service for the 
                contractor or subcontractor.
                    (I) Consider an individual performing any service 
                under the grant as an employee, and not an independent 
                contractor, of the contractor or subcontractor, 
                respectively, unless--
                            (i) the individual is free from control and 
                        direction in connection with the performance of 
                        the service, both under the contract for the 
                        performance of the service and in fact;
                            (ii) the service is performed outside the 
                        usual course of the business of the contractor 
                        or subcontractor, respectively; and
                            (iii) the individual is customarily engaged 
                        in an independently established trade, 
                        occupation, profession, or business of the same 
                        nature as that involved in such service.
                    (J) Ensure that all laborers, mechanics, and other 
                workers employed by the contractor or subcontractor 
                shall not displace or supplant an employee or position 
                of the eligible entity, including partial displacement 
                such as a reduction in hours, wages, or employment 
                benefits, as a result of receiving a grant under this 
                section.
            (2) Action to enforce independent contractor requirement.--
        A third party, including a State or local government, may bring 
        an action in any court of competent jurisdiction to enforce the 
        requirement under paragraph (1)(I).
    (h) Consultation With Agencies.--The Secretary shall--
            (1) consult with the Secretary of Energy--
                    (A) in developing criteria and assessing 
                applications for grants under subsection (a); and
                    (B) to identify and verify state-of-the-art 
                building materials and appliances, made in the United 
                States, that can be procured at scale for purposes of 
                this Act;
            (2) consult with the Secretary of the Treasury to track 
        alternative energy revenues that are returned to the Department 
        of the Treasury under subsection (f)(4);
            (3) consult with the Administrator of the Environmental 
        Protection Agency--
                    (A) in developing criteria and assessing 
                applications for grants under of subsection (a)(2);
                    (B) regarding testing air quality and water quality 
                for purposes of grant activities described in 
                subsection (a)(2)(B)(ii); and
                    (C) regarding testing soil quality for radon and 
                other contaminants for purposes of grant activities 
                described in subsection (a)(2)(B);
            (4) consult with the Secretary of Education in developing 
        criteria and assessing applications for grants under subsection 
        (a)(1);
            (5) consult with the Secretary of Labor in developing 
        criteria and assessing applications for grants under subsection 
        (a)(1);
            (6) consult with the Administrator of the Small Business 
        Administration in developing criteria and assessing 
        applications for grants under subsection (a);
            (7) consult with the Secretary of Health and Human 
        Services--
                    (A) in developing criteria and assessing 
                applications for grants under subsection (a)(2); and
                    (B) regarding health trends related to all 
                illnesses that disproportionately impact low-income 
                people;
            (8) consult with the Administrator of the Federal Emergency 
        Management Agency in developing criteria and assessing 
        applications for grants under subsection (a)(2);
            (9) consult with the Secretary of the Interior to develop 
        criteria and assess applications for grants under subsection 
        (a)(2); and
            (10) consult with any entity described in paragraphs (1) 
        through (9) for any other purpose as determined necessary by 
        the Secretary to carry out this section and the purposes of 
        this Act.
    (i) Reports.--The Secretary shall submit to Congress biannual 
reports on the impact that the grant programs established under 
subsection (a) have had on--
            (1) the rehabilitation, upgrades, innovation, and 
        transition of public housing in the United States;
            (2) total greenhouse gas emission output, and quarterly 
        data on greenhouse gas emission reductions from individual 
        public housing developments, specifically as they relate to--
                    (A) home energy carbon pollution emissions in each 
                public housing development, as calculated using the 
                Carbon Footprint Calculator from the Environmental 
                Protection Agency;
                    (B) waste-related carbon emissions in each public 
                housing development, as calculated using the Carbon 
                Footprint Calculator from the Environmental Protection 
                Agency; and
                    (C) total greenhouse gas emissions released by 
                individual public housing buildings and homes within a 
                public housing development, as calculated using the 
                Greenhouse Gas Equivalencies Calculator from the 
                Environmental Protection Agency;
            (3) the amount of Federal money saved due to energy cost 
        savings at public housing projects, on a quarterly basis;
            (4) the amount of energy savings per KwH at each public 
        housing project, on a quarterly basis;
            (5) public housing residents, including--
                    (A) access to economic opportunities through 
                compliance with the hiring and contracting requirements 
                described in subsections (c) and (d) of section 3 of 
                the Housing and Urban Development Act of 1968 (12 
                U.S.C. 1701u);
                    (B) the impacts, if any, those residents have 
                experienced due to displacement and instability;
                    (C) the impacts, if any, those residents have 
                experienced to their individual economic growth as 
                measured by individual and household income;
                    (D) the specific career skills acquired;
                    (E) the impacts, if any, those residents have 
                experienced to their overall health; and
                    (F) the specific educational or technical 
                certifications acquired; and
            (6) changes to the overall community health indicators in 
        public housing developments and their surrounding 
        neighborhoods, including asthma rates, air quality, water 
        quality, and levels of lead and mold.
    (j) Eligibility for the Capital and Operating Funds.--As a 
condition of receipt of a grant under this section, the Secretary shall 
require the placement of a dwelling unit under subsection (d) or (e) of 
9 of the United States Housing Act of 1937 (42 U.S.C. 1437g) in 
perpetuity.
    (k) Funding.--Out of funds in the Treasury not otherwise 
appropriated, there are appropriated to carry out this section--
            (1) such sums as necessary to address the existing public 
        housing capital backlog at the Department of Housing and Urban 
        Development;
            (2) such sums as may be necessary for each of fiscal years 
        2024 through 2034; and
            (3) $1,000,000,000, to remain available until expended, for 
        administrative costs relating to carrying out this section, 
        including providing technical assistance to grant applicants.

SEC. 7. THE SECTION 3 PROGRAM FOR ECONOMIC OPPORTUNITIES.

    Section 3 of the Housing and Urban Development Act of 1968 (12 
U.S.C. 1701u) is amended--
            (1) in subsection (c)(1)--
                    (A) in subparagraph (A), by striking ``, operating 
                assistance provided pursuant to section 9 of that Act, 
                and modernization grants provided pursuant to section 
                14 of that Act'' and inserting ``(42 U.S.C. 1437c), 
                assistance from the Operating Fund under section 9(e) 
                of that Act (42 U.S.C. 1437g(e)), assistance from the 
                Capital Fund under section 9(d) of that Act (42 U.S.C. 
                1437g(d)), and assistance provided under a grant 
                awarded under section 6 of the Green New Deal for 
                Public Housing Act''; and
                    (B) by adding at the end the following:
                    ``(C) Hiring requirement.--The Secretary shall 
                require that, of the employment positions generated by 
                development assistance provided pursuant to section 6 
                of the United States Housing Act of 1937 (42 U.S.C. 
                1437c), assistance from the Operating Fund under 
                section 9(e) of that Act (42 U.S.C. 1437g(e)), 
                assistance from the Capital Fund under section 9(d) of 
                that Act (42 U.S.C. 1437g(d)), and assistance provided 
                under a grant awarded under section 6 of the Green New 
                Deal for Public Housing Act, public and Indian housing 
                agencies, and their contractors and subcontractors, 
                shall fill, to the greatest extent possible--
                            ``(i) not less than 40 percent of those 
                        positions generated during the 1-year period 
                        beginning 1 year after the initial receipt of 
                        grant funds awarded, with low- and very low-
                        income persons;
                            ``(ii) not less than 50 percent of those 
                        positions generated during the 1-year period 
                        beginning 2 years after the initial receipt of 
                        grant funds awarded, with low- and very low-
                        income persons; and
                            ``(iii) not less than 90 percent of those 
                        positions generated after the expiration of the 
                        period described in clause (ii) with low- and 
                        very low-income persons.'';
            (2) in subsection (d)(1)--
                    (A) in subparagraph (A), by striking ``, operating 
                assistance provided pursuant to section 9 of that Act, 
                and modernization grants provided pursuant to section 
                14 of that Act'' and inserting ``(42 U.S.C. 1437c), 
                assistance from the Operating Fund under section 9(e) 
                of that Act (42 U.S.C. 1437g(e)), assistance from the 
                Capital Fund under section 9(d) of that Act (42 U.S.C. 
                1437g(d)), and assistance provided under a grant 
                awarded under section 6 of the Green New Deal for 
                Public Housing Act''; and
                    (B) by adding at the end the following:
                    ``(C) Contracting requirement.--The Secretary shall 
                require that, of the aggregate dollar amount of 
                contracts awarded for work to be performed in 
                connection with assistance from the Operating Fund 
                under section 9(e) of the United States Housing Act of 
                1937 (42 U.S.C. 1437g(e)), assistance from the Capital 
                Fund under section 9(d) of that Act (42 U.S.C. 
                1437g(d)), and assistance provided under a grant 
                awarded under section 6 of the Green New Deal for 
                Public Housing Act, public and Indian housing agencies, 
                and their contractors and subcontractors, shall, to the 
                greatest extent possible, certify that--
                            ``(i) not less than 20 percent of the 
                        aggregate dollar amount of such contracts 
                        awarded during the 1-year period beginning 1 
                        year after the initial receipt of grant funds 
                        awarded shall be awarded to subsidized housing 
                        resident-owned businesses;
                            ``(ii) not less than 30 percent of the 
                        aggregate dollar amount of such contracts 
                        awarded during the 1-year period beginning 2 
                        years after the initial receipt of grant funds 
                        awarded shall be awarded to subsidized housing 
                        resident-owned businesses; and
                            ``(iii) not less than 50 percent of the 
                        aggregate dollar amount of such contracts 
                        awarded after the expiration of the period 
                        described in clause (ii) shall be awarded to 
                        subsidized housing resident-owned 
                        businesses.'';
            (3) in subsection (e), by adding at the end the following:
            ``(3) Subsidized housing resident-owned business.--The term 
        `subsidized housing resident-owned business' has the meaning 
        given the term in section 3 of the Green New Deal for Public 
        Housing Act.'';
            (4) by redesignating subsection (g) as subsection (i); and
            (5) by inserting after subsection (f) the following:
    ``(g) Measuring Economic Impact.--Before the start of the second 
fiscal year beginning after the date of enactment of the Green New Deal 
for Public Housing Act, and quarterly thereafter, the Secretary shall 
require each public housing agency to monitor, measure, and report to 
the Secretary on the economic impacts of this section on the community 
in which housing developments of the public housing agency are located, 
including--
            ``(1) the aggregate dollar amount of contracts awarded in 
        compliance with this section;
            ``(2) the aggregate dollar amount of wages and salaries 
        paid for positions employed by low- and very low-income persons 
        in accordance with this section;
            ``(3) the aggregate dollar amount expended for training 
        opportunities provided to low- and very low-income persons in 
        accordance with this section; and
            ``(4) the aggregate dollar amount expended for training and 
        assisting subsidized housing resident-owned businesses for 
        compliance with this section.
    ``(h) Workforce Roster.--
            ``(1) Requirement.--The Secretary shall require each public 
        housing agency to establish and maintain a roster of the 
        residents and subsidized housing resident-owned businesses of 
        the public housing agency in order to identify and spotlight 
        talented local laborers and facilitate compliance with this 
        section.
            ``(2) Information.--The roster maintained by a public 
        housing agency under paragraph (1) shall include information 
        that is updated not less frequently than every 30 days, 
        including--
                    ``(A) information for each public housing resident 
                choosing to have their information recorded that lists 
                their occupational skills, career goals, and any 
                workforce development programs they participate in; and
                    ``(B) information for each subsidized housing 
                resident-owned business that lists the field of 
                business they are in and the hiring opportunities they 
                currently have available.
            ``(3) Availability.--In order to facilitate compliance with 
        this subsection, the Secretary shall--
                    ``(A) require each public housing agency to submit 
                to the Secretary the information maintained by the 
                public housing agency in the roster under this 
                subsection; and
                    ``(B) collect and make the data described in 
                subparagraph (A) available on the website of the 
                Department of Housing and Urban Development, upon 
                request, to contractors, subcontractors, resident 
                councils, resident management organizations, and 
                YouthBuild programs.''.

SEC. 8. FAMILY SELF-SUFFICIENCY PROGRAM.

    Section 23 of the United States Housing Act of 1937 (42 U.S.C. 
1437u), as amended by section 306 of the Economic Growth, Regulatory 
Relief, and Consumer Protection Act (Pub. L. 115-174; 132 Stat. 1339), 
is amended--
            (1) in subsection (c)(2), by adding at the end the 
        following:
                    ``(C) An Indian tribe or tribally designated 
                housing entity, as defined in section 4 of the Native 
                American Housing Assistance and Self-Determination Act 
                of 1996 (25 U.S.C. 4103).'';
            (2) in subsection (d)(2)--
                    (A) in subparagraph (J), by striking ``and'' at the 
                end;
                    (B) by redesignating subparagraph (K) as 
                subparagraph (M); and
                    (C) by inserting after subparagraph (J) the 
                following:
                    ``(K) digital literacy;
                    ``(L) provision of home and community-based 
                services for older adults and individuals with 
                disabilities of participating families; and'';
            (3) in subsection (g)(2), by inserting after the first 
        sentence the following: ``The program coordinating committee 
        shall include representatives of any resident council and any 
        jurisdiction-wide resident council of the eligible entity.'';
            (4) in subsection (h)(3)--
                    (A) in subparagraph (H), by striking ``and'' at the 
                end;
                    (B) by redesignating subparagraph (I) as 
                subparagraph (J); and
                    (C) by inserting after subparagraph (H) the 
                following:
                    ``(I) a description of how the local program will 
                ensure that opportunities provided through the local 
                program will maximize success in synchronizing the 
                program with, and complying with, the requirements 
                regarding employment and contracting under section 3 of 
                the Housing and Urban Development Act of 1968 (12 
                U.S.C. 1701(u)).''; and
            (5) in subsection (i)(2)--
                    (A) in subparagraph (A), by inserting ``, but not 
                more than 35 participants,'' before ``is eligible'';
                    (B) in subparagraph (B)--
                            (i) by striking ``75'' and inserting 
                        ``36''; and
                            (ii) by striking ``50'' and inserting 
                        ``35'';
                    (C) by redesignating subparagraphs (C), (D), and 
                (E) as subparagraphs (F), (G), and (H), respectively; 
                and
                    (D) by inserting after subparagraph (B) the 
                following:
                    ``(C) Additional award for public housing green new 
                deal applicants.--An eligible entity that is approved 
                for a grant under section 6 of the Green New Deal for 
                Public Housing Act shall be eligible to receive an 
                additional award under this subparagraph to cover costs 
                of filling an additional family self-sufficiency 
                coordinator position, or additional such positions, 
                responsible for--
                            ``(i) coordinating participation in a local 
                        program under this section for participants 
                        seeking employment opportunities made available 
                        by the grant; and
                            ``(ii) compliance by the eligible entity 
                        with section 3 of the Housing and Urban 
                        Development Act of 1968 (12 U.S.C. 1701u).
                    ``(D) Additional award for synchronization with 
                section 3 requirements.--An eligible entity that meets 
                such criteria as the Secretary shall establish 
                regarding successful synchronization and compliance of 
                a local program under this section with the 
                requirements regarding employment and contracting under 
                section 3 of the Housing and Urban Development Act of 
                1968 (12 U.S.C. 1701u) shall be eligible to receive an 
                additional award under this subparagraph to cover costs 
                relating to a family self-sufficiency coordinator 
                position responsible for such synchronization and 
                compliance.
                    ``(E) Awards to assist eligible entities to 
                establish family self-sufficiency programs.--An 
                eligible entity that is not administering a local 
                program under this section and that meets such 
                standards as the Secretary shall establish shall be 
                eligible to receive an award under this subparagraph to 
                cover costs relating to a family self-sufficiency 
                coordinator position responsible for assisting in 
                preparing and submitting an application to establish 
                such a local program.''.

SEC. 9. RESIDENT COUNCILS.

    Section 2 of the United States Housing Act of 1937 (42 U.S.C. 1437) 
is amended by adding at the end the following:
    ``(c) Resident Councils.--
            ``(1) In general.--Each public housing project with not 
        less than 50 dwelling units shall form a resident council to--
                    ``(A) improve residents' quality of life and 
                resident satisfaction; and
                    ``(B) establish self-help initiatives to enable 
                residents to create a positive living environment for 
                families living in public housing.
            ``(2) Participation.--Each resident council formed under 
        this subsection may actively participate through working 
        partnerships with a public housing agency to advise and assist 
        in all aspects of public housing operations in accordance with 
        part 964 of title 24, Code of Federal Regulations, or any 
        successor regulation.
            ``(3) Requirements.--
                    ``(A) In general.--A resident council shall consist 
                of individuals residing in public housing and shall 
                meet the requirements described in this paragraph in 
                order to--
                            ``(i) receive official recognition from the 
                        public housing agency and the Secretary;
                            ``(ii) be eligible to receive funds for 
                        resident council activities; and
                            ``(iii) be eligible to receive stipends for 
                        officers for their related costs in connection 
                        with volunteer work in public housing.
                    ``(B) Residents represented.--A resident council 
                may represent residents residing in--
                            ``(i) scattered site buildings;
                            ``(ii) areas of contiguous row houses;
                            ``(iii) 1 or more contiguous buildings;
                            ``(iv) residents with tenant protection 
                        vouchers;
                            ``(v) residents now in Rental Assistance 
                        Demonstration-converted properties who maintain 
                        their prior existing rights under sections 6 
                        and 9 of the United States Housing Act of 1937 
                        (42 U.S.C. 1437d, 1437g);
                            ``(vi) a development; or
                            ``(vii) any combination of clauses (i) 
                        through (vi).
                    ``(C) Elections.--
                            ``(i) Written procedures.--A resident 
                        council shall adopt written procedures, such as 
                        by-laws or a constitution, which shall--
                                    ``(I) provide for a democratically 
                                elected governing board that--
                                            ``(aa) consists of not less 
                                        than 5 members; and
                                            ``(bb) is elected--

                                                    ``(AA) by the 
                                                voting membership of 
                                                the residents of the 
                                                public housing; and

                                                    ``(BB) in elections 
                                                that occur on a regular 
                                                basis not less 
                                                frequently than every 2 
                                                years; and

                                    ``(II) provide for the recall of 
                                the resident council by the voting 
                                membership through a petition or other 
                                expression of the desire of the voting 
                                membership for a recall election and 
                                set the threshold percentage of voting 
                                membership who are required to be in 
                                agreement in order to hold a recall 
                                election, which percentage shall be not 
                                less than 10 percent of the voting 
                                membership.
                            ``(ii) Voting membership.--The voting 
                        membership of a resident council shall consist 
                        of heads of households of the public housing 
                        dwelling units of any age and other residents 
                        not less than 16 years of age.
            ``(4) Stipends.--Public housing agencies may provide 
        stipends to resident council officers who serve as volunteers 
        in their public housing developments, which shall--
                    ``(A) not exceed $1,000 per month per officer;
                    ``(B) not be required for officers for whom 
                receiving the stipend would affect other income-
                calculated benefits; and
                    ``(C) be decided locally by the resident council 
                and the public housing agency.
            ``(5) Applicability of 2-year election cycle.--The 
        requirement under paragraph (3)(C)(i)(I)(bb)(BB) shall apply on 
        and after January 1, 2025.''.

SEC. 10. REPEAL OF FAIRCLOTH AMENDMENT.

    Section 9(g) of the United States Housing Act of 1937 (42 U.S.C. 
1437g(g)) is amended by striking paragraph (3).
                                 &lt;all&gt;
</pre></body></html>
