<html><body><pre>
[Congressional Bills 115th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[S. 3715 Introduced in Senate (IS)]

&lt;DOC&gt;






115th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                S. 3715

 To establish a National Wildlife Corridors Program to provide for the 
protection and restoration of certain native fish, wildlife, and plant 
                    species, and for other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                   IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

                            December 6, 2018

   Mr. Udall introduced the following bill; which was read twice and 
       referred to the Committee on Environment and Public Works

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
 To establish a National Wildlife Corridors Program to provide for the 
protection and restoration of certain native fish, wildlife, and plant 
                    species, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE; TABLE OF CONTENTS.

    (a) Short Title.--This Act may be cited as the ``Wildlife Corridors 
Conservation Act of 2018''.
    (b) Table of Contents.--The table of contents for this Act is as 
follows:

Sec. 1. Short title; table of contents.
Sec. 2. Findings.
Sec. 3. Definitions.
Sec. 4. National Wildlife Corridors Program.
Sec. 5. National Wildlife Corridors Database.
Sec. 6. National Wildlife Corridors.
Sec. 7. National Coordination Committee and regional wildlife movement 
                            councils.
Sec. 8. Protection and management of National Wildlife Corridors.
Sec. 9. Wildlife Corridors Stewardship and Protection Fund.
Sec. 10. Protection of Indian tribes.
Sec. 11. Relationship to other conservation laws.
Sec. 12. Collaboration.
Sec. 13. Authorization of appropriations.

SEC. 2. FINDINGS.

    Congress finds that--
            (1) the native fish, wildlife, and plant species in the 
        United States are part of a rich natural heritage and an 
        important legacy to pass on to future generations;
            (2) the populations of many native fish, wildlife, and 
        plant species in the United States are declining;
            (3) scientists estimate that 1 in 5 animal and plant 
        species in the United States is at risk of extinction, and many 
        species are declining in numbers;
            (4) one of the greatest threats to the survival and 
        diversity of many native fish, wildlife, and plant species in 
        the United States is the loss, degradation, fragmentation, and 
        obstruction of natural habitats;
            (5) the conservation of landscape corridors and 
        hydrological connectivity, through which native fish, wildlife, 
        and plant species and ecological processes can transition from 
        1 habitat to another, plays an important role in helping--
                    (A) to conserve native biodiversity; and
                    (B) to ensure resiliency against impacts from a 
                range of stressors;
            (6) climate change threatens native fish, wildlife, and 
        plant species;
            (7) the conservation, restoration, and establishment of new 
        ecological connections to facilitate the shift of species into 
        more suitable habitats is a key climate change adaptation 
        strategy;
            (8) protecting landscape-scale corridors and hydrological 
        connectivity is--
                    (A) a broadly accepted strategy--
                            (i) to conserve native fish, wildlife, and 
                        plant species; and
                            (ii) to ensure ecosystem resilience; and
                    (B) often 1 of the first steps in restoration and 
                recovery planning;
            (9) in the policy resolution of the Western Governors' 
        Association entitled ``Protecting Wildlife Migration Corridors 
        and Crucial Wildlife Habitat in the West'' and the resolution 
        of the New England Governors and Eastern Canadian Premiers' 
        Conference, which recognizes the importance of ecological 
        connectivity for the adaptability and resilience of the 
        ecosystems of participating regions, biodiversity, and human 
        communities in the face of climate change, States have 
        recognized the importance of connectivity;
            (10) the strategic plan of the United States Fish and 
        Wildlife Service to respond to accelerating climate change 
        entitled ``Rising to the Urgent Challenge'' acknowledges that 
        ``processes such as pollination, seed dispersal, nutrient 
        cycling, natural disturbance cycles, predator-prey relations, 
        and others must be part of the natural landscapes we seek to 
        maintain or restore . . . and are likely to function more 
        optimally in landscapes composed of large habitat blocks 
        connected by well-placed corridors''; and
            (11) Federal and State agencies continue to develop 
        policies to address--
                    (A) the importance of conserving fish, wildlife, 
                and plant corridors;
                    (B) the gap between science and management for at-
                risk species; and
                    (C) ecological connectivity.

SEC. 3. DEFINITIONS.

    In this Act:
            (1) Appropriate committees of congress.--The term 
        ``appropriate committees of Congress'' means--
                    (A) the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources 
                of the Senate;
                    (B) the Committee on Environment and Public Works 
                of the Senate;
                    (C) the Committee on Appropriations of the Senate;
                    (D) the Committee on Energy and Commerce of the 
                House of Representatives;
                    (E) the Committee on Natural Resources of the House 
                of Representatives; and
                    (F) the Committee on Appropriations of the House of 
                Representatives.
            (2) Connectivity.--The term ``connectivity'' means the 
        degree to which the landscape or seascape facilitates or 
        impedes native species movement.
            (3) Corridor.--The term ``corridor'' means a distinct 
        component of the landscape or seascape that--
                    (A) provides habitat or ecological connectivity; 
                and
                    (B) allows for fish, wildlife, or plant movement.
            (4) Database.--The term ``Database'' means the National 
        Wildlife Corridors Database established under section 5(a).
            (5) Fund.--The term ``Fund'' means the Wildlife Corridors 
        Stewardship and Protection Fund established by section 9(a).
            (6) Indian tribe.--The term ``Indian tribe'' has the 
        meaning given the term in section 4 of the Indian Self-
        Determination and Education Assistance Act (25 U.S.C. 5304).
            (7) National coordination committee.--The term ``National 
        Coordination Committee'' means the National Coordination 
        Committee established under section 7(b).
            (8) National wildlife corridor.--The term ``National 
        Wildlife Corridor'' means any land or water designated as a 
        National Wildlife Corridor under section 6(a).
            (9) Native species.--The term ``native species'' means--
                    (A) an indigenous fish, wildlife, or plant species 
                of the United States (including territories and freely 
                associated states of the United States), including 
                subspecies and plant varieties; and
                    (B) a noninvasive fish, wildlife, or plant species 
                of the United States (including territories and freely 
                associated states of the United States) that--
                            (i) are not indigenous to the United States 
                        (or territories and freely associated states of 
                        the United States); but
                            (ii) are valued for--
                                    (I) the contribution of the species 
                                to species diversity; or
                                    (II) the social, cultural, or 
                                economic value of the species.
            (10) Program.--The term ``Program'' means the National 
        Wildlife Corridors Program established under section 4(a).
            (11) Regional ocean partnership.--The term ``regional ocean 
        partnership'' means--
                    (A) a regional organization of 2 or more coastal 
                States, Great Lakes States (as defined in section 
                118(a)(3) of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act 
                (33 U.S.C. 1268(a)(3)), territories, or freely 
                associated states voluntarily convened by the Governors 
                of those coastal States, Great Lakes States, 
                territories, or freely associated states, as 
                applicable, to address crossjurisdictional ocean or 
                Great Lakes matters; or
                    (B) the functional equivalent of a regional 
                organization described in subparagraph (A) designated 
                by 2 or more governors of a State, territory, or freely 
                associated state.
            (12) Regional wildlife movement council.--The term 
        ``regional wildlife movement council'' means a regional 
        wildlife movement council established under section 7(c).
            (13) Secretaries.--The term ``Secretaries'' means--
                    (A) the Secretary of Agriculture;
                    (B) the Secretary of Commerce;
                    (C) the Secretary of Defense;
                    (D) the Secretary of the Interior; and
                    (E) the Secretary of Transportation.
            (14) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary 
        of the Interior, acting through the Director of the United 
        States Fish and Wildlife Service.
            (15) Territory; freely associated state.--The terms 
        ``territory'' and ``freely associated state'' mean any of the 
        following territories of the United States or freely associated 
        states:
                    (A) The Commonwealth of Puerto Rico.
                    (B) Guam.
                    (C) American Samoa.
                    (D) The Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana 
                Islands.
                    (E) The Federated States of Micronesia.
                    (F) The Republic of the Marshall Islands.
                    (G) The Republic of Palau.
                    (H) The United States Virgin Islands.
            (16) Wildlife movement.--The term ``wildlife movement'' 
        means the passage of individual members or populations of a 
        fish, wildlife, or plant species across a landscape or 
        seascape.

SEC. 4. NATIONAL WILDLIFE CORRIDORS PROGRAM.

    (a) Establishment.--Not later than 18 months after the date of 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary, in consultation with the 
Secretaries, shall establish a program, to be known as the ``National 
Wildlife Corridors Program''.
    (b) Purposes.--The purposes of the Program are--
            (1) to provide for the conservation and restoration of 
        habitats that--
                    (A) support a diverse array of native species, 
                including at-risk species protected under Federal, 
                State, and Tribal law, as applicable, that have 
                experienced or may experience habitat loss, 
                degradation, fragmentation, or obstruction to 
                connectivity;
                    (B) provide long-term habitat connectivity for 
                native species for migration, dispersal, adaptation to 
                climate and other environmental change, and genetic 
                exchange; and
                    (C) help restore ecological processes that have 
                been disrupted by habitat loss, degradation, 
                fragmentation, or obstruction;
            (2) to support State, Tribal, local, private landowner, and 
        Federal agency decisionmakers in the collaborative development 
        of the Database and National Wildlife Corridors that would 
        inform planning and development decisions within the respective 
        jurisdiction of each decisionmaker;
            (3) to provide mechanisms to support collaborative 
        research, mapping, and planning of habitats and National 
        Wildlife Corridors; and
            (4) to facilitate coordinated landscape- and seascape-scale 
        connectivity planning and management across jurisdictions 
        through--
                    (A) the establishment of a National Coordination 
                Committee and regional wildlife movement councils; and
                    (B) the use of the Database by State, Tribal, 
                local, private landowner, and Federal agency 
                decisionmakers to incorporate information on native 
                species habitats and National Wildlife Corridors.
    (c) Components.--The Program shall consist of--
            (1) the Database;
            (2) National Wildlife Corridors;
            (3) the National Coordination Committee and the wildlife 
        movements grant program established under subsection (d);
            (4) regional wildlife movement councils; and
            (5) the Fund.
    (d) Wildlife Movements Grant Program.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary shall establish a wildlife 
        movements grant program (referred to in this subsection as the 
        ``grant program'') to encourage wildlife movement in accordance 
        with this subsection.
            (2) Grants.--Beginning not later than 3 years after the 
        date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary, based on 
        recommendations from the National Coordination Committee under 
        section 7(b)(5)(E)(iii), shall make grants to 1 or more 
        projects that--
                    (A) are a priority project identified by a regional 
                wildlife movement council;
                    (B) satisfy the purposes of the Program described 
                in subsection (b); and
                    (C) increase connectivity for native species.
            (3) Requirements.--In administering the grant program, the 
        Secretary shall use the criteria, guidelines, contracts, 
        reporting requirements, and evaluation metrics developed by the 
        National Coordination Committee under clauses (i) and (ii) of 
        section 7(b)(5)(E).

SEC. 5. NATIONAL WILDLIFE CORRIDORS DATABASE.

    (a) In General.--Not later than 18 months after the date of 
enactment of this Act, the Director of the United States Geological 
Survey (referred to in this section as the ``Director''), in 
consultation with the National Coordination Committee and the regional 
wildlife movement councils, shall establish a database, to be known as 
the ``National Wildlife Corridors Database''.
    (b) Contents.--
            (1) In general.--The Database shall--
                    (A) include maps, data, models, surveys, and 
                descriptions of native species habitats and corridors 
                that have been developed by Federal agencies, State 
                fish and wildlife agencies and natural heritage 
                programs, Indian tribes, local governments, 
                nongovernmental organizations, and industry; and
                    (B) include maps, models, analyses, and 
                descriptions of projected shifts in habitats and 
                corridors of native species in response to climate 
                change or other environmental factors.
            (2) Requirements.--
                    (A) Data quality.--In establishing the Database, 
                the Director shall ensure--
                            (i) the quality of the data in the 
                        Database; and
                            (ii) that the data in the database--
                                    (I) reflects the best scientific 
                                data available; and
                                    (II) meets accepted geospatial and 
                                metadata protocols and standards.
                    (B) Availability.--The Director shall make the 
                data, models, and analyses included in the Database 
                available at scales useful to State, Tribal, local, 
                private landowner, and Federal agency decisionmakers 
                and the public.
    (c) Requirements.--Subject to subsection (d), the Director, in 
collaboration with the National Coordination Committee and the regional 
wildlife movement councils, shall--
            (1) design the Database to support State, Tribal, local, 
        private landowner, and Federal agency decisionmakers and the 
        public with data that will allow those entities--
                    (A) to prioritize and target natural resource 
                adaptation strategies;
                    (B) to assess the impacts of proposed energy, 
                water, transportation, and transmission projects, and 
                other development activities, and to avoid, minimize, 
                and mitigate the impacts of those projects and 
                activities on habitats and National Wildlife Corridors;
                    (C) to assess the impact of existing development on 
                native species habitats and National Wildlife 
                Corridors; and
                    (D) to develop strategies that promote landscape 
                and aquatic connectivity to allow native species to 
                move--
                            (i) to meet biological and ecological 
                        needs;
                            (ii) to adjust to shifts in habitat; and
                            (iii) to adapt to climate change; and
            (2) establish a coordination process--
                    (A) to establish geospatial data and metadata 
                protocols and standards that enhance capabilities for 
                integrating geographical information systems, 
                databases, and analytical tools that have been 
                developed by Federal agencies, State fish and wildlife 
                agencies and natural heritage programs, Indian tribes, 
                local governments, nongovernmental organizations, and 
                industry;
                    (B) to ensure consistent data collection and 
                monitoring system protocols of maps, models, high-
                quality data, surveys, and other geospatial information 
                with respect to native species connectivity;
                    (C) to update maps and other information with 
                respect to landscapes, native species habitats and 
                ranges, National Wildlife Corridors, native species 
                populations, and wildlife movement changes as 
                information becomes available;
                    (D) to design useful and relevant search tools and 
                methods for relevant stakeholders;
                    (E) not later than 2 years after the date of 
                enactment of this Act, to develop and submit to the 
                Secretary and the appropriate committees of Congress a 
                report that--
                            (i) provides an assessment of existing 
                        maps, data, models, surveys, and descriptions 
                        of native species habitats and corridors that 
                        have been developed by Federal agencies, State 
                        fish and wildlife agencies and natural heritage 
                        programs, Indian tribes, local governments, 
                        nongovernmental organizations, and industry; 
                        and
                            (ii) identifies gaps in native species 
                        habitat and corridor information; and
                    (F) not less frequently than once every 5 years, to 
                develop and submit a report to the Secretary and the 
                appropriate committees of Congress, to be made publicly 
                available, that--
                            (i) outlines the categories for data that 
                        may be included in the Database;
                            (ii) outlines the data protocols and 
                        standards for each category of data in the 
                        Database;
                            (iii) identifies gaps in native species 
                        habitat and National Wildlife Corridor 
                        information, mapping, and research in the 
                        Database that should be addressed to fully 
                        understand and assess current data;
                            (iv) prioritizes research and future data 
                        collection activities for use in updating the 
                        Database; and
                            (v) evaluates and quantifies the efficacy 
                        of the Database to meet the needs of the 
                        entities described in paragraph (1).
    (d) Proprietary Interests and Protected Information.--In developing 
the Database, the Director shall--
            (1) as applicable, protect proprietary interests with 
        respect to any licensed information, licensed data, and other 
        items contained in the Database; and
            (2) protect information in the Database with respect to the 
        habitats and ranges of specific native species to prevent 
        poaching, illegal taking and trapping, and other related 
        threats to native species.

SEC. 6. NATIONAL WILDLIFE CORRIDORS.

    (a) Designation.--The Secretaries shall designate connectivity 
corridors, to be known as ``National Wildlife Corridors'', on the land 
or water under the respective jurisdictions of the Secretaries in 
accordance with regulations promulgated by the Secretary under 
subsection (c)(1).
    (b) Strategy.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 18 months after the date of 
        enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall develop a strategy 
        for the effective development of the National Wildlife 
        Corridors designed--
                    (A) to ensure the fulfillment of the purposes of 
                the Program described in section 4(b); and
                    (B) to include--
                            (i) consideration of connectivity needs 
                        with respect to non-Federal land and water;
                            (ii) effective coordination of National 
                        Wildlife Corridors that span across land and 
                        water of Federal, State, Tribal, and local 
                        jurisdictions and private land with the 
                        National Coordination Committee and the 
                        regional wildlife movement councils; and
                            (iii) an approximate development timeline 
                        for the implementation of National Wildlife 
                        Corridors.
            (2) Scope.--The scope of a National Wildlife Corridor to be 
        designated under subsection (a) may vary according to the 
        habitat needs of individual or ecologically associated native 
        species.
            (3) Consultation and coordination.--The Secretary shall 
        develop the strategy under paragraph (1)--
                    (A) in consultation with the Secretaries; and
                    (B) in coordination with--
                            (i) States, Indian tribes, and other 
                        interested stakeholders, including relevant 
                        private landowners;
                            (ii) landscape- and seascape-scale 
                        partnerships, including--
                                    (I) the National Fish Habitat 
                                Partnership;
                                    (II) the National Ocean Service of 
                                the National Oceanic and Atmospheric 
                                Administration;
                                    (III) the National Marine Fisheries 
                                Service;
                                    (IV) regional ocean partnerships;
                                    (V) the Climate Science Centers of 
                                the Department of the Interior; and
                                    (VI) the Landscape Conservation 
                                Cooperative Network; and
                            (iii) the National Coordination Committee; 
                        and
                            (iv) the regional wildlife movement 
                        councils.
    (c) Rulemaking.--
            (1) National wildlife corridors.--Not later than 2 years 
        after the date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary, in 
        consultation with the Secretaries, pursuant to the land, water, 
        and resource management planning authorities of the 
        Secretaries, shall establish a process, by regulation, for the 
        designation and management of National Wildlife Corridors of 
        land and water under the respective jurisdictions of the 
        Secretaries.
            (2) Federal land and water management.--The Secretaries 
        shall consider the designation of National Wildlife Corridors 
        in any process relating to the issuance, revision, or 
        modification of a management plan for land or water under the 
        respective jurisdiction of the Secretaries.
    (d) Criteria for Designation.--The regulations promulgated by the 
Secretary under subsection (c)(1) shall ensure that, in designating a 
National Wildlife Corridor, the Secretaries--
            (1) base the designation of the National Wildlife Corridor 
        on--
                    (A) the best available science; and
                    (B) historic, current, or likely future continuous, 
                annual, or periodic use of the land or water to be 
                designated as a National Wildlife Corridor by native 
                species;
            (2) may take into consideration recommendations from the 
        National Coordination Committee under subparagraph (F) of 
        section 7(b)(5) and information from the North American Plan 
        for Maintaining Wildlife Movements under subparagraph (C) of 
        that section;
            (3) may consider information contained in--
                    (A) governmental or nongovernmental assessments, 
                plans, monitoring reports, and studies; and
                    (B) other relevant sources of information, such 
                as--
                            (i) ecoregional assessments;
                            (ii) nongovernmental reports;
                            (iii) public transportation plans;
                            (iv) State native species data and State 
                        wildlife action plans;
                            (v) traditional ecological knowledge, 
                        including Tribal and indigenous ecological 
                        knowledge; and
                            (vi) Federal agency reports;
            (4) shall ensure that the National Wildlife Corridor 
        supports the connectivity, persistence, resilience, and 
        adaptability of native species by providing for--
                    (A) dispersal and genetic exchange between 
                populations;
                    (B) range shifting, range expansion, or range 
                restoration, such as in response to climate change;
                    (C) seasonal movement or migration; or
                    (D) succession, movement, or recolonization 
                following--
                            (i) a disturbance, such as fire, flood, 
                        drought, or infestation; or
                            (ii) population decline due to disease or 
                        previous extirpation; and
            (5) shall be informed by the Database.
    (e) Designation of Land or Water Requiring Restoration or 
Connection of Habitat.--The Secretaries may designate as a National 
Wildlife Corridor land or water that--
            (1) requires restoration, including--
                    (A) land or water that is degraded; and
                    (B) land or water from which a species is currently 
                absent--
                            (i) but may be colonized or recolonized by 
                        the species; or
                            (ii) to which the species may be 
                        reintroduced or restored; and
            (2) is fragmented or consists of only a portion of the 
        habitat required for a native species.
    (f) Nomination for Designation.--
            (1) In general.--In establishing the process for 
        designation under subsection (c)(1), the Secretary shall 
        include procedures under which--
                    (A) any person or State, Tribal, or local 
                government may submit to the Secretaries a nomination 
                to designate as a National Wildlife Corridor an area 
                under the respective jurisdiction of the Secretaries; 
                and
                    (B) the Secretaries shall consider and, not later 
                than 2 years after the date on which the nomination was 
                submitted under subparagraph (A), respond to any 
                nomination submitted under that subparagraph.
            (2) Supporting documentation.--A nomination for designation 
        under paragraph (1)(A) shall include supporting documentation, 
        including--
                    (A) summaries and references of, with respect to 
                the designation of a National Wildlife Corridor--
                            (i) the best science available at the time 
                        of the submission of the nomination for 
                        designation; and
                            (ii) the most current scientific reports 
                        available at the time of the submission of the 
                        nomination for designation;
                    (B) information with respect to how the nomination 
                was coordinated with potential partners;
                    (C) a description of supporting stakeholders, such 
                as States, Indian tribes, local governments, scientific 
                organizations, nongovernmental organizations, and 
                affected private landowners; and
                    (D) any additional information the Secretaries, in 
                consultation with the National Coordination Committee, 
                determine is relevant to the nomination.
    (g) Designation on Military Lands.--
            (1) In general.--Any designation of a National Wildlife 
        Corridor on a military installation (as defined in section 
        100(1) of the Sikes Act (16 U.S.C. 670(1))--
                    (A) shall be consistent with the use of military 
                installations and State-owned National Guard 
                installations to ensure the preparedness of the Armed 
                Forces; and
                    (B) may not result in a net loss in the capability 
                of military installation lands to support the military 
                mission of the installation.
            (2) Suspension or termination of designation.--The 
        Secretary of Defense may suspend or terminate the designation 
        of any National Wildlife Corridor on a military installation if 
        the Secretary of Defense considers the suspension or 
        termination to be necessary for military purposes, after public 
        notice of--
                    (A) the suspension or termination; and
                    (B) any voluntary steps taken by the Department of 
                Defense to attempt to provide similar ecological 
                connectivity elsewhere on the military installation.
    (h) Coordination and Cooperation.--
            (1) In general.--To the maximum extent practicable, 
        consistent with applicable law, the Secretaries shall 
        coordinate the designation of a National Wildlife Corridor 
        with--
                    (A) other relevant Federal agencies;
                    (B) the National Coordination Committee;
                    (C) the regional wildlife movement councils; and
                    (D) affected--
                            (i) States, including State fish and 
                        wildlife agencies and other State agencies 
                        responsible for managing natural resources;
                            (ii) local governments;
                            (iii) Indian tribes;
                            (iv) private landowners; and
                            (v) nongovernmental organizations engaged 
                        in the conservation of native species.
            (2) Identification of supporting non-federal land and 
        water.--In designating a National Wildlife Corridor, the 
        Secretaries may identify, in consultation with affected States, 
        Indian tribes, local governments, private landowners, the 
        applicable regional wildlife movement council, and 
        nongovernmental organizations engaged in the conservation of 
        native species, non-Federal land and water that support the 
        purposes of the National Wildlife Corridor by--
                    (A) maintaining habitat connectivity; or
                    (B) providing other essential functions for native 
                species and the habitats of native species.

SEC. 7. NATIONAL COORDINATION COMMITTEE AND REGIONAL WILDLIFE MOVEMENT 
              COUNCILS.

    (a) Purposes.--The purposes of this section are--
            (1) to ensure the fulfillment of the purposes of the 
        Program described in section 4(b); and
            (2) to support habitat connectivity and the movement of 
        native species on Federal and non-Federal land through 
        coordination, collaboration, administrative, and financial 
        support, including the sharing of data contained in the 
        Database.
    (b) National Coordination Committee.--
            (1) Establishment.--Not later than 18 months after the date 
        of enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall establish a 
        committee, to be known as the ``National Coordination 
        Committee''.
            (2) Administrative support.--The Secretary shall provide 
        administrative support for the National Coordination Committee.
            (3) Membership.--The National Coordination Committee shall 
        be composed of--
                    (A) the Secretary (or a designee);
                    (B) the Secretary of Transportation (or a 
                designee);
                    (C) the Secretary of Agriculture (or a designee);
                    (D) the Secretary of Commerce (or a designee);
                    (E) the Secretary of Defense (or a designee);
                    (F) the Director of the Bureau of Indian Affairs 
                (or a designee);
                    (G) the Executive Director of the Association of 
                Fish and Wildlife Agencies (or a designee);
                    (H) a representative of an intertribal 
                organization, to be appointed by the Secretary;
                    (I) the chairperson of each regional wildlife 
                movement council (or a designee); and
                    (J) not more than 3 representatives of 
                nongovernmental, science, or academic organizations 
                with expertise in wildlife conservation and habitat 
                connectivity, to be appointed by the Secretary in a 
                manner that ensures that the membership of the National 
                Coordination Committee is fair and balanced.
            (4) Chairperson.--The National Coordination Committee shall 
        select a Chairperson and Vice Chairperson from among the 
        members of the National Coordination Committee.
            (5) Duties.--The National Coordination Committee--
                    (A) shall discuss issues of relevance to all 
                regional wildlife movement councils, including issues 
                and reports related to the purposes of the Program 
                described in section 4(b) and implementation of this 
                Act;
                    (B) shall establish standards for regional wildlife 
                movement plans to allow for better cross-regional 
                collaboration;
                    (C) shall, not later than 3 years after the date of 
                enactment of this Act, create a plan, to be known as 
                the ``North American Plan for Maintaining Wildlife 
                Movements''--
                            (i) to incorporate the Federal strategy for 
                        wildlife movement on land developed under 
                        section 6(b) under the jurisdiction of the 
                        Secretaries;
                            (ii) to incorporate regional wildlife 
                        movement plans; and
                            (iii) to identify connectivity priorities;
                    (D) shall ensure consistency between National 
                Wildlife Corridors and the North American Plan for 
                Maintaining Wildlife Movements;
                    (E) shall, with respect to the wildlife movements 
                grant program under section 4(d)--
                            (i) establish criteria and develop 
                        guidelines for the solicitation of applications 
                        for grants by regional wildlife movement 
                        councils;
                            (ii) develop standardized contracts, 
                        reporting requirements, and evaluation metrics 
                        for grant recipients; and
                            (iii) make recommendations to the Secretary 
                        for the selection of grant recipients; and
                    (F) may make recommendations to the Secretaries for 
                designating National Wildlife Corridors on Federal 
                land--
                            (i) based on--
                                    (I) regional wildlife movement 
                                plans; and
                                    (II) information from the Database; 
                                and
                            (ii) that are consistent with the purposes 
                        of the Program described in section 4(b).
            (6) Applicability of faca.--Except as otherwise provided in 
        this subsection, the Federal Advisory Committee Act (5 U.S.C. 
        App.) shall apply to the National Coordination Committee.
    (c) Regional Wildlife Movement Councils.--
            (1) Establishment.--Not later than 18 months after the date 
        of enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall establish not 
        less than 4 regional wildlife movement councils with separate 
        geographic jurisdictions that encompass the entire United 
        States, including territories and freely associated states.
            (2) Membership.--
                    (A) In general.--Each regional wildlife movement 
                council shall be composed of--
                            (i) the director of each State fish and 
                        wildlife agency within the jurisdiction of the 
                        regional wildlife movement council (or a 
                        designee);
                            (ii) representatives from Tribal 
                        governments within the jurisdiction of the 
                        regional wildlife movement council;
                            (iii) to serve as a Federal agency liaison 
                        and nonvoting, ex officio member--
                                    (I) the Director of the United 
                                States Fish and Wildlife Service (or a 
                                designee); or
                                    (II) the director of any applicable 
                                regional office of the United States 
                                Fish and Wildlife Service (or a 
                                designee); and
                            (iv) not more than 3 representatives of 
                        nongovernmental, science, or academic 
                        organizations with expertise in native species 
                        conservation and the habitat connectivity needs 
                        of the region covered by the regional wildlife 
                        movement council.
                    (B) Requirements.--
                            (i) Membership.--The Secretary shall ensure 
                        that the membership of each regional wildlife 
                        movement council is fair and balanced in terms 
                        of expertise and perspectives represented.
                            (ii) Expertise.--Each regional wildlife 
                        movement council shall include experts in 
                        ecological connectivity, native species 
                        ecology, and ecological adaptation.
                    (C) Chairperson.--Each regional wildlife movement 
                council shall select a Chairperson and Vice Chairperson 
                from among the members of the regional wildlife 
                movement council.
            (3) Duties.--Each regional wildlife movement council 
        shall--
                    (A) not later than 2 years after the date of 
                enactment of this Act and in accordance with any 
                standards established by the National Coordination 
                Committee, prepare and submit to the Secretary and the 
                National Coordination Committee a regional wildlife 
                movement plan that--
                            (i) maintains native species movement by 
                        identifying--
                                    (I) priority areas on non-Federal 
                                land under the jurisdiction of the 
                                regional wildlife movement council 
                                where resources are needed to secure 
                                biological movements by native species; 
                                and
                                    (II) research priorities and data 
                                needs for the Database; and
                            (ii) not less frequently than once every 5 
                        years, is revised, amended, or updated, as 
                        determined necessary by the regional wildlife 
                        movement council;
                    (B) provide for public engagement, at appropriate 
                times and in appropriate locations in the region 
                covered by the regional wildlife movement council, to 
                allow all interested persons an opportunity to be heard 
                in the development and implementation of a regional 
                wildlife movement plan;
                    (C) establish criteria for soliciting project 
                proposals to be submitted to the Secretary for a 
                wildlife movements grant under section 4(d) that are 
                consistent with the purposes of the Program described 
                in section 4(b);
                    (D) recommend proposals to the National 
                Coordination Committee for recommendation to the 
                Secretary for priority projects for wildlife movements 
                grants under section 4(d) to maintain wildlife 
                movements in the area under the jurisdiction of the 
                regional wildlife movement council; and
                    (E) submit to the Secretary and the National 
                Coordination Committee, and make publicly available, an 
                annual report describing the activities of the regional 
                wildlife movement council.
            (4) Coordination.--If applicable, to increase habitat 
        connectivity between Federal and non-Federal land and water, a 
        regional wildlife movement council shall coordinate with--
                    (A) Federal agencies;
                    (B) Indian tribes;
                    (C) regional fishery management councils 
                established under section 302(a) of the Magnuson-
                Stevens Fishery Conservation and Management Act (16 
                U.S.C. 1852(a));
                    (D) migratory bird joint ventures partnerships 
                recognized by the United States Fish and Wildlife 
                Service with respect to migratory bird species;
                    (E) State fish and wildlife agencies;
                    (F) regional associations of fish and wildlife 
                agencies;
                    (G) nongovernmental organizations;
                    (H) the National Coordination Committee;
                    (I) fish habitat partnerships;
                    (J) other regional wildlife movement councils with 
                respect to crossregional projects;
                    (K) international wildlife management entities with 
                respect to transboundary species; and
                    (L) Federal and State transportation agencies.
            (5) Applicability of faca.--Except as otherwise provided in 
        this subsection, the Federal Advisory Committee Act (5 U.S.C. 
        App.) shall apply to the regional wildlife movement councils.

SEC. 8. PROTECTION AND MANAGEMENT OF NATIONAL WILDLIFE CORRIDORS.

    (a) In General.--The Secretaries shall, consistent with other 
applicable land and water management requirements, laws, and 
regulations, manage each National Wildlife Corridor under the 
respective administrative jurisdiction of the Secretaries in a manner 
that contributes to the long-term connectivity, persistence, 
resilience, and adaptability of native species, including through--
            (1) the prevention of habitat loss, degradation, 
        fragmentation, and obstructions within the National Wildlife 
        Corridor;
            (2) the implementation of strategies and activities that 
        enhance the ability of native species to respond to climate 
        change and other environmental factors;
            (3) the maintenance or restoration of the integrity and 
        functionality of the National Wildlife Corridor and associated 
        habitat;
            (4) the mitigation or removal of human-caused obstructions 
        to native species movement, including--
                    (A) power lines;
                    (B) roads;
                    (C) fences;
                    (D) dams;
                    (E) bridges;
                    (F) railways;
                    (G) culverts; and
                    (H) other hydrological obstructions; and
            (5) the use of existing conservation programs under the 
        respective jurisdiction of the Secretaries to contribute to the 
        connectivity, persistence, resilience, and adaptability of 
        native species.
    (b) National Wildlife Corridors Spanning Multiple Jurisdictions.--
In the case of a National Wildlife Corridor that spans the 
administrative jurisdiction of 2 or more of the Secretaries, the 
relevant Secretaries shall coordinate management of the National 
Wildlife Corridor in accordance with section 6(c)(1) to advance the 
purposes of the Program described in section 4(b).
    (c) Road Mitigation.--In the case of a National Wildlife Corridor 
that intersects, adjoins, or crosses a new or existing Federal, State, 
Tribal, or local road or highway, the relevant Secretaries shall 
coordinate with the Secretary of Transportation and State, Tribal, and 
local transportation agencies, as appropriate, to develop, implement, 
and fund environmental mitigation measures--
            (1) to improve public safety and reduce vehicle-caused 
        native species mortality while maintaining habitat 
        connectivity; and
            (2) to mitigate damage to native species, aquatic species 
        passage, flood resiliency, habitat, and ecosystem connectivity, 
        including through--
                    (A) the construction, maintenance, or replacement 
                of native species underpasses, overpasses, and 
                culverts; and
                    (B) the maintenance, replacement, or removal of 
                dams, bridges, culverts, and other hydrological 
                obstructions.
    (d) Working Landscapes.--The Secretary of Agriculture--
            (1) may direct investment in working landscapes through 
        conservation programs under the jurisdiction of the Secretary 
        of Agriculture to support the purposes of the Program described 
        in section 4(b); and
            (2) acting through the Chief of the Natural Resources 
        Conservation Service, shall give priority under the 
        conservation programs under the jurisdiction of the Chief, 
        notwithstanding any provision of law with respect to those 
        programs, to non-Federal land and water identified under 
        section 6(h)(2) as supportive of the purposes of a National 
        Wildlife Corridor.
    (e) Coordination.--In managing a National Wildlife Corridor, the 
Secretaries shall, to the maximum extent practicable--
            (1) coordinate with other applicable Federal agencies; and
            (2) take into consideration any State conservation plans 
        for native species and the habitats of native species, 
        including any--
                    (A) State comprehensive fish and wildlife 
                conservation strategy;
                    (B) State conservation strategy for a species;
                    (C) Tribal conservation plan;
                    (D) local government land use and conservation 
                plan;
                    (E) nongovernmental conservation plan; and
                    (F) relevant private land conservation plan.

SEC. 9. WILDLIFE CORRIDORS STEWARDSHIP AND PROTECTION FUND.

    (a) Establishment and Contents.--There is established in the 
Treasury a fund, to be known as the ``Wildlife Corridors Stewardship 
and Protection Fund'', that consists of donations of amounts accepted 
under subsection (c).
    (b) Use.--The Fund--
            (1) shall be administered by the National Fish and Wildlife 
        Foundation; and
            (2) may be used by the National Fish and Wildlife 
        Foundation to enhance the management and protection of National 
        Wildlife Corridors and non-Federal land and water identified 
        under section 6(h)(2)--
                    (A) to provide financial assistance to the Federal 
                Government, States, Indian tribes, local governments, 
                and nongovernmental, science, and academic 
                organizations; and
                    (B) to support the voluntary efforts of private 
                landowners.
    (c) Donations.--The National Fish and Wildlife Foundation may 
accept donations of amounts for deposit into the Fund.
    (d) Coordination.--In administering the Fund, the National Fish and 
Wildlife Foundation may coordinate with regional wildlife movement 
councils and the National Coordination Committee to the maximum extent 
practicable.
    (e) Disclosure of Use.--Not later than 1 year after the date of 
enactment of this Act, and annually thereafter, the Secretary shall 
ensure that the National Fish and Wildlife Foundation makes publicly 
available a description of usage of the Fund during the preceding 
calendar year.

SEC. 10. PROTECTION OF INDIAN TRIBES.

    (a) Federal Trust Responsibility.--Nothing in this Act amends, 
alters, or waives the Federal trust responsibility to Indian tribes.
    (b) Freedom of Information Act.--
            (1) Exemption.--Information described in paragraph (2) 
        shall not be subject to disclosure under section 552 of title 
        5, United States Code (commonly known as the ``Freedom of 
        Information Act''), if the head of the agency that receives the 
        information, in consultation with the Secretary and the 
        affected Indian tribe, determines that disclosure may--
                    (A) cause a significant invasion of privacy;
                    (B) risk harm to human remains or resources, 
                cultural items, uses, or activities; or
                    (C) impede the use of a traditional religious site 
                by practitioners.
            (2) Information described.--Information referred to in 
        paragraph (1) is information received by a Federal agency--
                    (A) pursuant to this Act relating to--
                            (i) the location, character, or ownership 
                        of human remains of a person of Indian 
                        ancestry; or
                            (ii) resources, cultural items, uses, or 
                        activities identified by an Indian tribe as 
                        traditional or cultural because of the long-
                        established significance or ceremonial nature 
                        to the Indian tribe; or
                    (B) pursuant to the Native American Graves 
                Protection and Repatriation Act (25 U.S.C. 3001 et 
                seq.).

SEC. 11. RELATIONSHIP TO OTHER CONSERVATION LAWS.

    Nothing in this Act amends or otherwise affects any other law 
(including regulations) relating to the conservation of native species.

SEC. 12. COLLABORATION.

    The Secretaries may partner with and provide funds to States, local 
governments, Indian tribes, the National Coordination Committee, and 
the regional wildlife movement councils to support the purposes of this 
Act.

SEC. 13. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.

    (a) Wildlife Movements Grant Program.--
            (1) In general.--There is authorized to be appropriated to 
        the Secretary to carry out the grant program under section 4(e) 
        $50,000,000 for fiscal year 2019 and each fiscal year 
        thereafter.
            (2) Requirements.--Amounts appropriated under paragraph (1) 
        may be used to complement or match other Federal or non-Federal 
        funding received by the projects funded by those grants.
            (3) Administrative support.--Not more than 5 percent of 
        amounts appropriated under paragraph (1) may be used for 
        administrative support.
    (b) Regional Wildlife Movement Councils.--
            (1) In general.--There is authorized to be appropriated to 
        the Secretary to provide support for the regional wildlife 
        movement councils to carry out section 7(c) $1,000,000 for 
        fiscal year 2019 and each fiscal year thereafter.
            (2) Equal division.--Amounts appropriated under paragraph 
        (1) shall be proportionally divided between each regional 
        wildlife movement council.
            (3) Administrative support.--Not more than 10 percent of 
        amounts appropriated under paragraph (1) may be used for 
        administrative support.
    (c) National Wildlife Connectivity Database.--There are authorized 
to be appropriated to the Secretary of the Interior to carry out 
section 5--
            (1) $3,000,000 for fiscal year 2019; and
            (2) $1,500,000 for fiscal year 2020 and each fiscal year 
        thereafter.
    (d) Designation and Administration of National Wildlife 
Corridors.--There are authorized to be appropriated to carry out 
sections 6 and 8 for fiscal year 2019 and each fiscal year thereafter--
            (1) to the Secretary of the Interior, $7,500,000;
            (2) to the Secretary of Agriculture, $3,000,000;
            (3) to the Secretary of Defense, $1,500,000;
            (4) to the Secretary of Commerce, $3,000,000; and
            (5) to the Secretary of Transportation, $3,000,000.
                                 &lt;all&gt;
</pre></body></html>
