<html><body><pre>
[Congressional Bills 116th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H.R. 4347 Introduced in House (IH)]

&lt;DOC&gt;






116th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                H. R. 4347

   To enhance the Federal Government's planning and preparation for 
  extreme weather and the Federal Government's dissemination of best 
practices to respond to extreme weather, thereby increasing resilience, 
 improving regional coordination, and mitigating the financial risk to 
    the Federal Government from such extreme weather, and for other 
                               purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                           September 17, 2019

  Mr. Cartwright (for himself, Mr. Webster of Florida, Mr. Lowenthal, 
Miss Gonzalez-Colon of Puerto Rico, Mr. Gosar, Mr. Rouda, Mr. Connolly, 
Mr. LaMalfa, Ms. Norton, and Mr. Rouzer) introduced the following bill; 
       which was referred to the Committee on Transportation and 
   Infrastructure, and in addition to the Committee on Oversight and 
 Reform, for a period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in 
   each case for consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
                jurisdiction of the committee concerned

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
   To enhance the Federal Government's planning and preparation for 
  extreme weather and the Federal Government's dissemination of best 
practices to respond to extreme weather, thereby increasing resilience, 
 improving regional coordination, and mitigating the financial risk to 
    the Federal Government from such extreme weather, and for other 
                               purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE; TABLE OF CONTENTS.

    (a) Short Title.--This Act may be cited as the ``Preparedness and 
Risk Management for Extreme Weather Patterns Assuring Resilience and 
Effectiveness Act of 2019'' or the ``PREPARE Act of 2019''.
    (b) Table of Contents.--The table of contents for this Act is as 
follows:

Sec. 1. Short title; table of contents.
Sec. 2. Interagency Council on Extreme Weather Resilience, 
                            Preparedness, and Risk Identification and 
                            Management.
Sec. 3. Agency planning for extreme weather-related risks.
Sec. 4. Website.
Sec. 5. Providing adequate resources and support.
Sec. 6. Inventory.
Sec. 7. Meetings.
Sec. 8. Progress updates.
Sec. 9. Definitions.
Sec. 10. Requirement to include agency extreme weather plan in agency 
                            performance plan.

SEC. 2. INTERAGENCY COUNCIL ON EXTREME WEATHER RESILIENCE, 
              PREPAREDNESS, AND RISK IDENTIFICATION AND MANAGEMENT.

    (a) Establishment.--There is hereby established a council to be 
known as the ``Interagency Council on Extreme Weather Resilience, 
Preparedness, and Risk Identification and Management''.
    (b) Membership.--The Interagency Council shall be composed of the 
following:
            (1) Senior Federal officials, to be appointed by the 
        President, including representation from the following:
                    (A) The Council on Environmental Quality.
                    (B) The Office of Science and Technology Policy.
                    (C) The National Security Council.
                    (D) The Office of Management and Budget.
                    (E) The Department of Transportation.
                    (F) The Environmental Protection Agency.
                    (G) The National Institute of Standards and 
                Technology.
                    (H) The National Oceanic and Atmospheric 
                Administration.
                    (I) The Department of Energy.
                    (J) The Department of Homeland Security.
                    (K) The Federal Emergency Management Agency.
                    (L) The Department of Defense.
                    (M) The National Aeronautics and Space 
                Administration.
                    (N) The Department of Agriculture.
                    (O) The Department of Housing and Urban 
                Development.
                    (P) The Department of Justice.
            (2) Senior Federal officials, to be appointed by the 
        President, who have relevant policy expertise and policy 
        responsibilities, including in the following areas:
                    (A) Economic policy and risk analysis.
                    (B) Foreign affairs.
                    (C) Defense and intelligence.
                    (D) Homeland security.
                    (E) Energy.
                    (F) Environmental protection.
                    (G) Natural and cultural resources.
                    (H) Coasts, oceans, rivers, wetlands, and 
                floodplains.
                    (I) Agriculture.
                    (J) Health and social services.
                    (K) Transportation and infrastructure.
                    (L) Housing.
                    (M) Education.
                    (N) Extreme weather data analysis or meteorological 
                science.
                    (O) Social science.
                    (P) Strategic planning.
                    (Q) Urban and land use planning.
                    (R) Infrastructure systems.
                    (S) Civil rights.
                    (T) Other areas the President determines 
                appropriate.
    (c) Co-Chairpersons.--
            (1) In general.--The Interagency Council shall be co-
        chaired by the Administrator of the Federal Emergency 
        Management Agency and the Deputy Director of the Office of 
        Management and Budget. The President may appoint one or more 
        additional members as co-chairs, as appropriate.
            (2) Duties.--The co-chairpersons shall--
                    (A) oversee the Interagency Council's response to 
                the Government Accountability Office's recommendations 
                under subsection (f)(5);
                    (B) use the evaluation framework and performance 
                metrics developed pursuant to subsection (f)(6) to 
                evaluate agency progress in meeting the goals and 
                implementing the priorities described in subsection 
                (f)(1)(A); and
                    (C) work to ensure that sufficient resources are 
                available for agencies to--
                            (i) meet the goals and implement the 
                        priorities described in subsection (f)(1)(A); 
                        and
                            (ii) implement the recommendations 
                        developed under subsection (f)(2).
    (d) Administration.--The co-chairpersons of the Interagency Council 
(or staff designated by the co-chairpersons) shall provide 
administrative support and additional resources, as appropriate, to the 
Interagency Council to the extent permitted by law and within existing 
appropriations. The Interagency Council co-chairpersons shall determine 
the amount of funding and personnel necessary for the Interagency 
Council to carry out its duties and the amount of funding and personnel 
each agency represented on the Interagency Council should contribute in 
order for the Interagency Council to carry out such duties. Agencies 
shall, upon the request of the co-chairpersons of the Interagency 
Council, make available personnel, administrative support services, and 
information to the Interagency Council.
    (e) Structure.--
            (1) Steering committee.--The co-chairpersons of the 
        Interagency Council shall designate a subset of members of the 
        Interagency Council to serve on a steering committee. Such 
        steering committee shall assist the Interagency Council in 
        determining its priorities and its strategic direction.
            (2) Working groups.--The co-chairpersons of the Interagency 
        Council and its steering committee may establish working groups 
        as needed.
    (f) Duties of the Interagency Council.--
            (1) Goals and priorities.--
                    (A) In general.--The Interagency Council shall 
                establish Governmentwide goals and priorities for 
                addressing extreme weather resilience, preparedness, 
                and risk identification and management, taking into 
                account regional, economic, cultural, and ecological 
                variations, and the disparate impact of extreme 
                weather. In establishing such goals and priorities, the 
                Interagency Council shall consider the National Oil and 
                Hazardous Substances Pollution Contingency Plan, agency 
                continuity of operations plans, the National 
                Preparedness Goal, the National Preparedness Report, 
                the National Global Change Research Plan, plans for the 
                development and implementation of the Building 
                Resilient Infrastructure and Communities program, the 
                Mitigation Framework Leadership Group's National 
                Mitigation Investment Strategy (if available), State 
                and local mitigation plans, and all relevant findings 
                described in the Government Accountability Office's 
                High-Risk Series.
                    (B) Coordination.--In executing the duties pursuant 
                to this subsection, the Interagency Council shall 
                coordinate with other entities in the Federal 
                Government focused on extreme weather mitigation and 
                recovery (including the Mitigation Framework Leadership 
                Group, the Recovery Support Functions Leaders Group, 
                and the Emergency Support Functions Leaders Group), to 
                facilitate communication and collaboration among 
                Federal activities.
                    (C) Incorporation into agency activities.--In 
                carrying out subparagraph (A), the Interagency Council 
                shall, in order to ensure that information relating to 
                extreme weather resilience, preparedness, and risk 
                identification and management is incorporated into 
                everyday agency activities--
                            (i) work with agencies to assist such 
                        agencies in considering the goals and 
                        priorities described in subparagraph (A) in 
                        agency strategic, programmatic, and budget 
                        planning;
                            (ii) identify details to be included in 
                        agency extreme weather plans; and
                            (iii) work to identify and communicate 
                        localized extreme weather and natural hazard 
                        risk to the extent possible using the best 
                        available information regarding risk, and 
                        encourage the development of thorough, updated 
                        maps, models, and tools to measure and evaluate 
                        risk.
            (2) Priority interagency federal actions.--The Interagency 
        Council shall develop, recommend, coordinate, and track 
        implementation of priority interagency Federal Government 
        actions related to addressing extreme weather resilience, 
        preparedness, and risk identification and management.
            (3) Support regional, state, and local actions.--The 
        Interagency Council shall support regional, State, and local 
        action to assess extreme weather-related vulnerabilities and 
        cost effectively increase extreme weather resilience, 
        preparedness, and risk identification and management of 
        communities, critical economic sectors, natural and built 
        infrastructure, and natural resources, including by--
                    (A) conducting inventories under section 6;
                    (B) convening meetings under section 7;
                    (C) providing guidance to agencies to produce tools 
                and products that enhance extreme weather resilience 
                planning, risk knowledge, and actions for use in all 
                levels of government, including guidance on cost-
                effectiveness as it pertains to extreme weather and on 
                how to prioritize funding in order to produce such 
                tools and products; and
                    (D) reviewing State and local mitigation plans.
            (4) Meteorological and extreme weather science.--The 
        Interagency Council shall facilitate the integration of 
        meteorological and extreme weather science, in addition to 
        other scientific disciplines such as physical, natural, and 
        social science that the Council determines to be appropriate, 
        in the policies, risk evaluation and communication, and 
        planning of agencies and the private sector, including by--
                    (A) promoting the development of innovative, 
                actionable, and accessible Federal extreme weather 
                resilience, preparedness, and risk identification and 
                management-related information, data, tools, and 
                examples of successful actions at appropriate scales 
                for decisionmakers; and
                    (B) providing such information, data, tools, and 
                examples to the agency or agencies designated under 
                section 4 to include on the website established and 
                maintained or designated pursuant to such section.
            (5) High-risk report recommendations.--The Interagency 
        Council shall assess the specific recommendations relating to 
        extreme weather described in the Government Accountability 
        Office's High-Risk Series, identify the feasibility of revising 
        Federal programs to implement such recommendations, and develop 
        a plan to address such recommendations when feasible that does 
        not duplicate the National Preparedness Goal.
            (6) Framework and performance metrics.--The Interagency 
        Council shall use existing and emerging science to develop or 
        adopt--
                    (A) a framework for evaluating the progress and 
                success of extreme weather resilience, preparedness, 
                and risk identification and management-related efforts 
                that is complementary to and not duplicative of any 
                local or national indicator system developed as part of 
                the National Preparedness Goal; and
                    (B) performance metrics that allow tracking of the 
                actions taken and progress made toward meeting the 
                goals and implementing the priorities described in 
                paragraph (1)(A).
            (7) Recommendations for the ceq, omb, and department of 
        homeland security.--The Interagency Council shall provide to 
        the Council on Environmental Quality, the Office of Management 
        and Budget, and the Department of Homeland Security 
        recommendations on how agencies should--
                    (A) develop or update agency extreme weather plans;
                    (B) remove barriers to and facilitate State and 
                local actions to address extreme weather resilience, 
                preparedness, and risk identification and management, 
                in agency regulations, guidance, and policies; and
                    (C) avoid duplication among Federal activities to 
                the extent practicable.
            (8) Public input and comment.--The Interagency Council 
        shall solicit and incorporate public input and comment as 
        appropriate into the decisions of the Interagency Council.
            (9) Inventory and meetings.--The Interagency Council shall 
        conduct inventories under section 6 and convene meetings under 
        section 7.
            (10) Definition of extreme weather.--The Interagency 
        Council shall consider and may update, not less frequently than 
        every two years, in consultation with appropriate scientific 
        bodies, the definition of ``extreme weather'' and what other 
        weather events (in addition to those described in section 9(3)) 
        qualify as extreme weather for purposes of this Act. The 
        definition of ``extreme weather'' shall be published and 
        updated, as necessary, on the website of the Council and in the 
        Federal Register.
            (11) Other duties.--The Interagency Council shall carry out 
        any other duties related to the purposes of this Act that the 
        co-chairpersons of the Interagency Council determine 
        appropriate.
            (12) Public information.--The Interagency Council shall--
                    (A) make information available online--
                            (i) for tracking implementation of agency 
                        extreme weather plans and Governmentwide goals 
                        and priorities described in paragraph (1)(A);
                            (ii) on recommendations relating to extreme 
                        weather described in the Government 
                        Accountability Office's High-Risk Series; and
                            (iii) on the results of the Council's 
                        efforts to identify nationwide and localized 
                        risks (including updated mapping efforts); and
                    (B) make such High-Risk Series and the reports 
                submitted under paragraph (13) available as the Council 
                determines appropriate.
            (13) Annual report.--Not later than one year after the date 
        of the enactment of this Act, and annually thereafter 
        (concurrently with the United States Global Change Research 
        Program Annual Report and the National Preparedness Report), 
        the Interagency Council shall submit to Congress, and make 
        available to the United States Global Change Research Program 
        and the Federal Emergency Management Agency, a report that--
                    (A) describes how the goals and priorities 
                described in paragraph (1)(A) are being met and 
                implemented using--
                            (i) the performance metrics developed under 
                        paragraph (6)(B); and
                            (ii) information on--
                                    (I) agency expenditures, broken 
                                down by program activity level if 
                                practicable, that are directly related 
                                to addressing extreme weather 
                                resilience, preparedness, and risk 
                                identification and management, 
                                including extreme weather resilience, 
                                preparedness, and risk identification 
                                and management of Federal facilities; 
                                and
                                    (II) the effectiveness of such 
                                expenditures, along with associated 
                                financial impacts and community, 
                                infrastructure, and environmental 
                                benefits, to the extent such data are 
                                available;
                    (B) provides recommendations to enhance the 
                effectiveness of such implementation and sets 
                benchmarks to meet;
                    (C) describes the progress of the regional 
                coordination efforts described in sections 6, 7, and 8; 
                and
                    (D) includes a summary of public comments solicited 
                under paragraph (8) and any action the Interagency 
                Council took to respond to such comments.
    (g) Consultation.--In carrying out paragraphs (2) through (12) of 
subsection (f), the Interagency Council shall consult with Federal 
agencies, State and local governments, academic and research 
institutions, and the private and nonprofit sectors.
    (h) OMB Guidance.--The Director of the Office of Management and 
Budget, taking into consideration the recommendations provided by the 
Interagency Council under subsection (f)(7), shall issue guidance to 
agencies on--
            (1) developing agency extreme weather plans, which shall 
        incorporate existing agency reports, where appropriate, to 
        prevent duplication and reduce overlap;
            (2) developing agency regulations, guidance, and policies 
        to remove barriers to and facilitate State and local actions to 
        address extreme weather resilience, preparedness, and risk 
        identification and management; and
            (3) assessing and managing extreme weather-related risks 
        under OMB Circular A-123 ``Management's Responsibility for 
        Enterprise Risk Management and Internal Control''.

SEC. 3. AGENCY PLANNING FOR EXTREME WEATHER-RELATED RISKS.

    (a) Agency Extreme Weather Resilience, Preparedness, and Risk 
Identification and Management Plans.--
            (1) Agency submission.--Not later than 1 year after the 
        date of the enactment of this Act, and every 2 years 
        thereafter, the head of each agency, in coordination with the 
        Administrator of the Federal Emergency Management Agency to 
        avoid duplication with the National Planning Frameworks, shall 
        submit to the Director of the Office of Management and Budget 
        and to the Interagency Council a comprehensive plan that 
        integrates consideration of extreme weather into such agency's 
        operations and overall mission objectives (hereinafter referred 
        to as an ``agency extreme weather plan'').
            (2) Hearing.--Not later than 1 year after the date of the 
        enactment of this Act, and every 2 years thereafter, the 
        Director of the Office of Management and Budget shall convene 
        an interagency budget crosscut and policy hearing to review and 
        integrate all the agency extreme weather plans and to ensure 
        that such extreme weather plans and the activities of agencies 
        align with the goals and priorities established under section 
        2(f)(1)(A).
            (3) OMB submission.--The Director of the Office of 
        Management and Budget, as part of the annual budget process, 
        shall consolidate and submit to Congress all agency extreme 
        weather plans.
    (b) Inclusions.--Each agency extreme weather plan shall include--
            (1) identification and assessment of extreme weather-
        related impacts on, and risks to--
                    (A) the agency's ability to accomplish its 
                missions, operations, and programs over time periods to 
                be designated by the Interagency Council; and
                    (B) State and local entities;
            (2) identification and assessment of barriers posed and 
        improvements that could be made to Federal programs the agency 
        administers to facilitate State and local actions to address 
        extreme weather resilience, preparedness, and risk 
        identification and management efforts;
            (3) a description of programs, policies, and plans the 
        agency has already put in place, as well as additional actions 
        the agency will take, to manage extreme weather risks in the 
        near term and build resilience in the short and long term;
            (4) a description of how the agency will consider the need 
        to improve extreme weather resilience, preparedness, and risk 
        identification and management, including the costs and benefits 
        of such improvement, with respect to agency suppliers, supply 
        chain, real property investments, and capital equipment 
        purchases, including by updating agency policies for leasing, 
        building upgrades, relocation of existing facilities and 
        equipment, and construction of new facilities;
            (5) a description of how the agency will support any 
        ongoing or future public-private partnership to improve extreme 
        weather resilience, preparedness, and risk identification and 
        management, including the cost and benefits of technology and 
        methodology improvements, hardening, or rapid restoration;
            (6) a description of how the agency will contribute to 
        coordinated interagency efforts to support extreme weather 
        resilience, preparedness, and risk identification and 
        management at all levels of government, including collaborative 
        work across agencies' regional offices and hubs, and through 
        coordinated development of information, data, and tools, 
        consistent with sections 6, 7, and 8; and
            (7) any other details identified by the Interagency Council 
        under section 2(f)(1)(C)(ii).

SEC. 4. WEBSITE.

    (a) In General.--The Interagency Council shall designate an agency 
or agencies to establish and maintain, or designate a website that 
provides timely, actionable, and accessible information, data, and 
tools on current and future risks related to extreme weather, 
preparedness, resilience, and risk identification and management, to 
support Federal, regional, State, local, private sector, and other 
decisionmakers.
    (b) Interagency Progress.--The website described under subsection 
(a), shall identify interagency progress, and propose the next 
interagency steps, towards responding to threats posed by extreme 
weather.
    (c) Best Practices.--The website described under subsection (a) 
shall provide best practices and examples from Federal, regional, 
State, and local decisionmakers in the public and private sectors about 
how to use extreme weather-related information in planning and 
decisionmaking.
    (d) Interagency Council Information and Tools.--The website 
described under subsection (a) shall include the information, data, 
tools, and examples provided by the Interagency Council pursuant to 
section 2(f)(4).
    (e) Best Available Meteorological Science.--The website described 
under subsection (a) shall identify best available meteorological 
science relating to extreme weather resilience, preparedness, and risk 
identification and management.
    (f) Public Outreach and Education.--The Interagency Council shall 
designate one or more agencies to conduct outreach and educational 
activities to inform the public and regional, State, and local 
decisionmakers about the tools and information available on the website 
described under subsection (a).

SEC. 5. PROVIDING ADEQUATE RESOURCES AND SUPPORT.

    The Director of the Office of Management and Budget shall ensure 
that each agency provides adequate resources to the Interagency 
Council, including administrative services and personnel support, as 
appropriate--
            (1) for the website described under section 4; and
            (2) to otherwise carry out this Act.

SEC. 6. INVENTORY.

    (a) In General.--Not later than 1 year after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, and every 2 years thereafter, the Interagency 
Council, or a working group of such Interagency Council established by 
the co-chairpersons thereof, shall conduct and publish an inventory of 
all regional offices, centers, and programs of agencies that are 
assisting with extreme weather resilience, preparedness, and risk 
identification and management efforts at the State or local level, 
including--
            (1) the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration's 
        regional programs;
            (2) the Department of the Interior's Fish and Wildlife 
        Service Landscape Conservation Cooperatives;
            (3) the United States Geological Survey's Climate Science 
        Centers;
            (4) the Department of Agriculture's Climate Hubs;
            (5) the regional offices of--
                    (A) the Environmental Protection Agency;
                    (B) the Federal Emergency Management Agency;
                    (C) the Department of Transportation; and
                    (D) the Forest Service;
            (6) the division offices of the Army Corps of Engineers; 
        and
            (7) such other offices, centers, and programs or other 
        agency efforts as determined appropriate by the Interagency 
        Council.
    (b) Assistance Described.--An inventory conducted and published 
under subsection (a) shall include a description of the assistance each 
agency office, center, or program is providing to assist with extreme 
weather resilience, preparedness, and risk identification and 
management efforts at the State or local level.

SEC. 7. MEETINGS.

    Not later than 6 months after the publication of each inventory 
under section 6, the Interagency Council shall convene a meeting of 
representatives of the offices, centers, and programs included in such 
inventory and invite other local and regional stakeholders to 
participate and develop plans to coordinate the efforts of such 
offices, centers, and programs and facilitate efficient services to 
stakeholders. At such meetings, such representatives shall--
            (1) share information regarding their office, center, or 
        program's extreme weather resilience, preparedness, and risk 
        identification and management efforts;
            (2) identify opportunities for collaboration and 
        coordination of research agendas, extreme weather assessment 
        activities, vulnerability assessments, data collection and 
        analysis, and planning and implementing extreme weather 
        resilience, preparedness, and risk identification and 
        management projects;
            (3) identify extreme weather resilience, preparedness, and 
        risk identification and management information needs, research 
        gaps, and decision support needs that are not met by any of the 
        offices, centers, or programs included in the inventory under 
        section 6 and make available such identification for purposes 
        of information to be submitted to the Interagency Council under 
        section 7;
            (4) identify common and complementary goals for extreme 
        weather resilience, preparedness, and risk identification and 
        management within each region to be prioritized for the coming 
        year and beyond;
            (5) identify barriers to regional extreme weather 
        resilience, preparedness, and risk identification and 
        management planning and implementation that can be overcome or 
        minimized through Federal action and specific suggestions for 
        improvement;
            (6) evaluate progress and jointly develop a strategy for 
        realizing extreme weather resilience, preparedness, and risk 
        identification and management-related goals, including clearly 
        identified responsibilities by each collaborating regional 
        office, center, or program; and
            (7) share experiences and best practices in stakeholder 
        engagement and communication, decision support, and science-
        practice interactions that support the realization of 
        identified extreme weather resilience, preparedness, and risk 
        identification and management goals.

SEC. 8. PROGRESS UPDATES.

    Not later than 90 days after each meeting under section 7, each 
agency that participates in such meeting shall submit to the 
Interagency Council, and make available to the United States Global 
Change Research Program and the Federal Emergency Management Agency, 
information describing progress in regional coordination and 
collaboration in aligning Federal resilience, preparedness, and risk 
identification and management efforts at the State and local level, and 
the benefits of such regional coordination and collaboration.

SEC. 9. DEFINITIONS.

    In this Act:
            (1) Agency.--The term ``agency'' has the meaning given the 
        term ``Executive agency'' under section 105 of title 5, but 
        does not include the Government Accountability Office.
            (2) Agency extreme weather plan.--The term ``agency extreme 
        weather plan'' means a plan required under section 3(a).
            (3) Extreme weather.--The term ``extreme weather'' includes 
        observed or anticipated severe and unseasonable atmospheric 
        conditions, including drought, wildfire, heavy precipitation, 
        wave, high water, snowstorm, landslide, mudslide, hurricanes, 
        tornadoes and other windstorms (including derechos), extreme 
        heat, extreme cold, sustained temperatures or precipitation 
        that deviate from historical averages, and any other weather 
        event that the Interagency Council determines qualifies as 
        extreme weather pursuant to section 2(f)(10).
            (4) Interagency council.--The term ``Interagency Council'' 
        means the Interagency Council on Extreme Weather Resilience, 
        Preparedness, and Risk Identification and Management 
        established under section 2(a).
            (5) Mitigation plan.--The term ``mitigation plan'' means 
        the mitigation plan required under section 322 of the Robert T. 
        Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act (42 
        U.S.C. 5165).
            (6) National global change research plan.--The term 
        ``National Global Change Research Plan'' means the National 
        Global Change Research Plan developed under section 104 of the 
        Global Change Research Act of 1990 (15 U.S.C. 2934), or any 
        revision thereof.
            (7) National oil and hazardous substances pollution 
        contingency plan.--The term ``National Oil and Hazardous 
        Substances Pollution Contingency Plan'' means the National Oil 
        and Hazardous Substances Pollution Contingency Plan described 
        under part 300 of title 40, Code of Federal Regulations, or any 
        revision thereof.
            (8) National preparedness goal.--The term ``National 
        Preparedness Goal'' means the national preparedness goal 
        developed under section 643 of the Post-Katrina Emergency 
        Management Reform Act of 2006 (6 U.S.C. 743).
            (9) National preparedness report.--The term ``National 
        Preparedness Report'' means the report required by section 
        652(a) of the Post-Katrina Emergency Management Reform Act of 
        2006 (6 U.S.C. 752(a); Public Law 109-295).
            (10) Preparedness.--The term ``preparedness'' means actions 
        taken to plan, organize, equip, train, and exercise to build, 
        apply, and sustain the capabilities necessary to prevent, 
        protect against, ameliorate the effects of, respond to, and 
        recover from extreme weather related damages to life, health, 
        property, livelihoods, ecosystems, and national security.
            (11) Resilience.--The term ``resilience'' means the ability 
        to anticipate, prepare for, and adapt to changing conditions 
        and withstand, respond to, and recover rapidly from 
        disruptions.
            (12) Senior official.--The term ``senior official'' means a 
        Deputy Secretary (or an equivalent officer) of an agency.
            (13) State.--The term ``State'' means each of the several 
        States, the District of Columbia, each commonwealth, territory, 
        or possession of the United States, and each federally 
        recognized Indian Tribe.
            (14) United states global change research program.--The 
        term ``United States Global Change Research Program'' means the 
        United States Global Change Research Program established under 
        section 103 of the Global Change Research Act of 1990 (15 
        U.S.C. 2933).
            (15) United states global change research program annual 
        report.--The term ``United States Global Change Research 
        Program Annual Report'' means the report required by section 
        102(e)(7) of the Global Change Research Act of 1990 (15 U.S.C. 
        2932(e)(7)).

SEC. 10. REQUIREMENT TO INCLUDE AGENCY EXTREME WEATHER PLAN IN AGENCY 
              PERFORMANCE PLAN.

    A description of the most recent agency extreme weather plan, as 
required under section 3, shall be included in the performance plan of 
an agency (as defined in section 9) required pursuant to section 
1115(b) of title 31, United States Code.
                                 &lt;all&gt;
</pre></body></html>
