<html><body><pre>
[Congressional Bills 110th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[S. 1804 Introduced in Senate (IS)]







110th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                S. 1804

 To enhance the ability of the United States to prevent, prepare for, 
        detect, and respond to agriculture and food emergencies.


_______________________________________________________________________


                   IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

                             July 17, 2007

 Mr. Burr (for himself and Ms. Collins) introduced the following bill; 
which was read twice and referred to the Committee on Homeland Security 
                        and Governmental Affairs

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
 To enhance the ability of the United States to prevent, prepare for, 
        detect, and respond to agriculture and food emergencies.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE; TABLE OF CONTENTS.

    (a) Short Title.--This Act may be cited as the ``National 
Agriculture and Food Defense Act of 2007''.
    (b) Table of Contents.--The table of contents of this Act is as 
follows:

Sec. 1. Short title; table of contents.
Sec. 2. Senses of Congress.
Sec. 3. Definitions.
      TITLE I--NATIONAL AGRICULTURE AND FOOD DEFENSE LEADERSHIP, 
                       ORGANIZATION, AND PLANNING

Sec. 101. Agriculture and food defense leadership, organization, and 
                            functions.
Sec. 102. Leadership of the Department of Homeland Security.
Sec. 103. Leadership in the Department of Agriculture.
Sec. 104. Leadership in the Department of Health and Human Services.
Sec. 105. National Agriculture and Food Defense Strategy.
Sec. 106. National Veterinary Stockpile Advisory Committee.
Sec. 107. Submission of integrated food defense budget.
        TITLE II--STATE AGRICULTURE AND FOOD DEFENSE ACTIVITIES

Sec. 201. State agriculture and food defense activities.
Sec. 202. Agricultural Biosecurity Corps.
              TITLE III--PARTNERSHIPS WITH PRIVATE SECTOR

Sec. 301. Coordinating councils.
    TITLE IV--NATIONAL DETECTION, RESPONSE, AND RECOVERY LABORATORY 
                                NETWORKS

Sec. 401. National detection, response, and recovery laboratory 
                            networks.
Sec. 402. Integration of networks.
Sec. 403. On-site rapid diagnostic tools.
                 TITLE V--DECONTAMINATION AND DISPOSAL

Sec. 501. Sense of Congress.
Sec. 502. Decontamination and disposal standards and plans.
Sec. 503. Rural rendering capacity building.
Sec. 504. Study relating to food irradiation.

SEC. 2. SENSES OF CONGRESS.

    (a) Sense of Congress Regarding National Security.--It is the sense 
of Congress that--
            (1) the agriculture and food system in the United States is 
        a fundamental element--
                    (A) of the national security of the United States;
                    (B) of the stability of the national economy; and
                    (C) in the production of raw materials and energy 
                in the United States; and
            (2) to protect the national security of the United States, 
        the United States should protect and defend the agriculture and 
        food system in the United States.
    (b) Sense of Congress Regarding One Medicine.--It is the sense of 
Congress that--
            (1) many infectious diseases affect both humans and 
        animals, and a significant number of those diseases cross over 
        between the 2 different populations; and
            (2) to protect the human and animal health of the United 
        States, the United States should develop a unified human and 
        veterinary approach against infectious diseases that--
                    (A) anticipates disease evolution; and
                    (B) acts progressively.
    (c) Sense of Congress Regarding Vulnerability.--It is the sense of 
Congress that the agriculture and food system in the United States is 
vulnerable to diseases, pests, and poisonous agents that--
            (1) occur naturally;
            (2) are unintentionally introduced; or
            (3) are intentionally introduced by acts of terrorism.
    (d) Sense of Congress Regarding Impact.--It is the sense of 
Congress that the agriculture and food system in the United States is 
an extensive, open, interconnected, diverse, and complex structure that 
provides potential targets for acts of terrorism that could have 
catastrophic human health and economic impacts.
    (e) Sense of Congress Regarding Human Health.--It is the sense of 
Congress that the health of the citizens of the United States is 
vulnerable to an attack on the agriculture and food system because--
            (1) certain animal diseases can affect humans;
            (2) animal populations can--
                    (A) become reservoirs of disease; and
                    (B) be used as amplifiers for the promotion of 
                human disease;
            (3) food systems can become delivery mechanisms for 
        diseases and poisonous agents; and
            (4) a highly contagious animal disease could seriously 
        disrupt the food supply of the United States.
    (f) Sense of Congress Regarding Layered Defenses.--It is the sense 
of Congress that Federal, State, local, and tribal governments and the 
private sector have a joint responsibility to collaboratively defend 
and protect the agriculture and food system in the United States 
through layered defenses established at the Federal, State, and local 
levels.
    (g) Sense of Congress Regarding Policy.--It is the sense of 
Congress that the United States should protect the agriculture and food 
system from terrorist attacks, major disasters, and other emergencies 
by--
            (1) identifying and prioritizing critical infrastructure 
        and key resources to establish protection requirements;
            (2) developing awareness and early warning capabilities to 
        recognize threats to the infrastructure and resources;
            (3) mitigating vulnerabilities of the infrastructure and 
        resources at critical production and processing nodes;
            (4) enhancing screening procedures for domestic and 
        imported products;
            (5) enhancing capabilities to track and trace domestic and 
        imported products; and
            (6) enhancing response and recovery procedures.

SEC. 3. DEFINITIONS.

    In this Act:
            (1) Abcorps.--The term ``ABCorps'' means the Agricultural 
        Biosecurity Corps carried out by the Secretary of Agriculture 
        under section 202(a).
            (2) Administrator.--The term ``Administrator'' means the 
        Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency.
            (3) Advisory committee.--The term ``Advisory Committee'' 
        means the National Veterinary Stockpile Advisory Committee 
        established under section 106(a).
            (4) Agriculture and food defense.--The term ``agriculture 
        and food defense'' means the protection against, preparation 
        for, and response to an intentional attack, adulteration, or 
        contamination of, an agriculture or food product by a chemical, 
        biological, or radiological agent, or other manmade incident or 
        intentional act that affects marketing, processing, or 
        transportation within the agriculture and food system.
            (5) Assistant secretary.--The term ``Assistant Secretary'' 
        means the Assistant Secretary for Health Affairs of the 
        Department.
            (6) Council.--The term ``council'' means a Regional 
        Agriculture and Food Defense Continuity of Business Council 
        established by an appropriate State authority under section 
        201(d)(3)(A).
            (7) Critical infrastructure.--The term ``critical 
        infrastructure'' has the meaning given the term in section 
        1016(e) of the USA PATRIOT Act of 2001 (42 U.S.C. 5195c(e)).
            (8) Department.--The term ``Department'' means the 
        Department of Homeland Security.
            (9) Director.--The term ``Director'' means the Director of 
        the Office of Management and Budget.
            (10) Emergency response providers.--The term ``emergency 
        response providers'' has the meaning given the term in section 
        2 of the Homeland Security Act of 2002 (6 U.S.C. 101).
            (11) Foreign animal disease.--The term ``foreign animal 
        disease'' means a transmissible livestock, poultry, or emerging 
        animal disease that, as determined by the Secretary of 
        Agriculture--
                    (A) is not naturally occurring in the United States 
                (including any territory of the United States); and
                    (B) has the potential to significantly impact--
                            (i) the health of the citizens of the 
                        United States; or
                            (ii) the economy of the United States.
            (12) HSPD-9.--The term ``HSPD-9'' means the Homeland 
        Security Presidential Directive 9, dated January 30, 2004 
        (relating to the establishment of a national policy to defend 
        the agriculture and food system against terrorist attacks, 
        major disasters, and other emergencies) or any successor 
        policy.
            (13) Key resources.--The term ``key resources'' has the 
        meaning given the term in section 2 of the Homeland Security 
        Act of 2002 (6 U.S.C. 101).
            (14) National incident management system.--The term 
        ``National Incident Management System'' means the system 
        developed pursuant to section 504(a)(5) the Homeland Security 
        Act of 2002 (6 U.S.C. 314(a)(5)).
            (15) National response plan.--The term ``National Response 
        Plan'' means the plan developed pursuant to section 504(a)(6) 
        of the Homeland Security Act of 2002 (6 U.S.C. 314(a)(6)).
            (16) Program.--The term ``program'' means the Department of 
        Homeland Security Agriculture and Food Defense Rotational 
        Expertise Program established under section 102(b).
            (17) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary 
        of Homeland Security.
            (18) Secretary concerned.--The term ``Secretary concerned'' 
        means a group comprised of--
                    (A) the Secretary of Agriculture;
                    (B) the Secretary; and
                    (C) the Secretary of Health and Human Services.
            (19) Strategic national stockpile.--The term ``Strategic 
        National Stockpile'' means the stockpile maintained by the 
        Secretary of Health and Human Services under section 319F-
        2(a)(1) of the Public Service Health Act (42 U.S.C. 247d-
        6b(a)(1)).
            (20) Strategy.--The term ``strategy'' means the National 
        Agriculture and Food Defense Strategy developed under section 
        105(a)(1).
            (21) Under secretary.--The term ``Under Secretary'' means 
        the individual appointed to the position of Under Secretary for 
        Protection, Preparedness, and Response established by section 
        103(a).

      TITLE I--NATIONAL AGRICULTURE AND FOOD DEFENSE LEADERSHIP, 
                       ORGANIZATION, AND PLANNING

SEC. 101. AGRICULTURE AND FOOD DEFENSE LEADERSHIP, ORGANIZATION, AND 
              FUNCTIONS.

    (a) Leadership.--The Secretary of Homeland Security shall lead, 
coordinate, and integrate, to the maximum extent practicable, efforts 
by Federal departments and agencies, State, local, and tribal 
governments, and the private sector to enhance the protection of 
critical infrastructure and key resources of the United States, 
including the critical infrastructure and key resources of the 
agriculture and food system.
    (b) Specific Sectors.--In accordance with guidance provided by the 
Secretary under subsection (a)--
            (1) the Secretary of Agriculture shall serve as the lead 
        Federal official for efforts described in subsection (a) 
        relating to agriculture and meat, poultry, and egg food 
        products;
            (2) the Secretary of Health and Human Services shall serve 
        as the lead Federal official for efforts described in 
        subsection (a) relating to food products other than meat, 
        poultry, and egg products; and
            (3) the Administrator of the Environmental Protection 
        Agency shall serve as the lead Federal official for efforts 
        described in subsection (a) relating to drinking water and 
        waste water treatment systems.

SEC. 102. LEADERSHIP OF THE DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY.

    (a) Assistant Secretary for Health Affairs.--Section 516 of the 
Homeland Security Act of 2002 (6 U.S.C. 321e) is amended--
            (1) in the section heading, by adding at the end ``and 
        assistant secretary for health affairs'';
            (2) by striking subsection (a) and inserting the following:
    ``(a) Appointment.--
            ``(1) In general.--There shall serve in the Department a 
        Chief Medical Officer, who shall be appointed by the President, 
        by and with the advice and consent of the Senate.
            ``(2) Status.--The Chief Medical Officer shall have the 
        rank of, and serve as, Assistant Secretary for Health 
        Affairs.'';
            (3) in subsection (b), by striking ``Chief Medical 
        Officer'' and inserting ``Assistant Secretary for Health 
        Affairs'';
            (4) in subsection (c)--
                    (A) in the matter preceding paragraph (1)--
                            (i) by striking ``Chief Medical Officer'' 
                        and inserting ``Assistant Secretary for Health 
                        Affairs''; and
                            (ii) by inserting ``, human, and animal 
                        health'' after ``medical'';
                    (B) in paragraph (6), by striking ``and'' at the 
                end;
                    (C) by redesignating paragraph (7) as paragraph 
                (9); and
                    (D) by inserting after paragraph (6) the following:
            ``(7) serving as--
                    ``(A) the principal advisor to the Secretary on 
                issues relating to agriculture and food defense;
                    ``(B) the primary point of contact of the 
                Department on issues relating to agriculture and food 
                defense with--
                            ``(i) the Department of Agriculture;
                            ``(ii) the Department of Health and Human 
                        Services;
                            ``(iii) the Environmental Protection 
                        Agency;
                            ``(iv) other Federal departments and 
                        agencies;
                            ``(v) State, local, and tribal governments; 
                        and
                            ``(vi) the private sector;
            ``(8) providing leadership and ensuring coordination of the 
        activities of the Department relating to agriculture and food 
        defense; and''; and
            (5) by adding at the end the following:
    ``(d) Continuation of Service of Current Official.--An individual 
serving as the Assistant Secretary for Health Affairs as of the date of 
enactment of the National Agriculture and Food Defense Act of 2007, or 
an individual who is appointed to the position of acting Assistant 
Secretary for Health Affairs, may continue to serve until the date on 
which an Assistant Secretary for Health Affairs is appointed after the 
date of enactment of the National Agriculture and Food Defense Act of 
2007.''.
    (b) Department of Homeland Security Agriculture and Food Defense 
Rotational Expertise Program.--
            (1) Establishment.--Not later than 180 days after the date 
        of enactment of this Act, the Secretary, acting through the 
        Assistant Secretary, in coordination with the Assistant 
        Secretary for Infrastructure Protection, shall establish and 
        carry out the Department of Homeland Security Agriculture and 
        Food Defense Rotational Expertise Program--
                    (A) to build partnerships with each entity 
                described in subparagraphs (A) through (C) of paragraph 
                (2); and
                    (B) to assist in carrying out the agriculture and 
                food defense activities of the Department.
            (2) Detailing of experts.--In carrying out the program, the 
        Assistant Secretary, in coordination with the Assistant 
        Secretary for Infrastructure Protection, shall facilitate, on a 
        rotating basis, the detailing of experts on issues relating to 
        agriculture and food defense to the Department, including 
        experts from--
                    (A) other Federal agencies, including--
                            (i) the Department of Health and Human 
                        Services; and
                            (ii) the Department of Agriculture;
                    (B) State and local agriculture and food agencies; 
                and
                    (C) the private sector.
            (3) Encouragement of certain experts.--In carrying out the 
        program, the Assistant Secretary shall encourage experts from 
        each entity described in subparagraphs (A) through (C) of 
        paragraph (2) to participate in the program.

SEC. 103. LEADERSHIP IN THE DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE.

    (a) Establishment.--There is established in the Department of 
Agriculture the position of Under Secretary for Protection, 
Preparedness, and Response to lead, enhance, and coordinate the 
activities of the Department of Agriculture relating to--
            (1) homeland security; and
            (2) agriculture and food defense.
    (b) Confirmation.--The Under Secretary shall be appointed by the 
President, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate.
    (c) Duties.--The Under Secretary shall--
            (1) serve as--
                    (A) the principal advisor to the Secretary of 
                Agriculture on any issue relating to Federal, State, or 
                local agriculture or food defense activities; and
                    (B) the primary point of contact of the Department 
                of Agriculture for any issue relating to homeland 
                security and agriculture and food defense;
            (2) on behalf of the Secretary of Agriculture--
                    (A) develop and manage the portions of the budget 
                of the Department of Agriculture relating to--
                            (i) homeland security; and
                            (ii) agriculture and food defense;
                    (B) provide guidance to, and coordinate the 
                activities of, the Department of Agriculture on any 
                issue relating to homeland security and agriculture and 
                food defense;
                    (C) coordinate integrated Federal, State, local, 
                and tribal governmental responses to outbreaks of--
                            (i) highly contagious or economically 
                        devastating animal diseases;
                            (ii) highly infective exotic plant 
                        diseases; and
                            (iii) economically devastating plant pest 
                        infestations; and
                    (D) coordinate activities of the Department of 
                Agriculture to ensure the safety and security of meat, 
                poultry, and egg food products following a potential or 
                actual incident covered by the National Response Plan 
                (or a successor plan);
            (3) integrate the agriculture and food defense activities 
        of the Department of Agriculture (including surveillance of 
        animal and zoonotic diseases) with--
                    (A) the Department;
                    (B) the Department of Health and Human Services;
                    (C) other Federal agencies;
                    (D) State and local agriculture and food agencies; 
                and
                    (E) members of the private sector; and
            (4) perform any other duty assigned to the Under Secretary 
        by the Secretary of Agriculture.
    (d) Reports.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 180 days after the date of 
        enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Agriculture shall 
        submit to the relevant committees of Congress a report that 
        provides--
                    (A) a concept of operations plan that details the 
                manner by which the Secretary of Agriculture, acting 
                through the Under Secretary, shall operationally 
                coordinate and manage the activities of the Department 
                of Agriculture relating to--
                            (i) homeland security; and
                            (ii) agriculture and food defense; and
                    (B) a description of each management goal, proposed 
                modification of the structure of the Department of 
                Agriculture, and proposed action to be taken by the 
                Secretary of Agriculture to complete a transition of 
                the Department of Agriculture from the traditional 
                focus of the Department of Agriculture relating to 
                safety and the safeguarding of agriculture and food to 
                a focus that enhances the traditional focus with a new 
                emphasis on--
                            (i) homeland security; and
                            (ii) agriculture and food defense.
            (2) One medicine report.--Not later than 1 year after the 
        date of enactment of this Act, and annually thereafter, the 
        Secretary of Agriculture shall submit to the relevant 
        committees of Congress a report that describes the status of 
        efforts to integrate activities of the Department of 
        Agriculture relating to animal health, agriculture, and human 
        health with similar activities of--
                    (A) the Department;
                    (B) the Department of Health and Human Services; 
                and
                    (C) the Environmental Protection Agency.
    (e) Executive Schedule.--Section 5314 of title 5, United States 
Code, is amended by adding at the end the following:
            ``Under Secretary for Protection, Preparedness, and 
        Response.''.

SEC. 104. LEADERSHIP IN THE DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES.

    Section 313 of the Public Health Security and Bioterrorism 
Preparedness and Response Act of 2002 (7 U.S.C. 8319) is amended to 
read as follows:

``SEC. 313. SURVEILLANCE OF ZOONOTIC DISEASES.

    ``(a) In General.--The Secretary of Health and Human Services 
(acting through the Assistant Secretary for Preparedness and Response, 
the Director of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, and the 
Director of the National Institutes of Health), in collaboration with 
the Secretary of Agriculture (acting through the Under Secretary for 
Protection, Preparedness, and Response and the Administrator of the 
Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service) shall coordinate the 
surveillance of zoonotic diseases that could potentially cause a 
significant impact on public health.
    ``(b) Integration.--The Secretary of Health and Human Services 
shall integrate, to the maximum extent practicable, activities of the 
Department of Health and Human services relating to animal health, 
agriculture, and human health with similar activities of--
            ``(1) the Department; and
            ``(2) the Department of Agriculture.''.

SEC. 105. NATIONAL AGRICULTURE AND FOOD DEFENSE STRATEGY.

    (a) Development and Submission of Strategy.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 180 days after the date of 
        enactment of this Act, the Secretary, in coordination with the 
        Secretary of Agriculture and the Secretary of Health and Human 
        Services, shall prepare and submit to the relevant committees 
        of Congress the National Agriculture and Food Defense Strategy.
            (2) Implementation plan.--The strategy shall include an 
        implementation plan for use by the Secretaries concerned in 
        carrying out the strategy.
            (3) Research.--The strategy shall include a coordinated 
        research agenda for use by the Secretaries concerned in 
        conducting research to support the goals and activities 
        described in paragraphs (1) and (2) of subsection (b).
            (4) Revisions.--Not later than 4 years after the date on 
        which the strategy is submitted to the relevant committees of 
        Congress under paragraph (1), and not less frequently than 
        every 4 years thereafter, the Secretary, in coordination with 
        the Secretary of Agriculture and the Secretary of Health and 
        Human Services, shall revise and submit to the relevant 
        committees of Congress the strategy.
            (5) Consistency with existing plans.--The strategy 
        described in paragraph (1) shall be consistent with--
                    (A) HSPD-9;
                    (B) the National Incident Management System;
                    (C) the National Response Plan;
                    (D) the National Infrastructure Protection Plan;
                    (E) the National Preparedness Goals; and
                    (F) other relevant national strategies.
    (b) Components.--
            (1) Goals.--
                    (A) In general.--The strategy shall include a 
                description of the process to be used by the 
                Department, the Department of Agriculture, and the 
                Department of Health and Human Services--
                            (i) to achieve each goal described in 
                        subparagraphs (B) through (E); and
                            (ii) to evaluate the progress made by 
                        Federal, State, local, and tribal governments 
                        towards the achievement of each goal described 
                        in subparagraphs (B) through (E).
                    (B) Preparedness goal.--Enhance the preparedness of 
                the agriculture and food system by--
                            (i) conducting vulnerability assessments of 
                        the agriculture and food system;
                            (ii) identifying any unmet agricultural 
                        security need;
                            (iii) mitigating vulnerabilities of the 
                        system;
                            (iv) improving communication and training 
                        relating to the system;
                            (v) increasing the awareness of, and the 
                        ability to identify, foreign animal diseases;
                            (vi) developing and conducting exercises to 
                        test decontamination and disposal plans;
                            (vii) developing modeling tools to improve 
                        event consequence assessment and decision 
                        support; and
                            (viii) preparing risk communication tools 
                        and enhancing public awareness through 
                        outreach.
                    (C) Detection goal.--Improve agriculture and food 
                system detection capabilities by--
                            (i) identifying contamination in food 
                        products;
                            (ii) conducting surveillance for foreign 
                        animal diseases in livestock, other animal 
                        populations, and foreign plant pathogens in 
                        major crops; and
                            (iii) working with the private sector to 
                        implement on-farm biosecurity measures to 
                        prevent the spread of diseases.
                    (D) Emergency response goal.--Ensure an efficient 
                response to agriculture and food emergencies by--
                            (i) immediately investigating animal 
                        disease outbreaks and suspected food 
                        contamination;
                            (ii) preventing additional human illnesses;
                            (iii) organizing, training, and equipping 
                        animal, plant, and food emergency response 
                        teams of--
                                    (I) the Federal Government; and
                                    (II) State, local, and tribal 
                                governments;
                            (iv) designing, developing, and evaluating 
                        training and exercises carried out under 
                        agriculture and food defense plans; and
                            (v) ensuring consistent and organized risk 
                        communication to the public by--
                                    (I) the Federal Government;
                                    (II) State, local, and tribal 
                                governments; and
                                    (III) the private sector.
                    (E) Recovery goal.--Secure agriculture and food 
                production after an agriculture or food emergency by--
                            (i) working with the private sector to 
                        develop business recovery plans to rapidly 
                        resume agriculture and food production;
                            (ii) conducting exercises of the plans 
                        described in subparagraph (D) with the goal of 
                        long-term recovery results;
                            (iii) rapidly removing, and effectively 
                        disposing of--
                                    (I) contaminated agriculture and 
                                food products; and
                                    (II) infected plants and animals; 
                                and
                            (iv) decontaminating and restoring areas 
                        affected by an agriculture or food emergency.
            (2) HSPD-9 activities.--
                    (A) In general.--In preparing and implementing the 
                strategy, the Secretaries concerned shall carry out 
                each of the activities described subparagraphs (B) 
                through (D).
                    (B) National preparedness, mitigation, and 
                response.--
                            (i) Vulnerability assessments.--
                                    (I) In general.--The Secretary, in 
                                coordination with the Secretary of 
                                Agriculture and the Secretary of Health 
                                and Human Services, shall expand and 
                                continue to carry out vulnerability 
                                assessments of the agriculture and food 
                                system.
                                    (II) Updates.--An assessment under 
                                subclause (I) shall be updated not less 
                                frequently than once every 2 years.
                            (ii) Mitigation strategies.--
                                    (I) In general.--The Secretary and 
                                the Attorney General of the United 
                                States, in consultation with the 
                                Secretary of Agriculture, the Secretary 
                                of Health and Human Services, the 
                                Administrator, the Director of National 
                                Intelligence, and the heads of other 
                                appropriate Federal departments and 
                                agencies, shall prioritize, develop, 
                                and implement, as appropriate, 
                                mitigation strategies to protect 
                                vulnerable critical nodes of production 
                                and processing from the introduction of 
                                diseases, pests, and poisonous agents.
                                    (II) Screening.--To maximize the 
                                effectiveness of domestic inspection 
                                activities of food items in the United 
                                States, the Secretary, in collaboration 
                                with the Secretary of Agriculture and 
                                the Secretary of Health and Human 
                                Services, shall--
                                            (aa) continue to expand the 
                                        development and use of common 
                                        screening and inspection 
                                        procedures for agriculture and 
                                        food items entering the United 
                                        States; and
                                            (bb) maximize effective 
                                        domestic inspection activities 
                                        relating to food items located 
                                        in the United States.
                            (iii) Response planning.--
                                    (I) In general.--The Secretary, in 
                                coordination with the Secretary of 
                                Agriculture, the Secretary of Health 
                                and Human Services, the Attorney 
                                General of the United States, and the 
                                Administrator, shall ensure that 
                                combined Federal, State, and local 
                                response capabilities are adequate to 
                                respond quickly and effectively to--
                                            (aa) a terrorist attack 
                                        affecting the agriculture and 
                                        food system in the United 
                                        States;
                                            (bb) a major disease 
                                        outbreak affecting the national 
                                        agriculture and food system in 
                                        the United States; and
                                            (cc) any other disaster 
                                        affecting the national 
                                        agriculture and food system in 
                                        the United States.
                                    (II) Standardized response plan.--
                                The Secretary, in coordination with the 
                                Secretary of Agriculture, the Secretary 
                                of Health and Human Services, the 
                                Attorney General of the United States, 
                                and the Administrator, shall develop a 
                                coordinated agriculture and food-
                                specific standardized response plan to 
                                be integrated into the National 
                                Response Plan.
                            (iv) Recovery systems.--The Secretary, in 
                        cooperation with the Secretary of Agriculture, 
                        the Secretary of Health and Human Services, and 
                        the Administrator, shall enhance recovery 
                        systems in the United States that, as 
                        determined by the Secretary, are able to--
                                    (I) stabilize agricultural 
                                production, food supply, and the United 
                                States economy;
                                    (II) rapidly remove, and 
                                effectively dispose of, contaminated 
                                agriculture or food products or 
                                infected plants or animals; and
                                    (III) decontaminate affected 
                                premises.
                    (C) National veterinary stockpile.--
                            (i) In general.--The Secretary of 
                        Agriculture, in coordination with the 
                        Secretary, and in consultation with the 
                        Secretary of Health and Human Services, State, 
                        local, and tribal governments, and the private 
                        sector, shall develop a national veterinary 
                        stockpile that, to the maximum extent 
                        practicable--
                                    (I) is capable of deployment within 
                                24 hours of an outbreak of animal 
                                disease;
                                    (II) is carried out in coordination 
                                with the Strategic National Stockpile, 
                                including by using mechanisms, 
                                capabilities, and infrastructure that 
                                have been developed for the management, 
                                storage, and distribution of the 
                                Strategic National Stockpile; and
                                    (III) contains sufficient 
                                quantities of animal vaccine, antiviral 
                                treatments, and therapeutic products to 
                                appropriately respond to the most 
                                damaging animal diseases affecting 
                                human health or the economy.
                            (ii) Authorization of appropriations.--
                        There are authorized to be appropriated to 
                        carry out this subparagraph--
                                    (I) $8,000,000 for fiscal year 
                                2008; and
                                    (II) such sums as are necessary for 
                                each of fiscal years 2009 through 2012.
                    (D) National plant disease recovery system.--
                            (i) In general.--The Secretary of 
                        Agriculture, in coordination with the 
                        Secretary, and in consultation with the 
                        Secretary of Health and Human Services, the 
                        Administrator, State, local, and tribal 
                        governments, and the private sector, shall 
                        develop a national plant disease recovery 
                        system that, to the maximum extent 
                        practicable--
                                    (I) is capable of responding to a 
                                high-consequence plant disease 
                                through--
                                            (aa) pest control measures; 
                                        and
                                            (bb) the use of resistant 
                                        seed varieties within a single 
                                        growing season to sustain at 
                                        least a reasonable level of 
                                        production for economically 
                                        important crops;
                                    (II) uses--
                                            (aa) the genetic resources 
                                        contained in the national plant 
                                        germplasm system; and
                                            (bb) the scientific 
                                        capabilities of the Federal-
                                        State-industry agricultural 
                                        research and extension system; 
                                        and
                                    (III) includes emergency planning 
                                for the use of resistant seed varieties 
                                and other methods and measures 
                                (including pesticide control measures) 
                                to prevent, slow, or stop the spread of 
                                a high-consequence plant disease.
                            (ii) Authorization of appropriations.--
                        There are authorized to be appropriated to 
                        carry out this subparagraph--
                                    (I) $6,000,000 for fiscal year 
                                2008; and
                                    (II) such sums as are necessary for 
                                each of fiscal years 2009 through 2012.
            (3) Evaluation of progress.--The strategy prepared by the 
        Secretary, in coordination with the Secretary of Agriculture 
        and the Secretary of Health and Human Services, under 
        subsection (a)(1) shall include an evaluation of any progress 
        relating to the carrying out of the activities described in 
        subparagraphs (B) through (D) of paragraph (2).

SEC. 106. NATIONAL VETERINARY STOCKPILE ADVISORY COMMITTEE.

    (a) Establishment.--Not later than 180 days after the date of 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Agriculture, in coordination 
with the Secretary, and in consultation with the Secretary of Health 
and Human Services, State, local, and tribal governments, and the 
private sector, shall establish the National Veterinary Stockpile 
Advisory Committee.
    (b) Membership.--The Advisory Committee shall be composed of 
members from--
            (1) the Department, including the Assistant Secretary;
            (2) the Department of Health and Human Services, 
        including--
                    (A) the Assistant Secretary for Preparedness and 
                Response;
                    (B) the Director of the Centers for Disease Control 
                and Prevention;
                    (C) the Commissioner of the Food and Drug 
                Administration; and
                    (D) the Director of the National Institutes of 
                Health;
            (3) State and local governments; and
            (4) the private sector.
    (c) Classification.--The Secretary of Agriculture shall ensure that 
each member of the Advisory Committee obtains the necessary security 
clearance to provide for full consideration of available threat and 
vulnerability information.
    (d) Meetings.--The Advisory Committee shall meet at the call of the 
chairperson, but not less often than biannually.
    (e) Chairperson.--The Secretary of Agriculture (or a designee) 
shall serve as the chairperson for the Advisory Committee.
    (f) Duties.--The Advisory Committee shall--
            (1) review each current and proposed animal vaccination 
        policy and therapeutic policy of the Department of Agriculture 
        relating to the National Veterinary Stockpile;
            (2) evaluate threat assessment information with respect to 
        biological, chemical, and radiological threats to the 
        agriculture system;
            (3) review the contents of the National Veterinary 
        Stockpile and, based on the evaluation of threat assessment 
        information conducted by the Advisory Committee under paragraph 
        (2), identify high-priority gaps in the National Veterinary 
        Stockpile;
            (4) at least annually, submit to the Secretary of 
        Agriculture recommendations relating to--
                    (A) any proposed modification to--
                            (i) each current and proposed animal 
                        vaccination policy and therapeutic policy of 
                        the Department of Agriculture under paragraph 
                        (1); and
                            (ii) the contents of the National 
                        Veterinary Stockpile;
                    (B) the development of a coordinated research 
                agenda to address each high-priority gap identified 
                under paragraph (3); and
                    (C) the manner by which to strengthen through 
                partnership, and improve coordination and minimize 
                duplication of--
                            (i) the National Veterinary Stockpile; and
                            (ii) the Strategic National Stockpile; and
            (5) examine any other relevant issue, as determined by--
                    (A) the Secretary of Agriculture;
                    (B) the Secretary; or
                    (C) the Secretary of Health and Human Services.
    (g) Authorization of Appropriations.--There is authorized to be 
appropriated to carry out this section $1,000,000 for each of fiscal 
years 2008 through 2013.

SEC. 107. SUBMISSION OF INTEGRATED FOOD DEFENSE BUDGET.

    (a) In General.--Consistent with HSPD-9, the Secretaries concerned 
shall submit to the Director with the annual budget submissions of the 
Secretaries concerned an integrated budget plan for the defense of the 
food system of the United States.
    (b) Inclusion of Budget Plan.--Subject to the approval of the 
President, the Director shall include in the budget of the President 
the budget plan submitted by the Secretaries concerned under subsection 
(a).

        TITLE II--STATE AGRICULTURE AND FOOD DEFENSE ACTIVITIES

SEC. 201. STATE AGRICULTURE AND FOOD DEFENSE ACTIVITIES.

    (a) In General.--To enhance the agriculture and food defense 
capabilities of the States, the Secretary, in collaboration with the 
Secretary of Agriculture and the Secretary of Health and Human 
Services, shall provide guidance, technical assistance, and support to 
the States in--
            (1) achieving the goals described in subparagraphs (B) 
        through (E) of section 105(b)(1);
            (2) developing and implementing demonstration projects for 
        regional agriculture and food defense-related continuity of 
        business plans;
            (3) training State, local, and tribal agriculture, public 
        health, and emergency management personnel in food defense; and
            (4) improving communication and coordination among State 
        departments of agriculture and the Federal Government through 
        workforce development.
    (b) Assistance to States.--In carrying out subsection (a)(1), the 
Secretary shall provide guidance and technical assistance to States in 
planning, training, and conducting exercises to test State agriculture 
and food defense capabilities to achieve the goals described in 
subparagraphs (B) through (E) of section 105(b)(1).
    (c) Funding.--Section 1014(b) of the USA PATRIOT Act (42 U.S.C. 
3714(b)) is amended by adding at the end the following:
    ``Grants made under subsection (a) may also be used by a State to 
carry out an activity under section 201 of the National Agriculture and 
Food Defense Act of 2007.''.
    (d) Regional Agriculture and Food Defense Continuity of Business 
Demonstration Project.--
            (1) In general.--In carrying out subsection (a)(2), the 
        Secretary of Agriculture, acting through the Under Secretary, 
        in coordination with the Secretary, State departments of 
        agriculture, State emergency programs, and State departments of 
        health, shall enter into cooperative agreements with 
        appropriate State authorities to assist States in achieving the 
        goals described in subparagraphs (B) through (E) of section 
        105(b)(1).
            (2) Requirements relating to cooperative agreements.--The 
        cooperative agreements described in paragraph (1) shall--
                    (A) represent regions, as determined by the 
                Secretary of Agriculture, in consultation with the 
                Secretary; and
                    (B) collectively cover each State in the United 
                States.
            (3) Duties of state authorities.--A State authority that 
        enters into a cooperative agreement with the Secretary of 
        Agriculture under paragraph (1) shall--
                    (A) establish and coordinate a Regional Agriculture 
                and Food Defense Continuity of Business Council;
                    (B) develop and implement a regional agriculture 
                and food defense continuity of business plan;
                    (C) develop and implement a geographic information 
                system for documenting the entire agriculture and food 
                infrastructure within the region and the identification 
                of the most critical components of such infrastructure; 
                and
                    (D) not less frequently than once each year--
                            (i) submit to the Food and Agriculture 
                        Government Coordinating Council and the Food 
                        and Agriculture Sector Coordinating Council 
                        established under subsections (a)(1) and (b)(1) 
                        of section 301 a report describing the 
                        activities carried out under the plan under 
                        subparagraph (B);
                            (ii) conduct a regional exercise or drill 
                        to test the plan under subparagraph (B); and
                            (iii) make such modifications to the plan 
                        as the State authority determines to be 
                        necessary, taking into consideration the 
                        results of the exercise.
            (4) Composition of council.--A council described in 
        paragraph (3)(A) shall be composed of representatives from--
                    (A) State and local departments of agriculture from 
                each State located in the region, as determined by the 
                Secretary of Agriculture, in which the State of the 
                State authority is located;
                    (B) homeland security and emergency management 
                programs from any State described in subparagraph (A);
                    (C) State and local departments of health from any 
                State described in subparagraph (A); and
                    (D) the private sector from any State described in 
                subparagraph (A).
            (5) Agriculture and food defense continuity of business 
        plan.--Each council described in paragraph (3)(A) shall develop 
        a model plan that--
                    (A) is consistent with--
                            (i) the National Infrastructure Protection 
                        Plan;
                            (ii) the National Response Plan;
                            (iii) the National Incident Management 
                        System;
                            (iv) the National Preparedness Goals; and
                            (v) other relevant national strategies;
                    (B) identifies--
                            (i) methods to prevent, or minimize the 
                        spread of, public health consequences or 
                        economic losses associated with--
                                    (I) animal disease outbreaks;
                                    (II) plant disease outbreaks or 
                                pest infestations; and
                                    (III) incidents of food 
                                contamination;
                            (ii) the specific roles and 
                        responsibilities of public and private 
                        stakeholders in planning and preparing for, 
                        responding to, and recovering from, an 
                        agriculture or food emergency; and
                            (iii) vulnerabilities in the applicable 
                        regional agriculture and food system;
                    (C) improves the preparedness of the region 
                (including the private sector) to address identified 
                agriculture and food system-related threats and 
                vulnerabilities; and
                    (D) ensures effective preparedness, mitigation, 
                response, and recovery capabilities for any threat that 
                could have a significant adverse impact on the 
                agriculture and food system.
            (6) Use of funds.--To carry out any activity described in 
        this subsection, a State may use amounts made available to the 
        State under a cooperative agreement under paragraph (1) to hire 
        1 or more State employees.
            (7) Authorization of appropriations.--There is authorized 
        to be appropriated to carry out this subsection $60,000,000 for 
        the period fiscal years 2008 through 2013.
    (e) State Training for Food Defense.--
            (1) In general.--In carrying out the training of State, 
        local, and tribal agriculture, public health, emergency 
        response providers, and emergency management personnel under 
        subsection (a)(3), the Secretary, acting through the Assistant 
        Secretary, in coordination with the Secretary of Agriculture, 
        acting through the Under Secretary, shall enter into a 
        cooperative agreement with a national organization representing 
        State departments of agriculture--
                    (A) to educate State agriculture, public health, 
                and emergency management personnel on issues relating 
                to food defense; and
                    (B) to ensure consistent planning and coordination 
                among the Federal Government, States, and the private 
                sector relating to food defense.
            (2) Authorization of appropriations.--There is authorized 
        to be appropriated to carry out this subsection $1,000,000 for 
        each of fiscal years 2008 and 2009.
    (f) State Agriculture and Food Defense Liaison Officers.--
            (1) In general.--To improve communication and coordination 
        among State departments of agriculture and the Federal 
        Government under subsection (a)(4), the Secretary of 
        Agriculture, acting through the Under Secretary, shall 
        establish a pilot program to hire and assign State liaison 
        officers to work in eligible State departments of agriculture, 
        as determined by the Secretary of Agriculture, to serve as 
        liaisons (with respect to issues relating to deliberate, 
        accidental, or natural catastrophic agriculture and food 
        emergencies) between--
                    (A) the Department of Agriculture; and
                    (B) the State department of agriculture to which a 
                State liaison officer is assigned.
            (2) Coordination.--The Secretary of Agriculture, acting 
        through the Under Secretary, shall, to the maximum extent 
        practicable, coordinate the placement of each epidemiological 
        fellow assigned to an eligible State department of agriculture 
        under section 202(b)(1)(C) with a State liaison officer hired 
        under paragraph (1).
            (3) Authorization of appropriations.--There are authorized 
        to be appropriated to carry out this subsection--
                    (A) $5,000,000 for fiscal year 2008; and
                    (B) such sums as are necessary for each of fiscal 
                years 2009 through 2013.

SEC. 202. AGRICULTURAL BIOSECURITY CORPS.

    (a) Establishment.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary of Agriculture, acting 
        through the Under Secretary for Protection, Preparedness, and 
        Response, in cooperation with State departments of agriculture 
        and State chief veterinary medical officers, shall carry out a 
        program, to be known as the ``Agricultural Biosecurity Corps'', 
        to develop veterinary leaders at the Federal, State, and local 
        levels with epidemiological expertise who can recognize and 
        respond to agents and events that pose significant threats to 
        animal agriculture.
            (2) Model.--In establishing the ABCorps under paragraph 
        (1), the Secretary of Agriculture shall use as a model the 
        Epidemic Intelligence Service of the Centers for Disease 
        Control and Prevention.
    (b) Epidemiology Fellows.--
            (1) In general.--In carrying out the ABCorps program under 
        subsection (a), the Secretary of Agriculture, in cooperation 
        with State departments of agriculture and State chief 
        veterinary medical officers, may enter into agreements with 
        graduate veterinarians--
                    (A) to be epidemiology fellows within the ABCorps;
                    (B) to be initially trained in veterinary 
                epidemiology, animal agriculture disease surveillance, 
                and emergency program management at a college of 
                veterinary medicine, in coordination with an Animal and 
                Plant Health Inspection Service Regional Office of 
                Veterinary Services; and
                    (C) to be assigned to train and work on a temporary 
                basis at an eligible State department of agriculture, 
                as determined by the Secretary of Agriculture.
            (2) Application.--To be eligible to enter into an agreement 
        with the Secretary of Agriculture under paragraph (1), a 
        graduate veterinarian shall submit to the Secretary of 
        Agriculture an application at such time, and in such manner, as 
        the Secretary may require.
    (c) Training of Epidemiology Fellows.--To provide for the training 
of eligible epidemiology fellows under subsection (b)(1), the Secretary 
of Agriculture shall enter into a contract with a college of veterinary 
medicine that--
            (1) is comprised of faculty members who have expertise 
        relating to veterinary epidemiology in each major livestock 
        commodity;
            (2) is located in a State with diverse livestock from each 
        commodity; and
            (3) will conduct such training in collaboration with a 
        State department of agriculture that has expertise relating 
        to--
                    (A) emergency program management; and
                    (B) the use of geographic information systems for 
                emergency preparedness and response.
    (d) Assignment of Epidemiology Fellows.--
            (1) In general.--Epidemiology fellows shall be assigned to 
        eligible State departments of agriculture, as determined by the 
        Secretary of Agriculture, in coordination with--
                    (A) State departments of agriculture; and
                    (B) State chief veterinary medical officers.
            (2) Eligibility of state departments.--An epidemiology 
        fellow may be assigned by the Secretary of Agriculture to a 
        State department of agriculture if the State department of 
        agriculture submits to the Secretary of Agriculture a written 
        commitment to mentor and train the epidemiology fellow to meet 
        each training benchmark of the ABCorps.
            (3) Duties of assignment.--An epidemiology fellow assigned 
        to a State department of agriculture under paragraph (1) 
        shall--
                    (A) in cooperation with State and local 
                veterinarians, assist in the diagnosis and 
                epidemiological investigation of animal diseases;
                    (B) in cooperation with relevant State and local 
                animal and agriculture response teams, assist in the 
                preparation for, response to, and recovery from, 
                deliberate, accidental, or natural catastrophic animal 
                disease outbreaks or other events that threaten the 
                health and economic viability of animal agriculture; 
                and
                    (C) contribute to State efforts to improve animal 
                agriculture biosecurity.
            (4) Encouragement of participation.--On the date on which 
        any epidemiological fellow completes the assignment of the 
        epidemiological fellow to a State department of agriculture 
        under paragraph (1), the Secretary of Agriculture, in 
        collaboration with the Secretary of Health and Human Services, 
        shall encourage the epidemiological fellow--
                    (A) to serve as a State Agriculture and Food 
                Defense Liaison Officer under section 201(f); and
                    (B) to participate in the National Disaster Medical 
                System, as operated under section 2812(a)(1) of the 
                Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 300hh-11(a)(1)).
    (e) Report.--Not later than 4 years after the date of enactment of 
this Act, the Secretary of Agriculture shall submit to Congress a 
report that contains, at a minimum, an evaluation of the ABCorps.
    (f) Authorization of Appropriations.--There is authorized to be 
appropriated to carry out this section $20,000,000 for the period of 
fiscal years 2008 through 2012.
    (g) Termination of Authority.--
            (1) In general.--Subject to paragraph (2), the program 
        under this section shall terminate on a date that occurs not 
        later than 5 years after the date on which the Secretary of 
        Agriculture first enters into a contract with the college of 
        veterinary medicine under subsection (c).
            (2) Exception.--The Secretary of Agriculture may continue 
        the ABCorps if the Secretary of Agriculture concludes in the 
        report submitted by the Secretary of Agriculture under 
        subsection (e) that the ABCorps was successful in training 
        epidemiology fellows to become veterinary leaders who have the 
        capacity to recognize and respond to agents and events that 
        pose significant threats to animal agriculture.

              TITLE III--PARTNERSHIPS WITH PRIVATE SECTOR

SEC. 301. COORDINATING COUNCILS.

    (a) Food and Agriculture Government Coordinating Council.--
            (1) Establishment.--The Secretary shall establish a council 
        to be known as the ``Food and Agriculture Government 
        Coordinating Council''.
            (2) Composition.--The Food and Agriculture Government 
        Coordinating Council shall be composed of appropriate 
        representatives from Federal, State, local, and tribal 
        governments appointed by the Secretary.
    (b) Food and Agriculture Sector Coordinating Council.--
            (1) Establishment.--The Secretary shall establish a council 
        to be known as the ``Food and Agriculture Sector Coordinating 
        Council''.
            (2) Composition.--The Food and Agriculture Sector 
        Coordinating Council shall be composed of representatives from 
        the private sector of the agriculture and food system of the 
        United States.
    (c) Model for Establishment.--The Secretary shall ensure 
communication and coordination between the public and private sectors 
with respect to information and activities of the council and shall use 
as a model the Overseas Security Advisory Council of the Department of 
State.
    (d) Duties.--Each council established under this section shall--
            (1) through the facilitation of partnerships between public 
        and private entities, help unify and enhance the protection of 
        the agriculture and food system of the United States;
            (2) provide for the regular and timely interchange of 
        information between each council relating to the security of 
        the agriculture and food system (including intelligence 
        information);
            (3) evaluate Federal, State, local, tribal, and private 
        sector preparedness and response plans for agriculture and food 
        defense;
            (4) identify best practices standards and methods for 
        improving the coordination among the plans described in 
        paragraph (3);
            (5)(A) conduct an annual review of each regional 
        demonstration project described in section 201(d); and
            (B) based on the results of the review, provide to the 
        Secretaries concerned recommendations to improve the 
        coordination and integration of Federal assistance to States 
        for agriculture and food defense; and
            (6) recommend methods by which to protect the economy and 
        the public health of the United States from the effects of--
                    (A) animal or plant disease outbreaks;
                    (B) food contamination; and
                    (C) natural disasters affecting agriculture and 
                food.

    TITLE IV--NATIONAL DETECTION, RESPONSE, AND RECOVERY LABORATORY 
                                NETWORKS

SEC. 401. NATIONAL DETECTION, RESPONSE, AND RECOVERY LABORATORY 
              NETWORKS.

    (a) Establishment.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretaries concerned shall establish 
        the networks described in subsections (b) through (d) to 
        provide for the sharing of information to support early 
        detection of, rapid response to, and management of potentially 
        catastrophic plant and animal disease outbreaks and food-
        related emergencies.
            (2) Requirements.--The networks described in subsections 
        (b) through (d) shall, to the maximum extent practicable--
                    (A) identify--
                            (i) a process for decisionmaking and 
                        management;
                            (ii) standardized terminology, and methods 
                        for testing communication and secure electronic 
                        reporting;
                            (iii) a system of standardized laboratory 
                        methods;
                            (iv) specific criteria for approval as a 
                        member of the laboratory network;
                            (v) a process for ongoing laboratory 
                        accreditation, performance measurement, and 
                        accountability; and
                            (vi) the quantity of laboratory surge 
                        capacity needed to respond to--
                                    (I) a catastrophic plant or animal 
                                disease outbreak; or
                                    (II) a food-related emergency; and
                    (B) ensure appropriate geographic distribution of 
                laboratory network members--
                            (i) to minimize the time required to travel 
                        to participating laboratories; and
                            (ii) to enable the rapid reporting of 
                        laboratory results.
    (b) National Plant Diagnostic Network.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary of Agriculture, in 
        consultation with the Secretary of Health and Human Services 
        and the Administrator, and in coordination with the Secretary, 
        State, local, and tribal governments, and the private sector, 
        shall develop a national plant diagnostic network that, to the 
        maximum extent practicable--
                    (A) provides ongoing surveillance, detection, and 
                surge capacity for high-consequence plant diseases and 
                pest infestations;
                    (B) coordinates the plant diagnostic laboratory 
                capacities of State plant laboratories;
                    (C) provides accessible, timely, accurate, and 
                consistent plant disease and pest laboratory services 
                nationwide; and
                    (D) responds to high-consequence plant diseases and 
                pest infestations.
            (2) Authorization of appropriations.--There are authorized 
        to be appropriated to carry out this subsection--
                    (A) $5,300,000 for fiscal year 2008; and
                    (B) such sums as are necessary for each of fiscal 
                years 2009 through 2012.
    (c) Food Emergency Response Network.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary of Agriculture, in 
        coordination with the Secretary, the Secretary of Health and 
        Human Services, State, local, and tribal governments, and the 
        private sector, shall develop a national food emergency 
        response network that, to the maximum extent practicable--
                    (A) provides ongoing surveillance, detection, and 
                surge capacity for large-scale food-related 
                emergencies, including an intentional attack on the 
                food supply;
                    (B) coordinates the food laboratory capacities of 
                State food laboratories;
                    (C) provides accessible, timely, accurate, and 
                consistent food laboratory services throughout the 
                United States; and
                    (D) responds to food-related emergencies.
            (2) Authorization of appropriations.--There are authorized 
        to be appropriated to carry out this subsection--
                    (A) $19,000,000 for fiscal year 2008; and
                    (B) such sums as are necessary for each of fiscal 
                years 2009 through 2012.
    (d) National Animal Health Laboratory Network.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary of Agriculture, in 
        consultation with the Secretary of Health and Human Services 
        and in coordination with the Secretary, State, local, and 
        tribal governments, and the private sector, shall develop a 
        national animal health laboratory network that, to the maximum 
        extent practicable--
                    (A) provides ongoing surveillance, detection, and 
                surge capacity for catastrophic animal disease 
                outbreaks and other adverse animal health events, 
                including deliberate attacks;
                    (B) coordinates the veterinary diagnostic 
                laboratory capacities of State animal health 
                laboratories;
                    (C) provides accessible, timely, accurate, and 
                consistent animal disease laboratory services 
                nationwide; and
                    (D) responds to foreign animal disease outbreaks, 
                zoonotic diseases, and other adverse animal health 
                events, including deliberate attacks.
            (2) Authorization of appropriations.--There are authorized 
        to be appropriated to carry out this subsection--
                    (A) $17,500,000 for fiscal year 2008; and
                    (B) such sums as are necessary for each of fiscal 
                years 2009 through 2012.

SEC. 402. INTEGRATION OF NETWORKS.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary, in coordination with the Secretary 
of Agriculture, the Secretary of Health and Human Services, and the 
Administrator, shall establish an agreement through which the 
laboratory network members described in subsections (b) through (d) of 
section 401 and any other appropriate network, as determined by the 
Secretary, could--
            (1) agree on common laboratory methods for the sharing of 
        knowledge and information relating to animal health, 
        agriculture, and human health;
            (2) identify the means by which each laboratory network 
        member could work cooperatively--
                    (A) to optimize national laboratory preparedness; 
                and
                    (B) to provide surge capacity during emergencies; 
                and
            (3) engage in ongoing dialogue and build relationships that 
        will support a more effective and integrated response during 
        emergencies.
    (b) Authorization of Appropriations.--There are authorized to be 
appropriated such sums as are necessary to carry out this section for 
each of fiscal years 2008 through 2012.

SEC. 403. ON-SITE RAPID DIAGNOSTIC TOOLS.

    (a) Development.--The Secretary of Agriculture, in collaboration 
with the Secretary and the Secretary of Health and Human Services, 
shall develop on-site rapid diagnostic tools to enable rapid diagnosis 
of an animal or plant disease outbreak at the site of such an outbreak.
    (b) Validation Testing of Tools.--In developing on-site rapid 
diagnostic tools under subsection (a), the Secretary of Agriculture, in 
collaboration with the Secretary and the Secretary of Health and Human 
Services, shall conduct rigorous validation testing to ensure that each 
tool--
            (1) properly responds to each disease for which the tool 
        was developed; and
            (2) will work properly when administered in the field by 
        individuals who possess varying degrees of expertise.

                 TITLE V--DECONTAMINATION AND DISPOSAL

SEC. 501. SENSE OF CONGRESS.

    It is the sense of Congress that--
            (1) an effective response to and recovery from an 
        agriculture or food emergency may include--
                    (A) the disposal of a large quantity of animals, 
                plants, or contaminated food products; or
                    (B) the decontamination of areas impacted by the 
                emergency;
            (2) most decontamination and disposal actions are handled 
        by State and local governments, rather than by the Federal 
        Government;
            (3) the Federal Government, in collaboration with State, 
        local, and tribal governments and the private sector, should 
        conduct detailed decontamination and disposal planning for 
        specific agriculture and food emergency scenarios; and
            (4) increasing rendering capacity may--
                    (A) provide needed animal disposal surge capacity 
                following an outbreak of catastrophic animal disease; 
                and
                    (B) be used for the production of energy, including 
                the production of biofuels.

SEC. 502. DECONTAMINATION AND DISPOSAL STANDARDS AND PLANS.

    (a) In General.--The Administrator, in coordination with the 
Secretaries concerned, shall provide support for, and technical 
assistance to, State, local, and tribal governments in rapidly 
assessing, decontaminating, and recovering from an agriculture or food 
emergency.
    (b) Development of Standards.--The Administrator, in coordination 
with the Secretaries concerned, and State, local, and tribal 
governments, shall develop and disseminate specific standards and 
protocols--
            (1) to address the risk of contamination following a 
        deliberate attack using biological or chemical weapons; and
            (2) to undertake clean-up, clearance, and recovery 
        activities following the decontamination and disposal of 
        specific threat agents or foreign animal diseases.
    (c) Development of Model Plans.--The Administrator, in coordination 
with the Secretaries concerned, and State, local, and tribal 
governments, shall develop and disseminate model plans for--
            (1) the decontamination of individuals, equipment, and 
        facilities following a deliberate attack involving the use of 
        biological or chemical weapons; and
            (2) the disposal of large quantities of animals, plants, or 
        food products that have been infected or contaminated by 
        specific threat agents or foreign animal diseases.
    (d) Requirements.--The model plans developed under subsection (c) 
shall--
            (1) be in accordance with the National Response Plan;
            (2) include consideration of variations relating to the 
        geography, personnel, and resources of States and local 
        governments;
            (3) include a detailed concept of the operations 
        implementation plan;
            (4) include consideration of the environmental impacts of 
        the plan; and
            (5) include consideration of the cost of implementation of 
        the plan.
    (e) Exercises.--
            (1) In general.--The Administrator, in coordination with 
        the Secretaries concerned and State, local, and tribal 
        governments, shall conduct exercises at least annually to 
        evaluate and identify weaknesses in the decontamination and 
        disposal model plans described in subsection (c).
            (2) Integration with national exercise program.--Any 
        exercise conducted by the Administrator, in coordination with 
        the Secretaries concerned and State, local, and tribal 
        governments, shall be carried out, to the maximum extent 
        practicable, as part of the national exercise program under 
        section 648(b)(1) of the Post-Katrina Emergency Management 
        Reform Act of 2006 (6 U.S.C. 748(b)(1)).
    (f) Modifications.--Based on the exercises described in subsection 
(e), the Administrator, in coordination with the Secretaries concerned 
and State, local, and tribal governments, shall review and modify as 
necessary the plans described in subsection (c) not less frequently 
than biannually, including--
            (1) by taking into consideration any new information 
        obtained during the preceding 2-year period;
            (2) by identifying any area in which available information 
        is insufficient; and
            (3) by identifying applicable research goals.
    (g) Prioritization.--The Administrator, in coordination with the 
Secretaries concerned and State, local, and tribal governments, shall 
develop plans and standards under subsections (b) and (c) in an 
identified order of priority that takes into account--
            (1) highest-risk biological and chemical threat agents;
            (2) agents that could cause the greatest economic 
        devastation to the agriculture and food system; and
            (3) agents that are most difficult to clean or remediate.
    (h) Dissemination.--The Administrator shall, to the maximum extent 
practicable, disseminate the model plans and standards developed under 
subsections (b) and (c) to State, local, and tribal governments and the 
private sector through a single internet portal.
    (i) Authorization of Appropriations.--There is authorized to be 
appropriated to carry out this section $5,000,000 for each of fiscal 
years 2008 through 2013.

SEC. 503. RURAL RENDERING CAPACITY BUILDING.

    (a) Outcome Goal.--The Secretary of Agriculture, in collaboration 
with the Administrator, the Secretary, and the private sector, shall 
identify an increased production capacity outcome goal for the 
rendering industry to meet national animal disposal surge capacity 
needs following a catastrophic animal disease outbreak.
    (b) Loans.--The Secretary of Agriculture may provide to applicants 
low-interest loans--
            (1) to develop and expand--
                    (A) the production capacity of the rendering 
                industry of the United States; and
                    (B) the ability of the rendering industry of the 
                United States to provide routine animal-tissue disposal 
                and emergency surge capacity during a catastrophic 
                animal disease outbreak;
            (2) to achieve the increased production capacity outcome 
        goal described in subsection (a); and
            (3) to be used for the production of energy, including the 
        production of biofuels.
    (c) Preference for Applicants Located in Rural Areas.--In 
determining whether to provide to applicants low-interest loans under 
subsection (b), the Secretary of Agriculture shall give preference to 
applicants that are located in a rural area of the United States.
    (d) Requirement.--In providing to an applicant a low-interest loan 
under this section, the Secretary of Agriculture may require the 
applicant to enter into a memorandum of agreement to allow the 
Secretary of Agriculture to utilize any portion of the rendering 
facility of the applicant that may be needed by the Secretary of 
Agriculture to respond to a catastrophic animal disease outbreak, as 
determined by the Secretary of Agriculture.

SEC. 504. STUDY RELATING TO FOOD IRRADIATION.

    (a) In General.--Not later than 180 days after the date of 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Agriculture, in collaboration 
with the Secretary of Health and Human Services and the Director of 
National Intelligence, shall enter into a contract with the National 
Academy of Sciences under which the National Academy of Sciences shall 
conduct a study relating to the use of irradiation technologies to 
enhance food defense capabilities.
    (b) Scope.--In conducting the study under subsection (a), the 
National Academy of Sciences shall--
            (1) evaluate the use of irradiation technologies to 
        minimize food as a potential target of terrorism by mitigating 
        bioterrorism agents delivered through the food supply;
            (2) weigh the financial cost to the private sector of 
        implementing irradiation technologies against the public health 
        benefit of enhanced food defense capabilities; and
            (3) examine--
                    (A) the public health benefits and risks of 
                consuming irradiated food products; and
                    (B) methods by which to conduct public education 
                activities to increase consumer confidence in 
                irradiated food products.
    (c) Report.--
            (1) In general.--The National Academy of Sciences shall 
        prepare and submit to the Secretary of Agriculture and the 
        Secretary of Health and Human Services a report that includes--
                    (A) a summary of each issue included in the study 
                under subsection (b); and
                    (B) policy recommendations relating to whether the 
                benefits of developing and implementing food 
                irradiation technologies outweigh the costs of 
                developing and implementing the technologies.
            (2) Public availability.--The Secretary of Agriculture 
        shall make the report under paragraph (1) publicly available.
    (d) Authorization of Appropriations.--There is authorized to be 
appropriated to carry out this section $1,000,000 for fiscal year 2008.
                                 &lt;all&gt;
</pre></body></html>
