<html><body><pre>
[Congressional Bills 111th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H.R. 5019 Introduced in House (IH)]

111th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                H. R. 5019

   To provide for the establishment of the Home Star Retrofit Rebate 
                    Program, and for other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                             April 14, 2010

 Mr. Welch (for himself, Mr. Ehlers, Mr. Markey of Massachusetts, Mr. 
   Waxman, and Mr. Cardoza) introduced the following bill; which was 
 referred to the Committee on Energy and Commerce, and in addition to 
   the Committee on Ways and Means, for a period to be subsequently 
   determined by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of such 
 provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the committee concerned

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
   To provide for the establishment of the Home Star Retrofit Rebate 
                    Program, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Home Star Energy Retrofit Act of 
2010''.

SEC. 2. DEFINITIONS.

    In this Act:
            (1) Accredited contractor.--The term ``accredited 
        contractor'' means a qualified contractor that is accredited--
                    (A) by the BPI; or
                    (B) under other standards approved by the 
                Secretary, in consultation with the Administrator.
            (2) Administrator.--The term ``Administrator'' means the 
        Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency.
            (3) BPI.--The term ``BPI'' means the Building Performance 
        Institute.
            (4) Certified workforce.--The term ``certified workforce'' 
        means a residential energy efficiency construction workforce in 
        which all employees performing installation work are certified 
        in the appropriate job skills under--
                    (A) an applicable third party skills standard 
                established by--
                            (i) BPI;
                            (ii) North American Technician Excellence;
                            (iii) the Laborers' International Union of 
                        North America; or
                    (B) other standards approved by the Secretary, in 
                consultation with the Secretary of Labor and the 
                Administrator.
            (5) Conditioned space.--The term ``conditioned space'' 
        means the area of a home that is--
                    (A) intended for habitation; and
                    (B) intentionally heated or cooled.
            (6) DOE.--The term ``DOE'' means the Department of Energy.
            (7) Electric utility.--The term ``electric utility'' means 
        any person, State agency, rural electric cooperative, 
        municipality, or other governmental entity that delivers or 
        sells electric energy at retail, including nonregulated 
        utilities and utilities that are subject to State regulation 
        and Federal power marketing administrations.
            (8) EPA.--The term ``EPA'' means the Environmental 
        Protection Agency.
            (9) Federal rebate processing system.--The term ``Federal 
        Rebate Processing System'' means the Federal Rebate Processing 
        System established under section 3(b).
            (10) Gold star home energy retrofit program.--The term 
        ``Gold Star Home Energy Retrofit Program'' means the Gold Star 
        Home Energy Retrofit Program established under section 6.
            (11) Home.--The term ``home'' means a principal residential 
        dwelling unit in a building with no more than 4 dwelling units 
        that--
                    (A) is located in the United States; and
                    (B) was constructed before the date of enactment of 
                this Act.
            (12) Home star loan program.--The term ``Home Star Loan 
        Program'' means the Home Star Energy Efficiency Loan Program 
        established under section 12.
            (13) Indian tribe.--The term ``Indian tribe'' has the 
        meaning given the term in section 4 of the Indian Self-
        Determination and Education Assistance Act (25 U.S.C. 450b).
            (14) National home performance council.--The term 
        ``National Home Performance Council'' means the National Home 
        Performance Council, Inc.
            (15) Natural gas utility.--The term ``natural gas utility'' 
        means any person or State agency that transports, distributes, 
        or sells natural gas at retail, including nonregulated 
        utilities and utilities that are subject to State regulation.
            (16) Qualified contractor.--The term ``qualified 
        contractor'' means a residential energy efficiency contractor 
        meeting minimum applicable requirements as determined under 
        section 3(c).
            (17) Quality assurance program.--
                    (A) In general.--The term ``quality assurance 
                program'' means a program authorized under this Act to 
                oversee the delivery of home efficiency retrofit 
                programs to ensure that work is performed in accordance 
                with standards and criteria established under this Act.
                    (B) Inclusions.--For purposes of subparagraph (A), 
                delivery of retrofit programs includes field 
                inspections required under this Act, with the consent 
                of participating consumers and without delaying rebate 
                payments to participating contractors and vendors.
            (18) Quality assurance provider.--
                    (A) In general.--The term ``quality assurance 
                provider'' means any entity that is authorized pursuant 
                to this Act to perform field inspections and other 
                measures required to confirm the compliance of retrofit 
                work with the requirements of this Act.
                    (B) Certification requirement.--To be considered a 
                quality assurance provider under this paragraph, an 
                entity shall be certified through--
                            (i) the International Code Council;
                            (ii) the BPI;
                            (iii) the RESNET;
                            (iv) a State;
                            (v) a State-approved residential energy 
                        efficiency retrofit program; or
                            (vi) any other entity designated for such 
                        purpose by the Secretary, in consultation with 
                        the Administrator.
            (19) Rebate aggregator.--The term ``rebate aggregator'' 
        means an entity that meets the requirements of section 4.
            (20) RESNET.--The term ``RESNET'' means the Residential 
        Energy Services Network.
            (21) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary 
        of Energy.
            (22) Silver star home energy retrofit program.--The term 
        ``Silver Star Home Energy Retrofit Program'' means the Silver 
        Star Home Energy Retrofit Program established under section 5.
            (23) State.--The term ``State'' means--
                    (A) a State;
                    (B) the District of Columbia;
                    (C) the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico;
                    (D) Guam;
                    (E) American Samoa;
                    (F) the United States Virgin Islands;
                    (G) the Northern Mariana Islands; and
                    (H) any other commonwealth, territory, or 
                possession of the United States.

SEC. 3. HOME STAR RETROFIT REBATE PROGRAM.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary shall establish the Home Star 
Retrofit Rebate Program.
    (b) Federal Rebate Processing System.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 30 days after the date of 
        enactment of this Act, the Secretary, in consultation with the 
        Secretary of the Treasury and the Administrator, shall--
                    (A) establish a Federal Rebate Processing System 
                which shall serve as a database and information 
                technology system to allow rebate aggregators to submit 
                claims for reimbursement using standard data protocols;
                    (B) establish a national retrofit website that 
                provides information on the Home Star Retrofit Rebate 
                Program, including how to determine whether particular 
                energy efficiency measures are eligible for rebate and 
                how to participate in the program; and
                    (C) publish model forms and data protocols for use 
                by contractors, vendors, and quality assurance 
                providers to comply with the requirements of this Act.
            (2) Model certification forms.--In carrying out this 
        section, the Secretary shall consider the model certification 
        forms developed by the National Home Performance Council.
    (c) Qualified Contractor Requirements.--A qualified contractor may 
perform retrofit work for which rebates are authorized under this Act 
only if it executes a Home Star participation agreement with a rebate 
aggregator affirming that it meets applicable requirements, including--
            (1) all applicable State contractor licensing requirements 
        or, with respect to a State that has no such requirements, any 
        appropriate comparable requirements established under paragraph 
        (6);
            (2) insurance coverage of at least $1,000,000 for general 
        liability, and for such other purposes and in such other 
        amounts as may be required by the State;
            (3) agreeing to provide warranties to homeowners that 
        completed work will--
                    (A) be free of significant defects;
                    (B) be installed in accordance with the 
                specifications of the manufacturer; and
                    (C) perform properly for a period of at least 1 
                year after the date of completion of the work;
            (4) agreeing to pass through to the owner of a home, 
        through a discount, the full economic value of all rebates 
        received under this Act with respect to the home;
            (5) agreeing to provide to the homeowner a notice of--
                    (A) the amount of the rebate the contractor intends 
                to apply for with respect to the eligible work under 
                this Act, before a contract is executed between the 
                contractor and a homeowner covering the eligible work; 
                and
                    (B) the means by which the rebate will be passed 
                through as a discount to the homeowner; and
            (6) any other appropriate requirements as determined by the 
        Secretary, in consultation with the Administrator.
    (d) Administrative and Technical Support.--Subject to section 13 
(b) and (c), beginning not later than 30 days after the date of 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall provide such administrative 
and technical support to rebate aggregators and States as is necessary 
to carry out this Act.
    (e) Administration.--
            (1) Appointment of personnel.--Notwithstanding the 
        provisions of title 5, United States Code, governing 
        appointments in the competitive service and General Schedule 
        classifications and pay rates, the Secretary may appoint such 
        professional and administrative personnel as the Secretary 
        considers necessary to carry out this Act.
            (2) Rate of pay.--The rate of pay for a person appointed 
        under paragraph (1) shall not exceed the maximum rate payable 
        for GS-15 of the General Schedule under chapter 53 of title 5, 
        United States Code.
            (3) Consultants.--Notwithstanding section 303 of the 
        Federal Property and Administrative Services Act of 1949 (41 
        U.S.C. 253), the Secretary may retain such consultants on a 
        noncompetitive basis as the Secretary considers necessary to 
        carry out this Act.
            (4) Contracting.--In carrying out this Act, the Secretary 
        may waive all or part of any provision of the Competition in 
        Contracting Act of 1984 (Public Law 98-369; 98 Stat. 1175), an 
        amendment made by that Act, or the Federal Acquisition 
        Regulation on a determination that circumstances make 
        compliance with the provisions contrary to the public interest.
            (5) Regulations.--
                    (A) In general.--Notwithstanding section 553 of 
                title 5, United States Code, the Secretary may issue 
                regulations that the Secretary, in the sole discretion 
                of the Secretary, determines necessary to--
                            (i) establish;
                            (ii) achieve full operational status within 
                        60 days after the date of enactment of this Act 
                        for; or
                            (iii) carry out,
                the Home Star Retrofit Rebate Program.
                    (B) Timing.--If the Secretary determines that 
                regulations described in subparagraph (A) are 
                necessary, the regulations shall be issued not later 
                than 60 days after such determination.
            (6) Information collection.--Chapter 35 of title 44, United 
        States Code, shall not apply to any information collection 
        requirement necessary for the implementation of the Home Star 
        Retrofit Rebate Program.
            (7) Effective period.--Paragraphs (1), (3), (4), (5), and 
        (6) shall be effective only for fiscal years 2010 and 2011.
    (f) Program Review.--Not later than 180 days after the date of 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall prepare and transmit to 
Congress a State-by-State analysis and review the distribution of Home 
Star retrofit rebates under this Act.
    (g) Adjustment of Rebate Amounts.--Effective beginning on the date 
that is 180 days after the date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary 
may, after not less than 30 days public notice, prospectively adjust 
the rebate amounts provided for under this Act as necessary to optimize 
the overall energy efficiency resulting from the Silver Star Home 
Energy Retrofit Program and the Gold Star Home Energy Retrofit Program.
    (h) Indian Tribe Participation.--
            (1) In general.--An Indian tribe, within 30 days after the 
        date of enactment of this Act, may indicate to the Secretary 
        its intention to act in place of a State for purposes of 
        carrying out the responsibilities of the State under this Act 
        with respect to its tribal lands. If the Indian tribe so 
        indicates, the Secretary shall treat the Indian tribe as the 
        State for purposes of carrying out this Act with respect to 
        those tribal lands.
            (2) Transition of responsibilities.--The Secretary may 
        permit an Indian tribe, after the expiration of 30 days after 
        the date of enactment of this Act, to assume the 
        responsibilities of a State under this Act with respect to its 
        tribal lands if the Secretary finds that such assumption of 
        responsibilities will not disrupt the ongoing administration of 
        the program under this Act.
            (3) Cooperation.--An Indian tribe may cooperate with a 
        State or the Secretary to ensure that all of the requirements 
        of this Act are carried out with respect to the tribal lands.
    (i) Implementation by Secretary.--
            (1) In general.--If a State has not indicated to the 
        Secretary within 30 days after the date of enactment of this 
        Act that it is prepared to carry out section 7, or if at any 
        later time the Secretary determines that a State is no longer 
        prepared to carry out section 7, to the extent that no Indian 
        tribe assumes such responsibilities under subsection (h) the 
        Secretary shall assume the responsibilities of that State with 
        respect to carrying out section 7.
            (2) Transition of responsibilities.--The Secretary may 
        permit a State, after the Secretary has assumed the 
        responsibilities of that State under paragraph (1), to assume 
        the responsibilities assigned to States under section 7 with 
        respect to that State if the Secretary finds that such 
        assumption of responsibilities will not disrupt the ongoing 
        administration of the program under this Act.
    (j) Limitation.--Rebates may not be provided under both section 5 
and section 6 with respect to the same home.
    (k) Forms for Certification and Quality Assurance.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 30 days after the date of 
        enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall make available on 
        the website established under subsection (b)(1)(B), model 
        certification forms for compliance with quality assurance 
        requirements under this Act, to be submitted by--
                    (A) each qualified contractor, accredited 
                contractor, and quality assurance provider on 
                completion of an eligible home energy retrofit; and
                    (B) each quality assurance provider on completion 
                of field verification required under this section.
            (2) National home performance council.--The Secretary, 
        States, and Indian tribes shall consider and may use model 
        certification forms developed by the National Home Performance 
        Council to ensure compliance with quality assurance 
        requirements under this Act.
    (l) Public-Private Partnerships.--A State that receives a grant 
under this Act is encouraged to form partnerships with utilities, 
energy service companies, and other entities--
            (1) to assist in marketing the Home Star Retrofit Rebate 
        Program;
            (2) to facilitate consumer financing;
            (3) to assist in implementation of the Silver Star Home 
        Energy Retrofit Program and the Gold Star Home Energy Retrofit 
        Program, including installation of qualified energy retrofit 
        measures; and
            (4) to assist in implementing quality assurance programs.
    (m) Coordination of Rebate and Existing State-Sponsored Programs.--
            (1) In general.--A State shall, to the maximum extent 
        practicable, prevent duplication through coordination of a 
        program authorized under this Act with--
                    (A) the Energy Star appliance rebates program 
                authorized under section 124 of the Energy Policy Act 
                of 2005 (42 U.S.C. 15821), and any other Federal 
                programs that provide funds to States for home or 
                appliance energy efficiency purposes; and
                    (B) comparable programs planned or operated by 
                States, political subdivisions, electric and natural 
                gas utilities, Federal power marketing administrations, 
                and Indian tribes.
            (2) Existing programs.--In carrying out this subsection, a 
        State shall--
                    (A) give priority to--
                            (i) comprehensive retrofit programs in 
                        existence on the date of enactment of this Act, 
                        including programs under the supervision of 
                        State utility regulators; and
                            (ii) using funds made available under this 
                        Act to enhance and extend existing programs; 
                        and
                    (B) seek to enhance and extend existing programs by 
                coordinating with administrators of the programs.
    (n) Health and Safety Requirements.--Nothing in this Act shall 
relieve any contractor from the obligation to comply with applicable 
Federal, State, and local health and safety code requirements.

SEC. 4. REBATE AGGREGATORS.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary shall develop a network of rebate 
aggregators that can facilitate the delivery of rebates to 
participating contractors and vendors, to reimburse those contractors 
and vendors for discounts provided to homeowners for energy efficiency 
retrofit work. The Secretary shall approve or deny an application from 
a person seeking to become a rebate aggregator not later than 30 days 
after receiving such application.
    (b) Availability.--Not later than 90 days after the date of 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall ensure that rebate 
aggregation services are available to all homeowners in the United 
States at the lowest reasonable cost.
    (c) Responsibilities.--Rebate aggregators shall--
            (1) review each proposed rebate application for 
        completeness and accuracy;
            (2) review all measures for which rebates are sought for 
        eligibility in accordance with this Act;
            (3) provide data to the Secretary for inclusion in the 
        database maintained through the Federal Rebate Processing 
        System, consistent with data protocols established by the 
        Secretary;
            (4) not later than 30 days after the date of receipt, 
        distribute funds received from the Secretary to contractors, 
        vendors, or other persons in accordance with approved claims 
        for reimbursement made to the Federal Rebate Processing System;
            (5) maintain appropriate accounting for rebate applications 
        processed, and their disposition;
            (6) review contractor qualifications and accreditation and 
        retain documentation of such qualification and accreditation, 
        as required for contractors to be authorized to perform 
        residential energy efficiency retrofit work under this Act; and
            (7) maintain information regarding contractors' fulfillment 
        of the requirements of section 3(c).
    (d) Eligibility.--To be eligible to apply to the Secretary for 
approval as a rebate aggregator, an entity--
            (1) shall be--
                    (A) a Home Performance with Energy Star partner;
                    (B) an entity administering a residential energy 
                efficiency retrofit program established or approved by 
                a State;
                    (C) a Federal power marketing administration;
                    (D) an electric utility or a natural gas utility 
                administering or offering a residential energy 
                efficiency retrofit program; or
                    (E) an entity--
                            (i) with corporate status or status as a 
                        State or local government;
                            (ii) who can demonstrate adequate financial 
                        capability to manage a rebate aggregator 
                        program, as evidenced by audited financial 
                        records; and
                            (iii) whose participation in the program, 
                        in the judgment of the Secretary, would not 
                        disrupt existing residential retrofit programs 
                        in the States that are carrying out the Home 
                        Star Retrofit Rebate Program under this Act;
            (2) must be able to demonstrate--
                    (A) a relationship with 1 or more independent 
                quality assurance providers that is sufficient to meet 
                the volume of contracting services delivered;
                    (B) the capability to provide such electronic data 
                as is required by the Secretary to the Federal Rebate 
                Processing System; and
                    (C) a financial system that is capable of tracking 
                the distribution of rebates to participating 
                contractors and vendors; and
            (3) shall include in its application the amount it proposes 
        to charge for the review and processing of a rebate under this 
        Act.
    (e) Public Utility Commission Efficiency Targets.--The Secretary 
shall--
            (1) develop guidelines for States to use to allow utilities 
        participating as rebate aggregators to count the energy savings 
        from their participation toward State-level energy savings 
        targets; and
            (2) work with States to assist in the adoption of these 
        guidelines for the purposes and duration of the Home Star 
        Retrofit Rebate Program.

SEC. 5. SILVER STAR HOME ENERGY RETROFIT PROGRAM.

    (a) In General.--During the first year after the date of enactment 
of this Act, a Silver Star Home Energy Retrofit Program rebate shall be 
awarded, subject to the maximum amount limitations under subsection 
(d)(4), to participating contractors and vendors, to reimburse them for 
discounts provided to the owner of the home for the retrofit work, for 
the installation of energy savings measures--
            (1) selected from the list of energy savings measures 
        described in subsection (b);
            (2) installed after the date of enactment of this Act in 
        the home by a qualified contractor; and
            (3) carried out in compliance with this section.
    (b) Energy Savings Measures.--Subject to subsection (c), a rebate 
shall be awarded under subsection (a) for the installation of the 
following energy savings measures for a home energy retrofit that meet 
technical standards established under this section:
            (1) Whole house air-sealing measures, in accordance with 
        BPI standards or other procedures approved by the Secretary.
            (2) Attic insulation measures that--
                    (A) include sealing of air leakage between the 
                attic and the conditioned space, in accordance with BPI 
                standards or the attic portions of the DOE or EPA 
                thermal bypass checklist or other procedures approved 
                by the Secretary;
                    (B) add at least R-19 insulation to existing 
                insulation;
                    (C) result in at least R-38 insulation in DOE 
                climate zones 1 through 4 and at least R-49 insulation 
                in DOE climate zones 5 through 8, including existing 
                insulation, within the limits of structural capacity; 
                and
                    (D) cover at least--
                            (i) 100 percent of an accessible attic; or
                            (ii) 75 percent of a total conditioned 
                        space floor area.
            (3) Duct seal or replacement that--
                    (A) is installed in accordance with BPI standards 
                or other procedures approved by the Secretary; and
                    (B) in the case of duct replacement, replaces at 
                least 50 percent of a distribution system of the home.
            (4) Wall insulation that--
                    (A) is installed in accordance with BPI standards 
                or other procedures approved by the Secretary;
                    (B) is to full-stud thickness; and
                    (C) covers at least 75 percent of the total 
                external wall area of the home.
            (5) Crawl space insulation or basement wall and rim joist 
        insulation that is installed in accordance with BPI standards 
        or other procedures approved by the Secretary and--
                    (A) covers at least 500 square feet of crawl space 
                or basement wall and adds at least--
                            (i) R-19 of cavity insulation or R-15 of 
                        continuous insulation to existing crawl space 
                        insulation; or
                            (ii) R-13 of cavity insulation or R-10 of 
                        continuous insulation to basement walls; and
                    (B) fully covers the rim joist with at least R-10 
                of new continuous or R-13 of cavity insulation.
            (6) Window replacement that replaces at least 8 exterior 
        windows or skylights, or 75 percent of the exterior windows and 
        skylights in a home, whichever is less, with windows or 
        skylights that--
                    (A) are certified by the National Fenestration 
                Rating Council; and
                    (B) comply with criteria applicable to windows and 
                skylights under section 25(c) of the Internal Revenue 
                Code of 1986.
            (7) Door replacement that replaces at least 1 exterior door 
        with doors that comply with criteria applicable to doors under 
        section 25(c) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986.
            (8)(A) Heating system replacement of--
                    (i) a natural gas or propane furnace with a furnace 
                that has an AFUE rating of 92 or greater;
                    (ii) a natural gas or propane boiler with a boiler 
                that has an AFUE rating of 90 or greater;
                    (iii) an oil furnace with a furnace that has an 
                AFUE rating of 86 or greater and that uses an 
                electrically commutated blower motor;
                    (iv) an oil boiler with a boiler that has an AFUE 
                rating of 86 or greater and that has temperature reset 
                or thermal purge controls; or
                    (v) a wood or wood pellet furnace, boiler, or 
                stove, if--
                            (I) the new system--
                                    (aa) meets at least 75 percent of 
                                the heating demands of the home;
                                    (bb) has a distribution system 
                                (such as ducts or vents) that allows 
                                heat to reach all or most parts of the 
                                home; and
                                    (cc) in the case of a wood stove, 
                                replaces an existing wood stove; and
                            (II) an independent test laboratory 
                        approved by the Secretary certifies that the 
                        new system--
                                    (aa) has thermal efficiency (lower 
                                heating value) of at least 75 percent 
                                for stoves and 80 percent for furnaces 
                                and boilers; and
                                    (bb) has particulate emissions of 
                                less than 4.5 grams per hour for 
                                stoves.
            (B) A rebate may be provided under this section for the 
        replacement of a furnace or boiler described in clauses (i) 
        through (iv) of subparagraph (A) only if the new furnace or 
        boiler is installed in accordance with ANSI/ACCA Standard 5 QI-
        2007.
            (9) Air conditioner or heat pump replacement with a new 
        unit that--
                    (A) is installed in accordance with ANSI/ACCA 
                Standard 5 QI-2007; and
                    (B) meets or exceeds--
                            (i) in the case of an air conditioner, SEER 
                        16 and EER 13; and
                            (ii) in the case of a heat pump, SEER 15, 
                        EER 12.5, and HSPF 8.5.
            (10) Heating or cooling system replacement with an Energy 
        Star qualified geothermal heat pump that meets Tier 2 
        efficiency requirements and that is installed in accordance 
        with ANSI/ACCA Standard 5 QI-2007.
            (11) Replacement of a natural gas, propane, or electric 
        water heater with--
                    (A) a natural gas or propane storage water heater 
                with an energy factor of 0.80 or more or a thermal 
                efficiency of 90 percent or more;
                    (B) a tankless natural gas or propane water heater 
                with an energy factor of at least .82;
                    (C) a natural gas or propane storage water heater 
                with an energy factor of at least .67;
                    (D) an indirect water heater with an insulated 
                storage tank that--
                            (i) has a storage capacity of at least 30 
                        gallons and is insulated to at least R-16; and
                            (ii) is installed in conjunction with a 
                        qualifying boiler described in paragraph (8);
                    (E) an electric water heater with an energy factor 
                of 2.0 or more;
                    (F) an electric tankless water heater with an 
                efficiency factor of .96 or more, that operates on not 
                greater than 25 kilowatts;
                    (G) a solar hot water system that--
                            (i) is certified by the Solar Rating and 
                        Certification Corporation; or
                            (ii) meets technical standards established 
                        by the State of Hawaii; or
                    (H) a water heater installed in conjunction with a 
                qualifying geothermal heat pump described in paragraph 
                (10) that provides domestic water heating through the 
                use of a desuperheater or demand water heating 
                capability.
            (12) Storm windows that--
                    (A) are installed on at least 5 existing single-
                glazed windows that do not have storm windows;
                    (B) are installed in a home listed on or eligible 
                for listing in the National Register of Historic 
                Places; and
                    (C) comply with any procedures that the Secretary 
                may set for storm windows and their installation.
    (c) Installation Costs.--Measures described in paragraphs (1) 
through (12) of subsection (b) shall include expenditures for labor and 
other installation-related costs properly allocable to the onsite 
preparation, assembly, or original installation of the component.
    (d) Amount of Rebate.--
            (1) In general.--Except as provided in paragraphs (2) 
        through (4), the amount of a rebate provided under subsection 
        (a) shall be $1,000 per measure for the installation of energy 
        savings measures described in subsection (b).
            (2) Higher rebate amount.--Except as provided in paragraph 
        (4), the amount of a rebate provided under subsection (a) shall 
        be $1,500 per measure for--
                    (A) attic insulation and air sealing described in 
                subsection (b) (1) or (2); and
                    (B) wall insulation described in subsection (b)(4).
            (3) Lower rebate amount.--Except as provided in paragraph 
        (4), the amount of a rebate provided under subsection (a) shall 
        be--
                    (A) $125 per door for the installation of up to a 
                maximum of 2 Energy Star doors described in subsection 
                (b)(7) for each home;
                    (B) $250 for a maximum of 1 natural gas or propane 
                storage water heater described in subsection (b)(10)(C) 
                for each home;
                    (C) $250 for rim joist insulation described in 
                subsection (b)(5)(B);
                    (D) $50 for each storm window described in 
                subsection (b)(11), with a minimum of 5 storm windows 
                and a maximum of 12; and
                    (E) $250 each for a maximum of 4 electric tankless 
                water heaters described in subsection (b)(10)(F) for 
                each home.
            (4) Maximum amount.--The total amount of rebates provided 
        for a home under this section shall not exceed the lower of--
                    (A) $3,000;
                    (B) 50 percent of the total cost of the installed 
                measures; or
                    (C) if the Secretary finds that the net value to 
                the homeowner of the rebates, as a function of the 
                discount the contractor or vendor provides to the 
                homeowner for the installed measures, is less than the 
                amount of the rebates, the actual net value to the 
                homeowner.
    (e) Verification and Correction of Work.--
            (1) Reimbursement.--On submission of a claim by a rebate 
        aggregator to the Federal Rebate Processing System, the 
        Secretary shall provide reimbursement to the rebate aggregator 
        for energy-efficiency measures installed in a home, subject to 
        paragraphs (2) and (3).
            (2) Verification.--
                    (A) Percentage of retrofits verified.--
                            (i) In general.--Except as provided in 
                        clause (ii), not less than--
                                    (I) 20 percent of the retrofits 
                                performed by each qualified contractor 
                                under this section with respect to a 
                                rebate described in subsection (a) 
                                shall be randomly subject to field 
                                verification by an independent quality 
                                assurance provider of all work 
                                associated with the retrofit; and
                                    (II) in the case of a qualified 
                                contractor that always uses a certified 
                                workforce, 10 percent of the retrofits 
                                performed by that contractor under this 
                                section with respect to a rebate 
                                described in subsection (a) shall be 
                                randomly subject to field verification 
                                by an independent quality assurance 
                                provider of all work associated with 
                                the retrofit.
                            (ii) Exceptions.--In the case of a 
                        qualified contractor whose previous retrofit 
                        work--
                                    (I) the Secretary or the State has 
                                found to fail to comply with the 
                                requirements of this section, the 
                                Secretary may establish a higher 
                                percentage of the retrofits performed 
                                by that contractor under this section 
                                with respect to a rebate described in 
                                subsection (a) to be subject to field 
                                verification by an independent quality 
                                assurance provider; and
                                    (II) the Secretary or the State has 
                                found to successfully comply with the 
                                requirements of this section, the 
                                Secretary may establish a lower 
                                percentage of the retrofits performed 
                                by that contractor under this section 
                                with respect to a rebate described in 
                                subsection (a) to be subject to field 
                                verification by an independent quality 
                                assurance provider.
                    (B) Homeowner complaint.--A homeowner may make a 
                complaint under the quality assurance program that 
                compliance with the quality assurance requirements of 
                this Act has not been achieved. The quality assurance 
                program shall provide that, upon receiving such a 
                complaint, an independent quality assurance provider 
                shall conduct field verification on the retrofit work 
                performed by the contractor. Verifications under this 
                subparagraph shall be in addition to those conducted 
                under subparagraph (A), and shall be corrected in 
                accordance with paragraph (3).
            (3) Correction.--Rebates under subsection (a) shall be made 
        subject to the following conditions:
                    (A) The installed measures will comply with the 
                specifications and quality standards under this section 
                if a field verification by a quality assurance provider 
                finds that corrective work is needed. Such compliance 
                shall be achieved by the installing accredited 
                contractor not later than 14 days after the date of 
                notification of a defect pursuant to a warranty, 
                provided at no additional cost to the homeowner.
                    (B) A subsequent quality assurance visit shall be 
                conducted to evaluate the remedy not later than 7 days 
                after notification that the defect has been corrected.
                    (C) The quality assurance provider shall notify the 
                contractor of the disposition of such visit not later 
                than 7 days after the date of the visit.
            (4) Access to home.--In order to be eligible for a discount 
        from a contractor or vendor for which a rebate is provided 
        under subsection (a), a homeowner shall agree to permit such 
        access to the home as is necessary to verify and correct 
        retrofit work.
    (f) Products Purchased Without Installation Services.--
            (1) In general.--A Silver Star Home Energy Retrofit Program 
        rebate shall be awarded for attic, wall, and crawl space 
        insulation and air-sealing products that--
                    (A) qualify for a tax credit under section 25C of 
                the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, but with respect to 
                which no claim for such a tax credit has been made;
                    (B) are purchased by a homeowner for installation 
                by the homeowner in a home identified by its address by 
                the homeowner; and
                    (C) are identified and attributed to that home in a 
                rebate submission by the vendor to a rebate aggregator.
            (2) Limitation.--No rebate may be provided under this 
        subsection with respect to insulation or products that are 
        employed in energy-efficiency measures with respect to which a 
        rebate is provided under this section or section 6.
            (3) Amount of rebate.--A rebate under this subsection shall 
        be awarded for 50 percent of the total cost of the products 
        described in paragraph (1), not to exceed $250 per home.
    (g) Review.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary shall determine whether 
        information submitted to the Federal Rebate Processing System 
        with respect to a rebate was complete, and on the basis of that 
        information and other information available to the Secretary, 
        shall determine whether the requirements of this section were 
        met in all respects.
            (2) Incorrect payment.--On a determination of the Secretary 
        under paragraph (1) that a payment was made incorrectly to a 
        party, or that sufficient information was not submitted to the 
        Federal Rebate Processing System to enable such determination, 
        the Secretary--
                    (A) may--
                            (i) recoup the amount of the incorrect 
                        payment; or
                            (ii) withhold the amount of the incorrect 
                        payment from a payment made to the party 
                        pursuant to a subsequent request; and
                    (B) shall, to the extent the Secretary determines 
                the benefit of the rebate was not passed through to the 
                homeowner through a discount on the price of the 
                retrofit work, order the contractor or vendor to pay 
                the amount of rebate benefit not previously passed 
                through to the homeowner.

SEC. 6. GOLD STAR HOME ENERGY RETROFIT PROGRAM.

    (a) In General.--A Gold Star Home Energy Retrofit Program rebate 
shall be awarded, subject to subsection (c), to participating 
accredited contractors and vendors, to reimburse them for discounts 
provided to the owner of the home for the retrofit work, for retrofits 
that achieve whole home energy savings carried out after the date of 
enactment of this Act in accordance with this section.
    (b) Energy Savings.--
            (1) In general.--Reductions in whole home energy 
        consumption under this section shall be determined by a 
        comparison of the simulated energy consumption of the home 
        before and after the retrofit of the home.
            (2) Documentation.--The percent improvement in energy 
        consumption of a home under this section shall be documented 
        through--
                    (A)(i) the use of a whole home simulation software 
                program that has been approved as a commercial 
                alternative under the Weatherization Assistance Program 
                for Low-Income Persons established under part A of 
                title IV of the Energy Conservation and Production Act 
                (42 U.S.C. 6861 et seq.); or
                    (ii) a equivalent performance test established by 
                the Secretary, in consultation with the Administrator; 
                or
                    (B)(i) the use of a whole home simulation software 
                program that has been approved under RESNET Publication 
                No. 06-001 (or a successor publication approved by the 
                Secretary);
                    (ii) an equivalent performance test established by 
                the Secretary, in consultation with the Administrator;
                    (iii) a State-certified equivalent rating network, 
                as specified by IRS Notice 2008-35; or
                    (iv) a HERS rating system approved or required by 
                the law of the State in which the home is located.
            (3) Monitoring.--The Secretary--
                    (A) shall continuously monitor the software 
                programs used for determining rebates under this 
                section; and
                    (B) may disallow the use of software programs that 
                improperly assess energy savings.
            (4) Assumptions and testing.--The Secretary may--
                    (A) establish simulation software program 
                assumptions for carrying out paragraph (2);
                    (B) require compliance with software program 
                performance tests covering--
                            (i) mechanical system performance;
                            (ii) duct distribution system efficiency;
                            (iii) hot water performance; or
                            (iv) other measures; and
                    (C) require the simulation of pre-retrofit energy 
                usage to be determined by metered pre-retrofit energy 
                usage.
            (5) Recommended measures.--Software programs used under 
        this subsection shall have the ability at a minimum to assess 
        the savings associated with all the measures for which rebates 
        are specifically provided under the Silver Star Home Energy 
        Retrofit Program.
    (c) Amount of Rebate.--Subject to subsection (d)(2), the amount of 
a rebate provided under this section shall be--
            (1) $3,000 for a 20-percent reduction in whole home energy 
        consumption; and
            (2) an additional $1,000 for each additional 5-percent 
        reduction up to the lower of--
                    (A) $8,000; or
                    (B) 50 percent of the total retrofit cost.
    (d) Verification and Correction of Work.--
            (1) Reimbursement.--On submission of a claim by a rebate 
        aggregator to the Federal Rebate Processing System, the 
        Secretary shall provide reimbursement to the rebate aggregator 
        for energy-efficiency measures installed in a home, subject to 
        paragraphs (2) and (3).
            (2) Verification.--
                    (A) In general.--Subject to subparagraph (B), all 
                work conducted in a home as part of a whole-home 
                retrofit by an accredited contractor under this section 
                shall be subject to random field verification by an 
                independent quality assurance provider at a rate of--
                            (i) 15 percent; or
                            (ii) in the case of work performed by an 
                        accredited contractor always using a certified 
                        workforce, 10 percent.
                    (B) Verification not required.--A home shall not be 
                subject to field verification under subparagraph (A) 
                if--
                            (i) a post-retrofit home energy rating is 
                        conducted by an entity that is an eligible 
                        certifier in accordance with--
                                    (I) RESNET Publication No. 06-001 
                                (or a successor publication approved by 
                                the Secretary);
                                    (II) a State-certified equivalent 
                                rating network, as specified in IRS 
                                Notice 2008-35; or
                                    (III) a HERS rating system required 
                                by the law of the State in which the 
                                home is located;
                            (ii) the eligible certifier is independent 
                        of the accredited contractor in accordance with 
                        RESNET Publication No. 06-001 (or a successor 
                        publication approved by the Secretary); and
                            (iii) the rating includes field 
                        verification of all measures for which rebates 
                        are being provided.
                    (C) Homeowner complaint.--A homeowner may make a 
                complaint under the quality assurance program that 
                compliance with the quality assurance requirements of 
                this Act has not been achieved. The quality assurance 
                program shall provide that, upon receiving such a 
                complaint, an independent quality assurance provider 
                shall conduct field verification on the retrofit work 
                performed by the contractor. Verifications under this 
                subparagraph shall be in addition to those conducted 
                under subparagraph (A), and shall be corrected in 
                accordance with paragraph (3).
                    (D) Access to home.--In order to be eligible for a 
                discount from a contractor or vendor for which a rebate 
                is provided under this section, a homeowner shall agree 
                to permit such access to the home as is necessary to 
                verify and correct retrofit work.
            (3) Correction.--Rebates under this section shall be made 
        subject to the following conditions:
                    (A) The installed measures will comply with 
                manufacturer and applicable code standards and the 
                specifications and quality standards under this section 
                if a field verification by an independent quality 
                assurance provider finds that corrective work is 
                needed. Such compliance shall be achieved by the 
                installing accredited contractor not later than 14 days 
                after the date of notification of a defect pursuant to 
                a warranty, provided at no additional cost to the 
                homeowner.
                    (B) A subsequent quality assurance visit shall be 
                conducted to evaluate the remedy not later than 7 days 
                after notification that the defect has been corrected.
                    (C) The quality assurance provider shall notify the 
                contractor of the disposition of such visit not later 
                than 7 days after the date of the visit.
    (e) Review.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary shall determine whether 
        information submitted to the Federal Rebate Processing System 
        with respect to a rebate was complete, and on the basis of that 
        information and other information available to the Secretary, 
        shall determine whether the requirements of this section were 
        met in all respects.
            (2) Incorrect payment.--On a determination of the Secretary 
        under paragraph (1) that a payment was made incorrectly to a 
        party, or that sufficient information was not submitted to the 
        Federal Rebate Processing System to enable such determination, 
        the Secretary--
                    (A) may--
                            (i) recoup the amount of the incorrect 
                        payment; or
                            (ii) withhold the amount of the incorrect 
                        payment from a payment made to the party 
                        pursuant to a subsequent request; and
                    (B) shall, to the extent the Secretary determines 
                the benefit of the rebate was not passed through to the 
                homeowner through a discount on the price of the 
                retrofit work, order the contractor or vendor to pay 
                the amount of rebate benefit not previously passed 
                through to the homeowner.

SEC. 7. QUALITY ASSURANCE.

    (a) Quality Assurance Framework.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 180 days after the date 
        that the Secretary initially provides funds to a State under 
        this Act, the State shall submit to the Secretary a plan to 
        implement a quality assurance program that covers all 
        residential energy efficiency retrofit work sponsored or 
        provided under this Act.
            (2) Implementation.--The State shall--
                    (A) develop a quality assurance framework in 
                consultation with industry stakeholders, including 
                representatives of efficiency program managers, 
                contractors, and environmental, energy efficiency, and 
                labor organizations; and
                    (B) implement the quality assurance framework not 
                later than 90 days after the plan is submitted to the 
                Secretary under paragraph (1).
            (3) Components.--The quality assurance framework 
        established under this subsection shall include--
                    (A) maintenance of a list of such qualified 
                contractors and accredited contractors;
                    (B) minimum standards for such qualified 
                contractors or accredited contractors;
                    (C) requirements for maintenance and delivery to 
                the Federal Rebate Processing System of information 
                needed to verify compliance and ensure appropriate 
                compensation for quality assurance providers;
                    (D) targets and realistic plans for--
                            (i) the recruitment of minority or women-
                        owned small business enterprises;
                            (ii) the employment of graduates of 
                        training programs that primarily serve low-
                        income populations with a median income that is 
                        below 200 percent of the poverty line (as 
                        defined in section 673(2) of the Community 
                        Services Block Grant Act (42 U.S.C. 9902(2), 
                        including any revision required by that 
                        section) by participating contractors;
                    (E) a plan to link workforce training for energy 
                efficiency retrofits with training for the broader 
                range of skills and occupations in construction or 
                emerging clean energy industries; and
                    (F) maintenance of a list of qualified quality 
                assurance providers and minimum standards for such 
                quality assurance providers.
            (4) Noncompliance.--If the Secretary determines that a 
        State has not taken the steps required under this subsection, 
        the Secretary shall provide to the State a period of at least 
        90 days to comply before suspending the participation of the 
        State in the Home Star Retrofit Rebate Program.
    (b) Quality Assurance Programs.--
            (1) In general.--A State may carry out a quality assurance 
        program--
                    (A) as part of a State energy conservation plan 
                established under part D of title III of the Energy 
                Policy and Conservation Act (42 U.S.C. 6321 et seq.);
                    (B) to be managed by the office or the designee of 
                the office--
                            (i) that is responsible for the development 
                        of the plan under section 362 of that Act (42 
                        U.S.C. 6322); and
                            (ii) to the maximum extent practicable, 
                        that is conducting an existing energy 
                        efficiency program; and
                    (C) in the case of a grant made to an Indian tribe, 
                to be managed by an entity designated by the Indian 
                tribe to carry out a quality assurance program or a 
                national quality assurance program manager.
            (2) Noncompliance.--If the Secretary determines that a 
        State has not provided or cannot provide adequate oversight 
        over a quality assurance program to ensure compliance with this 
        Act, the Secretary may--
                    (A) withhold further quality assurance funds from 
                the State; and
                    (B) require that quality assurance providers 
                operating in the State be overseen by a national 
                quality assurance program manager selected by the 
                Secretary.
            (3) Implementation.--A State that receives a grant under 
        this Act may implement a quality assurance program through the 
        State or an independent quality assurance provider designated 
        by the State, including--
                    (A) an energy service company;
                    (B) an electric utility;
                    (C) a natural gas utility;
                    (D) an independent administrator designated by the 
                State; or
                    (E) a unit of local government.

SEC. 8. REPORT.

    (a) In General.--Not later than 1 year after the date of enactment 
of this Act, the Secretary shall submit to the Committee on Energy and 
Natural Resources of the Senate and the Committee on Energy and 
Commerce of the House of Representatives a report on this Act.
    (b) Contents.--The report shall include a description of--
            (1) the energy savings produced as a result of this Act;
            (2) the direct and indirect employment created as a result 
        of the programs supported under this Act;
            (3) the specific entities implementing the energy 
        efficiency programs;
            (4) the beneficiaries who received the efficiency 
        improvements;
            (5) the manner in which funds provided under this Act were 
        used;
            (6) the sources (such as mortgage lenders, utility 
        companies, and local governments) and types of financing used 
        by the beneficiaries to finance the retrofit expenses that were 
        not covered by rebates provided under this Act; and
            (7) the results of verification requirements; and
            (8) any other information the Secretary considers 
        appropriate.
    (c) Required Information.--
            (1) Requirement.--Rebate aggregators and States 
        participating in the Home Star Retrofit Rebate Program shall 
        provide to the Secretary such information as the Secretary 
        requires to prepare the report required under this section.
            (2) Noncompliance.--If the Secretary determines that a 
        rebate aggregator or State has not provided the information 
        required under paragraph (1), the Secretary shall provide to 
        the rebate aggregator or State a period of at least 90 days to 
        provide the necessary information, subject to withholding of 
        funds or reduction of future grant amounts.

SEC. 9. TREATMENT OF REBATES.

    (a) In General.--For purposes of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, 
rebates received under this Act--
            (1) shall not be considered taxable income to a homeowner; 
        and
            (2) shall reduce any credit allowed under section 25C or 
        25D of that Code for eligible work performed in the home of the 
        homeowner by the amount of any rebate provided under this Act 
        for the eligible work.
    (b) Notice.--A participating contractor shall provide notice to a 
homeowner of the provisions of subsection (a) before eligible work is 
performed in the home of the homeowner.

SEC. 10. PUBLIC INFORMATION CAMPAIGN.

    Not later than 60 days after the date of enactment of this Act, the 
Administrator, in consultation with the States and the Secretary, shall 
develop and implement a public education campaign that describes--
            (1) the benefits of home energy retrofits; and
            (2) the availability of rebates for the installation of 
        qualifying energy savings measures under the Silver Star Home 
        Energy Retrofit Program and for whole home energy savings under 
        the Gold Star Home Energy Retrofit Program.

SEC. 11. PENALTIES.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary may--
            (1) assess and compromise a civil penalty against a person 
        who violates this Act (or any regulation issued under this 
        Act); and
            (2) require from any entity the records and inspections 
        necessary to enforce this Act.
    (b) Civil Penalty.--A civil penalty assessed under subsection (a) 
shall be in an amount not greater than the higher of--
            (1) $15,000 for each violation; or
            (2) 3 times the value of any associated rebate under this 
        Act.

SEC. 12. HOME STAR ENERGY EFFICIENCY LOAN PROGRAM.

    (a) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Eligible participant.--The term ``eligible 
        participant'' means a homeowner who receives financial 
        assistance from a qualified financing entity to carry out 
        qualifying energy savings measures under the Silver Star Home 
        Energy Retrofit Program or whole home energy savings under the 
        Gold Star Home Energy Retrofit Program.
            (2) Qualified financing entity.--The term ``qualified 
        financing entity'' means a State, political subdivision of a 
        State, tribal government, electric utility, natural gas 
        utility, nonprofit or community-based organization, energy 
        service company, retailer, or any other entity that--
                    (A) meets the eligibility requirements of this 
                section; and
                    (B) is designated by the Governor of a State in 
                accordance with subsection (e)(1).
            (3) Qualified loan program mechanism.--The term ``qualified 
        loan program mechanism'' means a mechanism for the 
        establishment and operation of a loan program that is--
                    (A) administered by a qualified financing entity; 
                and
                    (B) principally funded--
                            (i) by funds provided by or overseen by a 
                        State; or
                            (ii) through the energy loan program of the 
                        Federal National Mortgage Association.
    (b) Establishment.--The Secretary shall establish a Home Star 
Energy Efficiency Loan Program under which the Secretary shall make 
funds available to States to support financial assistance provided by 
qualified financing entities for the installation of qualifying energy 
savings measures under the Silver Star Home Energy Retrofit Program or 
whole home energy savings under the Gold Star Home Energy Retrofit 
Program.
    (c) Eligibility of Qualified Financing Entities.--To be eligible to 
participate in the Home Star Loan Program, a qualified financing entity 
shall--
            (1) offer a financing product under which eligible 
        participants may pay over time for the cost to the eligible 
        participant (after all applicable Federal, State, local, and 
        other rebates or incentives are applied) of installations 
        described in subsection (b);
            (2) require all financed installations to be performed by 
        contractors in a manner that meets minimum standards provided 
        under sections 5 and 6; and
            (3) establish standard underwriting criteria to determine 
        the eligibility of Home Star Loan Program applicants, which 
        criteria shall be consistent with--
                    (A) with respect to unsecured consumer loan 
                programs, standard underwriting criteria used under the 
                energy loan program of the Federal National Mortgage 
                Association; or
                    (B) with respect to secured loans or other forms of 
                financial assistance, commercially recognized best 
                practices applicable to the form of financial 
                assistance being provided (as determined by the 
                designated entity administering the Home Star Loan 
                Program in the State).
    (d) Allocation.--In making funds available to States for each 
fiscal year under this section, the Secretary shall use the formula 
used to allocate funds to States to carry out State energy conservation 
plans established under part D of title III of the Energy Policy and 
Conservation Act (42 U.S.C. 6321 et seq.).
    (e) Qualified Financing Entities.--Before making funds available to 
a State under this section, the Secretary shall require the Governor of 
the State to provide to the Secretary a letter of assurance that the 
State--
            (1) has 1 or more qualified financing entities that meet 
        the requirements of this section;
            (2) has established a qualified loan program mechanism 
        that--
                    (A) will use a quality assurance program 
                established under this Act or another appropriate 
                methodology to ensure energy savings;
                    (B) incorporates an effective repayment mechanism, 
                which may include--
                            (i) on-utility-bill repayment;
                            (ii) tax assessment or other form of 
                        property assessment financing;
                            (iii) municipal service charges;
                            (iv) energy or energy efficiency services 
                        contracts;
                            (v) energy efficiency power purchase 
                        agreements;
                            (vi) unsecured loans applying the 
                        underwriting requirements of the energy loan 
                        program of the Federal National Mortgage 
                        Association; or
                            (vii) alternative contractual repayment 
                        mechanisms that have been demonstrated to have 
                        appropriate risk mitigation features; and
            (3) will provide, in a timely manner, all information 
        regarding the administration of the Home Star Loan Program as 
        the Secretary may require to permit the Secretary to meet the 
        program evaluation requirements of subsection (h).
    (f) Use of Funds.--Funds made available to States for carrying out 
the Home Star Loan Program may be used to support financing mechanisms 
offered by qualified financing entities to eligible participants, 
including--
            (1) interest rate reductions to interest rates as low as 0 
        percent;
            (2) loan loss reserves or other forms of credit 
        enhancement;
            (3) revolving loan funds from which qualified financing 
        entities may offer direct loans; or
            (4) other debt instruments (excluding securitization 
        instruments) necessary--
                    (A) to use available funds to obtain appropriate 
                leverage through private investment; and
                    (B) to support widespread deployment of energy 
                efficiency programs.
    (g) Use of Repaid Funds.--In the case of a revolving loan fund 
described in subsection (f)(3), a qualified financing entity may use 
funds repaid by eligible participants under the Home Star Loan Program 
to provide financial assistance for additional eligible participants 
for installations described in subsection (b) in a manner that is 
consistent with this section.
    (h) Program Evaluation.--Not later than 1 year after the date of 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall submit to Congress a program 
evaluation that describes--
            (1) how many eligible participants have participated in the 
        Home Star Loan Program;
            (2) how many jobs have been created through the Home Star 
        Loan Program, directly and indirectly;
            (3) what steps could be taken to promote further deployment 
        of energy efficiency retrofits;
            (4) the quantity of verifiable energy savings, homeowner 
        energy bill savings, and other benefits of the Home Star Loan 
        Program; and
            (5) the performance of the programs carried out by 
        qualified financing entities under this section, including 
        information on the rate of default and repayment.

SEC. 13. FUNDING.

    (a) Authorization of Appropriations.--
            (1) In general.--Subject to subsection (j), there are 
        authorized to be appropriated to carry out this Act 
        $6,000,000,000 for the period of fiscal years 2010 and 2011, to 
        remain available until expended.
            (2) Maintenance of funding.--Funds provided under this 
        section shall supplement and not supplant any prior or planned 
        Federal and State funding provided to carry out energy 
        efficiency programs. To the extent the Secretary finds that a 
        State has supplanted other such programs with funding under 
        this section, the Secretary may withhold an equivalent amount 
        of funding from allocations for the State under this Act.
    (b) Grants to States.--
            (1) In general.--Except as otherwise provided in this 
        subsection, of the amount provided under subsection (a), not 
        more than 9 percent is authorized to be appropriated to the 
        Secretary for providing grants to States, to be used for--
                    (A) administrative costs of carrying out this Act;
                    (B) development of quality assurance frameworks;
                    (C) oversight of quality assurance programs;
                    (D) establishment and delivery of financing 
                mechanisms, in accordance with paragraph (2); and
                    (E) coordination with existing residential retrofit 
                programs and infrastructure development to assist 
                deployment of the Home Star Retrofit Rebate Program.
            (2) Financing.--Of the amounts allocated to the States 
        under paragraph (1), not less than 60 percent shall be used to 
        carry out section 12.
            (3) Distribution to states.--
                    (A) Provision of funds.--Not later than 30 days 
                after the date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary 
                shall provide to the State energy offices, or such 
                other State entities as are designated by the Governor, 
                of States that are carrying out responsibilities under 
                section 7, 25 percent of the funds described in 
                paragraph (1).
                    (B) Allocation.--Funds described in subparagraph 
                (A) shall be made available in accordance with the 
                allocation formula for State energy conservation plans 
                established under part D of title III of the Energy 
                Policy and Conservation Act (42 U.S.C. 6321 et seq.).
            (4) Withholding of funds.--To the extent that the Secretary 
        assumes the responsibilities of a State under section 3(i), the 
        Secretary shall withhold the portion of the funds otherwise 
        transferrable to the State under this section that are 
        attributable to those State responsibilities.
            (5) Indian tribes.--
                    (A) In general.--If an Indian tribe acts in place 
                of a State for purposes of carrying out the 
                responsibilities of the State under this Act with 
                respect to its tribal lands pursuant to section 3(h), 
                the Secretary shall transfer to that Indian tribe, 
                instead of the State, the proportionate share of funds 
                otherwise transferrable to the State under this 
                section.
                    (B) Proportionate share.--For purposes of 
                subparagraph (A), the proportionate share shall be 
                calculated on the basis of the percentage of the 
                population of the State that resides within the tribal 
                lands.
    (c) Quality Assurance Costs.--
            (1) In general.--Of the amount provided under subsection 
        (a), not more than 5 percent are authorized to be appropriated 
        to the Secretary to be used as provided in paragraph (2), in 
        accordance with information provided by the State offices or 
        entities described in subsection (b)(3)(B) with respect to 
        services provided by quality assurance providers.
            (2) Distribution to quality assurance providers or rebate 
        aggregators.--The Secretary shall use funds provided under this 
        subsection to compensate quality assurance providers and rebate 
        aggregators for services provided under this Act.
            (3) Compensation.--The amount of compensation provided 
        under this subsection shall be--
                    (A)(i) in the case of the Silver Star Home Energy 
                Retrofit Program--
                            (I) not more than $25 to rebate aggregators 
                        per rebate review and processing under the 
                        program; and
                            (II) $150 to quality assurance providers 
                        for each field inspection conducted under the 
                        program; and
                    (ii) in the case of the Gold Star Home Energy 
                Retrofit Program--
                            (I) not more than $35 to rebate aggregators 
                        for each rebate review and processing under the 
                        program; and
                            (II) $300 to quality assurance providers 
                        for each field inspection conducted under the 
                        program; or
                    (B) such other amounts as the Secretary considers 
                necessary to carry out the quality assurance provisions 
                of this Act to optimize the overall energy efficiency 
                resulting from the Silver Star Home Energy Retrofit 
                Program and the Gold Star Home Energy Retrofit Program.
    (d) Tracking of Rebates and Expenditures.--Of the amount provided 
under subsection (a), not more than 2.5 percent are authorized to be 
appropriated to the Secretary to be used for costs associated with 
tracking rebates and expenditures through the Federal Rebate Processing 
System under this Act, and related administrative costs incurred by the 
Secretary.
    (e) Public Education and Coordination.--Of the amount provided 
under subsection (a), not more than 0.2 percent are authorized to be 
appropriated to the Administrator to be used for costs associated with 
public education and coordination with the Federal Energy Star program.
    (f) Silver Star Home Energy Retrofit Program.--
            (1) In general.--Of the amount provided under subsection 
        (a), after subtracting the amounts authorized in subsections 
        (b), (d), and (e) of this section, two-thirds of the remainder 
        are authorized to be appropriated to the Secretary to be used 
        to provide rebates and other payments authorized under the 
        Silver Star Home Energy Retrofit Program.
            (2) Products purchased without installation services.--Of 
        the amounts appropriated pursuant to this subsection for the 
        Silver Star program, 7.5 percent shall be made available for 
        rebates under section 5(f).
    (g) Gold Star Home Energy Retrofit Program.--Of the amount provided 
under subsection (a), after subtracting the amounts authorized in 
subsections (b), (d), and (e) of this section, one-third of the 
remainder is authorized to be appropriated to the Secretary to be used 
to provide rebates and other payments authorized under the Gold Star 
Home Energy Retrofit Program.
    (h) Return of Undisbursed Funds.--
            (1) Silver star home energy retrofit program.--If the 
        Secretary has not disbursed all the funds available for rebates 
        under the Silver Star Home Energy Retrofit Program by the date 
        that is 1 year after the date of enactment of this Act, any 
        undisbursed funds shall be made available to the Gold Star Home 
        Energy Retrofit Program.
            (2) Gold star home energy retrofit program.--If the 
        Secretary has not disbursed all the funds available for rebates 
        under the Gold Star Home Energy Retrofit Program by the date 
        that is 2 years after the date of enactment of this Act, any 
        undisbursed funds shall be returned to the Treasury.
                                 &lt;all&gt;
</pre></body></html>
