<html><body><pre>
[Congressional Bills 109th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H.R. 3603 Introduced in House (IH)]







109th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                H. R. 3603

 To promote the economic development and recreational use of National 
    Forest System lands and other public lands in central Idaho, to 
    designate the Boulder-White Cloud Management Area to ensure the 
continued management of certain National Forest System lands and Bureau 
     of Land Management lands for recreational and grazing use and 
 conservation and resource protection, to add certain National Forest 
 System lands and Bureau of Land Management lands in central Idaho to 
  the National Wilderness Preservation System, and for other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                             July 28, 2005

 Mr. Simpson introduced the following bill; which was referred to the 
                         Committee on Resources

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
 To promote the economic development and recreational use of National 
    Forest System lands and other public lands in central Idaho, to 
    designate the Boulder-White Cloud Management Area to ensure the 
continued management of certain National Forest System lands and Bureau 
     of Land Management lands for recreational and grazing use and 
 conservation and resource protection, to add certain National Forest 
 System lands and Bureau of Land Management lands in central Idaho to 
  the National Wilderness Preservation System, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE AND TABLE OF CONTENTS.

    (a) Short Title.--This Act may be cited as the ``Central Idaho 
Economic Development and Recreation Act''.
    (b) Table of Contents.--The table of contents for this Act is as 
follows:

Sec. 1. Short title and table of contents.
  TITLE I--CENTRAL IDAHO ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT AND RECREATION PROMOTION

Sec. 101. Land conveyance, designated Sawtooth National Recreation Area 
                            land to Custer County, Idaho.
Sec. 102. Land conveyance, designated Sawtooth National Forest and BLM 
                            land to Blaine County, Idaho.
Sec. 103. Land conveyance, designated National Forest System land to 
                            City of Stanley, Idaho.
Sec. 104. Land conveyance, designated BLM land to City of Clayton, 
                            Idaho.
Sec. 105. Land conveyance, designated BLM land to City of Mackay, 
                            Idaho.
Sec. 106. Land conveyance, designated BLM land to City of Challis, 
                            Idaho.
Sec. 107. Land conveyance authority, support for motorized and bicycle 
                            recreation, public land in central Idaho.
Sec. 108. Stanley-Redfish Lake bike and snowmobile trail.
Sec. 109. Support for other trail construction and maintenance 
                            activities.
Sec. 110. Support for outfitter and guide activities.
Sec. 111. Red Trees Phase II study regarding forest health and public 
                            safety.
Sec. 112. Grants to support sustainable economic development and 
                            recreation.
Sec. 113. Continuation of public access to Bowery National Forest Guard 
                            Station.
Sec. 114. Expansion and improvement of Herd Lake Campground.
Sec. 115. Land exchange to eliminate State of Idaho inholdings in 
                            Sawtooth National Recreation Area and new 
                            wilderness areas.
                TITLE II--CENTRAL IDAHO WILDERNESS AREAS

Sec. 201. Additions to National Wilderness Preservation System.
Sec. 202. General administration of wilderness areas.
Sec. 203. Acquisition of mineral interests and lands from willing 
                            sellers.
Sec. 204. Adjacent management.
Sec. 205. Wildfire management.
Sec. 206. Water rights.
Sec. 207. Wildlife management.
Sec. 208. Native American cultural and religious uses.
Sec. 209. Military overflights.
Sec. 210. Wilderness review.
             TITLE III--BOULDER-WHITE CLOUD MANAGEMENT AREA

Sec. 301. Establishment of management area.
Sec. 302. Land acquisition in management area.
Sec. 303. Motorized and bicycle travel.
Sec. 304. Support and use of Idaho Off Road Motor Vehicle Program.
Sec. 305. Airports and landing strips.
                  TITLE IV--WAIVER OF GRAZING PERMITS

Sec. 401. Findings and purpose.
Sec. 402. Voluntary grazing permit waiver program.
Sec. 403. Compensation.

  TITLE I--CENTRAL IDAHO ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT AND RECREATION PROMOTION

SEC. 101. LAND CONVEYANCE, DESIGNATED SAWTOOTH NATIONAL RECREATION AREA 
              LAND TO CUSTER COUNTY, IDAHO.

    (a) Conveyance Required.--Subject to the deed restrictions required 
by subsection (b), the Secretary of Agriculture, acting through the 
Chief of the Forest Service, shall convey, without consideration, to 
Custer County, Idaho (in this section referred to as the ``County''), 
all right, title, and interest of the United States in and to certain 
Federal land in the Sawtooth National Recreation Area consisting of a 
total of approximately 86 acres, including a road encompassing 
approximately 15 acres, adjoining the northern boundary of the City of 
Stanley, Idaho, and identified as Parcel B on the map entitled 
``_________'' and dated _____, 2005.
    (b) Use of Conveyed Land.--In making the conveyance under 
subsection (a) to the County, the Secretary shall include the following 
deed restrictions relating to the use of the conveyed land to ensure 
that such use is consistent with the planning process of the County and 
management of the Sawtooth National Recreation Area:
            (1) Limitation on number of home sites.--Not more than 10 
        home sites may be developed on the conveyed land, and houses 
        and outbuildings constructed on the home sites may not be 
        visible from Highways 75 and 21.
            (2) Limitations regarding house construction.--Not more 
        than one single-family house may be constructed on each home 
        site, and each house shall be subject to the following 
        requirements:
                    (A) Use.--Residential.
                    (B) Size.--Not more than 3,500 square feet gross 
                floor space, including attached garage, but excluding 
                basements, decks, and porches. No more than 26 feet in 
                height from natural ground level, excluding any 
                chimney.
                    (C) Design.--Western ranch-style, having 
                rectangular or square sections with no more than three 
                ridgelines, excluding dormers.
                    (D) Windows.--Rectangular or square, divided light, 
                and no more than 24 square feet in size. Windows shall 
                not exceed 30 percent of the area of any wall.
                    (E) Structural siding.--Log, log-sided, rough-sawn 
                lumber, board and batten, or suitable wood substitutes, 
                which shall be harmoniously colored or have a natural 
                wood finish.
                    (F) Roof.--Wood, composite, or non-reflective metal 
                in muted earth tones of brown.
            (3) Limitations regarding outbuildings.--Not more than two 
        outbuildings may be constructed on each home site, and such 
        outbuildings shall be subject to the following requirements:
                    (A) Use.--A outbuilding may not include kitchen or 
                sleeping facilities or otherwise be equipped for 
                residential purposes.
                    (B) Size.--No more than 850 square feet gross floor 
                space in the aggregate. Single story, no more than 26 
                feet from natural ground level.
                    (C) Design.--Western ranch-style comprised of 
                rectangular or square sections with no more than one 
                ridgeline.
                    (D) Windows.--Rectangular or square, divided light 
                of no more than 24 square feet.
                    (E) Structural siding.--Log, log-sided, rough-sawn 
                lumber, board and batten, or suitable wood substitutes, 
                which shall be harmoniously colored or have a natural 
                wood finish.
                    (F) Roof.--Wood, composite, or non-reflective metal 
                in muted earth tones of brown.
            (4) Limitations regarding satellite dish.--Each home site 
        may contain not more than one satellite dish, not to exceed 24 
        inches in diameter, which shall be located as unobtrusively as 
        best available technology allows.
            (5) Limitations regarding exterior lighting.--Each home 
        site may contain not than two exterior lighting sources, which 
        shall be shielded downwards and may not exceed 150 watts each. 
        Neither light source may be flashing.
            (6) Limitations regarding landscaping.--The landscaping for 
        each home site shall be compatible with the open setting of the 
        home site and incorporate materials, groundcover, shrubs, and 
        trees that are indigenous to the area. Areas exposed due to 
        excavation shall be rehabilitated to pre-excavation conditions 
        within two years following completion of construction.
            (7) Limitations regarding roads and driveways.--Any road or 
        driveway for a home site may not exceed 14 feet in width.
            (8) Limitations regarding fencing.--Fences on a home site 
        shall be in the log worm, log block, or jack style and shall 
        incorporate wildlife-friendly elements.
            (9) Limitations regarding utilities.--All new utilities 
        serving a home site shall be located underground.
    (c) Prohibitions.--
            (1) Subdivision.--Except as expressly authorized in 
        subsection (b) regarding the land conveyed under subsection 
        (a), the conveyed land may not be divided, subdivided or 
        defacto subdivided through sales, long-term leases, or other 
        means.
            (2) Prohibited uses.--The land conveyed under subsection 
        (a) may not be used for any of the following purposes:
                    (A) Commercial, manufacturing, industrial, mining, 
                or drilling operations, except that small in-home 
                businesses, such as professional services, may be 
                allowed.
                    (B) Exploration, development, or extraction of 
                minerals.
                    (C) Dumping or accumulation of trash, debris, junk 
                cars, unserviceable equipment, or other unsightly 
                materials.
                    (D) Placement of residential trailers, mobile 
                homes, manufactured homes, modular buildings, or other 
                such semi-permanent structures.
                    (E) Placement of towers, antennae, or satellite 
                dishes that are not concealed from public view, except 
                to the extent that the right is expressly granted in 
                subsection (b)(4).
                    (F) Placement of signs, billboards, or other 
                advertising devices, other than one property 
                identification sign and one for sale or rental sign, 
                not to exceed two square feet in area, and such signs 
                shall be harmonious in design and color with the 
                surroundings.
                    (G) Disposal or unlawful storage of hazardous 
                substances, as defined in the Comprehensive 
                Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act 
                of 1980 (42 U.S.C. 9601 et seq.).
    (d) Survey and Legal Description.--The exact acreage and legal 
description of the land to be conveyed under subsection (a) shall be 
determined by a survey satisfactory to the Secretary. The cost of the 
survey shall be borne by the Secretary. The legal description shall be 
prepared as soon as practicable after the date of the enactment of this 
Act.
    (e) Approval and Access Requirements.--Any improvement to be made 
to a home site developed on the land conveyed under subsection (a) 
shall be subject to the approval in writing, and in advance of being 
made, by the appropriate County officials. Representatives of the 
County may enter the home sites at reasonable times to monitor 
compliance with the deed restrictions imposed by subsection (b).
    (f) Enforcement.--As a condition on the conveyance under subsection 
(a), the County shall agree to enforce the deed restrictions imposed by 
subsections (b) and (c).
    (g) Reversionary Interest.--If the Secretary determines at any time 
that a home site developed on the land conveyed under subsection (a) is 
not in compliance with the deed restrictions imposed by subsection (b) 
or (c), all right, title, and interest in and to the home site, 
including any improvements thereon, shall revert to the United States, 
and the United States shall have the right of immediate entry onto the 
property. Any determination of the Secretary under this subsection 
shall be made on the record after an opportunity for a hearing, and the 
Secretary shall give the landowner a reasonable opportunity to restore 
the home site to compliance with the deed restrictions.
    (h) Access.--The road referred to in subsection (a) shall remain 
accessible to the public to provide access to adjacent Federal land.
    (i) Additional Term and Conditions.--The Secretary may require such 
additional terms and conditions in connection with the conveyance under 
subsection (a) as the Secretary considers appropriate to protect the 
interests of the United States.

SEC. 102. LAND CONVEYANCE, DESIGNATED SAWTOOTH NATIONAL FOREST AND BLM 
              LAND TO BLAINE COUNTY, IDAHO.

    (a) Conveyance Required.--The Secretary of Agriculture, acting 
through the Chief of the Forest Service, and the Secretary of the 
Interior, acting through the Director of the Bureau of Land Management, 
shall convey, without consideration, to Blaine County, Idaho (in this 
section referred to as the ``County''), all right, title, and interest 
of the United States in and to the parcels of Federal land in the 
Sawtooth National Forest and Bureau of Land Management land identified 
for conveyance under this section on the map entitled ``Blaine County 
Conveyance'' and dated November 1, 2005.
    (b) Treatment of Roads and Trails.--In making the conveyance under 
subsection (a) to the County, the Secretary shall include deed 
restrictions to ensure that any roads and trails located on the 
conveyed land remain open to public use notwithstanding any subsequent 
conveyance of the land by the County.
    (c) Survey.--The exact acreage and legal description of the land to 
be conveyed under subsection (a) shall be determined by a survey 
satisfactory to the Secretary. The cost of the survey shall be borne by 
the Secretary.
    (d) Additional Term and Conditions.--The Secretary may require such 
additional terms and conditions in connection with the conveyance under 
subsection (a) as the Secretary considers appropriate to protect the 
interests of the United States.

SEC. 103. LAND CONVEYANCE, DESIGNATED NATIONAL FOREST SYSTEM LAND TO 
              CITY OF STANLEY, IDAHO.

    (a) Conveyance Required.--Subject to the deed restrictions required 
by subsection (b), the Secretary of Agriculture, acting through the 
Chief of the Forest Service, shall convey, without consideration, to 
the City of Stanley, Idaho (in this section referred to as the 
``City''), all right, title, and interest of the United States in and 
to National Forest System land consisting of two parcels containing a 
total of approximately 8 acres adjoining the western boundary of the 
City and a total of approximately 68 acres, including improvements, 
adjoining the northeastern boundary of the City, respectively, and 
identified as Parcels A and C on the map entitled ``_________'' and 
dated _____, 2005.
    (b) Use of Parcel A Land.--In making the conveyance under 
subsection (a) to the City of the land identified as Parcel A on the 
map referred to in such subsection, the Secretary shall include the 
following deed restrictions relating to the use of the conveyed land to 
ensure that such use is consistent with the planning process of the 
City and Custer County, Idaho, and management of adjacent National 
Forest System land:
            (1) Limitation on number of home sites.--Not more than 4 
        home sites may be developed on Parcel A.
            (2) Limitations regarding house construction.--Not more 
        than one single-family house may be constructed on each home 
        site, and each house shall be subject to the following 
        requirements:
                    (A) Use.--Residential.
                    (B) Size.--Not more than 3,000 square feet gross 
                floor space, including attached garage, but excluding 
                basements, decks, and porches. Single story, no more 
                than 22 feet in height from natural ground level, 
                excluding any chimney.
                    (C) Design.--Western ranch-style, having 
                rectangular or square sections with no more than two 
                ridgelines, excluding dormers.
                    (D) Windows.--Rectangular or square, divided light, 
                and no more than 24 square feet in size. Windows with 
                exterior walls visible from Highway 21 shall not exceed 
                30 percent of the area of the wall.
                    (E) Structural siding.--Log, log-sided, rough-sawn 
                lumber, board and batten, or suitable wood substitutes, 
                which shall be harmoniously colored or have a natural 
                wood finish.
                    (F) Roof.--Wood, composite, or non-reflective metal 
                in muted earth tones of brown.
            (3) Limitations regarding outbuildings.--Not more than one 
        outbuilding may be constructed on each home site, and the 
        outbuilding shall be subject to the following requirements:
                    (A) Use.--A outbuilding may not include kitchen or 
                sleeping facilities or otherwise be equipped for 
                residential purposes.
                    (B) Size.--No more than 600 square feet gross floor 
                space in the aggregate. Single story, no more than 22 
                feet from natural ground level.
                    (C) Design.--Western ranch-style comprised of 
                rectangular or square sections with no more than one 
                ridgeline.
                    (D) Windows.--Rectangular or square, divided light 
                of no more than 24 square feet.
                    (E) Structural siding.--Log, log-sided, rough-sawn 
                lumber, board and batten, or suitable wood substitutes, 
                which shall be harmoniously colored or have a natural 
                wood finish.
                    (F) Roof.--Wood, composite, or non-reflective metal 
                in muted earth tones of brown.
            (4) Limitations regarding satellite dish.--Each home site 
        may contain not more than one satellite dish, not to exceed 24 
        inches in diameter, which shall be located as unobtrusively as 
        best available technology allows.
            (5) Limitations regarding exterior lighting.--Each home 
        site may contain not than two exterior lighting sources, which 
        shall be shielded downwards and may not exceed 150 watts each. 
        Neither light source may be flashing.
            (6) Limitations regarding landscaping.--The landscaping for 
        each home site shall be compatible with the open setting of the 
        home site and incorporate materials, groundcover, shrubs, and 
        trees that are indigenous to the area. Areas exposed due to 
        excavation shall be rehabilitated to pre-excavation conditions 
        within two years following completion of construction.
            (7) Limitations regarding roads and driveways.--Any road or 
        driveway for a home site may not exceed 14 feet in width.
            (8) Limitations regarding fencing.--Fences on a home site 
        shall be in the log worm, log block, or jack style and shall 
        incorporate wildlife-friendly elements.
            (9) Limitations regarding utilities.--All new utilities 
        serving a home site shall be located underground.
    (c) Use of Parcel C Land.--In making the conveyance under 
subsection (a) to the City of the land identified as Parcel C on the 
map referred to in such subsection, the Secretary shall include the 
following deed restrictions relating to the use of the conveyed land to 
ensure that such use is consistent with the planning process of the 
City and Custer County, Idaho, and management of National Forest System 
land:
            (1) Authorized uses.--Parcel C may be used--
                    (A) to provide housing for persons employed full-
                time, whether on a year-round basis or seasonally, 
                within the Sawtooth National Recreation Area; and
                    (B) for other public purposes, including use as the 
                site for a park, cemetery, community center, or 
                educational facility
            (2) Limitations regarding construction.--Any structure 
        constructed on Parcel C shall be subject to the following 
        requirements:
                    (A) Size.--The size of the structure shall be 
                compatible with the building site and type of use.
                    (B) Design.--Western ranch-style, having 
                rectangular or square sections with no more than three 
                ridgelines, excluding dormers.
                    (C) Height.--The height of any structure shall not 
                exceed 30 feet from natural ground level.
                    (D) Windows.--Rectangular or square, divided light, 
                and no more than 24 square feet in size. Windows with 
                exterior walls facing Highways 21 or 75 shall not 
                exceed 30 percent of the area of the wall.
                    (E) Structural siding.--Log, log-sided, rough-sawn 
                lumber, board and batten, or suitable wood substitutes, 
                which shall be harmoniously colored or have a natural 
                wood finish.
                    (F) Roof.--Wood, composite, or non-reflective metal 
                in muted earth tones of brown.
            (3) Limitations regarding satellite dish.--Each structure 
        may contain not more than one satellite dish, not to exceed 24 
        inches in diameter, which shall be located as unobtrusively as 
        best available technology allows.
            (4) Limitations regarding exterior lighting.--Exterior 
        lighting sources shall be shielded downwards and may not be 
        flashing.
            (5) Limitations regarding landscaping.--The landscaping for 
        each structure shall be compatible with an open setting and 
        incorporate materials, groundcover, shrubs, and trees that are 
        indigenous to the area. Areas exposed due to excavation shall 
        be rehabilitated to pre-excavation conditions within two years 
        following completion of construction.
            (6) Limitations regarding roads and driveways.--Any road or 
        driveway for a structure may not exceed 24 feet in width.
            (7) Limitations regarding fencing.--Any fence in Parcel C 
        shall be in the log worm, log block, or jack style and shall 
        incorporate wildlife-friendly elements.
            (8) Limitations regarding utilities.--All new utilities 
        serving Parcel C shall be located underground.
            (9) Signage.--Only signs identifying a commercial 
        enterprise being conducted on Parcel C may be placed on the 
        parcel. Signs may not exceed 20 square feet in area, and shall 
        be subdued in appearance and harmonizing in design and color 
        with the surroundings. No sign may be flashing.
    (d) Prohibitions.--
            (1) Subdivision.--Except as expressly authorized in 
        subsection (b) or (c) regarding the land conveyed under 
        subsection (a), the conveyed land may not be divided, 
        subdivided or defacto subdivided through sales, long-term 
        leases, or other means.
            (2) Prohibited uses.--The land conveyed under subsection 
        (a) may not be used for any of the following purposes:
                    (A) Commercial, manufacturing, industrial, mining, 
                or drilling operations, except that small in-home 
                businesses, such as professional services, may be 
                allowed, and, subject to subsection (c)(1)(B), certain 
                commercial operations may be allowed on the land 
                identified as Parcel C on the map referred to in 
                subsection (a).
                    (B) Exploration, development, or extraction of 
                minerals.
                    (C) Dumping or accumulation of trash, debris, junk 
                cars, unserviceable equipment, or other unsightly 
                materials.
                    (D) Placement of residential trailers, mobile 
                homes, manufactured homes, modular buildings, or other 
                such semi-permanent structures.
                    (E) Placement of towers, antennae, or satellite 
                dishes that are not concealed from public view, except 
                to the extent that the right is expressly granted in 
                subsection (b)(4) or (c)(3).
                    (F) Placement of signs, billboards, or other 
                advertising devices, except--
                            (i) as provided in subsection (c)(9) with 
                        regard to the land identified as Parcel C; and
                            (ii) one property identification sign and 
                        one for sale or rental sign, not to exceed two 
                        square feet in area, which shall be harmonious 
                        in design and color with the surroundings.
                    (G) Disposal or unlawful storage of hazardous 
                substances, as defined in the Comprehensive 
                Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act 
                of 1980 (42 U.S.C. 9601 et seq.).
    (e) Survey and Legal Description.--The exact acreage and legal 
description of the land to be conveyed under subsection (a) shall be 
determined by a survey satisfactory to the Secretary. The cost of the 
survey shall be borne by the Secretary. The legal description shall be 
prepared as soon as practicable after the date of the enactment of this 
Act.
    (f) Approval and Access Requirements.--
            (1) General requirements.--Any improvement to be made to 
        land conveyed under subsection (a) shall be subject to the 
        approval in writing, and in advance of being made, by the 
        appropriate City officials. Representatives of the City may 
        enter the land at reasonable times to monitor compliance with 
        the deed restrictions imposed by subsection (b), (c), or (d).
            (2) Preparation and approval of development plan for parcel 
        c.--The land identified as Parcel C on the map referred to in 
        subsection (a) and conveyed to the City under such subsection 
        shall not developed until such time as a development plan 
        consistent with subsections (c) and (d) is reviewed and 
        approved by a special commission consisting of at least one 
        elected official representing Custer County, one elected 
        official representing the City, and three individuals who are 
        not employed by or officials of the County or City and reside 
        within the boundaries of the Sawtooth National Recreation Area. 
        The non-governmental representatives shall be selected jointly 
        by the elected officials on the commission.
    (g) Enforcement.--As a condition on the conveyance under subsection 
(a), the City shall agree to enforce the deed restrictions imposed by 
subsections (b), (c), and (d).
    (h) Reversionary Interest.--If the Secretary determines at any time 
that any portion of the land conveyed under subsection (a) is not being 
used in compliance with the deed restrictions applicable to that 
portion of the land under subsection (b), (c), or (d), all right, 
title, and interest in and to that portion of the land, including any 
improvements thereon, shall revert to the United States, and the United 
States shall have the right of immediate entry onto the property. Any 
determination of the Secretary under this subsection shall be made on 
the record after an opportunity for a hearing, and the Secretary shall 
give the landowner a reasonable opportunity to restore the property to 
compliance with the deed restrictions.
    (i) Survey.--The exact acreage and legal description of the land to 
be conveyed under subsection (a) shall be determined by a survey 
satisfactory to the Secretary. The cost of the survey shall be borne by 
the Secretary.
    (j) Additional Term and Conditions.--The Secretary may require such 
additional terms and conditions in connection with the conveyance under 
subsection (a) as the Secretary considers appropriate to protect the 
interests of the United States.

SEC. 104. LAND CONVEYANCE, DESIGNATED BLM LAND TO CITY OF CLAYTON, 
              IDAHO.

    (a) Conveyance Required.--The Secretary of the Interior, acting 
through the Director of the Bureau of Land Management, shall convey, 
without consideration, to the City of Clayton, Idaho, all right, title, 
and interest of the United States in and to the Bureau of Land 
Management land identified for conveyance under this section on the map 
entitled ``City of Clayton Conveyance'' and dated November 1, 2005.
    (b) Survey.--The exact acreage and legal description of the land to 
be conveyed under subsection (a) shall be determined by a survey 
satisfactory to the Secretary. The cost of the survey shall be borne by 
the Secretary.
    (c) Additional Term and Conditions.--The Secretary may require such 
additional terms and conditions in connection with the conveyance under 
subsection (a) as the Secretary considers appropriate to protect the 
interests of the United States.

SEC. 105. LAND CONVEYANCE, DESIGNATED BLM LAND TO CITY OF MACKAY, 
              IDAHO.

    (a) Conveyance Required.--The Secretary of the Interior, acting 
through the Director of the Bureau of Land Management, shall convey, 
without consideration, to the City of Mackay, Idaho, all right, title, 
and interest of the United States in and to the Bureau of Land 
Management land identified for conveyance under this section on the map 
entitled ``City of Mackay Conveyance'' and dated November 1, 2005.
    (b) Survey.--The exact acreage and legal description of the land to 
be conveyed under subsection (a) shall be determined by a survey 
satisfactory to the Secretary. The cost of the survey shall be borne by 
the Secretary.
    (c) Additional Term and Conditions.--The Secretary may require such 
additional terms and conditions in connection with the conveyance under 
subsection (a) as the Secretary considers appropriate to protect the 
interests of the United States.

SEC. 106. LAND CONVEYANCE, DESIGNATED BLM LAND TO CITY OF CHALLIS, 
              IDAHO.

    (a) Conveyance Required.--The Secretary of the Interior, acting 
through the Director of the Bureau of Land Management, shall convey, 
without consideration, to the City of Challis, Idaho, all right, title, 
and interest of the United States in and to the Bureau of Land 
Management land identified for conveyance under this section on the map 
entitled ``City of Challis Conveyance'' and dated November 1, 2005.
    (b) Survey.--The exact acreage and legal description of the land to 
be conveyed under subsection (a) shall be determined by a survey 
satisfactory to the Secretary. The cost of the survey shall be borne by 
the Secretary.
    (c) Additional Term and Conditions.--The Secretary may require such 
additional terms and conditions in connection with the conveyance under 
subsection (a) as the Secretary considers appropriate to protect the 
interests of the United States.

SEC. 107. LAND CONVEYANCE AUTHORITY, SUPPORT FOR MOTORIZED AND BICYCLE 
              RECREATION, PUBLIC LAND IN CENTRAL IDAHO.

    (a) Motorized Recreation Park.--Subject to subsection (b), the 
Secretary of the Interior shall convey, without consideration, to the 
State of Idaho (in this section referred to as the ``State'') all 
right, title, and interest of the United States in and to a parcel of 
public land administered through the Bureau of Land Management, 
consisting of approximately 960 acres near Boise, Idaho, for the 
purpose of permitting the State to establish a motorized recreation 
park on the land. As a condition of the conveyance of the land, the 
State shall agree to include a beginner track as part of the recreation 
park to be used to teach safe, responsible riding techniques and to 
establish areas for drivers with different levels of skills.
    (b) Reservation of Portion for Bicycle Use.--As a condition of the 
conveyance of the land under subsection (a), the State shall reserve 20 
acres of the conveyed land for the use of mountain bikes and open the 
reserved portion to such use as soon as practicable after the date of 
the conveyance. Funds appropriated pursuant to the authorization of 
appropriations in section 109 shall be available to facilitate the 
establishment of the bicycle portion of the recreation park.
    (c) Survey.--The exact acreage and legal description of the land to 
be conveyed under this section shall be determined by a survey 
satisfactory to the Secretary. The cost of the survey shall be borne by 
the State.
    (d) Additional Term and Conditions.--The Secretary concerned may 
require such additional terms and conditions in connection with the 
conveyance under this section as the Secretary considers appropriate to 
protect the interests of the United States.

SEC. 108. STANLEY-REDFISH LAKE BIKE AND SNOWMOBILE TRAIL.

    (a) Development of Trail.--The Secretary of Agriculture shall 
design, construct, and maintain a paved trail between the city of 
Stanley, Idaho, and Redfish Lake that is designated for use--
            (1) by pedestrians and non-motorized vehicles generally; 
        and
            (2) as a snowmobile route when there is adequate snow 
        cover.
    (b) Acquisition From Willing Sellers.--Any land or interests in 
land to be acquired by the Secretary for construction of the paved 
trail required by subsection (a) shall be acquired only by donation or 
by purchase from willing sellers.
    (c) Authorization of Appropriations.--There is authorized to be 
appropriated to the Secretary $500,000 to carry out this section. 
Amounts appropriated pursuant to this authorization of appropriations 
shall remain available until expended.

SEC. 109. SUPPORT FOR OTHER TRAIL CONSTRUCTION AND MAINTENANCE 
              ACTIVITIES.

    There is authorized to be appropriated to the Secretary of 
Agriculture or the Secretary of the Interior $500,000 for the 
construction and maintenance of bicycle trails in the State of Idaho. 
Amounts appropriated pursuant to this authorization of appropriations 
shall remain available until expended.

SEC. 110. SUPPORT FOR OUTFITTER AND GUIDE ACTIVITIES.

    (a) Existing Operating Permits.--Before the end of the one-year 
period beginning on the date of the enactment of this Act, the 
Secretary of Agriculture and the Secretary of the Interior shall grant 
a 10-year extension of each guide or outfitter operating permit that, 
as of the date of the enactment of this Act, authorized activities on 
lands included in a wilderness area designated by title II or the 
Boulder-White Cloud Management Area established by title III. The 
Secretary concerned may refuse to grant the extension of a permit only 
if the Secretary determines that the permittee has not operated in a 
satisfactory manner in compliance with the terms and conditions of the 
permit. The Secretary concerned may require the modification of the 
extended permit as necessary to comply with the requirements of this 
Act.
    (b) Future Outfitter and Guide Activities.--Future extensions of 
outfitter and guide activities and permits for outfitters on lands 
included in a wilderness area designated by title II or the Boulder-
White Cloud Management Area established by title III shall be 
administered in accordance with applicable Federal laws and resource 
management plans. No person shall conduct outfitter and guide 
activities on such Federal land except as authorized by the Secretary 
concerned.

SEC. 111. RED TREES PHASE II STUDY REGARDING FOREST HEALTH AND PUBLIC 
              SAFETY.

    (a) Study Required.--Not later than _____, 2005, the Secretary of 
Agriculture shall complete and submit to Congress a Red Trees Phase II 
study evaluating, in accordance with Federal laws and regulations, 
necessary landscape approaches to risk assessment to identify forest 
health projects that, if implemented, will effectively mitigate major 
fire risks on lands included in the Sawtooth National Recreation Area. 
The Secretary shall include, as part of the submission to Congress, 
such recommendations as the Secretary considers appropriate for the 
timely implementation of the projects, the local utilization of forest 
products derived from the projects, and conservation measures to 
protect soil, water, wildlife, recreation, and scenic values.
    (b) Treatment of Proceeds.--Notwithstanding any other provision of 
law, proceeds derived from any forest health project recommended as 
part of the study required by subsection (a), in excess of the costs 
incurred to administer the project, shall be available to the 
Secretary, without appropriation and until expended, to carry out 
conservation projects in the Boulder-White Clouds Management Area 
established by title III.

SEC. 112. GRANTS TO SUPPORT SUSTAINABLE ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT AND 
              RECREATION.

    (a) Grant to Custer County, Idaho.--The Secretary of Agriculture 
may make a grant to Custer County, Idaho, for the purpose of assisting 
the County in supporting sustainable economic development in the 
County.
    (b) Grant to State of Idaho.--The Secretary of Agriculture may make 
a grant to the State of Idaho Parks and Recreation Department for the 
purpose of assisting the State in purchasing Bayhorse Campground for 
use as a State park.
    (c) Authorization of Appropriations.--There is authorized to be 
appropriated to the Secretary of Agriculture--
            (1) $5,000,000 to make the grant under subsection (a); and
            (2) $500,000 to make the grant under subsection (b).

SEC. 113. CONTINUATION OF PUBLIC ACCESS TO BOWERY NATIONAL FOREST GUARD 
              STATION.

    (a) Construction of Road and Bridge.--To ensure continued public 
access to the Bowery Guard Station, the Secretary of Agriculture shall 
construct a new road on National Forest System lands, to the east of 
the existing private property line on the east side of the Leisinger 
property, and a new bridge over West Pass Creek as part of such road.
    (b) Authorization of Appropriations.--There is authorized to be 
appropriated to the Secretary such sums as may be necessary to carry 
out this section. Amounts appropriated pursuant to this authorization 
of appropriations shall remain available until expended.

SEC. 114. EXPANSION AND IMPROVEMENT OF HERD LAKE CAMPGROUND.

    (a) Expansion and Improvement of Campground.--The Secretary of the 
Interior shall expand and improve the Herd Lake Campground facilities 
located below the outlet of Herd Lake.
    (b) Authorization of Appropriations.--There is authorized to be 
appropriated to the Secretary $500,000 to carry out this section. 
Amounts appropriated pursuant to this authorization of appropriations 
shall remain available until expended.

SEC. 115. LAND EXCHANGE TO ELIMINATE STATE OF IDAHO INHOLDINGS IN 
              SAWTOOTH NATIONAL RECREATION AREA AND NEW WILDERNESS 
              AREAS.

    (a) Exchanges Authorized.--The Secretary of Agriculture and the 
Secretary of the Interior may execute one or more land exchanges with 
the State of Idaho for the purpose of eliminating State inholdings 
within the boundaries of the Sawtooth National Recreation Area and the 
wilderness areas designated by title II. The Federal land available for 
use to carry out an exchange under this section and the State 
inholdings to be acquired are depicted on the map entitled ____ and 
dated ____, 2005.
    (b) Exchange Process.--The land exchanges authorized by this 
section shall be carried out in the manner provided in section 206 of 
the Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1716).

                TITLE II--CENTRAL IDAHO WILDERNESS AREAS

SEC. 201. ADDITIONS TO NATIONAL WILDERNESS PRESERVATION SYSTEM.

    (a) Additions.--Congress has determined that the following lands in 
central Idaho shall be designated as wilderness and managed as 
components of the National Wilderness Preservation System:
            (1) Ernest hemingway-boulder wilderness.--Certain Federal 
        land in the Sawtooth and Challis National Forests, comprising 
        approximately 96,700 acres, as generally depicted on the map 
        entitled ``Ernest Hemingway-Boulder'' and dated ______, which 
        shall be known as the ``Ernest Hemingway-Boulder Wilderness''.
            (2) White clouds wilderness.--Certain Federal land in the 
        Sawtooth and Challis National Forests, comprising approximately 
        73,100 acres, as generally depicted on the map entitled ``White 
        Clouds'' and dated _______, which shall be known as the ``White 
        Clouds Wilderness''.
            (3) Jerry peak wilderness.--Certain Federal land in the 
        Challis National Forest and Challis District of the Bureau of 
        Land Management, comprising approximately 131,700 acres, as 
        generally depicted on the map entitled ``Jerry Peak 
        Wilderness'' and dated _______, which shall be known as the 
        ``Jerry Peak Wilderness''.
    (b) Maps and Legal Description.--
            (1) In general.--As soon as practicable after the date of 
        enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Agriculture, in the 
        case of the wilderness areas designated by paragraphs (1) and 
        (2) of subsection (a), and the Secretary of the Interior, in 
        the case of the wilderness area designated by paragraph (3) of 
        such subsection, in this title referred to as the ``Secretary 
        concerned'', shall file a map and legal description of the 
        wilderness areas designated by such subsection with the 
        Committee on Resources of the House of Representatives and the 
        Committee on Energy and Natural Resources of the Senate.
            (2) Effect.--Each map and legal description shall have the 
        same force and effect as if included in this title, except that 
        the Secretary concerned may correct clerical and typographical 
        errors in the map or legal description.
            (3) Availability.--Each map and legal description shall be 
        on file and available for public inspection in the appropriate 
        offices of the Bureau of Land Management or the Forest Service.
    (c) Withdrawal.--Subject to valid existing rights, the wilderness 
areas designated in subsection (a) are withdrawn from all forms of 
entry, appropriation, and disposal under the public land laws, 
location, entry, and patent under the mining laws, and operation of the 
mineral leasing, mineral materials, and geothermal leasing laws.

SEC. 202. GENERAL ADMINISTRATION OF WILDERNESS AREAS.

    (a) Application of Wilderness Act.--Subject to valid existing 
rights, the wilderness areas designated by section 201 shall be managed 
by the Secretary concerned in accordance with the Wilderness Act (16 
U.S.C. 1131 et seq.) and this title. With respect to the wilderness 
areas, any reference in the Wilderness Act to the effective date of the 
Wilderness Act shall be deemed to be a reference to the date of the 
enactment of this Act, and any reference in the Wilderness Act to the 
Secretary of Agriculture shall be deemed to be a reference to the 
Secretary concerned.
    (b) Consistent Interpretation to the Public.--Although the 
wilderness areas designated by section 201 consist of National Forest 
System land under the jurisdiction of the Secretary of Agriculture and 
public land under the jurisdiction of the Secretary of the Interior, 
the Secretary of Agriculture and the Secretary of the Interior shall 
collaborate to assure that the wilderness areas are interpreted to the 
public as an overall complex tied together by common location in the 
Boulder-White Cloud Mountains and common identity with the natural and 
cultural history of the State of Idaho and its Native American and 
pioneer heritage.
    (c) Comprehensive Wilderness Management Plan.--Not later than three 
years after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of 
Agriculture and Secretary of the Interior shall collaborate to develop 
a comprehensive wilderness management plan for the wilderness areas 
designated by section 201. The completed management plan shall be 
submitted to the Committee on Resources of the House of Representatives 
and the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources of the Senate.
    (d) Fire, Insects, and Diseases.--Within the wilderness area 
designated by section 201, the Secretary concerned may take such 
measures as the Secretary concerned determines to be necessary for the 
control of fire, insects, and diseases, subject to such conditions as 
the Secretary concerned considers desirable, as provided in section 
4(d)(1) of the Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1131(d)(1)).
    (e) Wilderness Trails and Trailheads.--
            (1) Construction of new trailhead.--The Secretary concerned 
        shall construct a new trailhead for nonmotorized users and 
        improve access to the Wickiup Trail (#684) and at the Big 
        Boulder Trailhead to separate motorized/bicycle users from 
        nonmotorized/bicycle users.
            (2) Inclusion of accessible trails.--The Secretary 
        concerned may establish primitive, non-paved wheelchair 
        accessible trails into the wilderness areas designated by 
        section 201, including at the Bowery Creek Guard Station along 
        the East Fork of the Salmon River.
    (f) Treatment of Existing Claims and Private Lands.--Nothing in 
this title is intended to affect the rights or interests in real 
property, patented mining claims, or valid claims or prevent reasonable 
access for the development and use of valid mineral rights. The 
Secretary concerned may enter into negotiations with the holder of a 
patented claim or valid claim located in a wilderness area designated 
by section 201 for the voluntary relinquishment of the claim.
    (g) Grazing.--Grazing of livestock in a wilderness area designated 
by section 201, where established before the date of the enactment of 
this Act, shall be administered in accordance with the provisions of 
section 4(d)(4) of the Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1133(d)(4)), section 
108 of Public Law 96-560, and section 101(f) of Public Law 101-628, and 
in accordance with the guidelines set forth in Appendix A of House 
Report 96-617 of the 96th Congress and House Report 101-405 of the 
101st Congress.
    (h) Commercial Outfitters and Saddle and Pack Stock.--Nothing in 
this title shall preclude horseback riding or the entry of recreational 
saddle or pack stock into the wilderness areas designated by section 
201, including when such entry is made by commercial outfitters.

SEC. 203. ACQUISITION OF MINERAL INTERESTS AND LANDS FROM WILLING 
              SELLERS.

    (a) Acquisition.--Within the boundaries of the wilderness areas 
designated by section 201, the Secretary concerned may acquire, through 
purchase from willing sellers or donation from willing owners, all 
right, title, and interest in all mineral interests and parcels of land 
that have been patented under the Act of May 10, 1872 (30 U.S.C. 22 et 
seq.; commonly known as the Mining Act of 1872).
    (b) Consideration.--In exercising the authority provided by 
subsection (a) to acquire lands and interests, the Secretary concerned 
shall offer the owners of record of each patent, who voluntarily wish 
to sell, $20,000 as compensation for the acquisition of these 
interests. The Secretary concerned shall make such offers as soon as 
practicable after the date of the enactment of this Act and such offers 
shall remain open for acceptance during the five-year period beginning 
on such date.
    (c) Incorporation in Wilderness Area.--Any land or interest in land 
located inside the boundaries of a wilderness area designated by 
section 201 that is acquired by the United States after the date of the 
enactment of this Act shall be added to and administered as part of 
that wilderness area.

SEC. 204. ADJACENT MANAGEMENT.

    (a) No Protective Perimeters or Buffer Zones.--Congress does not 
intend for the designation of the wilderness areas by section 201 to 
lead to the creation of protective perimeters or buffer zones around 
any such wilderness area.
    (b) Nonwilderness Activities.--The fact that nonwilderness 
activities or uses outside of a wilderness area designated by section 
201 can be seen or heard from inside of the wilderness area shall not 
preclude the conduct of those activities or uses outside the boundaries 
of the wilderness area.

SEC. 205. WILDFIRE MANAGEMENT.

    Consistent with section 4 of the Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1133), 
nothing in this title precludes a Federal, State, or local agency from 
conducting wildfire management operations, including operations using 
aircraft or mechanized equipment, to manage wildfires in the wilderness 
areas designated by section 201.

SEC. 206. WATER RIGHTS.

    (a) Findings.--Congress finds the following:
            (1) The lands designated as wilderness areas by section 201 
        are located at the headwaters of the streams and rivers on 
        those lands, with few, if any, actual or proposed water 
        resource facilities located upstream from such lands and few, 
        if any, opportunities for diversion, storage, or other uses of 
        water occurring outside such lands that would adversely affect 
        the wilderness values of such lands.
            (2) The lands designated as wilderness areas by section 201 
        are not suitable for use for development of new water resource 
        facilities or for the expansion of existing facilities.
            (3) Therefore, it is possible to provide for proper 
        management and protection of the wilderness value of the lands 
        designated as wilderness areas by section 201 in ways different 
        from the ways utilized in other laws designating wilderness 
        areas.
    (b) Purpose.--The purpose of this section is to protect the 
wilderness values of the lands designated as wilderness areas by 
section 201 by means other than a federally reserved water right.
    (c) Statutory Construction.--Nothing in this title--
            (1) shall constitute, or be construed to constitute, either 
        an express or implied reservation by the United States of any 
        water or water rights with respect to the wilderness areas 
        designated by section 201;
            (2) shall affect any water rights in the State of Idaho 
        existing on the date of the enactment of this Act, including 
        any water rights held by the United States;
            (3) shall be construed as establishing a precedent with 
        regard to any future wilderness designations;
            (4) shall be construed as limiting, altering, modifying, or 
        amending any of the interstate compacts or equitable 
        apportionment decrees that apportion water among and between 
        the State of Idaho and other States; and
            (5) shall be construed as limiting, altering, modifying, or 
        amending provisions of Public Law 92-400, which established the 
        Sawtooth National Recreation Area (16 U.S.C. 460aa et seq.).
    (d) Idaho Water Law.--The Secretary concerned shall follow the 
procedural and substantive requirements of the law of the State of 
Idaho when seeking to establish any water rights, not in existence on 
the date of the enactment of this Act, with respect to the wilderness 
areas designated by section 201.
    (e) New Projects.--
            (1) Prohibition.--Except as otherwise provided in this Act, 
        on and after the date of the enactment of this Act, neither the 
        President nor any other officer, employee, or agent of the 
        United States shall fund, assist, authorize, or issue a license 
        or permit for the development of any new water resource 
        facility inside any of the wilderness areas designated by 
        section 201.
            (2) Definition.--In this subsection, the term ``water 
        resource facility'' means irrigation and pumping facilities, 
        reservoirs, water conservation works, aqueducts, canals, 
        ditches, pipelines, wells, hydropower projects, and 
        transmission and other ancillary facilities, and other water 
        diversion, storage, and carriage structures.

SEC. 207. WILDLIFE MANAGEMENT.

    (a) State Jurisdiction.--In accordance with section 4(d)(7) of the 
Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1133(d)(7)), nothing in this title affects or 
diminishes the jurisdiction of the State of Idaho with respect to fish 
and wildlife management, including the regulation of hunting, fishing, 
and trapping, in the wilderness areas designated by section 201.
    (b) Management Activities.--In furtherance of the purposes and 
principles of the Wilderness Act, management activities to maintain or 
restore fish and wildlife populations and the habitats to support such 
populations may be carried out within wilderness areas designated by 
section 201 where consistent with relevant wilderness management plans, 
in accordance with appropriate policies such as those set forth in 
Appendix B of House Report 101-405 of the 101st Congress, including the 
occasional and temporary use of motorized vehicles, if such use, as 
determined by the Secretary concerned would promote healthy, viable, 
and more naturally distributed wildlife populations that would enhance 
wilderness values and accomplish those purposes with the minimum impact 
necessary to reasonably accomplish the task.
    (c) Use of Aircraft.--Consistent with section 4(d)(1) of the 
Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1133(d)) and in accordance with appropriate 
policies such as those set forth in Appendix B of House Report 101-405 
of the 101st Congress, the State of Idaho may continue to use aircraft, 
including helicopters, to survey, capture, transplant, monitor, and 
manage elk, deer, bighorn sheep, mountain goats, wolves, grizzly bears, 
and other wildlife and fish.
    (d) Hunting, Fishing, and Trapping.--Nothing in this title shall 
affect hunting, fishing, and trapping, under applicable State and 
Federal laws and regulations, in the wilderness areas designated by 
section 201. The Secretary concerned may designate, by regulation in 
consultation with the appropriate State agency (except in emergencies), 
areas in which, and establish periods during which, for reasons of 
public safety, administration, or compliance with applicable laws, no 
hunting, fishing, or trapping will be permitted in the wilderness 
areas.

SEC. 208. NATIVE AMERICAN CULTURAL AND RELIGIOUS USES.

    Nothing in this title shall be construed to diminish the rights of 
any Indian tribe. Nothing in this title shall be construed to diminish 
tribal rights regarding access to Federal lands for tribal activities, 
including spiritual, cultural, and traditional food-gathering 
activities.

SEC. 209. MILITARY OVERFLIGHTS.

    Nothing in this title restricts or precludes--
            (1) low-level overflights of military aircraft over the 
        wilderness areas designated by section 201, including military 
        overflights that can be seen or heard within the wilderness 
        areas;
            (2) flight testing and evaluation; or
            (3) the designation or creation of new units of special use 
        airspace, or the establishment of military flight training 
        routes, over the wilderness areas.

SEC. 210. WILDERNESS REVIEW.

    (a) National Forests.--Section 5 of Public Law 92-400 (16 U.S.C. 
460aa-4), which required a review of the undeveloped and unimproved 
portion or portions of the Sawtooth National Recreation Area 
established by that Act as to suitability or nonsuitability for 
preservation as part of the National Wilderness Preservation System, is 
repealed.
    (b) Public Lands.--
            (1) Finding.--Congress finds that, for the purpose of 
        section 603 of the Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 
        1976 (43 U.S.C. 1782), the public land administered by the 
        Bureau of Land Management in the following areas have been 
        adequately studied for wilderness designation:
                    (A) The Jerry Peak Wilderness Study Area.
                    (B) The Jerry Peak West Wilderness Study Area.
                    (C) The Corral-Horse Basin Wilderness Study Area.
                    (D) The Boulder Creek Wilderness Study Area.
            (2) Release.--Any public land described in paragraph (1) 
        that is not designated as wilderness by this title--
                    (A) is no longer subject to section 603(c) of the 
                Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 1976 (43 
                U.S.C. 1782(c)); and
                    (B) shall be managed in accordance with land 
                management plans adopted under section 202 of that Act 
                (43 U.S.C. 1712).

             TITLE III--BOULDER-WHITE CLOUD MANAGEMENT AREA

SEC. 301. ESTABLISHMENT OF MANAGEMENT AREA.

    (a) Findings and Purposes.--In the case of those Federal lands not 
designated as wilderness in title II, Congress has examined the 
management alternatives for such lands and finds that the designation 
of such lands as a special management area will provide outstanding 
opportunities for many forms of recreation, including mountain biking, 
snowmobiling, and the use of off-road motorized vehicles. The purpose 
of this title is to statutorily provide for the continued management of 
such lands for motorized and other recreational opportunities, 
livestock grazing, and conservation and resource protection in 
accordance with the existing management areas, plans, and applicable 
authorities of the Challis National Forest, the Sawtooth National 
Recreation Area, and the Challis District of the Bureau of Land 
Management In addition, it is the purpose of this title to provide that 
motorized use of such lands shall be allowed in accordance with the 
travel map entitled ``Boulder-White Clouds Management Area Travel 
Plan'' and dated June 1, 2005.
    (b) Establishment.--Those Federal lands in the Challis National 
Forest, the Sawtooth National Recreation Area, and the Challis District 
of the Bureau of Land Management that are not designated as wilderness 
in title II, as generally depicted on the map entitled ``Boulder-White 
Cloud Management Area'' and dated June 1, 2005, are hereby designated 
as the Boulder White Cloud Management Area (in this title referred to 
as the ``management area'') and shall be managed as provided by this 
title. The designation of land already in the Sawtooth National 
Recreation Area for inclusion in both the management area and the 
Sawtooth National Recreation Area is declared to be supplemental to, 
not in derogation of, the Sawtooth National Recreation Area.
    (c) Administration.--Except as otherwise provided in this title, 
the Secretary of Agriculture, in the case of National Forest System 
lands included in the management area, and the Secretary of the 
Interior, in the case of public lands included in the management area, 
in this title referred to as the ``Secretary concerned'', shall 
administer the management area in accordance with this title and the 
laws and regulations generally applicable to the National Forest System 
lands and the public lands included in the existing management areas 
and in accordance with the existing management plans of the Sawtooth 
National Recreation Area, Challis National Forest and the Challis 
District of the Bureau of Land Management as referenced by the map 
referred to in subsection (b). If lands in the management area are also 
included in the Sawtooth National Recreation Area, the Secretary of 
Agriculture shall also administer that land in accordance with Public 
Law 92-400 (16 U.S.C. 460aa et seq.).
    (d) Development.--No new roads may be constructed within the 
management area, except as necessary for access to campgrounds and 
other recreation areas as determined by the Secretary concerned. Roads 
may be maintained and relocated as necessary. The Secretary concerned 
shall permit the mining and removal of gravel, sand, and rock along 
existing roads in the management area as necessary for road maintenance 
in accordance with the applicable management plan.
    (e) Timber Harvesting.--Timber harvesting may be allowed on lands 
in the management area only in accordance with the management plan 
applicable to the lands and for necessary control of fire, insects, and 
diseases and for public safety.
    (f) Trails.--
            (1) Construction, maintenance, and improvements.--There is 
        authorized to be appropriated to the Secretary of Agriculture 
        and the Secretary of the Interior $650,000 for trail 
        construction and maintenance and for other improvements related 
        to outfitting, guiding, hiking, and horseback use within the 
        management area. Amounts appropriated pursuant to this 
        authorization of appropriations shall remain available until 
        expended.
            (2) Set-aside for trail construction.--Of the amounts 
        appropriated pursuant to the authorization of appropriations in 
        paragraph (1), $150,000 shall be available for the construction 
        of--
                    (A) a trail between the Phyllis Lake Road (USFS 
                Road #053) and Phyllis Lake, which shall be primitive 
                and non-paved, but wheelchair accessible, and open only 
                to non-motorized travel;
                    (B) other trails in the management area; and
                    (C) trails into the wilderness area referred to in 
                section 202(e)(2).

SEC. 302. LAND ACQUISITION IN MANAGEMENT AREA.

    (a) Land Acquisition.--The Secretary concerned may acquire, by 
donation or purchase from willing sellers, lands and interests in 
lands--
            (1) located inside the boundaries of the management area; 
        or
            (2) located adjacent to the management area to provide 
        easements for additional public access to the management area.
    (b) No Use of Condemnation.--No lands or interests in lands may be 
acquired by condemnation for inclusion in the management area or to 
provide access to the management area.
    (c) Authorization of Appropriations.--There is authorized to be 
appropriated not more than $5,000,000 to carry out this section. 
Amounts appropriated pursuant to this authorization of appropriations 
shall remain available until expended.

SEC. 303. MOTORIZED AND BICYCLE TRAVEL.

    (a) Motorized and Bicycle Travel Authorized.--In the case of land 
included in the management area, motorized and bicycle travel shall 
continue to be allowed in accordance with Forest Service and Bureau of 
Land Management travel plans and maps in existence as of September 1, 
2003, which managed recreation use for the specific areas, roads, and 
trails on those lands, as referenced on the travel map entitled 
``Boulder-White Clouds Management Area Travel Plan'' and dated June 1, 
2005.
    (b) Establishment or Use of Other Trails and Routes.--
Notwithstanding subsection (a), other trails and routes may be used for 
motorized and bicycle travel whenever the Secretary concerned considers 
such use to be necessary for administrative purposes or to respond to 
an emergency.
    (c) Route and Trail Closures.--The following roads or trails shall 
be closed to motorized and mechanized trail use, except when there is 
adequate snowcover to permit snowmobile use:
            (1) Forest Service Trail 109 between the Phyllis Lake 
        turnoff to 4th of July Lake and the south side of Washington 
        Lake.
            (2) Forest Service Trail 671 up Warm Springs Creek from 
        Trail 104 to the wilderness boundary.
    (d) Grounds for Trail Segment Closures.--Resource damage that can 
be mitigated and issues of user conflict shall not be used as grounds 
for the closure of a trail or route in the management area, although 
the Secretary concerned may close any trail or route, or prohibit the 
use of trail or route for motorized and mechanize travel, if the 
Secretary determines that such closure or prohibition is the only 
reasonable means available for resource protection or public safety.
    (e) Mitigation of Trail Closures.--If the Secretary determines 
under subsection (d) that closing an available trail or route in the 
management area is necessary for resource protection or public safety, 
the Secretary shall take any of the following mitigation actions, 
intended to provide commensurate motorized recreation opportunities in 
the same general area of the management area:
            (1) Repair resource damage and secure conditions so that 
        closed trails may be reopened to motorized use.
            (2) Replace, relocate, or reroute the trail or the trail 
        segment to provide a similar link between travel points.
            (3) A combination of the actions specified in paragraphs 
        (1) and (2) and other actions to achieve the overall mitigation 
        objective.
    (f) Relation to Other Laws.--In considering mitigation actions 
under subsection (e), the Secretary concerned shall ensure that such 
action is consistent with the overall objectives of the management 
area. If the lands are also included in the Sawtooth National 
Recreation Area, the Secretary concerned shall also administer the 
action in accordance with Public Law 92-400 (16 U.S.C. 460aa et seq.), 
the map dated ____, 2005, and executive orders and other relevant laws 
and regulations existing on or before the date of the enactment of this 
Act.

SEC. 304. SUPPORT AND USE OF IDAHO OFF ROAD MOTOR VEHICLE PROGRAM.

    (a) Grant to Program.--There is authorized to be appropriated to 
the Secretary of Agriculture not more than $1,000,000, which shall be 
used by the Secretary to make a grant to the State of Idaho in the full 
amount so appropriated for deposit with the Off Road Motor Vehicle 
Program of the Idaho Department of State Parks and Recreation, which is 
used to support the acquisition, purchase, improvement, repair, 
maintenance, furnishing, and equipping of off-road motor vehicle 
facilities and sites, to groom snowmobile trails, and for enforcement 
activities and the rehabilitation of land damaged by off-road vehicle 
users. As a condition of the grant, the State must maintain the grant 
funds as a separate account of the Off Road Motor Vehicle Program and 
may not use the funds except as provided by this section.
    (b) Use of Grant Funds.--When the Secretary concerned determines 
that additional funds are required to carry out the activities 
described in subsection (a) in the management area, the Secretary may 
apply for funds from the Off Road Motor Vehicle Program. Funds received 
under this subsection shall be used only in the management area.
    (c) Consultation and Recommendations.--Before funds are provided 
under subsection (b), the Off Road Motor Vehicle Program shall consider 
any recommendations regarding the use of the funds made by the advisory 
committee established as part of the program as well as public 
comments.
    (d) Relation to Other Laws.--Any action undertaken using funds 
obtained under subsection (b) shall conform to the applicable travel 
plan of the Challis National Forest, the Sawtooth National Recreation 
Area, or the Challis District of the Bureau of Land Management.

SEC. 305. AIRPORTS AND LANDING STRIPS.

    No airstrips exist in the wilderness areas designated by title II. 
Nothing in this Act shall be construed to restrict or preclude the use 
of public or private airports or landing strips located within the 
management area or adjacent to a wilderness area designated by title 
II.

                  TITLE IV--WAIVER OF GRAZING PERMITS

SEC. 401. FINDINGS AND PURPOSE.

    (a) Findings.--Congress finds the following:
            (1) Grazing allotments on the lands designated as 
        wilderness by title II, and on nearby Federal lands, have been 
        reduced repeatedly by Forest Service and other Federal agency 
        decisions reflecting changes in the management of such lands.
            (2) Future management changes for these lands directed to 
        the watershed recovery for the purposes of restoration of 
        endangered fish populations may result in additional grazing 
        restrictions.
            (3) Many of the ranching families who have used these lands 
        have found themselves unable to survive economically or to 
        recapture lost economic opportunities as a consequence of the 
        location of their ranching operations.
    (b) Purpose.--The purpose of this title is to offer economic 
options for traditional users of such lands who have been adversely 
impacted by past changes, and will be adversely impacted by future 
changes, in the management of such lands.

SEC. 402. VOLUNTARY GRAZING PERMIT WAIVER PROGRAM.

    (a) Eligibility for Participation.--Only persons that held, on 
September 30, 2004, a valid grazing permit located in whole or in part 
in a wilderness area designated by title II or the watershed of the 
East Fork Salmon River shall be eligible to participate in the 
voluntary grazing permit waiver program under this title.
    (b) Notice of Participation.--If a person described in subsection 
(a) desires to participate in the voluntary grazing permit waiver 
program under this title, the person shall notify the Federal agency 
from which the person obtained the permit, in writing, not later than 
one year after the date of the enactment of this Act, of the voluntary 
decision of the person to participate in the program in exchange for 
compensation under section 403. Nothing in this subsection prevents a 
person described in subsection (a) from waiving, at any time, a grazing 
permit without compensation.
    (c) Waiver.--In the notification submitted under subsection (b), 
the person shall agree to waive the valid grazing permit authorizing 
livestock grazing on grazing allotments located in whole or in part on 
lands described in subsection (a). The waiver shall take effect on the 
date the person receives the compensation provided under section 403, 
the date the person makes the waiver by donation, or the date the 
person receives appropriate compensation from a third party, whichever 
occurs first.
    (d) Effect of Permit Waiver on Range Developments.--
            (1) Waiver.--Except as provided in paragraph (2), a person 
        who waives a permit under this section shall be deemed to have 
        waived any claim to all range developments on the subject 
        grazing allotment or allotments.
            (2) Removal.--The Federal agency from which a person 
        obtained a grazing permit may authorize the person to remove 
        those range developments associated with the permit that are 
        not permanent and are easily removable, as determined by the 
        Federal agency. The removal of the range developments shall be 
        completed before the end of the one-year period beginning on 
        the date the waiver of the permit takes effect under subsection 
        (c) and shall be subject to the supervision of the Federal 
        agency.
    (e) Cancellation.--Not later than 30 days after the waiver of a 
grazing permit takes effect under subsection (c), the Federal agency 
shall cancel the permitted grazing on the Federal land in the 
allotments covered by the notification. Upon cancellation, grazing 
permits shall be prohibited in the areas where permits were waived, and 
no future management allocations for grazing shall be permitted.
    (f) Treatment of Vacant Allotments.--Any vacant, unallocated 
grazing allotments in existence on lands described in subsection (a) 
shall not be made available to any person after the date of the 
enactment of this Act.

SEC. 403. COMPENSATION.

    (a) Eligibility and Amount of Compensation.--The Federal agency may 
make a payment to permittees described in subsection (a) of section 402 
who waive grazing permits as provided in subsection (b) of such section 
according to a schedule of payments prepared jointly by such agencies 
and filed with the Committee on Resources of the House of 
Representatives and the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources of 
the Senate. The total amount available for such payments is $7,000,000. 
If a permittee is in arrears of Federal grazing fees, the amount of 
fees in arrears shall be deducted from the amount of compensation 
otherwise due the permittee under this subsection.
    (b) Exceptions.--Compensation shall not be provided under this 
section if the permittee waives the permit by donation. The amount of 
any compensation the permittee receives from a third party for the 
waiver of the permit shall be deducted from the amount of compensation 
otherwise due the permittee under subsection (a).
    (c) Prohibition on Use of Funds for Administrative Costs.--None of 
the funds made available to provide compensation under this title may 
be used to cover administrative costs incurred by a Federal agency to 
carry out this title.
                                 &lt;all&gt;
</pre></body></html>
