<html><body><pre>
[Congressional Bills 110th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[S. 3654 Introduced in Senate (IS)]







110th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                S. 3654

   To improve research on health hazards in housing, to enhance the 
 capacity of programs to reduce such hazards, to require outreach, and 
                          for other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                   IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

           September 29 (legislative day, September 17), 2008

   Mr. Reed introduced the following bill; which was read twice and 
    referred to the Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
   To improve research on health hazards in housing, to enhance the 
 capacity of programs to reduce such hazards, to require outreach, and 
                          for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE; TABLE OF CONTENTS.

    (a) Short Title.--This Act may be cited as the ``Research, Hazard 
Intervention, and National Outreach for Healthier Homes Act of 2008''.
    (b) Table of Contents.--The table of contents for this Act is as 
follows:

SEC. 2. FINDINGS.

    Congress finds the following:
            (1) Americans spend approximately 90 percent of their time 
        indoors, where 6,000,000 households live with moderate or 
        severe housing conditions, including heating, plumbing, and 
        electrical problems, and 24,000,000 households face significant 
        lead-based paint hazards.
            (2) Housing-related health hazards can often be traced back 
        to shared causes, including moisture, ventilation, comfort, 
        pest, contaminant, and structural issues, but further research 
        is necessary in order to definitively understand key 
        relationships between the shared causes, housing-related health 
        hazards, and resident health.
            (3) Since many hazards have interrelated causes and share 
        common solutions, the traditional approach of identifying and 
        remedying housing-related health hazards one-by-one is likely 
        not cost effective or sufficiently health-protective.
            (4) Evidence-based, cost-effective, practical, and widely 
        accessible methods for the assessment and control of housing-
        related health hazards are necessary in order to prevent 
        housing-related injuries and illnesses, including cancer, 
        carbon monoxide poisoning, burns, falls, rodent bites, 
        childhood lead poisoning, and asthma.
            (5) Sustainable building features, including energy 
        efficiency measures, are increasingly popular, and are 
        generally presumed to have beneficial effects on occupant 
        health. However, the health effects of such features need to be 
        evaluated in a comprehensive and timely manner, lest the 
        housing in this country unintentionally revert to the 
        conditions of excessive building tightness and lack of 
        sufficient ventilation characteristic of the 1970s.
            (6) Data collection on housing conditions that could affect 
        occupant health, and on health outcomes that could be related 
        to housing conditions, is scattered and insufficient to meet 
        current and future research needs for affordable, healthy 
        housing. A coordinated, multidata source system is necessary to 
        reduce duplication of Federal efforts, and to ensure sufficient 
        data collection of both the housing conditions and the health 
        problems that persist in the existing housing stock of the 
        Nation.
            (7) Responsibilities related to health hazards in housing 
        are not clearly delineated among Federal agencies. Categorical 
        housing, health, energy assistance, and environmental programs 
        are narrowly defined and often ignore opportunities to address 
        multiple hazards simultaneously. Enabling Federal programs to 
        embrace a comprehensive healthy housing approach will require 
        removing unnecessary Federal statutory and regulatory barriers, 
        and creating incentives to advance the complementary goals of 
        environmental health, energy conservation, and housing 
        availability in relevant programs.
            (8) Personnel who visit homes to provide services or 
        perform other work (such as inspectors, emergency medical 
        technicians, home visitors, housing rehabilitation, 
        construction and maintenance workers, and others) can 
        contribute to occupant health by presenting and applying 
        healthy housing practices. Cost-effective training and outreach 
        is needed to equip such personnel with current knowledge about 
        delivering and maintaining healthy housing.
            (9) Housing-related health hazards are often complex, with 
        causes and solutions often not readily or immediately 
        recognized by residents, property owners, or the general 
        public. In the 2005 American Housing Survey, significant 
        numbers of residents expressed the highest level of 
        satisfaction with their homes, including 20 percent of 
        residents in homes with severe physical problems and 18 percent 
        of residents in homes with moderate physical problems. National 
        awareness and local outreach programs are needed to encourage 
        the public to seek and expect healthy housing, to think about 
        housing hazards more comprehensively, to recognize problems, 
        and to address them in a preventative, effective, and low-cost 
        manner.

SEC. 3. DEFINITIONS.

    In this Act, the following definitions shall apply:
            (1) Housing.--The term ``housing'' means any form of 
        residence, including rental housing, homeownership, group home, 
        or supportive housing arrangement.
            (2) Healthy housing.--The term ``healthy housing'' means 
        housing that is designed, constructed, rehabilitated, and 
        maintained in a manner that supports the health of the 
        occupants of such housing.
            (3) Housing-related health hazard.--The term ``housing-
        related health hazard'' means any biological, physical, or 
        chemical source of exposure or condition either in, or 
        immediately adjacent to, housing, that can adversely affect 
        human health.

             TITLE I--RESEARCH ON HEALTH HAZARDS IN HOUSING

SEC. 101. HEALTH EFFECTS OF HOUSING-RELATED HEALTH HAZARDS.

    (a) In General.--The Director of the National Institute of 
Environmental Health Sciences and the Administrator of the 
Environmental Protection Agency shall evaluate the health effects of 
housing-related health hazards for which limited research or 
understanding of causes or associations exists.
    (b) Criteria.--In carrying out the evaluation under subsection (a), 
the Director of the National Institute of Environmental Health Sciences 
and the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency shall--
            (1) determine the housing-related health hazards for which 
        there exists limited understanding of health effects;
            (2) prioritize the housing-related health hazards to be 
        evaluated;
            (3) coordinate research plans in order to avoid unnecessary 
        duplication of efforts; and
            (4) evaluate the health risks, routes and pathways of 
        exposure, and human health effects that result from indoor 
        exposure to biological, physical, and chemical housing-related 
        health hazards, including carbon monoxide, volatile organic 
        compounds, common residential and garden pesticides, and 
        factors that sensitize individuals to asthma.
    (c) Authorization of Appropriations.--There are authorized to be 
appropriated for each of fiscal years 2009 through 2011, $3,500,000 for 
carrying out the activities under this section.

SEC. 102. EVIDENCE-BASED, COST-EFFECTIVE METHODS FOR ASSESSMENT, 
              PREVENTION, AND CONTROL OF HOUSING-RELATED HEALTH 
              HAZARDS.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary of Housing and Urban Development 
shall, in consultation with the Director of the Centers for Disease 
Control and Prevention, to implement studies by the Office of Healthy 
Homes and Lead Hazard Control of the assessment, prevention, and 
control of housing-related health hazards.
    (b) Study.--The Secretary of Housing and Urban Development, in 
consultation with other Federal agencies, shall initiate--
            (1) for fiscal years 2009 through 2013, at least 1 study 
        per year of the methods for assessment, prevention, or control 
        of housing-related health hazards that provide for--
                    (A) instrumentation, monitoring, and data 
                collection related to such assessment or control 
                methods;
                    (B) study of the ability of the assessment and 
                monitoring methods to predict health risks and the 
                effect of control methods on health outcomes; and
                    (C) the evaluation of the cost-effectiveness of 
                such assessment or control methods; and
            (2) no fewer than 4 studies, which may run concurrently.
    (c) Criteria for Study.--Each study conducted pursuant to 
subsection (b) shall, if the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development 
deems it scientifically appropriate, evaluate the assessment or control 
method in each of the different climactic regions of the United States, 
including--
            (1) a hot, dry climate;
            (2) a hot, humid climate;
            (3) a cold climate; and
            (4) a temperate climate (including a climate with cold 
        winters and humid summers).
    (d) Authority of the Secretary.--The Secretary of Housing and Urban 
Development may award contracts or interagency agreements to carry out 
the studies required under this section.
    (e) Authorization of Appropriations.--There is authorized to be 
appropriated for each of fiscal years 2009 through 2013, $6,000,000 for 
carrying out the activities under this section.

SEC. 103. STUDY ON SUSTAINABLE BUILDING FEATURES AND INDOOR 
              ENVIRONMENTAL QUALITY IN EXISTING HOUSING.

    (a) In General.--The Administrator of the Environmental Protection 
Agency shall, in consultation with other Federal agencies, conduct a 
detailed study of how sustainable building features, such as energy 
efficiency, in existing housing affect the quality of the indoor 
environment, the prevalence of housing-related health hazards, and the 
health of occupants.
    (b) Contents.--The study required under subsection (a) shall--
            (1) investigate the effect of sustainable building features 
        on the quality of the indoor environment and the prevalence of 
        housing-related health hazards;
            (2) investigate how sustainable building features, such as 
        energy efficiency, are influencing the health of occupants of 
        such housing; and
            (3) ensure that the effects of the indoor environmental 
        quality are evaluated comprehensively.
    (c) Authorization of Appropriations.--There is authorized to be 
appropriated for each of fiscal years 2009 through 2013, $500,000 for 
carrying out the activities under this section.

SEC. 104. DATA COLLECTION ON HOUSING-RELATED HEALTH HAZARDS.

    (a) Completion of Analysis.--The Secretary of Housing and Urban 
Development shall complete the analysis of data collected for the 
National Survey on Lead and Allergens in Housing and the American 
Healthy Housing Survey.
    (b) Expansion of Monitoring.--The Administrator of the 
Environmental Protection Agency shall expand the current indoor 
environmental monitoring efforts of the Administrator in an effort to 
establish baseline levels of indoor chemical pollutants and their 
sources, including routes and pathways, in homes.
    (c) Data Evaluation and Collection System.--
            (1) Data evaluation.--The Director of the Centers for 
        Disease Control and Prevention shall, in consultation with the 
        Secretary of Housing and Urban Development and the 
        Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency, determine 
        the data and resources needed to establish and maintain a 
        healthy housing data collection system.
            (2) Data collection system.--
                    (A) In general.--The Director of the Centers for 
                Disease Control and Prevention, based upon the needs 
                determined under paragraph (1), shall carry out the 
                development and operation of a healthy housing data 
                collection system that--
                            (i) draws upon existing data collection 
                        systems, including those systems at other 
                        Federal agencies, to the maximum extent 
                        practicable;
                            (ii) conforms with the 2001 Updated 
                        Guidelines for Evaluating Public Health 
                        Surveillance Systems;
                            (iii) improves upon the ability of 
                        researchers to assess links between housing and 
                        health characteristics; and
                            (iv) incorporates the input of potential 
                        data users, to the maximum extent practicable.
                    (B) Criteria.--The data collection system required 
                to be developed under subparagraph (A) shall--
                            (i) pilot subject areas to evaluate for 
                        overall data quality and utility, level of data 
                        collection, feasibility of additional data 
                        collection, and privacy considerations;
                            (ii) develop common assessment tools and 
                        integrated database applications and, where 
                        possible, standardize analysis techniques;
                            (iii) develop mechanisms to facilitate 
                        ongoing multidisciplinary interagency 
                        involvement;
                            (iv) create a clearinghouse to monitor 
                        potential data sources; and
                            (v) develop public use datasets.
    (d) Authorization of Appropriations.--There are authorized to be 
appropriated--
            (1) for each of fiscal years 2009 through 2011, $600,000 
        for carrying out the activities under subsection (a); and
            (2) for each of fiscal years 2009 through 2013--
                    (A) $2,000,000 for carrying out the activities 
                under subsection (b); and
                    (B) $8,000,000 for carrying out the activities 
                under subsection (c).

         TITLE II--CAPACITY TO REDUCE HEALTH HAZARDS IN HOUSING

SEC. 201. HOUSING AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM CAPACITY ON HOUSING-
              RELATED HEALTH HAZARDS.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary of Housing and Urban Development 
shall, in cooperation with other Federal agencies--
            (1) develop improved methods for evaluating health hazards 
        in housing;
            (2) develop improved methods for preventing and reducing 
        health hazards in housing;
            (3) support the development of objective measures for what 
        is considered a ``healthy'' residential environment;
            (4) evaluate the long-term cost effectiveness of a healthy 
        housing approach;
            (5) promote the incorporation of healthy housing principles 
        into ongoing practices and systems, including housing codes, 
        rehabilitation specifications, and maintenance plans;
            (6) promote the incorporation of health considerations into 
        green and energy-efficient construction and rehabilitation;
            (7) promote the use of healthy housing principles in post-
        disaster environments, such as the dissemination of information 
        on safe rehabilitation and recovery practices;
            (8) improve the dissemination of healthy housing 
        information, including best practices, to partners, grantees, 
        the private sector, and the public; and
            (9) promote State and local level healthy housing efforts, 
        such as the collaboration of State and local health, housing, 
        and environment agencies, and the private sector.
    (b) Authority of the Secretary.--The Secretary of Housing and Urban 
Development may award grants, contracts, or interagency agreements to 
carry out the activities required under this section.
    (c) Authorization of Appropriations.--There is authorized to be 
appropriated for each of fiscal years 2009 through 2013, $14,800,000 
for carrying out the activities under this section.

SEC. 202. CENTERS FOR DISEASE CONTROL AND PREVENTION PROGRAM CAPACITY 
              ON HOUSING-RELATED HEALTH HAZARDS.

    Section 317A of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 247b-1) is 
amended--
            (1) in subsection (a)(1)--
                    (A) in subparagraph (A)--
                            (i) in clause (i), by inserting ``and other 
                        housing-related illnesses and injuries'' after 
                        ``screening for elevated blood lead levels'';
                            (ii) in clause (ii), by striking ``referral 
                        for treatment of such levels'' and inserting 
                        ``referral for treatment of elevated blood lead 
                        levels and other housing-related illnesses and 
                        injuries''; and
                            (iii) in clause (iii), by striking 
                        ``intervention associated with such levels'' 
                        and inserting ``intervention associated with 
                        elevated blood lead levels and other housing- 
                        related illnesses and injuries''; and
                    (B) in subparagraph (B) by inserting before the 
                period at the end ``and other housing-related illnesses 
                and injuries'';
            (2) in subsection (l), by adding at the end the following:
            ``(3) Additional appropriations.--In addition to any other 
        authorization of appropriation available under this Act to the 
        Centers for Disease Control and Prevention for the purpose of 
        carrying out the lead poisoning prevention grant program, there 
        is authorized to be appropriated for each of fiscal years 2009 
        through 2013 to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention 
        $10,000,000 to incorporate healthy housing principles into the 
        work of program staff and grantees.''; and
            (3) by adding at the end the following:
    ``(n) Healthy Housing Approach.--An eligible entity under this 
section is encouraged to--
            ``(1) in general, work toward a transition from a 
        categorical lead-based paint approach to a comprehensive 
        healthy housing approach that focuses on primary prevention of 
        housing-related health hazards (as that term is defined under 
        section 3 of the Research, Hazard Intervention, and National 
        Outreach for Healthier Homes Act of 2008);
            ``(2) train staff in healthy housing principles;
            ``(3) promote the incorporation of healthy housing 
        principles into ongoing State and local programs and systems; 
        and
            ``(4) incorporate healthy housing principles into education 
        programs for parents, educators, community-based organizations, 
        local health officials, health professionals, and 
        paraprofessionals.''.

SEC. 203. ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY PROGRAM CAPACITY ON HOUSING-
              RELATED HEALTH HAZARDS.

    (a) In General.--The Administrator of the Environmental Protection 
Agency, acting through the director of the Office of Children's Health 
Protection and Environmental Education, shall address health hazards in 
the home environment, with particular attention to children, the 
elderly, and families with limited resources.
    (b) Required Actions of Office of Children's Health Protection and 
Environmental Education.--The director of the Office of Children's 
Health Protection and Environmental Education, in consultation with 
other relevant offices within the Environmental Protection Agency, 
shall--
            (1) monitor standards set by the Environmental Protection 
        Agency to ensure that the standards are protective of elevated 
        risks faced by children or the elderly;
            (2) develop policies to address aggregate, cumulative, and 
        simultaneous exposures experienced by children and the elderly, 
        with particular attention to hazards in the home environment;
            (3) coordinate healthy housing efforts across the 
        Environmental Protection Agency;
            (4) promote the incorporation of healthy housing principles 
        into ongoing practices and systems, including the work of State 
        and local environment departments;
            (5) encourage and expand healthy housing educational 
        efforts to partners, grantees, the private sector, 
        environmental professionals, and the public; and
            (6) designate not less than 1 representative per region, to 
        coordinate children's environmental health activities, 
        including healthy housing efforts, with State and local 
        environmental departments.
    (c) Authority of the Administrator.--The Administrator of the 
Environmental Protection Agency may award grants, contracts, or 
interagency agreements to carry out the activities required under this 
section.
    (d) Rule of Construction.--Nothing in this section shall be 
construed to alter, invalidate, repeal, or otherwise supercede the 
duties assigned to any office within the Environmental Protection 
Agency under any other provision of law.
    (e) Authorization of Appropriations.--There is authorized to be 
appropriated for each of fiscal years 2009 through 2013, $8,000,000 for 
carrying out the activities under this section.

SEC. 204. HEALTH HAZARD REDUCTION GRANTS.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary of Housing and Urban Development 
shall award health hazard reduction grants to enable eligible 
applicants from other eligible Federal programs to reduce significant 
structural, health, and safety hazards in the home.
    (b) Eligible Programs.--Programs eligible to participate in the 
grant program established under this section shall be Federal 
assistance programs that pertain to housing, as determined by the 
Secretary, including--
            (1) the Community Development Block Grant program under 
        title I of the Housing and Community Development Act of 1974 
        (42 U.S.C. 5301 et seq.);
            (2) the HOME Investment Partnerships program under title II 
        of the Cranston-Gonzalez National Affordable Housing Act (42 
        U.S.C. 12721 et seq.);
            (3) the lead hazard control grants under the Residential 
        Lead-Based Paint Hazard Reduction Act of 1992 (42 U.S.C. 4851 
        et seq.);
            (4) the Weatherization Assistance Program for Low-Income 
        Persons established under part A of title IV of the Energy 
        Conservation and Production Act (42 U.S.C. 6861 et seq.);
            (5) the low-income home energy assistance program 
        established under the Low-Income Home Energy Assistance Act of 
        1981 (42 U.S.C. 8621 et seq.);
            (6) rural housing assistance grants under section 515 of 
        the Housing Act of 1949 (42 U.S.C. 1485); and
            (7) any other temporary or other Federal housing assistance 
        programs that benefit low-income households.
    (c) Eligible Applicants.--Eligible applicants for grants under this 
section shall be nonprofit or governmental entities that have applied 
for or receive primary funding from an eligible program, and may 
include State and local agencies, community action program agencies, 
subrecipients of funds under the Weatherization Assistance Program for 
Low-Income Persons established under part A of title IV of the Energy 
Conservation and Production Act (42 U.S.C. 6861 et seq.), community 
development corporations, community housing development organizations, 
and other nonprofit organizations as determined by the Secretary.
    (d) Award of Grants.--
            (1) In general.--Each eligible program shall submit a list 
        of the recipients of the grant funds awarded by the eligible 
        program to the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development, 
        prior to publicly announcing such list.
            (2) Competitive basis.--The Secretary shall award grants 
        under this section on a competitive basis.
            (3) Funding cycles.--In the event that the Secretary of 
        Housing and Urban Development announces the availability of 
        grants under this section prior to an eligible program's public 
        announcements of the list of recipients of grant funds 
        described under paragraph (1), a grantee from that eligible 
        program may apply for grants under this section during the next 
        funding cycle.
    (e) Eligible Activities.--
            (1) In general.--Grants awarded under this section may be 
        used to fund corrective and preventive measures to address 
        housing-related health hazards and safety hazards, and energy 
        burden problems, including--
                    (A) roof repair and replacement;
                    (B) structural repairs and exterior grading;
                    (C) window repair and replacement;
                    (D) correction of combustion gas appliance back-
                drafting and other serious ventilation problems;
                    (E) provision of adequate ventilation;
                    (F) integrated pest management; and
                    (G) control of other critical housing-related 
                health and safety hazards, such as installation of 
                smoke alarms, carbon monoxide detection devices, and 
                radon testing and mitigation.
            (2) Covered costs.--The costs of visual assessment and 
        testing for baseline documentation of problems, and eligible 
        corrective and preventive measures to address such problems, 
        shall be allowable program expenses.
    (f) Flexible Funding.--Grants awarded under this section shall be 
subject to the requirements that govern the primary source of Federal 
funds supporting each project.
    (g) Administrative Expenses.--Not more than 10 percent of funds for 
each grant awarded under this section may be used for administrative 
expenses.
    (h) Reporting Requirements.--Consistent with the supplemental 
purpose of the grant program established under this section, the 
Secretary of Housing and Urban Development shall streamline reporting 
and record keeping requirements by building on existing reporting 
requirements of the eligible program. For each property receiving 
treatments funded by grants under this section, the grantee shall 
document the problems treated and the amount of grant funds used, and 
report such information to the primary awarding agency, which shall 
aggregate reports and supporting data and submit all such reports and 
data to the Secretary.
    (i) Evaluation.--The Secretary of Housing and Urban Development 
shall review the implementation of the grant program established under 
this section beginning on the date of enactment of this Act and ending 
on the date that is 1 years after such date of enactment. The review 
shall determine how grantees use and leverage funds and evaluate the 
cost-effectiveness of the grant program, taking into account the 
aggregate health, safety, energy savings, and durability benefits from 
measures taken, as well as the success of the grant program's 
leveraging of and coordination with Federal investments from other 
programs.
    (j) Authorization of Appropriations.--There is authorized to be 
appropriated for each of fiscal years 2009 through 2011, $10,000,000 
for carrying out the activities under this section.

SEC. 205. EFFECTIVE TRAINING ON HOUSING-RELATED HEALTH HAZARDS.

    (a) Public Health Service Act Amendments.--Section 317B of the 
Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 247b-3) is amended--
            (1) in subsection (a), by adding at the end the following:
            ``(3) Training.--The Secretary, acting through the Director 
        of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, shall--
                    ``(A) train lead poisoning prevention program staff 
                in healthy housing principles;
                    ``(B) deliver training and technical assistance in 
                the identification and control of housing-related 
                health hazards (as that term is defined in section 3 of 
                the Research, Hazard Intervention, and National 
                Outreach for Healthier Homes Act of 2008) to staff of 
                State and local public health departments and code 
                enforcement agencies, health care providers, other 
                health care delivery systems and professionals, and 
                community-based organizations; and
                    ``(C) provide resources and incentives to State and 
                local health departments to support the wide 
                availability of free or low-cost training to prevent 
                and control housing-related health hazards.''; and
            (2) by adding at the end the following:
    ``(c) Authorizations of Appropriations.--In addition to any other 
authorization of appropriation available under this Act to the Centers 
for Disease Control and Prevention for the purpose of carrying out lead 
poisoning prevention education, the Interagency Task Force, technology 
assessment, and epidemiology, there is authorized to be appropriated 
for each of fiscal years 2009 through 2013 to the Centers for Disease 
Control and Prevention $8,000,000 to facilitate a transition from 
categorical lead poisoning prevention to comprehensive healthy housing 
approaches.''.
    (b) Department of Agriculture.--
            (1) Technical assistance.--
                    (A) In general.--The Secretary of Agriculture 
                shall, acting through the Cooperative State Research, 
                Education, and Extension Service, establish a 
                competitive grant program to promote education and 
                outreach on housing-related health hazards.
                    (B) Eligible applicants.--The Secretary of 
                Agriculture may award grants, on a competitive basis, 
                under this subsection to land-grant colleges and 
                universities (as defined in section 1404 of the 
                National Agricultural Research, Extension, and Teaching 
                Policy Act of 1977 (7 U.S.C. 3103)) for education and 
                extension services.
                    (C) Criteria for grants.--Grants under this 
                subsection shall be awarded to address housing-related 
                health hazards through translation of the latest 
                research into easy-to-use guidelines, development and 
                dissemination of outreach materials, and operation of 
                training and education programs to build capacity at a 
                local level.
            (2) Expanded training.--The Secretary of Agriculture shall, 
        acting through the Cooperative State Research, Education, and 
        Extension Service Regional Integrated Pest Management Training 
        Centers, expand training and outreach activities to include 
        structural integrated pest management topics.
            (3) Coverage of lead-based paint and other health 
        hazards.--The Secretary of Agriculture shall, acting through 
        the Expanded Food and Nutrition Education Program, in 
        consultation with the Cooperative State Research, Education, 
        and Extension Service Housing and Indoor Environments Division, 
        ensure that food and nutrition subject matter content for 
        adults and youth includes effective information about 
        preventing exposure to lead-based paint, pests, pesticides, 
        mold, and, where there is sufficient data, about preventing 
        exposure to other biological or chemical food safety hazards in 
        and around the home.
    (c) Evaluation.--Not later than 2 years after the date of enactment 
of this Act, the Director of the Centers for Disease Control and 
Prevention and the Secretary of Agriculture shall evaluate the cost-
effectiveness of the training programs authorized under this section 
and prepare a report, the results of which shall be posted on the 
website of each agency.
    (d) Authorization of Appropriations.--There are authorized to be 
appropriated for each of fiscal years 2009 through 2013--
            (1) $700,000 for carrying out the activities under 
        subsection (b)(1);
            (2) $250,000 for carrying out the activities under 
        subsection (b)(2); and
            (3) $250,000 for carrying out the activities under 
        subsection (b)(3).

SEC. 206. ENFORCEMENT OF LEAD DISCLOSURE RULE.

    Subsection (a) of section 1018 of subtitle A, of title X of the 
Housing and Community Development Act of 1992 (42 U.S.C. 4852d), is 
amended by adding at the end the following:
            ``(6) Authority of the secretary.--
                    ``(A) Investigations.--The Secretary is authorized 
                to conduct such investigations as may be necessary to 
                administer and carry out his duties under this section. 
                The Secretary is authorized to administer oaths and 
                require by subpoena the production of documents, and 
                the attendance and testimony of witnesses as the 
                Secretary deems advisable. Nothing contained in this 
                subparagraph shall prevent the Administrator of the 
                Environmental Protection Agency from exercising 
                authority under the Toxic Substances Control Act or 
                this Act.
                    ``(B) Enforcement.--Any district court of the 
                United States within the jurisdiction of which an 
                inquiry is carried, on application of the Attorney 
                General, may, in the case of contumacy or refusal to 
                permit entry under this section or to obey a subpoena 
                of the Secretary issued under this section, issue an 
                order requiring such entry or such compliance 
                therewith. Any failure to obey such order of the court 
                may be punished by such court as a contempt thereof.''.

           TITLE III--EDUCATION ON HEALTH HAZARDS IN HOUSING

SEC. 301. HEALTHY HOME SEAL OF APPROVAL PROGRAM.

    (a) Establishment.--There is established within the Environmental 
Protection Agency the following labeling programs:
            (1) Products and materials labeling program.--A voluntary 
        labeling program to evaluate consumer products intended for 
        home use and housing materials to determine their efficacy in 
        fostering a healthy home environment.
            (2) Criteria for housing labeling program.--A voluntary 
        labeling program to expand upon the Energy Star program 
        established by section 324A of the Energy Policy and 
        Conservation Act (42 U.S.C. 6294a) to establish health-
        promoting design and maintenance criteria for new and existing 
        housing.
    (b) Duties.--
            (1) In general.--The Administrator of the Environmental 
        Protection Agency shall, in consultation with the Secretary of 
        Housing and Urban Development and the Director of the Centers 
        for Disease Control and Prevention--
                    (A) promote the Healthy Home Seal of Approval for 
                consumer products and materials, and for criteria for 
                housing as the preferred options in the marketplace for 
                achieving optimum indoor environmental quality and 
                maximum occupant health;
                    (B) work to enhance public awareness of the Healthy 
                Home Seal of Approval for consumer products and 
                materials, and for criteria for housing, including by 
                providing special outreach to small businesses;
                    (C) conduct research and provide sound science and 
                methods to evaluate products, materials, and criteria 
                for housing that preserves the integrity of the Healthy 
                Home Seal of Approval for consumer products and 
                materials, and for criteria for housing label;
                    (D) regularly update the requirements for the 
                Healthy Home Seal of Approval for products and 
                materials, and for criteria for housing;
                    (E) solicit comments from interested parties prior 
                to establishing or revising a Healthy Home Seal of 
                Approval, including a change to a product category, 
                material category, specification, or criterion (or 
                prior to effective dates for any such product category, 
                material category, specification, or criterion);
                    (F) on adoption of a new or revised product 
                category, material category, specification, or 
                criterion in a Healthy Home Seal of Approval, provide 
                reasonable notice to interested parties of any changes 
                (including effective dates) in product categories, 
                material categories, specifications, or criteria, along 
                with--
                            (i) an explanation of the changes; and
                            (ii) as appropriate, responses to comments 
                        submitted by interested parties; and
                    (G) provide appropriate lead time (which shall be 
                270 days, unless the Administrator specifies otherwise) 
                prior to the applicable effective date for a new or a 
                significant revision to a Healthy Home Seal of 
                Approval, including a change to a product category, 
                material category, specification, or criterion.
            (2) Lead time.--If a product category is revised in 
        accordance with paragraph (1)(G), the lead time shall take into 
        account the timing requirements of the manufacturing, product 
        marketing, and distribution process for the specific product 
        addressed.
    (c) Authorization of Appropriations.--There is authorized to be 
appropriated for each of fiscal years 2009 through 2013, $6,000,000 for 
carrying out the activities under this section.

SEC. 302. OUTREACH ON HEALTH HAZARDS IN HOUSING.

    (a) In General.--The Administrator of the Environmental Protection 
Agency, acting through the Office of Children's Health Protection and 
Environmental Education, shall provide education and outreach to the 
general public on the--
            (1) environmental health risks experienced by the elderly; 
        and
            (2) low-cost methods for addressing such risks.
    (b) Food Quality Protection.--Section 303 of the Food Quality 
Protection Act of 1996 (7 U.S.C. 136r-1) is amended--
            (1) in the first sentence, by striking ``The Secretary'' 
        and inserting the following:
    ``(a) Programs.--
            ``(1) Implementation.--The Secretary'';
            (2) in the second sentence, by striking ``Integrated Pest 
        Management is'' and inserting the following:
            ``(2) Definition of integrated pest management.--In this 
        section, the term `Integrated Pest Management' means'';
            (3) in the third sentence, by striking ``The Secretary'' 
        and inserting the following:
    ``(b) Federal Agencies.--
            ``(1) Availability of information.--The Secretary'';
            (4) in the fourth sentence, by striking ``Federal 
        agencies'' and inserting the following:
            ``(2) Use.--A Federal agency''; and
            (5) by adding at the end the following:
    ``(c) Authorization of Appropriations.--There are authorized to be 
appropriated to carry out this section--
            ``(1) $300,000 for use by the Secretary of Agriculture; and
            ``(2) $300,000 for use by the Administrator.''.
    (c) Grant Program.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary of Housing and Urban 
        Development shall award funds for a Health Hazards Outreach 
        competitive grant program.
            (2) Eligible applicants.--Eligible applicants for a grant 
        under paragraph (1) are national nonprofit organizations, and 
        State and local entities, including community-based 
        organizations and government health, environmental, and housing 
        departments.
            (3) Eligible activities.--Funds awarded under this 
        subsection may be used to--
                    (A) document the need for healthy housing 
                assessments or controls in a given community or 
                communities;
                    (B) perform outreach and education with a 
                community-level focus; and
                    (C) develop policy and capacity building 
                approaches.
            (4) Collaboration with local institutions.--Eligible 
        applicants under this subsection are encouraged to--
                    (A) forge partnerships among State or local level 
                government and nonprofit entities; and
                    (B) improve the incorporation of healthy housing 
                principles into existing State and local systems where 
                possible.
    (d) Authorization of Appropriations.--There are authorized to be 
appropriated for each of fiscal years 2009 through 2013--
            (1) $300,000 for carrying out the activities under 
        subsection (a); and
            (2) $2,000,000 for carrying out the activities under 
        subsection (c).

SEC. 303. NATIONAL HEALTHY HOUSING MEDIA CAMPAIGN.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary of Housing and Urban Development, 
the Director of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, and the 
Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency shall establish 
and maintain a national healthy housing media campaign.
    (b) Requirements of Campaign.--The Secretary of Housing and Urban 
Development, the Director of the Centers for Disease Control and 
Prevention, and the Administrator of the Environmental Protection 
Agency shall--
            (1) determine the design of the national healthy housing 
        media campaign, including by--
                    (A) identifying the target audience;
                    (B) formulating and packaging unified messages 
                regarding--
                            (i) how best to assess health hazards in 
                        the home; and
                            (ii) how best to prevent and control health 
                        hazards in the home;
                    (C) identifying ideal mechanisms for dissemination;
                    (D) distributing responsibilities and establishing 
                an ongoing system of coordination; and
                    (E) incorporating input from the target audience of 
                the campaign;
            (2) carry out the operation of a national healthy housing 
        media campaign that--
                    (A) draws upon existing outreach and public 
                education efforts to the maximum extent practicable;
                    (B) provides critical healthy housing information 
                in a concise and simple manner; and
                    (C) uses multiple media strategies to reach the 
                maximum number of people in the target audience as 
                possible; and
            (3) evaluate the performance of the campaign, including 
        by--
                    (A) tracking the accomplishments of the campaign;
                    (B) identifying changes in healthy housing 
                awareness, healthy housing activities, and the healthy 
                housing conditions among the target audience of the 
                campaign;
                    (C) assessing the cost-effectiveness of the 
                campaign in achieving the goals of the campaign; and
                    (D) preparing a final evaluation report within 1 
                year of the close of the campaign, the results of which 
                shall be posted on the website of each such agency.
    (c) Authorization of Appropriations.--There is authorized to be 
appropriated for each of fiscal years 2009 through 2013, $6,000,000 for 
carrying out the activities under this section.
                                 &lt;all&gt;
</pre></body></html>
