<html><body><pre>
[Congressional Bills 115th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[S. 3393 Introduced in Senate (IS)]

&lt;DOC&gt;






115th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                S. 3393

  To establish the Council on Rural Community Innovation and Economic 
                              Development.


_______________________________________________________________________


                   IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

                            August 28, 2018

Ms. Cortez Masto (for herself and Mr. Portman) introduced the following 
      bill; which was read twice and referred to the Committee on 
                  Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
  To establish the Council on Rural Community Innovation and Economic 
                              Development.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Council on Rural Community 
Innovation and Economic Development Act of 2018''.

SEC. 2. FINDINGS.

    Congress makes the following findings:
            (1) Sixteen percent of the population of the United States 
        lives in rural counties.
            (2) Strong, sustainable rural communities are essential to 
        future prosperity and ensuring United States competitiveness in 
        the years ahead.
            (3) Rural communities supply the food, fiber, and energy of 
        the United States, safeguard the natural resources of the 
        United States, and are essential to the development of science 
        and innovation.
            (4) Though rural communities face numerous challenges, they 
        also present enormous economic potential.
            (5) The Federal Government has an important role to play in 
        expanding access to the capital necessary for economic growth, 
        promoting innovation, increasing energy resiliency and 
        reliability, improving access to health care and education, and 
        expanding outdoor recreational activities on public land.

SEC. 3. PURPOSE.

    The purpose of this Act is to enhance the efforts of the Federal 
Government to address the needs of rural areas in the United States 
by--
            (1) establishing a council to better coordinate Federal 
        programs directed to rural communities;
            (2) maximizing the impact of Federal investment to promote 
        economic prosperity and quality of life in rural communities in 
        the United States; and
            (3) using innovation to resolve local and regional 
        challenges faced by rural communities.

SEC. 4. DEFINITIONS.

    In this Act:
            (1) Council.--The term ``Council'' means the Council on 
        Rural Community Innovation and Economic Development established 
        by section 5.
            (2) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary 
        of Agriculture.

SEC. 5. ESTABLISHMENT.

    There is established a Council on Rural Community Innovation and 
Economic Development.

SEC. 6. MEMBERSHIP.

    (a) In General.--The membership of the Council shall be composed of 
the heads of the following executive branch departments, agencies, and 
offices:
            (1) The Department of Agriculture.
            (2) The Department of the Treasury.
            (3) The Department of Defense.
            (4) The Department of Justice.
            (5) The Department of the Interior.
            (6) The Department of Commerce.
            (7) The Department of Labor.
            (8) The Department of Health and Human Services.
            (9) The Department of Housing and Urban Development.
            (10) The Department of Transportation.
            (11) The Department of Energy.
            (12) The Department of Education.
            (13) The Department of Veterans Affairs.
            (14) The Department of Homeland Security.
            (15) The Environmental Protection Agency.
            (16) The Federal Communications Commission.
            (17) The Office of Management and Budget.
            (18) The Office of Science and Technology Policy.
            (19) The Office of National Drug Control Policy.
            (20) The Council of Economic Advisers.
            (21) The Domestic Policy Council.
            (22) The National Economic Council.
            (23) The Small Business Administration.
            (24) The Council on Environmental Quality.
            (25) The White House Office of Public Engagement.
            (26) The White House Office of Cabinet Affairs.
            (27) Such other executive branch departments, agencies, and 
        offices as the President or the Secretary may, from time to 
        time, designate.
    (b) Chair.--The Secretary shall serve as the Chair of the Council.
    (c) Designees.--A member of the Council may designate, to perform 
the Council functions of the member, a senior-level official who is--
            (1) part of the department, agency, or office of the 
        member; and
            (2) a full-time officer or employee of the Federal 
        Government.
    (d) Administration.--The Council shall coordinate policy 
development through the rural development mission area.

SEC. 7. FUNDING.

    The Secretary shall provide funding and administrative support for 
the Council to the extent permitted by law and within existing 
appropriations.

SEC. 8. MISSION AND FUNCTION OF THE COUNCIL.

    The Council shall work across executive departments, agencies, and 
offices to coordinate development of policy recommendations--
            (1) to maximize the impact of Federal investment of rural 
        communities;
            (2) to promote economic prosperity and quality of life in 
        rural communities; and
            (3) to use innovation to resolve local and regional 
        challenges faced by rural communities.

SEC. 9. DUTIES.

    The Council shall--
            (1) make recommendations to the President, acting through 
        the Director of the Domestic Policy Council and the Director of 
        the National Economic Council, on streamlining and leveraging 
        Federal investments in rural areas, where appropriate, to 
        increase the impact of Federal dollars and create economic 
        opportunities to improve the quality of life in rural areas in 
        the United States;
            (2) coordinate and increase the effectiveness of Federal 
        engagement with rural stakeholders, including agricultural 
        organizations, small businesses, education and training 
        institutions, health care providers, telecommunications 
        services providers, electric service providers, transportation 
        providers, research and land grant institutions, law 
        enforcement, State, local, and tribal governments, and 
        nongovernmental organizations regarding the needs of rural 
        areas in the United States;
            (3) coordinate Federal efforts directed toward the growth 
        and development of rural geographic regions that encompass both 
        metropolitan and nonmetropolitan areas;
            (4) identify and facilitate rural economic opportunities 
        associated with energy development, outdoor recreation, and 
        other conservation related activities; and
            (5) identify common economic and social challenges faced by 
        rural communities that could be served through--
                    (A) better coordination of existing Federal and 
                non-Federal resources; and
                    (B) innovative solutions utilizing governmental and 
                nongovernmental resources.

SEC. 10. EXECUTIVE DEPARTMENTS AND AGENCIES.

    (a) In General.--The heads of executive departments and agencies 
shall assist and provide information to the Council, consistent with 
applicable law, as may be necessary to carry out the functions of the 
Council.
    (b) Expenses.--Each executive department or agency shall be 
responsible for paying any expenses of the executive department or 
agency for participating in the Council.

SEC. 11. REPORT ON RURAL SMART COMMUNITIES.

    (a) In General.--Not later than 1 year after the establishment of 
the Council, the Council shall submit to Congress a report describing 
efforts of rural areas to integrate ``smart'' technology into their 
communities to solve challenges relating to energy, transportation, 
health care, law enforcement, housing, or other relevant local issues, 
as determined by the Secretary.
    (b) Smart Rural Communities.--The report under subsection (a) shall 
include a description of efforts of rural communities to apply 
innovative and advanced technologies and related mechanisms (such as 
telecommunications, energy, transportation, housing, economic 
development)--
            (1) to improve the health and quality of life of residents;
            (2) to increase the efficiency and cost-effectiveness of 
        civic operations and services, including public safety and 
        other vital public functions;
            (3) to promote economic growth;
            (4) to enhance the use of electricity in the community and 
        reduce pollution; and
            (5) to create a more sustainable and resilient community.
    (c) Other Inclusions.--The report under subsection (a) shall 
include--
            (1) an analysis of efforts to integrate ``smart'' 
        technology into rural communities across the United States;
            (2) an analysis of barriers and challenges faced by rural 
        areas in integrating ``smart'' technology into their 
        communities;
            (3) an analysis of Federal efforts to assist rural areas 
        with the development and integration of ``smart'' technology 
        into rural communities;
            (4) recommendations, if any, on how to improve coordination 
        and deployment of Federal efforts to assist rural areas develop 
        and integrate ``smart'' technology into their communities;
            (5) recommendations, if any, on how rural areas developing 
        ``smart'' communities can better leverage private sector 
        resources; and
            (6) guidelines that establish best practices for rural 
        areas that desire to use ``smart'' technology to overcome local 
        challenges.

SEC. 12. REVIEW OF PUBLIC BENEFIT TO RURAL COMMUNITIES ON THE CREATION 
              OF RURAL SMART COMMUNITY DEMONSTRATION PROJECTS.

    (a) In General.--On completion of the report under section 11(a), 
the Council shall review the benefits of the creation of a rural smart 
community demonstration projects program for the purposes of 
coordinating Department of Agriculture rural development, housing, 
energy, and telecommunication programs, and other Federal programs 
specific to rural communities, to expand innovative technologies and 
address local challenges specific to rural communities.
    (b) Inclusions.--In the review under subsection (a) the Council 
shall determine whether a rural smart community demonstration projects 
program would--
            (1) demonstrate smart community technologies that can be 
        adapted and repeated by other rural communities;
            (2) encourage public, private, local, or regional best 
        practices that can be replicated by other rural communities;
            (3) encourage private sector innovation and investment in 
        rural communities;
            (4) promote a skilled workforce; and
            (5) promote standards that allow for the measurement and 
        validation of the cost savings and performance improvements 
        associated with the installation and use of smart community 
        technologies and practices.

SEC. 13. RURAL SMART COMMUNITY RESOURCE GUIDE.

    (a) In General.--The Council shall create, publish, and maintain a 
resource guide designed to assist States and other rural communities in 
developing and implementing rural smart community programs.
    (b) Inclusions.--A resource guide under subsection (a) may 
include--
            (1) a compilation of existing related Federal and non-
        Federal programs available to rural communities, including 
        technical assistance, education, training, research and 
        development, analysis, and funding;
            (2) available examples of local rural communities engaging 
        private sector entities to implement smart community solutions, 
        including public-private partnership models that could be used 
        to leverage private sector funding to solve similar local 
        challenges;
            (3) available examples of proven methods for local rural 
        communities to facilitate integration of smart technologies 
        with new and existing infrastructure and systems;
            (4) best practices and lessons learned from demonstration 
        projects, including return on investment and performance 
        information to help other rural communities decide how to 
        initiate integration of smart technologies; and
            (5) such other topics as are requested by industry entities 
        or local governments or determined to be necessary by the 
        Council.
    (c) Utilization of Existing Guides.--In creating, publishing, and 
maintaining the guide under subsection (a), the Council shall consider 
Federal, State, and local guides already published relating to smart 
community goals, activities, and best practices--
            (1) to prevent duplication of efforts by the Federal 
        Government; and
            (2) to leverage existing complementary efforts.
    (d) Resource Guide Outreach.--The Council shall conduct outreach to 
States, counties, communities, and other relevant entities--
            (1) to provide interested stakeholders with the guide 
        published under subsection (a);
            (2) to promote the consideration of smart community 
        technologies and encourage States and local governments to 
        contribute rural smart community program and activity 
        information to the guide published under subsection (a);
            (3) to identify--
                    (A) barriers to rural smart community technology 
                adoption; and
                    (B) any research, development, and assistance that 
                is needed that could be included in the guide published 
                under subsection (a);
            (4) to respond to requests for assistance, advice, or 
        consultation from rural communities; and
            (5) for other purposes, as identified by the Council.
    (e) Subsequent Resource Guides.--The Council shall issue an update 
to the guide published under subsection (a) every 5 years.

SEC. 14. RURAL BROADBAND INTEGRATION WORKING GROUP.

    (a) Findings.--Congress makes the following findings:
            (1) Access to high-speed broadband is no longer a luxury 
        and is important for United States families, businesses, and 
        consumers.
            (2) Affordable, reliable access to high-speed broadband is 
        critical to United States economic growth and competitiveness.
            (3) High-speed broadband enables the people of the United 
        States to use the Internet in new ways, expands access to 
        health services and education, increases the productivity of 
        businesses, and drives innovation throughout the digital 
        ecosystem.
            (4) The private sector and Federal, State, and local 
        governments have made substantial investments to expand 
        broadband access in the United States, but more must be done to 
        improve the availability and quality of high-speed broadband, 
        particularly in areas lacking competitive choices.
            (5) Today, more than 50,000,000 people of the United States 
        cannot purchase a wired broadband connection at speeds for 
        adequate broadband service, and only 29 percent of people of 
        the United States can choose from more than 1 service provider 
        at that speed.
            (6) As a result of the statistics described in paragraph 
        (5), the costs, benefits, and availability of high-speed 
        broadband Internet are not evenly distributed, with 
        considerable variation among States and between urban and rural 
        areas.
            (7) The Federal Government has an important role to play in 
        developing coordinated policies to promote broadband deployment 
        and adoption, including promoting best practices, breaking down 
        regulatory barriers, and encouraging further investment, which 
        will help deliver higher quality, lower cost broadband to more 
        families, businesses, and communities and allow communities to 
        benefit fully from those investments.
    (b) Policy.--
            (1) In general.--It is the policy of the Federal Government 
        for executive departments and agencies having statutory 
        authorities applicable to broadband deployment (referred to in 
        this section as the ``agencies'') to use all available and 
        appropriate authorities--
                    (A) to identify and address regulatory barriers 
                that may unduly impede either wired broadband 
                deployment or the infrastructure to augment wireless 
                broadband deployment;
                    (B) to encourage further investment in broadband 
                networks and services;
                    (C) to promote the adoption and meaningful use of 
                broadband technology; and
                    (D) to otherwise encourage or support broadband 
                deployment, competition, and adoption in ways that 
                promote the public interest.
            (2) Priorities.--In carrying out the policy under paragraph 
        (1), the agencies shall focus on--
                    (A) opportunities to promote broadband adoption and 
                competition through incentives to new entrants in the 
                market for broadband services;
                    (B) modernizing regulations;
                    (C) accurately measuring real-time broadband 
                availability and speeds;
                    (D) increasing broadband access for underserved 
                communities, including in rural areas;
                    (E) exploring opportunities to reduce costs for 
                potential low-income users; and
                    (F) other possible measures, including supporting 
                State, local, and Tribal governments interested in 
                encouraging or investing in high-speed broadband 
                networks.
            (3) Effect.--In carrying out the policy under paragraph 
        (1), the agencies shall ensure that existing and planned 
        Federal, State, local, and Tribal government missions and 
        capabilities for delivering services to the public, including 
        those missions and capabilities relating to national security, 
        public safety, and emergency response, are maintained.
            (4) Coordination.--The agencies shall coordinate the policy 
        under paragraph (1) through the Rural Broadband Integration 
        Working Group established under subsection (c).
    (c) Establishment of Rural Broadband Integration Working Group.--
            (1) In general.--There is established the Rural Broadband 
        Integration Working Group (referred to in this section as the 
        ``Working Group'').
            (2) Membership.--The membership of the Working Group shall 
        be composed of the heads, or their designees, of--
                    (A) the Department of Agriculture;
                    (B) the Department of Commerce;
                    (C) the Department of Defense;
                    (D) the Department of State;
                    (E) the Department of the Interior;
                    (F) the Department of Labor;
                    (G) the Department of Health and Human Services;
                    (H) the Department of Homeland Security;
                    (I) the Department of Housing and Urban 
                Development;
                    (J) the Department of Justice;
                    (K) the Department of Transportation;
                    (L) the Department of the Treasury;
                    (M) the Department of Energy;
                    (N) the Department of Education;
                    (O) the Department of Veterans Affairs;
                    (P) the Environmental Protection Agency;
                    (Q) the General Services Administration;
                    (R) the Small Business Administration;
                    (S) the Institute of Museum and Library Services;
                    (T) the National Science Foundation;
                    (U) the Council on Environmental Quality;
                    (V) the Office of Science and Technology Policy;
                    (W) the Office of Management and Budget;
                    (X) the Council of Economic Advisers;
                    (Y) the Domestic Policy Council;
                    (Z) the National Economic Council; and
                    (AA) such other Federal agencies or entities as are 
                determined appropriate in accordance with paragraph 
                (5).
            (3) Co-chairs.--The Secretary and the Secretary of Commerce 
        shall serve as the Co-Chairs of the Working Group.
            (4) Consultation; coordination.--
                    (A) Consultation.--The Working Group shall consult, 
                as appropriate, with other relevant agencies, including 
                the Federal Communications Commission.
                    (B) Coordination.--The Working Group shall 
                coordinate with existing Federal working groups and 
                committees involved with broadband.
            (5) Membership changes.--
                    (A) In general.--The Director of the National 
                Economic Council and the Director of the Office of 
                Science and Technology Policy shall review, on a 
                periodic basis, the membership of the Working Group to 
                ensure that the Working Group--
                            (i) includes necessary Federal Government 
                        entities; and
                            (ii) is an effective mechanism for 
                        coordinating among agencies on the policy 
                        described in subsection (b).
                    (B) Changes.--The Director of the National Economic 
                Council and the Director of the Office of Science and 
                Technology Policy may add or remove members of the 
                Council, as appropriate, based on the review under 
                subparagraph (A).
    (d) Functions of the Working Group.--
            (1) Consultation.--As permitted by law, the members of the 
        Working Group shall consult with State, local, Tribal, and 
        territorial governments, telecommunications companies, 
        utilities, trade associations, philanthropic entities, policy 
        experts, and other interested parties to identify and assess 
        regulatory barriers described in subsections (a)(7) and 
        (b)(1)(A) and opportunities described in subparagraphs (A) and 
        (E) of subsection (b)(2) to determine possible actions relating 
        to those barriers and opportunities.
            (2) Point of contact.--Not later than 15 days after the 
        date of enactment of this Act, each member of the Working Group 
        shall--
                    (A) designate a representative to serve as the main 
                point of contact for matters relating to the Working 
                Group; and
                    (B) notify the Co-Chairs of the Working Group of 
                that designee.
            (3) Survey.--Not later than 60 days after the date of 
        enactment of this Act, the members of the Working Group shall 
        submit to the Working Group a comprehensive survey of--
                    (A) Federal programs, including the allocated 
                funding amounts, that currently support or could 
                reasonably be modified to support broadband deployment 
                and adoption; and
                    (B) all agency-specific policies and rules with the 
                direct or indirect effect of facilitating or regulating 
                investment in or deployment of wired and wireless 
                broadband networks.
            (4) List of actions.--Not later than 120 days after the 
        date of enactment of this Act, the members of the Working Group 
        shall submit to the Working Group an initial list of actions 
        that each of the agencies could take to identify and address 
        regulatory barriers, incentivize investment, promote best 
        practices, align funding decisions, and otherwise support wired 
        broadband deployment and adoption.
            (5) Report.--
                    (A) In general.--Not later than 150 days after the 
                date of enactment of this Act, after not fewer than 2 
                meetings of the full Working Group, the Working Group 
                shall submit to the President, acting through the 
                Director of the National Economic Council, a 
                coordinated, agreed-to, and prioritized list of 
                recommendations of the Working Group on actions that 
                agencies can take to support broadband deployment and 
                adoption.
                    (B) Inclusions.--The recommendations under 
                subparagraph (A) shall include--
                            (i) a list of priority actions and 
                        rulemakings; and
                            (ii) timelines to complete the priority 
                        actions and rulemakings under clause (i).

SEC. 15. GENERAL PROVISIONS.

    (a) Effect.--Nothing in this Act--
            (1) impairs or otherwise affects--
                    (A) the authority granted by law to a department or 
                agency, or the head thereof;
                    (B) the functions of the Director of the Office of 
                Management and Budget relating to budgetary, 
                administrative, or legislative proposals; or
                    (C) the authority of the Federal Communications 
                Commission concerning spectrum allocation decisions;
            (2) requires the disclosure of classified information, law 
        enforcement sensitive information, or other information that 
        shall be protected in the interests of national security; or
            (3) creates any right or benefit, substantive or 
        procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party 
        against the United States, any Federal department, agency, or 
        entity, any officer, employee, or agent, of the United States, 
        or any other person.
    (b) Implementation.--This Act shall be implemented consistent with 
applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.
                                 &lt;all&gt;
</pre></body></html>
