<html><body><pre>
[Congressional Bills 110th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.R. 222 Introduced in House (IH)]







110th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                H. R. 222

 To promote the economic development and recreational use of National 
    Forest System lands and other public lands in central Idaho, to 
    designate the Boulder-White Cloud Management Area to ensure the 
continued management of certain National Forest System lands and Bureau 
     of Land Management lands for recreational and grazing use and 
 conservation and resource protection, to add certain National Forest 
 System lands and Bureau of Land Management lands in central Idaho to 
  the National Wilderness Preservation System, and for other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                            January 4, 2007

 Mr. Simpson introduced the following bill; which was referred to the 
                     Committee on Natural Resources

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
 To promote the economic development and recreational use of National 
    Forest System lands and other public lands in central Idaho, to 
    designate the Boulder-White Cloud Management Area to ensure the 
continued management of certain National Forest System lands and Bureau 
     of Land Management lands for recreational and grazing use and 
 conservation and resource protection, to add certain National Forest 
 System lands and Bureau of Land Management lands in central Idaho to 
  the National Wilderness Preservation System, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE AND TABLE OF CONTENTS.

    (a) Short Title.--This Act may be cited as the ``Central Idaho 
Economic Development and Recreation Act''.
    (b) Table of Contents.--The table of contents for this Act is as 
follows:

Sec. 1. Short title and table of contents.
  TITLE I--CENTRAL IDAHO ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT AND RECREATION PROMOTION

Sec. 101. Land conveyance, designated Sawtooth National Recreation Area 
                            land to Custer County, Idaho.
Sec. 102. Land conveyance, designated Sawtooth National Forest and BLM 
                            land to Blaine County, Idaho.
Sec. 103. Land conveyance, designated National Forest System land to 
                            City of Stanley, Idaho.
Sec. 104. Land conveyance, designated BLM land to City of Clayton, 
                            Idaho.
Sec. 105. Land conveyance, designated BLM land to City of Mackay, 
                            Idaho.
Sec. 106. Land conveyance, designated BLM land to City of Challis, 
                            Idaho.
Sec. 107. Land conveyance, designated BLM land to Custer County, Idaho.
Sec. 108. Land conveyance authority, support for motorized and bicycle 
                            recreation, public land in central Idaho.
Sec. 109. Treatment of existing roads and trails.
Sec. 110. Stanley-Redfish Lake bike and snowmobile trail and related 
                            parking lot.
Sec. 111. Support for other trail construction and maintenance 
                            activities.
Sec. 112. Support for outfitter and guide activities.
Sec. 113. Grants to support sustainable economic development and 
                            recreation.
Sec. 114. Expansion and improvement of Herd Lake Campground.
                TITLE II--CENTRAL IDAHO WILDERNESS AREAS

Sec. 201. Additions to National Wilderness Preservation System.
Sec. 202. General administration of wilderness areas.
Sec. 203. Acquisition of mineral interests and lands from willing 
                            sellers.
Sec. 204. Adjacent management.
Sec. 205. Wildfire management.
Sec. 206. Water rights.
Sec. 207. Wildlife management.
Sec. 208. Native American cultural and religious uses.
Sec. 209. Military overflights.
Sec. 210. Wilderness review.
            TITLE III--BOULDER-WHITE CLOUDS MANAGEMENT AREA

Sec. 301. Establishment of management area.
Sec. 302. Land acquisition in management area.
Sec. 303. Motorized and bicycle travel.
Sec. 304. Support and use of Idaho Off Road Motor Vehicle Program.
Sec. 305. Airports and landing strips.
Sec. 306. Management of Railroad Ridge area, Sawtooth National Forest.
                   TITLE IV--MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS

Sec. 401. Grazing memorandum of understanding.

  TITLE I--CENTRAL IDAHO ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT AND RECREATION PROMOTION

SEC. 101. LAND CONVEYANCE, DESIGNATED SAWTOOTH NATIONAL RECREATION AREA 
              LAND TO CUSTER COUNTY, IDAHO.

    (a) Conveyance Required.--The Secretary of Agriculture, acting 
through the Chief of the Forest Service, shall convey, without 
consideration, to Custer County, Idaho (in this section referred to as 
the ``County''), all right, title, and interest of the United States in 
and to certain Federal land in the Sawtooth National Recreation Area 
consisting of a total of approximately 86 acres, including a road 
encompassing approximately 15 acres, adjoining the northern boundary of 
the City of Stanley, Idaho, and identified as Parcel B on the map 
entitled ``Custer County and City of Stanley Conveyances'' and dated 
October 1, 2006.
    (b) Survey and Legal Description.--The exact acreage and legal 
description of the land to be conveyed under subsection (a) shall be 
determined by a survey satisfactory to the Secretary. The cost of the 
survey shall be borne by the Secretary. The legal description shall be 
prepared as soon as practicable after the date of the enactment of this 
Act.
    (c) Conservation Easement and Rights-of-Way.--In making the 
conveyance under subsection (a), the Secretary shall reserve to the 
United States a conservation easement and rights-of-way for the 
conveyed land as set out in the document entitled ``Conservation 
Easement and Right-of-Way--Parcel B'' and dated November 6, 2006.
    (d) Enforcement.--The Secretary of Agriculture shall have the 
authority to enforce the terms and conditions set forth in the 
conservation easement reserved under subsection (c) and to ensure that 
public access is maintained on the rights-of-way reserved under such 
subsection. This authority is in addition to such other enforcement 
authority as may be provided in the conservation easement and rights-
of-way.
    (e) Reversionary Interest.--If the Secretary determines at any time 
that the County or any subsequent owner of any portion of land conveyed 
under subsection (a) is acting in violation of the conditions set forth 
in the conservation easement or rights-of-way reserved under subsection 
(c) and has failed to restore the property so as to comply with such 
conditions within a reasonable time, all right, title, and interest in 
and to the portion of the land on which the violation occurred, 
including any improvements thereon, shall revert to the United States. 
Any determination of the Secretary under this subsection shall be made 
on the record after an opportunity for a hearing.
    (f) Additional Term and Conditions.--The Secretary may require such 
additional terms and conditions in connection with the conveyance under 
subsection (a) as the Secretary considers appropriate to protect the 
interests of the United States.

SEC. 102. LAND CONVEYANCE, DESIGNATED SAWTOOTH NATIONAL FOREST AND BLM 
              LAND TO BLAINE COUNTY, IDAHO.

    (a) Conveyance Required.--The Secretary of Agriculture, acting 
through the Chief of the Forest Service, and the Secretary of the 
Interior, acting through the Director of the Bureau of Land Management, 
shall convey, without consideration, to Blaine County, Idaho (in this 
section referred to as the ``County''), all right, title, and interest 
of the United States in and to the parcels of Federal land in the 
Sawtooth National Forest and Sawtooth National Recreation Area and 
Bureau of Land Management land identified for conveyance under this 
section on the following maps:
            (1) A map entitled ``Blaine County Conveyance-Smiley 
        Creek'' and dated October 1, 2006.
            (2) A map entitled ``Blaine County Conveyance-Sawtooth City 
        Well'' and dated October 1, 2006.
            (3) A map entitled ``Blaine County Conveyance-Eagle Creek'' 
        and dated October 1, 2006.
            (4) A map entitled ``Blaine County Conveyances, Map #1'' 
        and dated September 13, 2006, except that the conveyance is 
        limited to the parcels A, B, and C depicted on that map.
            (5) A map entitled ``Blaine County Conveyances, Map #2'' 
        and dated September 13, 2006, except that the conveyance is 
        limited to the parcels A and B depicted on that map.
    (b) Survey.--The exact acreage and legal description of the land to 
be conveyed under subsection (a) shall be determined by a survey 
satisfactory to the Secretary concerned. The cost of the survey shall 
be borne by the Secretary concerned.
    (c) Additional Term and Conditions.--The Secretary concerned may 
require such additional terms and conditions in connection with the 
conveyance under subsection (a) as the Secretary considers appropriate 
to protect the interests of the United States.

SEC. 103. LAND CONVEYANCE, DESIGNATED NATIONAL FOREST SYSTEM LAND TO 
              CITY OF STANLEY, IDAHO.

    (a) Conveyance Required.--The Secretary of Agriculture, acting 
through the Chief of the Forest Service, shall convey to the City of 
Stanley, Idaho (in this section referred to as the ``City''), all 
right, title, and interest of the United States in and to National 
Forest System land consisting of two parcels containing a total of 
approximately 8 acres adjoining the western boundary of the City and a 
total of approximately 68 acres, including roads and improvements, 
adjoining the northeastern boundary of the City, respectively, and 
identified as Parcels A and C on the map entitled ``Custer County and 
City of Stanley Conveyances'' and dated October 1, 2006.
    (b) Consideration.--
            (1) Consideration required.--As consideration for the 
        conveyance under subsection (a), the City shall pay to the 
        Secretary an amount equal to the amount originally expended by 
        the United States to acquire the parcel of land identified as 
        Parcel A on the map referred to in such subsection. The City 
        shall provide the consideration not later than one year after 
        the date on which the City disposes of Parcel A after obtaining 
        title of the parcel.
            (2) Disposition and use of proceeds.--The amount received 
        as consideration under this subsection shall be deposited and 
        merged with funds appropriated for the operation of the 
        Sawtooth National Recreation Area. Such funds shall be 
        available to the Secretary, without further appropriation and 
        until expended, for conservation activities in the recreation 
        area.
    (c) Survey and Legal Description.--The exact acreage and legal 
description of the land to be conveyed under subsection (a) shall be 
determined by a survey satisfactory to the Secretary. The cost of the 
survey shall be borne by the Secretary. The legal description shall be 
prepared as soon as practicable after the date of the enactment of this 
Act.
    (d) Conservation Easement and Rights-of-Way.--In making the 
conveyance under subsection (a), the Secretary shall reserve to the 
United States a conservation easement and rights-of-way for--
            (1) the parcel of land identified as Parcel A on the map 
        referred to in such subsection as set out in the document 
        entitled ``Conservation Easement and Right-of-Way--Parcel A'' 
        and dated November 6, 2006; and
            (2) the parcel of land identified as Parcel C on such map 
        as set out in the document entitled ``Conservation Easement and 
        Right-of-Way--Parcel C'' and dated November 6, 2006.
    (e) Enforcement.--The Secretary of Agriculture shall have the 
authority to enforce the terms and conditions set forth in the 
conservation easements reserved under subsection (d) and to ensure that 
public access is maintained on the rights-of-way reserved under such 
subsection. This authority is in addition to such other enforcement 
authority as may be provided in the conservation easements and rights-
of-way.
    (f) Reversionary Interest.--If the Secretary determines at any time 
that the City or any subsequent owner of any portion of land conveyed 
under subsection (a) is acting in violation of the conditions set forth 
in the applicable conservation easement or rights-of-way reserved under 
subsection (d) and has failed to restore the property so as to comply 
with such conditions within a reasonable time, all right, title, and 
interest in and to the portion of the land on which the violation 
occurred, including any improvements thereon, shall revert to the 
United States. Any determination of the Secretary under this subsection 
shall be made on the record after an opportunity for a hearing.
    (g) Additional Term and Conditions.--The Secretary may require such 
additional terms and conditions in connection with the conveyance under 
subsection (a) as the Secretary considers appropriate to protect the 
interests of the United States.

SEC. 104. LAND CONVEYANCE, DESIGNATED BLM LAND TO CITY OF CLAYTON, 
              IDAHO.

    (a) Conveyance Required.--The Secretary of the Interior, acting 
through the Director of the Bureau of Land Management, shall convey, 
without consideration, to the City of Clayton, Idaho (in this section 
referred to as the ``City''), all right, title, and interest of the 
United States in and to parcels of Bureau of Land Management land, 
including roads thereon, identified as parcels A, B, C, and D on the 
map entitled ``City of Clayton Conveyances'' and dated September 13, 
2006.
    (b) Survey.--The exact acreage and legal description of the land to 
be conveyed under subsection (a) shall be determined by a survey 
satisfactory to the Secretary. The cost of the survey shall be borne by 
the Secretary.
    (c) Road Access.--In making the conveyance under subsection (a) to 
the City, the Secretary shall include a deed restriction requiring that 
the roads referred to in such subsection shall remain open to the 
public to provide access to adjacent Federal land and private property.
    (d) Right-of-Way.--The Secretary shall grant, without 
consideration, to the City a 25-foot right-of-way connecting parcels C 
and D referred to in subsection (a) and crossing the Salmon River for 
purposes related to parcel D.
    (e) Additional Term and Conditions.--The Secretary may require such 
additional terms and conditions in connection with the conveyance under 
subsection (a) as the Secretary considers appropriate to protect the 
interests of the United States.

SEC. 105. LAND CONVEYANCE, DESIGNATED BLM LAND TO CITY OF MACKAY, 
              IDAHO.

    (a) Conveyance Required.--The Secretary of the Interior, acting 
through the Director of the Bureau of Land Management, shall convey, 
without consideration, to the City of Mackay, Idaho (in this section 
referred to as the ``City''), all right, title, and interest of the 
United States in and to a parcel of Bureau of Land Management land, 
including roads thereon, identified as parcel D on the map entitled 
``Custer County and City of Mackay Conveyances'' and dated September 
13, 2006.
    (b) Survey.--The exact acreage and legal description of the land to 
be conveyed under subsection (a) shall be determined by a survey 
satisfactory to the Secretary. The cost of the survey shall be borne by 
the Secretary.
    (c) Road Access.--In making the conveyance under subsection (a) to 
the City, the Secretary shall include a deed restriction requiring that 
the roads referred to in such subsection shall remain open to the 
public to provide access to adjacent Federal land and private property.
    (d) Additional Term and Conditions.--The Secretary may require such 
additional terms and conditions in connection with the conveyance under 
subsection (a) as the Secretary considers appropriate to protect the 
interests of the United States.

SEC. 106. LAND CONVEYANCE, DESIGNATED BLM LAND TO CITY OF CHALLIS, 
              IDAHO.

    (a) Conveyance Required.--The Secretary of the Interior, acting 
through the Director of the Bureau of Land Management, shall convey, 
without consideration, to the City of Challis, Idaho (in this section 
referred to as the ``City''), all right, title, and interest of the 
United States in and to parcels of Bureau of Land Management land, 
including roads thereon, identified as parcels B and E on the map 
entitled ``Custer County and City of Challis Conveyances'' and dated 
September 13, 2006.
    (b) Survey.--The exact acreage and legal description of the land to 
be conveyed under subsection (a) shall be determined by a survey 
satisfactory to the Secretary. The cost of the survey shall be borne by 
the Secretary.
    (c) Road Access.--In making the conveyance under subsection (a) to 
the City, the Secretary shall include a deed restriction requiring that 
the roads referred to in such subsection shall remain open to the 
public to provide access to adjacent Federal land and private property.
    (d) Additional Term and Conditions.--The Secretary may require such 
additional terms and conditions in connection with the conveyance under 
subsection (a) as the Secretary considers appropriate to protect the 
interests of the United States.

SEC. 107. LAND CONVEYANCE, DESIGNATED BLM LAND TO CUSTER COUNTY, IDAHO.

    (a) Conveyance Required.--The Secretary of the Interior, acting 
through the Director of the Bureau of Land Management, shall convey, 
without consideration, to the Custer County, Idaho (in this section 
referred to as the ``County''), all right, title, and interest of the 
United States in and to parcels of Bureau of Land Management land, 
including roads thereon, identified as follows:
            (1) Parcels A, C, D, and F on the map entitled ``Custer 
        County and City of Challis Conveyances'' and dated September 
        13, 2006.
            (2) Parcels A, B, C, E, and F on the map entitled ``Custer 
        County and City of Mackay Conveyances'' and dated September 13, 
        2006.
    (b) Survey.--The exact acreage and legal description of the land to 
be conveyed under subsection (a) shall be determined by a survey 
satisfactory to the Secretary. The cost of the survey shall be borne by 
the Secretary.
    (c) Road Access.--In making the conveyance under subsection (a) to 
the County, the Secretary shall include a deed restriction requiring 
that the roads referred to in such subsection shall remain open to the 
public to provide access to adjacent Federal land and private property.
    (d) Additional Term and Conditions.--The Secretary may require such 
additional terms and conditions in connection with the conveyance under 
subsection (a) as the Secretary considers appropriate to protect the 
interests of the United States.

SEC. 108. LAND CONVEYANCE AUTHORITY, SUPPORT FOR MOTORIZED AND BICYCLE 
              RECREATION, PUBLIC LAND IN CENTRAL IDAHO.

    (a) Motorized Recreation Park.--Subject to subsection (b), the 
Secretary of the Interior shall convey, without consideration, to the 
State of Idaho (in this section referred to as the ``State'') all 
right, title, and interest of the United States in and to a parcel or 
parcels of Bureau of Land Management land, including roads thereon, 
consisting of approximately 1000 acres near Boise, Idaho, and 
identified for conveyance under this section on the map entitled 
``STATE OF IDAHO--Boise Motorized Park Conveyance'' and dated November 
1, 2006, for the purpose of permitting the State to establish a 
motorized recreation park on the land. As a condition of the conveyance 
of the land, the State shall agree to include a beginner track as part 
of the recreation park to be used to teach safe, responsible riding 
techniques and to establish areas for riders with different levels of 
skills.
    (b) Reservation of Portion for Mountain Bike Use.--As a condition 
of the conveyance of the land under subsection (a), the State shall 
reserve 20 acres of the conveyed land for the use of mountain bikes.
    (c) Survey.--The exact acreage and legal description of the land to 
be conveyed under this section shall be determined by a survey 
satisfactory to the Secretary. The cost of the survey shall be borne by 
the State.
    (d) Road Access.--In making a conveyance under subsection (a) to 
the State, the Secretary shall include a deed restriction requiring 
that the roads referred to in such subsection shall remain open to the 
public to provide access to adjacent Federal land and private property.
    (e) Additional Term and Conditions.--The Secretary concerned may 
require such additional terms and conditions in connection with the 
conveyance under this section as the Secretary considers appropriate to 
protect the interests of the United States.

SEC. 109. TREATMENT OF EXISTING ROADS AND TRAILS.

    In making the conveyances required by this title, the Secretary of 
Agriculture and the Secretary of the Interior shall include deed 
restrictions to ensure that any roads and trails located on the 
conveyed land remain open to public use notwithstanding any subsequent 
conveyance of the land by the recipient of the land.

SEC. 110. STANLEY-REDFISH LAKE BIKE AND SNOWMOBILE TRAIL AND RELATED 
              PARKING LOT.

    (a) Development of Trail.--The Secretary of Agriculture shall 
design, construct, and maintain a hardened surface trail between the 
City of Stanley, Idaho, and Redfish Lake that is designated for use--
            (1) by pedestrians and non-motorized vehicles generally; 
        and
            (2) as a snowmobile route when there is adequate snow 
        cover.
    (b) Acquisition From Willing Sellers.--Any land or interests in 
land to be acquired by the Secretary for construction of the paved 
trail required by subsection (a) shall be acquired only by donation or 
by purchase from willing sellers.
    (c) Assistance for Construction of Parking Lot.--The Secretary may 
make a grant to the City of Stanley, Idaho, to assist the City in 
constructing a parking lot on City property at the north end of the 
trail required by subsection (a) for use for snowmobile and general 
parking and for other purposes related to the trail.
    (d) Authorization of Appropriations.--
            (1) In general.--There is authorized to be appropriated to 
        the Secretary--
                    (A) $400,000 for the design, construction, and 
                maintenance of the trail required by subsection (a) and 
                for land acquisition associated with the construction 
                of the trail; and
                    (B) $100,000 for the grant under subsection (c).
            (2) Availability.--Amounts appropriated pursuant to the 
        authorization of appropriations contained in paragraph (1) 
        shall remain available until expended.

SEC. 111. SUPPORT FOR OTHER TRAIL CONSTRUCTION AND MAINTENANCE 
              ACTIVITIES.

    There is authorized to be appropriated to the Secretary of 
Agriculture or the Secretary of the Interior $50,000 for the 
construction and maintenance of bicycle trails in the State of Idaho, 
including bicycle trails to be established on the portion of the public 
land conveyed under section 108 that is reserved for mountain bike use 
under subsection (b) of such section. Amounts appropriated pursuant to 
this authorization of appropriations shall remain available until 
expended.

SEC. 112. SUPPORT FOR OUTFITTER AND GUIDE ACTIVITIES.

    (a) Existing Operating Permits.--
            (1) Extension.--Before the end of the one-year period 
        beginning on the date of the enactment of this Act, the 
        Secretary of Agriculture and the Secretary of the Interior 
        shall grant, for each guide or outfitter operating permit 
        described in paragraph (2), a 10-year extension beyond the 
        expiration date of the current permit. The Secretary concerned 
        may require the modification of the extended permit as 
        necessary to comply with the requirements of this Act.
            (2) Covered permits.--Paragraph (1) applies to each guide 
        and outfitter operating permit in effect as of the date of the 
        enactment of this Act that authorized activities on lands 
        included in a wilderness area designated by title II or the 
        Boulder-White Cloud Management Area established by title III.
            (3) Exception.--The Secretary of Agriculture or the 
        Secretary of the Interior may refuse to grant the extension of 
        a permit under paragraph (1) only if the Secretary concerned 
        determines that the permittee has not operated in a 
        satisfactory manner in compliance with the terms and conditions 
        of the permit.
    (b) Future Outfitter and Guide Activities.--Future extensions of 
outfitter and guide activities and permits for outfitters on lands 
included in a wilderness area designated by title II or the Boulder-
White Cloud Management Area established by title III shall be 
administered in accordance with applicable Federal laws and resource 
management plans. No person shall conduct outfitter and guide 
activities on such Federal land except as authorized by the Secretary 
concerned.

SEC. 113. GRANTS TO SUPPORT SUSTAINABLE ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT AND 
              RECREATION.

    (a) Grant to Custer County, Idaho.--The Secretary of Agriculture 
may make a grant to Custer County, Idaho, for the purpose of assisting 
the County in supporting sustainable economic development in the 
County.
    (b) Grant to State of Idaho.--The Secretary of Agriculture may make 
a grant to the State of Idaho Parks and Recreation Department for the 
purpose of assisting the State in acquiring and developing Bayhorse 
Campground for use as a State park.
    (c) Authorization of Appropriations.--There is authorized to be 
appropriated to the Secretary of Agriculture--
            (1) $5,100,000 to make the grant under subsection (a); and
            (2) $500,000 to make the grant under subsection (b).

SEC. 114. EXPANSION AND IMPROVEMENT OF HERD LAKE CAMPGROUND.

    (a) Expansion and Improvement of Campground.--The Secretary of the 
Interior shall expand and improve the Herd Lake Campground facilities 
located below the outlet of Herd Lake.
    (b) Authorization of Appropriations.--There is authorized to be 
appropriated to the Secretary $500,000 to carry out this section. 
Amounts appropriated pursuant to this authorization of appropriations 
shall remain available until expended.

                TITLE II--CENTRAL IDAHO WILDERNESS AREAS

SEC. 201. ADDITIONS TO NATIONAL WILDERNESS PRESERVATION SYSTEM.

    (a) Additions.--Congress has determined that the following lands in 
central Idaho shall be designated as wilderness and managed as 
components of the National Wilderness Preservation System:
            (1) Hemingway-boulders wilderness.--Certain Federal land in 
        the Sawtooth and Challis National Forests, comprising 
        approximately 110,438 acres, as generally depicted on the map 
        entitled ``Hemingway-Boulders Proposed Wilderness'' and dated 
        November 15, 2006, which shall be known as the ``Hemingway-
        Boulders Wilderness''.
            (2) White clouds wilderness.--Certain Federal land in the 
        Sawtooth and Challis National Forests, comprising approximately 
        76,657 acres, as generally depicted on the map entitled ``White 
        Clouds Proposed Wilderness'' and dated November 15, 2006, which 
        shall be known as the ``White Clouds Wilderness''.
            (3) Jerry peak wilderness.--Certain Federal land in the 
        Challis National Forest and Challis District of the Bureau of 
        Land Management, comprising approximately 131,670 acres, as 
        generally depicted on the map entitled ``Jerry Peak 
        Wilderness'' and dated August 30, 2006, which shall be known as 
        the ``Jerry Peak Wilderness''. In the case of the Bureau of 
        Land Management land designated as wilderness by this 
        paragraph, the land is included in the National Landscape 
        Conservation System.
    (b) Maps and Legal Description.--
            (1) In general.--As soon as practicable after the date of 
        enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Agriculture, in the 
        case of the wilderness areas designated by paragraphs (1) and 
        (2) of subsection (a) and the National Forest System land 
        designated as wilderness by paragraph (3) of such subsection, 
        and the Secretary of the Interior, in the case of the Bureau of 
        Land Management land designated as wilderness by paragraph (3) 
        of such subsection, in this title referred to as the 
        ``Secretary concerned'', shall file a map and legal description 
        of the wilderness areas designated by such subsection with the 
        Committee on Resources of the House of Representatives and the 
        Committee on Energy and Natural Resources of the Senate.
            (2) Effect.--Each map and legal description shall have the 
        same force and effect as if included in this title, except that 
        the Secretary concerned may correct clerical and typographical 
        errors in the map or legal description.
            (3) Availability.--Each map and legal description shall be 
        on file and available for public inspection in the appropriate 
        offices of the Bureau of Land Management or the Forest Service.
    (c) Withdrawal.--Subject to valid existing rights, the wilderness 
areas designated in subsection (a) are withdrawn from all forms of 
entry, appropriation, and disposal under the public land laws, 
location, entry, and patent under the mining laws, and operation of the 
mineral leasing, mineral materials, and geothermal leasing laws.

SEC. 202. GENERAL ADMINISTRATION OF WILDERNESS AREAS.

    (a) Application of Wilderness Act.--Subject to valid existing 
rights, the wilderness areas designated by section 201 shall be managed 
by the Secretary concerned in accordance with the Wilderness Act (16 
U.S.C. 1131 et seq.) and this title. With respect to the wilderness 
areas, any reference in the Wilderness Act to the effective date of the 
Wilderness Act shall be deemed to be a reference to the date of the 
enactment of this Act, and any reference in the Wilderness Act to the 
Secretary of Agriculture shall be deemed to be a reference to the 
Secretary concerned.
    (b) Consistent Interpretation to the Public.--Although the 
wilderness areas designated by section 201 consist of National Forest 
System land under the jurisdiction of the Secretary of Agriculture and 
public land under the jurisdiction of the Secretary of the Interior, 
the Secretary of Agriculture and the Secretary of the Interior shall 
collaborate to assure that the wilderness areas are interpreted to the 
public as an overall complex tied together by common location in the 
Boulder-White Cloud Mountains and common identity with the natural and 
cultural history of the State of Idaho and its Native American and 
pioneer heritage.
    (c) Comprehensive Wilderness Management Plan.--Not later than three 
years after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of 
Agriculture and Secretary of the Interior shall collaborate to develop 
a comprehensive wilderness management plan for the wilderness areas 
designated by section 201. The completed management plan shall be 
submitted to the Committee on Resources of the House of Representatives 
and the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources of the Senate.
    (d) Fire, Insects, and Diseases.--Within the wilderness area 
designated by section 201, the Secretary concerned may take such 
measures as the Secretary concerned determines to be necessary for the 
control of fire, insects, and diseases, subject to such conditions as 
the Secretary concerned considers desirable, as provided in section 
4(d)(1) of the Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1131(d)(1)).
    (e) Wilderness Trails and Trailheads.--
            (1) Construction of new trailhead.--The Secretary concerned 
        shall construct a new trailhead for nonmotorized users and 
        improve access to the Big Boulder Trailhead to separate 
        motorized users from nonmotorized users.
            (2) Inclusion of accessible trail.--The Secretary concerned 
        shall upgrade the first mile of the Murdock Creek Trail in the 
        Hemingway-Boulders wilderness area designated by section 201 to 
        a primitive, non-paved, and wheelchair accessible standard.
    (f) Treatment of Existing Claims and Private Lands.--Nothing in 
this title is intended to affect the rights or interests in real 
property, patented mining claims, or valid claims or prevent reasonable 
access to private property or for the development and use of valid 
mineral rights. The Secretary concerned may enter into negotiations 
with the holder of a patented claim or valid claim located in a 
wilderness area designated by section 201 for the voluntary 
relinquishment of the claim.
    (g) Grazing.--Grazing of livestock in a wilderness area designated 
by section 201, where established before the date of the enactment of 
this Act, shall be administered in accordance with the provisions of 
section 4(d)(4) of the Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1133(d)(4)), section 
108 of Public Law 96-560, and section 101(f) of Public Law 101-628, and 
in accordance with the guidelines set forth in Appendix A of House 
Report 96-617 of the 96th Congress and House Report 101-405 of the 
101st Congress.
    (h) Commercial Outfitters and Saddle and Pack Stock.--Nothing in 
this title shall preclude horseback riding or the entry of recreational 
saddle or pack stock into the wilderness areas designated by section 
201, including when such entry is made by commercial outfitters.

SEC. 203. ACQUISITION OF MINERAL INTERESTS AND LANDS FROM WILLING 
              SELLERS.

    (a) Acquisition.--Within the boundaries of the wilderness areas 
designated by section 201, the Secretary concerned may acquire, through 
purchase from willing sellers or donation from willing owners, all 
right, title, and interest in all mineral interests, claims, and 
parcels of land that have been patented under the Act of May 10, 1872 
(30 U.S.C. 22 et seq.; commonly known as the Mining Act of 1872).
    (b) Consideration.--In exercising the authority provided by 
subsection (a) to acquire lands and interests, the Secretary concerned 
shall offer the owners of record of each patent, who voluntarily wish 
to sell, $20,000 as compensation for the acquisition of these 
interests. The Secretary concerned shall make such offers as soon as 
practicable after the date of the enactment of this Act and such offers 
shall remain open for acceptance during the five-year period beginning 
on such date.
    (c) Incorporation in Wilderness Area.--Any land or interest in land 
located inside the boundaries of a wilderness area designated by 
section 201 that is acquired by the United States after the date of the 
enactment of this Act shall be added to and administered as part of 
that wilderness area.

SEC. 204. ADJACENT MANAGEMENT.

    (a) No Protective Perimeters or Buffer Zones.--Congress does not 
intend for the designation of the wilderness areas by section 201 to 
lead to the creation of protective perimeters or buffer zones around 
any such wilderness area.
    (b) Nonwilderness Activities.--The fact that nonwilderness 
activities or uses outside of a wilderness area designated by section 
201 can be seen or heard from inside of the wilderness area shall not 
preclude the conduct of those activities or uses outside the boundaries 
of the wilderness area.

SEC. 205. WILDFIRE MANAGEMENT.

    Consistent with section 4 of the Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1133), 
nothing in this title precludes a Federal, State, or local agency from 
conducting wildfire management operations, including operations using 
aircraft or mechanized equipment, to manage wildfires in the wilderness 
areas designated by section 201.

SEC. 206. WATER RIGHTS.

    (a) Findings.--Congress finds the following:
            (1) The lands designated as wilderness areas by section 201 
        are located at the headwaters of the streams and rivers on 
        those lands, with few, if any, actual or proposed water 
        resource facilities located upstream from such lands and few, 
        if any, opportunities for diversion, storage, or other uses of 
        water occurring outside such lands that would adversely affect 
        the wilderness values of such lands.
            (2) The lands designated as wilderness areas by section 201 
        are not suitable for use for development of new water resource 
        facilities or for the expansion of existing facilities.
            (3) Therefore, it is possible to provide for proper 
        management and protection of the wilderness value of the lands 
        designated as wilderness areas by section 201 in ways different 
        from the ways utilized in other laws designating wilderness 
        areas.
    (b) Purpose.--The purpose of this section is to protect the 
wilderness values of the lands designated as wilderness areas by 
section 201 by means other than a federally reserved water right.
    (c) Statutory Construction.--Nothing in this title--
            (1) shall constitute, or be construed to constitute, either 
        an express or implied reservation by the United States of any 
        water or water rights with respect to the wilderness areas 
        designated by section 201;
            (2) shall affect any water rights in the State of Idaho 
        existing on the date of the enactment of this Act, including 
        any water rights held by the United States;
            (3) shall be construed as establishing a precedent with 
        regard to any future wilderness designations;
            (4) shall be construed as limiting, altering, modifying, or 
        amending any of the interstate compacts or equitable 
        apportionment decrees that apportion water among and between 
        the State of Idaho and other States; and
            (5) shall be construed as limiting, altering, modifying, or 
        amending provisions of Public Law 92-400, which established the 
        Sawtooth National Recreation Area (16 U.S.C. 460aa et seq.).
    (d) Idaho Water Law.--The Secretary concerned shall follow the 
procedural and substantive requirements of the law of the State of 
Idaho when seeking to establish any water rights, not in existence on 
the date of the enactment of this Act, with respect to the wilderness 
areas designated by section 201.
    (e) New Projects.--
            (1) Prohibition.--Except as otherwise provided in this Act, 
        on and after the date of the enactment of this Act, neither the 
        President nor any other officer, employee, or agent of the 
        United States shall fund, assist, authorize, or issue a license 
        or permit for the development of any new water resource 
        facility inside any of the wilderness areas designated by 
        section 201.
            (2) Definition.--In this subsection, the term ``water 
        resource facility'' means irrigation and pumping facilities, 
        reservoirs, water conservation works, aqueducts, canals, 
        ditches, pipelines, wells, hydropower projects, and 
        transmission and other ancillary facilities, and other water 
        diversion, storage, and carriage structures.

SEC. 207. WILDLIFE MANAGEMENT.

    (a) State Jurisdiction.--In accordance with section 4(d)(7) of the 
Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1133(d)(7)), nothing in this title affects or 
diminishes the jurisdiction of the State of Idaho with respect to fish 
and wildlife management, including the regulation of hunting, fishing, 
and trapping, in the wilderness areas designated by section 201.
    (b) Management Activities.--In furtherance of the purposes and 
principles of the Wilderness Act, management activities to maintain or 
restore fish and wildlife populations and the habitats to support such 
populations may be carried out within wilderness areas designated by 
section 201 where consistent with relevant wilderness management plans, 
in accordance with appropriate policies such as those set forth in 
Appendix B of House Report 101-405 of the 101st Congress, including the 
occasional and temporary use of motorized vehicles, if such use, as 
determined by the Secretary concerned would promote healthy, viable, 
and more naturally distributed wildlife populations that would enhance 
wilderness values and accomplish those purposes using the minimum tool 
necessary to reasonably accomplish the task.
    (c) Use of Aircraft.--Consistent with section 4(d)(1) of the 
Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1133(d)) and in accordance with appropriate 
policies such as those set forth in Appendix B of House Report 101-405 
of the 101st Congress, the State of Idaho may continue to use aircraft, 
including helicopters, to survey, capture, transplant, monitor, and 
manage elk, deer, bighorn sheep, mountain goats, wolves, grizzly bears, 
and other wildlife and fish.
    (d) Hunting, Fishing, and Trapping.--Nothing in this title shall 
affect hunting, fishing, and trapping, under applicable State and 
Federal laws and regulations, in the wilderness areas designated by 
section 201. The Secretary concerned may designate, by regulation in 
consultation with the appropriate State agency (except in emergencies), 
areas in which, and establish periods during which, for reasons of 
public safety, administration, or compliance with applicable laws, no 
hunting, fishing, or trapping will be permitted in the wilderness 
areas.

SEC. 208. NATIVE AMERICAN CULTURAL AND RELIGIOUS USES.

    Nothing in this title shall be construed to diminish the rights of 
any Indian tribe. Nothing in this title shall be construed to diminish 
tribal rights regarding access to Federal lands for tribal activities, 
including spiritual, cultural, and traditional food-gathering 
activities.

SEC. 209. MILITARY OVERFLIGHTS.

    Nothing in this title restricts or precludes--
            (1) low-level overflights of military aircraft over the 
        wilderness areas designated by section 201, including military 
        overflights that can be seen or heard within the wilderness 
        areas;
            (2) flight testing and evaluation; or
            (3) the designation or creation of new units of special use 
        airspace, or the establishment of military flight training 
        routes, over the wilderness areas.

SEC. 210. WILDERNESS REVIEW.

    (a) National Forests.--Section 5 of Public Law 92-400 (16 U.S.C. 
460aa-4), which required a review of the undeveloped and unimproved 
portion or portions of the Sawtooth National Recreation Area 
established by that Act as to suitability or nonsuitability for 
preservation as part of the National Wilderness Preservation System, is 
repealed.
    (b) Public Lands.--
            (1) Finding.--Congress finds that, for the purpose of 
        section 603 of the Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 
        1976 (43 U.S.C. 1782), the public land administered by the 
        Bureau of Land Management in the following areas have been 
        adequately studied for wilderness designation:
                    (A) The Jerry Peak Wilderness Study Area.
                    (B) The Jerry Peak West Wilderness Study Area.
                    (C) The Corral-Horse Basin Wilderness Study Area.
                    (D) The Boulder Creek Wilderness Study Area.
            (2) Release.--Any public land described in paragraph (1) 
        that is not designated as wilderness by this title--
                    (A) is no longer subject to section 603(c) of the 
                Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 1976 (43 
                U.S.C. 1782(c)); and
                    (B) shall be managed in accordance with land 
                management plans adopted under section 202 of that Act 
                (43 U.S.C. 1712).

            TITLE III--BOULDER-WHITE CLOUDS MANAGEMENT AREA

SEC. 301. ESTABLISHMENT OF MANAGEMENT AREA.

    (a) Findings and Purposes.--In the case of those Federal lands not 
designated as wilderness in title II, Congress has examined the 
management alternatives for such lands and finds that the designation 
of such lands as a special management area will provide outstanding 
opportunities for many forms of recreation, including mountain biking, 
snowmobiling, and the use of off-road motorized vehicles. The purpose 
of this title is to statutorily provide for the continued management of 
such lands for motorized and other recreational opportunities, 
livestock grazing, and conservation and resource protection in 
accordance with the existing management areas, plans, and applicable 
authorities of the Challis National Forest, the Sawtooth National 
Forest, the Sawtooth National Recreation Area, and the Challis District 
of the Bureau of Land Management. In addition, it is the purpose of 
this title to provide that motorized use of such lands shall be allowed 
in accordance with the travel maps entitled ``Boulder-White Clouds 
Management Area Travel Plan'' and ``Boulder-White Clouds Management 
Area Winter Travel Plan'' and dated November 15, 2006.
    (b) Establishment.--
            (1) Establishment.--Those Federal lands in the Challis 
        National Forest, the Sawtooth National Forest, the Sawtooth 
        National Recreation Area, and the Challis District of the 
        Bureau of Land Management that are not designated as wilderness 
        in title II, as generally depicted on the map entitled 
        ``Boulder-White Clouds Management Area'' and dated November 15, 
        2006, are hereby designated as the Boulder-White Clouds 
        Management Area and shall be managed as provided by this title.
            (2) Relation to sawtooth national recreation area.--The 
        designation of land already in the Sawtooth National Recreation 
        Area for inclusion in both the management area and the Sawtooth 
        National Recreation Area is declared to be supplemental to, not 
        in derogation of, the Sawtooth National Recreation Area.
            (3) Management area defined.--In this title, the term 
        ``management area'' means the Boulder-White Clouds Management 
        Area designated by this subsection.
    (c) Administration.--
            (1) Secretary concerned defined.--In this title, the term 
        ``Secretary concerned'' means--
                    (A) the Secretary of Agriculture, in the case of 
                National Forest System lands included in the management 
                area; and
                    (B) the Secretary of the Interior, in the case of 
                public lands included in the management area.
            (2) Administration.--Except as otherwise provided in this 
        title, the Secretary concerned shall administer the management 
        area in accordance with this title and the laws and regulations 
        generally applicable to the National Forest System lands and 
        the public lands included in administrative areas in existence 
        as of the date of the enactment of this Act and in accordance 
        with the management plans of the Sawtooth National Recreation 
        Area, the Challis National Forest, the Sawtooth National 
        Forest, and the Challis District of the Bureau of Land 
        Management in existence as of that date.
            (3) Relation to sawtooth national recreation area.--If 
        lands in the management area are also included in the Sawtooth 
        National Recreation Area, the Secretary of Agriculture shall 
        also administer that land in accordance with Public Law 92-400 
        (16 U.S.C. 460aa et seq.).
            (4) Continued reference to existing administrative units.--
        Notwithstanding the establishment of the management area, the 
        administrative units in effect as of the date of the enactment 
        of this Act and known as the Sawtooth National Recreation Area, 
        the Challis National Forest, the Sawtooth National Forest, and 
        the Challis District of the Bureau of Land Management, 
        including areas within the administrative units established as 
        the management area, shall continue to be known as the Sawtooth 
        National Recreation Area, the Challis National Forest, the 
        Sawtooth National Forest, and the Challis District of the 
        Bureau of Land Management, respectively, and shall be so 
        designated on any signs and maps prepared by the Secretary 
        concerned.
    (d) Development.--No new roads may be constructed within the 
management area, except as necessary for access to campgrounds and 
other recreation areas as determined by the Secretary concerned. Roads 
may be maintained and relocated as necessary. The Secretary concerned 
shall permit the mining and removal of gravel, sand, and rock along 
existing roads in the management area as necessary for road maintenance 
in accordance with the applicable management plan.
    (e) Timber Harvesting.--Timber harvesting may be allowed on lands 
in the management area only in accordance with the management plan 
applicable to the lands and for necessary control of fire, insects, and 
diseases and for public safety.
    (f) Trails.--
            (1) Construction, maintenance, and improvements.--There is 
        authorized to be appropriated to the Secretary of Agriculture 
        and the Secretary of the Interior $650,000 for trail 
        construction and maintenance and for other improvements related 
        to outfitting, guiding, hiking, and horseback use within the 
        management area. Amounts appropriated pursuant to this 
        authorization of appropriations shall remain available until 
        expended.
            (2) Set-aside for trail construction.--Of the amounts 
        appropriated pursuant to the authorization of appropriations in 
        paragraph (1), $150,000 shall be available for the construction 
        of--
                    (A) a trail between the Phyllis Lake Road (USFS 
                Road #053) and Phyllis Lake, which shall be primitive 
                and non-paved, but wheelchair accessible, and open only 
                to non-motorized travel; and
                    (B) the primitive and non-paved, but wheelchair 
                accessible, trail along Murdock Creek in the Hemingway-
                Boulders wilderness area required by section 202(e)(2).

SEC. 302. LAND ACQUISITION IN MANAGEMENT AREA.

    (a) Land Acquisition.--The Secretary concerned may acquire, by 
donation or purchase from willing sellers, lands and interests in 
lands--
            (1) located inside the boundaries of the management area; 
        or
            (2) located adjacent to the management area to provide 
        easements for additional public access to the management area.
    (b) Limitation on Use of Condemnation.--No lands or interests in 
lands may be acquired by condemnation for inclusion in the management 
area or to provide access to the management area, except as provided 
for by Public Law 92-400 (16 U.S.C. 460aa et seq.) and regulations, in 
effect as of the date of the enactment of this Act, for the use of 
private land in the Sawtooth National Recreation Area (sections 36 
292.14-292.16 of title 36, Code of Federal Regulations).
    (c) Authorization of Appropriations.--There is authorized to be 
appropriated not more than $5,000,000 to carry out this section. 
Amounts appropriated pursuant to this authorization of appropriations 
shall remain available until expended.

SEC. 303. MOTORIZED AND BICYCLE TRAVEL.

    (a) Motorized and Bicycle Travel Authorized.--
            (1) BLM land.--In the case of public land included in the 
        management area, notwithstanding the status of any other road 
        or trail, motorized and bicycle travel shall continue to be 
        allowed on the Spar Canyon, Herd Lake, and Road Creek routes.
            (2) Forest service land.--In the case of National Forest 
        System land included in the management area, except wilderness 
        areas, motorized, snowmobile, and bicycle travel shall continue 
        to be allowed in accordance with Forest Service travel plans 
        and maps in existence as of September 1, 2003, which managed 
        recreation use for the specific areas, roads, and trails on 
        that land, as referenced on the travel maps entitled ``Boulder-
        White Clouds Management Area Travel Plan'' and ``Boulder-White 
        Clouds Management Area Winter Travel Plan'' and dated November 
        15, 2006.
            (3) Access to recreational facilities.--Any road within the 
        management area that is in existence on the date of the 
        enactment of this Act and provides access to a developed 
        recreational facility of the Forest Service or Bureau of Land 
        Management shall remain open to motorized and bicycle travel.
    (b) Establishment or Use of Other Trails and Routes.--
Notwithstanding subsection (a), other trails and routes may be used for 
motorized and bicycle travel whenever the Secretary concerned considers 
such use to be necessary for administrative purposes or to respond to 
an emergency.
    (c) Route and Trail Closures.--The following roads or trails shall 
be closed to motorized and mechanized trail use, except when there is 
adequate snowcover to permit snowmobile use:
            (1) Forest Service Trail 109 between the Phyllis Lake 
        turnoff to 4th of July Lake and the south side of Washington 
        Lake.
            (2) Forest Service Trail 671 up Warm Springs Creek from 
        Trail 104 to the wilderness boundary.
    (d) Grounds for Trail Segment Closures.--Resource damage that can 
be mitigated and issues of user conflict shall not be used as grounds 
for the closure of a trail or route in the management area, although 
the Secretary concerned may close any trail or route, or prohibit the 
use of trail or route for motorized and mechanize travel, if the 
Secretary determines that such closure or prohibition is the only 
reasonable means available for resource protection or public safety.
    (e) Mitigation of Trail Closures.--If the Secretary determines 
under subsection (d) that closing an available trail or route in the 
management area is necessary for resource protection or public safety, 
the Secretary shall take any of the following mitigation actions, 
intended to provide commensurate motorized recreation opportunities in 
the same general area of the management area:
            (1) Repair resource damage and secure conditions so that 
        closed trails may be reopened to motorized use.
            (2) Replace, relocate, or reroute the trail or the trail 
        segment to provide a similar link between travel points.
            (3) A combination of the actions specified in paragraphs 
        (1) and (2) and other actions to achieve the overall mitigation 
        objective.
    (f) Relation to Other Laws.--In considering mitigation actions 
under subsection (e), the Secretary concerned shall ensure that such 
action is consistent with the overall objectives of the management 
area. If the lands are also included in the Sawtooth National 
Recreation Area, the Secretary concerned shall also administer the 
action in accordance with Public Law 92-400 (16 U.S.C. 460aa et seq.), 
the map referred to in subsection (a)(2), and executive orders and 
other relevant laws and regulations existing on or before the date of 
the enactment of this Act.
    (g) BLM Travel Plan.--Not later than three years after the date of 
the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of the Interior shall develop 
and implement a travel plan for public land included in the management 
area, but not otherwise covered by this section. The travel plan shall 
be developed in accordance with the laws and regulations generally 
applicable to the public land included in the management area and in 
accordance with the existing management plan for the Challis District 
of the Bureau of Land Management. Motorized and bicycle travel 
authorized in the travel plan shall be managed in accordance with the 
plan and laws and regulations generally applicable to the public land, 
and not as otherwise provided for in this section. The Secretary of the 
Interior shall include a map as part of the travel plan.

SEC. 304. SUPPORT AND USE OF IDAHO OFF ROAD MOTOR VEHICLE PROGRAM.

    (a) Grant to Program.--There is authorized to be appropriated to 
the Secretary of Agriculture not more than $1,000,000, which shall be 
used by the Secretary to make a grant to the State of Idaho in the full 
amount so appropriated for deposit with the Off Road Motor Vehicle 
Program of the Idaho Department of State Parks and Recreation, which is 
used to support the acquisition, purchase, improvement, repair, 
maintenance, furnishing, and equipping of off-road motor vehicle 
facilities and sites, to groom snowmobile trails, and for enforcement 
activities and the rehabilitation of land damaged by off-road vehicle 
users. As a condition of the grant, the State must maintain the grant 
funds as a separate account of the Off Road Motor Vehicle Program and 
may not use the funds except as provided by this section.
    (b) Use of Grant Funds.--When the Secretary concerned determines 
that additional funds are required to carry out the activities 
described in subsection (a) in the management area, the Secretary may 
apply for funds from the Off Road Motor Vehicle Program. Funds received 
under this subsection shall be used only in the management area or in 
connection with the Boise motorized recreation park authorized by 
section 108.
    (c) Consultation and Recommendations.--Before funds are provided 
under subsection (b), the Off Road Motor Vehicle Program shall consider 
any recommendations regarding the use of the funds made by the advisory 
committee established as part of the program as well as public 
comments.
    (d) Relation to Other Laws.--Any action undertaken using funds 
obtained under subsection (b) shall conform to the applicable travel 
plan of the Challis National Forest, the Sawtooth National Forest, the 
Sawtooth National Recreation Area, or the Challis District of the 
Bureau of Land Management.

SEC. 305. AIRPORTS AND LANDING STRIPS.

    No airstrips exist in the wilderness areas designated by title II. 
Nothing in this Act shall be construed to restrict or preclude the use 
of public or private airports or landing strips located within the 
management area or adjacent to a wilderness area designated by title 
II.

SEC. 306. MANAGEMENT OF RAILROAD RIDGE AREA, SAWTOOTH NATIONAL FOREST.

    (a) Findings.--Congress finds the following:
            (1) The Railroad Ridge area of the Sawtooth National Forest 
        is host to several extremely rare and sensitive plant species.
            (2) The area supports some of the most unique and well-
        developed alpine plant communities in Idaho, and is more 
        botanically diverse than most alpine communities in North 
        America.
            (3) The area is currently closed to off road cross-country 
        motorized travel.
    (b) Enhanced Awareness and Conservation.--There is authorized to be 
appropriated to the Secretary of Agriculture $50,000 for the 
development of educational materials and signage to raise the awareness 
of users of the Railroad Ridge area of the uniqueness of the area and 
to promote the conservation of the area.

                   TITLE IV--MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS

SEC. 401. GRAZING MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING.

    (a) Compliance With Memorandum of Understanding.--Livestock grazing 
allotments that are located in whole or in part in a wilderness area 
designated by title II or the watershed of the East Salmon River shall 
be managed in a manner consistent with the agency intent expressed in a 
memorandum of understanding to be entered into by the Regional Forester 
of Forest Service Region 4, with respect to National Forest System 
lands, and the State Bureau of Land Management Director for Idaho, with 
respect to public lands.
    (b) Management Decisions.--Any decision regarding the management of 
livestock grazing allotments referred to in subsection (a) by the 
Regional Forester or State Bureau of Land Management Director shall 
not--
            (1) require the preparation of an environmental assessment 
        or environmental impact statement under section 102(2) of the 
        National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 (42 U.S.C. 4332(2)); 
        or
            (2) be subject to administrative appeal or judicial review, 
        unless the decision is alleged to be inconsistent with the 
        agency intent expressed in the memorandum of understanding 
        required by subsection (a).
    (c) Submission and Availability.--The memorandum of understanding 
required by subsection (a) shall be submitted to the Committee on 
Resources of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Energy 
and Natural Resources of the Senate and shall be on file and available 
for public inspection in the appropriate offices of the Forest Service 
and Bureau of Land Management.
                                 &lt;all&gt;
</pre></body></html>
