<html><body><pre>
[Congressional Bills 112th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H.R. 6072 Introduced in House (IH)]

112th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                H. R. 6072

To provide for certain land conveyances in the State of Nevada, and for 
                            other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                             June 29, 2012

 Ms. Berkley introduced the following bill; which was referred to the 
                     Committee on Natural Resources

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
To provide for certain land conveyances in the State of Nevada, and for 
                            other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE; TABLE OF CONTENTS.

    (a) Short Title.--This Act may be cited as the ``Las Vegas Valley 
Public Land and Tule Springs Fossil Beds National Monument Act of 
2012''.
    (b) Table of Contents.--The table of contents of this Act is as 
follows:

Sec. 1. Short title; table of contents.
Sec. 2. Tule Springs Fossil Beds National Monument.
Sec. 3. Transfer of land to Red Rock Canyon National Conservation Area.
Sec. 4. Conveyance of Bureau of Land Management land to North Las 
                            Vegas.
Sec. 5. Conveyance of Bureau of Land Management land to Las Vegas.
Sec. 6. Expansion of conveyance to Las Vegas Metropolitan Police 
                            Department.
Sec. 7. Spring Mountains National Recreation Area withdrawal.
Sec. 8. Southern Nevada Public Land Management Act of 1998 amendments.
Sec. 9. Conveyance of land to the Nevada System of Higher Education.
Sec. 10. Land conveyance for Southern Nevada Supplemental Airport.
Sec. 11. Sunrise Mountain Instant Study Area release.
Sec. 12. Nellis Dunes Off-Highway Vehicle Recreation Area.

SEC. 2. TULE SPRINGS FOSSIL BEDS NATIONAL MONUMENT.

    (a) Findings.--Congress finds that--
            (1) since 1933, the Upper Las Vegas Wash has been valued by 
        scientists because of the significant paleontological fossils 
        demonstrative of the Pleistocene Ice Age that are located in 
        the area;
            (2) in 2004, during the preparation of the Las Vegas Valley 
        Disposal Boundary Final Environmental Impact Statement, the 
        Bureau of Land Management identified sensitive biological, 
        cultural, and paleontological resources determined to be worthy 
        of more evaluation with respect to the protective status of the 
        resources;
            (3) the Upper Las Vegas Wash contains thousands of 
        Pleistocene mammal fossils of national importance, including 
        Columbian mammoth, ground sloth, American lion, camels, and 
        horse fossils;
            (4) in addition to Joshua trees and several species of 
        cacti, the Las Vegas buckwheat, Merriam's bearpoppy, Las Vegas 
        bearpoppy, and the halfring milkvetch are 4 unique and 
        imperiled plants that are supported in the harsh desert 
        environment of Tule Springs;
            (5) the area provides important habitat for threatened 
        desert tortoise, endemic poppy bees, kit foxes, burrowing owls, 
        phainopepla, and a variety of reptiles;
            (6) in 2010, a National Park Service reconnaissance survey 
        of the area determined that the area likely contains the 
        longest continuous section of Pleistocene strata in the desert 
        southwest, which span multiple important global climate cooling 
        and warming episodes;
            (7) the Upper Las Vegas Wash is significant to the culture 
        and history of the native and indigenous people of the area, 
        including the Southern Paiute Tribe;
            (8) despite the findings of the studies and recommendations 
        for further assessment of the resources for appropriate methods 
        of protection--
                    (A) the area remains inadequately protected; and
                    (B) many irreplaceable fossil specimens in the area 
                have been lost to vandalism or theft; and
            (9) designation of the Upper Las Vegas Wash site as a 
        National Monument would protect the unique fossil resources of 
        the area for present and future generations while allowing for 
        public education and continued scientific research 
        opportunities.
    (b) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Council.--The term ``Council'' means the Tule Springs 
        Fossil Beds National Monument Advisory Council established by 
        subsection (f)(1).
            (2) County.--The term ``County'' means Clark County, 
        Nevada.
            (3) Local government.--The term ``local government'' means 
        the City of Las Vegas, City of North Las Vegas, or the County.
            (4) Management plan.--The term ``management plan'' means 
        the management plan for the Monument developed under subsection 
        (d)(3).
            (5) Map.--The term ``Map'' means the map entitled ``North 
        Las Vegas Valley Overview'' and dated June 26, 2012.
            (6) Monument.--The term ``Monument'' means the Tule Springs 
        Fossil Beds National Monument established by subsection (c)(1).
            (7) Public land.--The term ``public land'' has the meaning 
        given the term ``public lands'' in section 103 of the Federal 
        Land Policy and Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1702).
            (8) Qualified electric utility.--The term ``qualified 
        electric utility'' means any public or private utility 
        determined by the Secretary to be technically and financially 
        capable of developing the transmission line.
            (9) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary 
        of the Interior.
            (10) State.--The term ``State'' means the State of Nevada.
    (c) Establishment.--
            (1) In general.--In order to conserve, protect, interpret, 
        and enhance for the benefit of present and future generations 
        the unique and nationally important paleontological, 
        scientific, educational, and recreational resources and values 
        of the land described in this subsection, there is established 
        in the State the Tule Springs Fossil Beds National Monument.
            (2) Boundaries.--The Monument shall consist of 
        approximately 22,650 acres of public land in the County within 
        the boundaries generally depicted on the Map.
            (3) Map; legal description.--
                    (A) In general.--As soon as practicable after the 
                date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall 
                prepare an official map and legal description of the 
                boundaries of the Monument.
                    (B) Legal effect.--The map and legal description 
                prepared under subparagraph (A) shall have the same 
                force and effect as if included in this section, except 
                that the Secretary may correct any clerical or 
                typographical errors in the legal description or the 
                map.
                    (C) Availability of map and legal description.--The 
                map and legal description prepared under subparagraph 
                (A) shall be on file and available for public 
                inspection in the appropriate offices of the Bureau of 
                Land Management and the National Park Service.
            (4) Minor boundary adjustments.--The Secretary may make 
        minor boundary adjustments to the Monument to include 
        additional public land adjacent to the Monument, if, after the 
        date of enactment of this Act--
                    (A) additional paleontological resources are 
                discovered on the adjacent public land; and
                    (B) a Federal agency, State agency, and local 
                government requests that the adjacent public land be 
                included in the Monument to promote the consistent 
                management of resources.
            (5) Acquisition of land.--
                    (A) In general.--Subject to subparagraph (B), the 
                Secretary may acquire land or interests in land within 
                or adjacent to the boundaries of the Monument by 
                donation, purchase with donated or appropriated funds, 
                exchange, or transfer from another Federal agency.
                    (B) Limitation.--Land or interests in land that are 
                owned by the State or a political subdivision of the 
                State may be acquired under subparagraph (A) only by 
                donation or exchange.
            (6) Withdrawals.--Subject to valid existing rights and 
        subsection (e), any land within the Monument or any land or 
        interest in land that is acquired by the United States for 
        inclusion in the Monument after the date of enactment of this 
        Act is withdrawn from--
                    (A) entry, appropriation, or disposal under the 
                public land laws;
                    (B) location, entry, and patent under the mining 
                laws; and
                    (C) operation of the mineral leasing laws, 
                geothermal leasing laws, and minerals materials laws.
            (7) Effect on overflights.--Nothing in this Act or the 
        management plan developed for the Monument restricts or 
        precludes--
                    (A) overflights (including low-level military and 
                law enforcement overflights) over land in the Monument, 
                including military, law enforcement, commercial, and 
                general aviation overflights that can be seen or heard 
                in the Monument; or
                    (B) the designation or creation of new units of 
                special use airspace or the establishment of military 
                flight training routes over the Monument.
    (d) Administration.--
            (1) Transfer of administrative jurisdiction.--
        Administrative jurisdiction over the approximately 22,650 acres 
        of public land depicted on the Map as ``Tule Springs Fossil Bed 
        National Monument'' is transferred from the Director of the 
        Bureau of Land Management to the Director of the National Park 
        Service.
            (2) Management.--The Secretary shall--
                    (A) allow only such uses of the Monument that--
                            (i) are consistent with this section; and
                            (ii) the Secretary determines would further 
                        the purposes of the Monument; and
                    (B) manage the Monument--
                            (i) in a manner that conserves, protects, 
                        interprets, and enhances the resources and 
                        values of the Monument; and
                            (ii) in accordance with--
                                    (I) this section;
                                    (II) the provisions of laws 
                                generally applicable to units of the 
                                National Park System (including the 
                                National Park Service Organic Act (16 
                                U.S.C. 1 et seq.)); and
                                    (III) any other applicable laws.
            (3) Buffer zones.--The establishment of the Monument shall 
        not--
                    (A) lead to the creation of express or implied 
                protective perimeters or buffer zones around or over 
                the Monument;
                    (B) preclude disposal of public land adjacent to 
                the boundaries of the Monument, if the disposal is 
                consistent with other applicable law;
                    (C) preclude an activity on, or use of, private 
                land adjacent to the boundaries of the Monument, if the 
                activity or use is consistent with other applicable 
                law; or
                    (D) directly or indirectly subject an activity on, 
                or use of, private land, to additional regulation, if 
                the activity or use is consistent with other applicable 
                law.
            (4) Air and water quality.--Nothing in this Act alters the 
        standards governing air or water quality outside the boundary 
        of the Monument.
            (5) Management plan.--
                    (A) In general.--Not later than 3 years after the 
                date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall 
                develop a management plan that provides for the long-
                term protection and management of the Monument.
                    (B) Components.--The management plan--
                            (i) shall, consistent with this section and 
                        the purposes of the Monument--
                                    (I) describe the resources at the 
                                Monument that are to be protected;
                                    (II) describe the appropriate uses 
                                and management of the Monument;
                                    (III) allow for continued 
                                scientific research at the Monument; 
                                and
                                    (IV) include a travel management 
                                plan that may include existing public 
                                transit; and
                            (ii) may--
                                    (I) incorporate any appropriate 
                                decisions contained in an existing 
                                management or activity plan for the 
                                land designated as the Monument under 
                                subsection (c)(1); and
                                    (II) use information developed in 
                                any study of land within, or adjacent 
                                to, the boundary of the Monument that 
                                was conducted before the date of 
                                enactment of this Act.
                    (C) Public process.--In preparing the management 
                plan, the Secretary shall--
                            (i) consult with, and take into account the 
                        comments and recommendations of, the Council;
                            (ii) provide an opportunity for public 
                        involvement in the preparation and review of 
                        the management plan, including holding public 
                        meetings; and
                            (iii) consider public comments received as 
                        part of the public review and comment process 
                        of the management plan.
            (6) Interpretation, education, and scientific research.--
                    (A) In general.--The Secretary shall provide for 
                public interpretation of, and education and scientific 
                research on, the paleontological resources of the 
                Monument, with priority given to exhibiting and 
                curating the resources.
                    (B) Cooperative agreements.--The Secretary may 
                enter into cooperative agreements with the State, 
                political subdivisions of the State, nonprofit 
                organizations, and appropriate public and private 
                entities to carry out subparagraph (A).
    (e) Renewable Energy Transmission Facilities.--
            (1) In general.--On receipt of a complete application from 
        a qualified electric utility, the Secretary, in accordance with 
        the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 (42 U.S.C. 4321 
        et seq.), shall issue to the qualified electric utility a 400-
        foot right-of-way for the construction and maintenance of high-
        voltage transmission facilities depicted on the Map as 
        ``Renewable Energy Transmission Corridor''.
            (2) Requirements.--
                    (A) In general.--The high-voltage transmission 
                facilities shall--
                            (i) be used--
                                    (I) primarily, to the maximum 
                                extent practicable, for renewable 
                                energy resources; and
                                    (II) to meet reliability standards 
                                set by the North American Reliability 
                                Electric Corporation, the Western 
                                Electricity Coordinating Council, or 
                                the public utilities regulator of the 
                                State; and
                            (ii) employ best management practices 
                        identified as part of the compliance of the 
                        Secretary with the National Environmental 
                        Policy Act of 1969 (42 U.S.C. 4321 et seq.) to 
                        limit impacts on the Monument, including 
                        impacts to the viewshed.
                    (B) Capacity.--The Secretary shall consult with the 
                qualified electric utility that is issued the right-of-
                way under paragraph (1) and the public utilities 
                regulator of the State to seek to maximize the capacity 
                of the high-voltage transmission facilities.
            (3) Terms and conditions.--The issuance of a notice to 
        proceed on the construction of the high-voltage transmission 
        facilities within the right-of-way under paragraph (1) shall be 
        subject to terms and conditions that the Secretary (in 
        consultation with the qualified electric utility), as part of 
        the compliance of the Secretary with the National Environmental 
        Policy Act of 1969 (42 U.S.C. 4321 et seq.), determines 
        appropriate to protect and conserve the resources for which the 
        Monument is managed.
            (4) Expiration of right-of-way.--The right-of-way issued 
        under paragraph (1) shall expire on the date that is 15 years 
        after the date of enactment of this Act if construction of the 
        high-voltage transmission facilities described in paragraph (1) 
        has not been initiated by that date, unless the Secretary 
        determines that it is in the public interest to continue the 
        right-of-way.
    (f) Tule Springs Fossil Beds National Monument Advisory Council.--
            (1) Establishment.--To provide guidance for the management 
        of the Monument, there is established the Tule Springs Fossil 
        Beds National Monument Advisory Council.
            (2) Membership.--
                    (A) Composition.--The Council shall consist of 13 
                members, to be appointed by the Secretary, of whom--
                            (i) 1 member shall be a member of, or be 
                        nominated by, the County Commission;
                            (ii) 1 member shall be a member of, or be 
                        nominated by, the city council of Las Vegas, 
                        Nevada;
                            (iii) 1 member shall be a member of, or be 
                        nominated by, the city council of North Las 
                        Vegas, Nevada;
                            (iv) 1 member shall be a member of, or be 
                        nominated by, the tribal council of the Las 
                        Vegas Paiute Tribe;
                            (v) 1 member shall be a representative of 
                        the conservation community in southern Nevada;
                            (vi) 1 member shall be a representative of, 
                        or be nominated by, the Director of the Bureau 
                        of Land Management;
                            (vii) 1 member shall be a representative 
                        of, or be nominated by, the Director of the 
                        United States Fish and Wildlife Service;
                            (viii) 1 member shall be a representative 
                        of, or be nominated by, the Director of the 
                        National Park Service;
                            (ix) 1 member shall be a representative of 
                        Nellis Air Force Base;
                            (x) 1 member shall be nominated by the 
                        State;
                            (xi) 1 member shall reside in the County 
                        and have a background that reflects the 
                        purposes for which the Monument was 
                        established; and
                            (xii) 2 members shall reside in the County, 
                        both of whom shall have experience in the field 
                        of paleontology, obtained through higher 
                        education, experience, or both.
                    (B) Initial appointment.--Not later than 180 days 
                after the date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary 
                shall appoint the initial members of the Council in 
                accordance with subparagraph (A).
            (3) Duties of the council.--The Council shall advise the 
        Secretary with respect to--
                    (A) the preparation and implementation of the 
                management plan; and
                    (B) other issues related to the management of the 
                Monument (including budgetary matters).
            (4) Compensation.--Members of the Council shall receive no 
        compensation for serving on the Council.
            (5) Chairperson.--
                    (A) In general.--Subject to subparagraph (B), the 
                Council shall elect a Chairperson from among the 
                members of the Council.
                    (B) Limitation.--The Chairperson shall not be a 
                member of a Federal or State agency.
                    (C) Term.--The term of the Chairperson shall be 3 
                years.
            (6) Term of members.--
                    (A) In general.--The term of a member of the 
                Council shall be 3 years.
                    (B) Successors.--Notwithstanding the expiration of 
                a 3-year term of a member of the Council, a member may 
                continue to serve on the Council until--
                            (i) the member is reappointed by the 
                        Secretary; or
                            (ii) a successor is appointed.
            (7) Vacancies.--
                    (A) In general.--A vacancy on the Council shall be 
                filled in the same manner in which the original 
                appointment was made.
                    (B) Appointment for remainder of term.--A member 
                appointed to fill a vacancy on the Council--
                            (i) shall serve for the remainder of the 
                        term for which the predecessor was appointed; 
                        and
                            (ii) may be nominated for a subsequent 
                        term.
            (8) Termination.--Unless an extension is jointly 
        recommended by the Director of the National Park Service and 
        the Director of the Bureau of Land Management, the Council 
        shall terminate on the date that is 6 years after the date of 
        enactment of this Act.
    (g) Authorization of Appropriations.--There are authorized to be 
appropriated such sums as are necessary to carry out this section.

SEC. 3. TRANSFER OF LAND TO RED ROCK CANYON NATIONAL CONSERVATION AREA.

    (a) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Conservation area.--The term ``Conservation Area'' 
        means the Red Rock Canyon National Conservation Area 
        established by the Red Rock Canyon National Conservation Area 
        Establishment Act of 1990 (16 U.S.C. 460ccc et seq.).
            (2) Map.--The term ``map'' means the map entitled ``North 
        Las Vegas Valley Overview'' and dated June 26, 2012.
            (3) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary 
        of the Interior, acting through the Bureau of Land Management.
    (b) Transfer of Land to Conservation Area.--
            (1) In general.--As soon as practicable after the date of 
        enactment of this Act, subject to valid existing rights, and 
        notwithstanding the land use planning requirements of sections 
        202 and 203 of the Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 
        1976 (43 U.S.C. 1712, 1713), the Secretary shall add to, and 
        administer as part of, the Conservation Area, in accordance 
        with the laws (including regulations) applicable to the 
        Conservation Area, the land described in paragraph (2).
            (2) Description of land.--The land referred to in paragraph 
        (1) consists of approximately 1,530 acres of land managed by 
        the Bureau of Land Management described on the map as 
        ``Additions to Red Rock NCA''.
            (3) Management plan.--Not later than 2 years after the date 
        on which the land is acquired, the Secretary shall update the 
        management plan for the Conservation Area to reflect the 
        management requirements of the acquired land.
            (4) Map and legal description.--
                    (A) In general.--As soon as practicable after the 
                date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall 
                finalize the legal description of the parcel to be 
                conveyed under this section.
                    (B) Minor errors.--The Secretary may correct any 
                minor error in--
                            (i) the map; or
                            (ii) the legal description.
                    (C) Availability.--The map and legal description 
                shall be on file and available for public inspection in 
                the appropriate offices of the Bureau of Land 
                Management.

SEC. 4. CONVEYANCE OF BUREAU OF LAND MANAGEMENT LAND TO NORTH LAS 
              VEGAS.

    (a) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Map.--The term ``map'' means the map entitled ``North 
        Las Vegas Valley Overview'' and dated June 26, 2012.
            (2) North las vegas.--The term ``North Las Vegas'' means 
        the city of North Las Vegas, Nevada.
            (3) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary 
        of the Interior, acting through the Bureau of Land Management.
    (b) Conveyance.--As soon as practicable after the date of enactment 
of this Act, subject to valid existing rights, and notwithstanding the 
land use planning requirements of sections 202 and 203 of the Federal 
Land Policy and Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1712, 1713), the 
Secretary shall convey to North Las Vegas, without consideration, all 
right, title, and interest of the United States in and to the land 
described in subsection (c).
    (c) Description of Land.--The land referred to in subsection (b) 
consists of land managed by the Bureau of Land Management described on 
the map as the ``North Las Vegas Job Creation Zone''.
    (d) Map and Legal Description.--
            (1) In general.--As soon as practicable after the date of 
        enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall finalize the legal 
        description of the parcel to be conveyed under this section.
            (2) Minor errors.--The Secretary may correct any minor 
        error in--
                    (A) the map; or
                    (B) the legal description.
            (3) Availability.--The map and legal description shall be 
        on file and available for public inspection in the appropriate 
        offices of the Bureau of Land Management.
    (e) Use of Land for Nonresidential Development.--
            (1) In general.--North Las Vegas may sell, lease, or 
        otherwise convey any portion of the land described in 
        subsection (c) for nonresidential development.
            (2) Method of sale.--The sale, lease, or conveyance of land 
        under paragraph (1) shall be carried out--
                    (A) through a competitive bidding process; and
                    (B) for not less than fair market value.
            (3) Disposition of proceeds.--The gross proceeds from the 
        sale, lease, or conveyance of land under paragraph (1) shall be 
        distributed in accordance with section 4(e) of the Southern 
        Nevada Public Land Management Act of 1998 (Public Law 105-263; 
        112 Stat. 2345; 116 Stat. 2007; 117 Stat. 1317; 118 Stat. 2414; 
        120 Stat. 3045).
    (f) Use of Land for Recreation or Other Public Purposes.--
            (1) In general.--North Las Vegas may retain a portion of 
        the land described in subsection (c) for public recreation or 
        other public purposes consistent with the Act of June 14, 1926 
        (commonly known as the ``Recreation and Public Purposes Act'') 
        (43 U.S.C. 869 et seq.) by providing written notice of the 
        election to the Secretary.
            (2) Revocation.--If North Las Vegas retains land for public 
        recreation or other public purposes under paragraph (1), North 
        Las Vegas may--
                    (A) revoke that election; and
                    (B) sell, lease, or convey the land in accordance 
                with subsection (e).
    (g) Administrative Costs.--The Secretary shall require North Las 
Vegas to pay all survey costs and other administrative costs necessary 
for the preparation and completion of any patents for, and transfers of 
title to, the land described in subsection (c).
    (h) Reversion.--
            (1) In general.--If any parcel of land described in 
        subsection (c) is not conveyed for nonresidential development 
        under this section or reserved for recreation or other public 
        purposes under subparagraph (f) by the date that is 30 years 
        after the date of enactment of this Act, the parcel of land 
        shall, at the discretion of the Secretary, revert to the United 
        States.
            (2) Inconsistent use.--If North Las Vegas uses any parcel 
        of land described in subsection (c) in a manner that is 
        inconsistent with this section--
                    (A) at the discretion of the Secretary, the parcel 
                shall revert to the United States; or
                    (B) if the Secretary does not make an election 
                under subparagraph (A), North Las Vegas shall sell the 
                parcel of land in accordance with this section.

SEC. 5. CONVEYANCE OF BUREAU OF LAND MANAGEMENT LAND TO LAS VEGAS.

    (a) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Las vegas.--The term ``Las Vegas'' means the city of 
        Las Vegas, Nevada.
            (2) Map.--The term ``map'' means the map entitled ``North 
        Las Vegas Valley Overview'' and dated June 26, 2012.
            (3) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary 
        of the Interior, acting through the Bureau of Land Management.
    (b) In General.--As soon as practicable after the date of enactment 
of this Act, subject to valid existing rights, and notwithstanding the 
land use planning requirements of sections 202 and 203 of the Federal 
Land Policy and Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1712, 1713), the 
Secretary shall convey to Las Vegas, without consideration, all right, 
title, and interest of the United States in and to the land described 
in subsection (c).
    (c) Description of Land.--The land referred to in subsection (b) 
consists of land managed by the Bureau of Land Management described on 
the map as ``Las Vegas Job Creation Zone''.
    (d) Map and Legal Description.--
            (1) In general.--As soon as practicable after the date of 
        enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall finalize the legal 
        description of the parcel to be conveyed under this section.
            (2) Minor errors.--The Secretary may correct any minor 
        error in--
                    (A) the map; or
                    (B) the legal description.
            (3) Availability.--The map and legal description shall be 
        on file and available for public inspection in the appropriate 
        offices of the Bureau of Land Management.
    (e) Use of Land.--
            (1) In general.--Las Vegas may sell, lease, or otherwise 
        convey any portion of the land described in subsection (c) for 
        nonresidential development.
            (2) Method of sale.--The sale, lease, or conveyance of land 
        under paragraph (1) shall be carried out, after consultation 
        with the Las Vegas Paiute Tribe--
                    (A) through a competitive bidding process; and
                    (B) for not less than fair market value.
            (3) Disposition of proceeds.--The gross proceeds from the 
        sale, lease, or conveyance of land under paragraph (1) shall be 
        distributed in accordance with section 4(e) of the Southern 
        Nevada Public Land Management Act of 1998 (Public Law 105-263; 
        112 Stat. 2345; 116 Stat. 2007; 117 Stat. 1317; 118 Stat. 2414; 
        120 Stat. 3045).
    (f) Use of Land for Recreation or Other Public Purposes.--
            (1) In general.--Las Vegas may retain a portion of the land 
        described in subsection (c) for public recreation or other 
        public purposes consistent with the Act of June 14, 1926 
        (commonly known as the ``Recreation and Public Purposes Act'') 
        (43 U.S.C. 869 et seq.) by providing written notice of the 
        election to the Secretary.
            (2) Revocation.--If Las Vegas retains land for public 
        recreation or other public purposes under paragraph (1), Las 
        Vegas may--
                    (A) revoke that election; and
                    (B) sell, lease, or convey the land in accordance 
                with subsection (e).
    (g) Administrative Costs.--The Secretary shall require Las Vegas to 
pay all survey costs and other administrative costs necessary for the 
preparation and completion of any patents for, and transfers of title 
to, the land described in subsection (c).
    (h) Reversion.--
            (1) In general.--If any parcel of land described in 
        subsection (c) is not conveyed for nonresidential development 
        under this section or reserved for recreation or other public 
        purposes under subsection (f) by the date that is 30 years 
        after the date of enactment of this Act, the parcel of land 
        shall, at the discretion of the Secretary, revert to the United 
        States.
            (2) Inconsistent use.--If Las Vegas uses any parcel of land 
        described in subsection (c) in a manner that is inconsistent 
        with this section--
                    (A) at the discretion of the Secretary, the parcel 
                shall revert to the United States; or
                    (B) if the Secretary does not make an election 
                under subparagraph (A), Las Vegas shall sell the parcel 
                of land in accordance with this section.

SEC. 6. EXPANSION OF CONVEYANCE TO LAS VEGAS METROPOLITAN POLICE 
              DEPARTMENT.

    Section 703 of the Clark County Conservation of Public Land and 
Natural Resources Act of 2002 (Public Law 107-282; 116 Stat. 2013) is 
amended by inserting before the period at the end the following: ``and 
the parcel of land identified as `Conveyance to Las Vegas for Police 
Shooting Range Access' on the map entitled `North Las Vegas Valley 
Overview', and dated June 26, 2012, for the development of an access 
road and parking facilities''.

SEC. 7. SPRING MOUNTAINS NATIONAL RECREATION AREA WITHDRAWAL.

    Section 8 of the Spring Mountains National Recreation Area Act (16 
U.S.C. 460hhh-6) is amended--
            (1) in subsection (a), by striking ``for lands described'' 
        and inserting ``as provided''; and
            (2) by striking subsection (b) and inserting the following:
    ``(b) Exceptions.--
            ``(1) In general.--Notwithstanding subsection (a), W\1/
        2\E\1/2\ and W\1/2\, sec. 27, T23S, R58E, Mt. Diablo Meridian 
        is not subject to withdrawal under that subsection.
            ``(2) Effect of entry under public land laws.--
        Notwithstanding paragraph (1) of subsection (a), the following 
        are not subject to withdrawal under that paragraph:
                    ``(A) Any Federal land in the Recreation Area that 
                qualifies for conveyance under Public Law 97-465 
                (commonly known as the ``Small Tracts Act'') (16 U.S.C. 
                521c et seq.), which, notwithstanding section 7 of that 
                Act (16 U.S.C. 521i), may be conveyed under that Act.
                    ``(B) Any Federal land in the Recreation Area that 
                the Secretary determines to be appropriate for 
                conveyance by exchange for non-Federal land within the 
                Recreation Area under authorities generally providing 
                for the exchange of National Forest System land.''.

SEC. 8. SOUTHERN NEVADA PUBLIC LAND MANAGEMENT ACT OF 1998 AMENDMENTS.

    Section 4 of the Southern Nevada Public Land Management Act of 1998 
(Public Law 105-263; 112 Stat. 2344; 116 Stat. 2007) is amended--
            (1) in the first sentence of subsection (a), by striking 
        ``dated October 1, 2002'' and inserting ``dated June 26, 
        2012''; and
            (2) in subsection (g), by adding at the end the following:
            ``(5) Notwithstanding paragraph (4), subject to paragraphs 
        (1) through (3), Clark County may convey to a unit of local 
        government or regional governmental entity, without 
        consideration, land located within the Airport Environs Overlay 
        District (as of the date of enactment of this paragraph) if the 
        land is used for a public purpose consistent with uses allowed 
        under the Act of June 14, 1926 (commonly known as the 
        `Recreation and Public Purposes Act') (43 U.S.C. 869 et seq.), 
        provided that if the conveyed land is used for a purpose other 
        than a public purpose, paragraph (4) would apply to the 
        conveyance.''.

SEC. 9. CONVEYANCE OF LAND TO THE NEVADA SYSTEM OF HIGHER EDUCATION.

    (a) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Board of regents.--The term ``Board of Regents'' means 
        the Board of Regents of the Nevada System of Higher Education.
            (2) Campuses.--The term ``Campuses'' means the Great Basin 
        College, College of Southern Nevada, and University of Las 
        Vegas, Nevada, campuses.
            (3) Federal land.--The term ``Federal land'' means each of 
        the 3 parcels of Bureau of Land Management land identified on 
        the maps as ``Parcel to be Conveyed'', of which--
                    (A) approximately 40 acres is to be conveyed for 
                the College of Southern Nevada;
                    (B) approximately 2,085 acres is to be conveyed for 
                the University of Nevada, Las Vegas; and
                    (C) approximately 285 acres is to be conveyed for 
                the Great Basin College.
            (4) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary 
        of the Interior.
            (5) State.--The term ``State'' means the State of Nevada.
            (6) System.--The term ``System'' means the Nevada System of 
        Higher Education.
    (b) Conveyances of Federal Land to the System.--
            (1) Conveyances.--
                    (A) In general.--Notwithstanding section 202 of the 
                Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 1976 (43 
                U.S.C. 1712) and section 1(c) of the Act of June 14, 
                1926 (commonly known as the ``Recreation and Public 
                Purposes Act'') (43 U.S.C. 869(c)) and subject to all 
                valid existing rights, the Secretary shall--
                            (i) not later than 180 days after the date 
                        of enactment of this Act, convey to the System, 
                        without consideration, all right, title, and 
                        interest of the United States in and to--
                                    (I) the Federal land identified on 
                                the map entitled ``Great Basin College 
                                Land Conveyance'' and dated June 26, 
                                2012, for the Great Basin College; and
                                    (II) the Federal land identified on 
                                the map entitled ``College of Southern 
                                Nevada Land Conveyance'' and dated June 
                                26, 2012, for the College of Southern 
                                Nevada, subject to the requirement 
                                that, as a precondition of the 
                                conveyance, the Board of Regents shall, 
                                by mutual assent, enter into a binding 
                                development agreement with the City of 
                                Las Vegas that--
                                            (aa) provides for the 
                                        orderly development of the 
                                        Federal land to be conveyed 
                                        under this subclause; and
                                            (bb) complies with State 
                                        law; and
                            (ii) not later than 180 days after the 
                        receipt of certification of acceptable 
                        remediation of environmental conditions 
                        existing on the parcel to be conveyed for the 
                        University of Nevada, Las Vegas, convey to the 
                        System, without consideration, all right, 
                        title, and interest of the United States in and 
                        to the Federal land identified on the map 
                        entitled ``North Las Vegas Valley Overview'' 
                        and dated June 26, 2012 for the University of 
                        Nevada, Las Vegas, if the area identified as 
                        ``Potential Utility Schedule'' on the map is 
                        reserved for use for a potential future 400-
                        foot utility corridor of certain rights-of-way 
                        for transportation and public utilities.
                    (B) Phases.--The Secretary may phase the conveyance 
                of the Federal land under subparagraph (A)(ii) as 
                remediation is completed.
            (2) Conditions.--
                    (A) In general.--As a condition of the conveyance 
                under paragraph (1)(A), the Board of Regents shall 
                agree in writing--
                            (i) to pay any administrative costs 
                        associated with the conveyance, including the 
                        costs of any environmental, wildlife, cultural, 
                        or historical resources studies;
                            (ii) to use the Federal land conveyed for 
                        educational and recreational purposes;
                            (iii) to release and indemnify the United 
                        States from any claims or liabilities that may 
                        arise from uses carried out on the Federal land 
                        on or before the date of enactment of this Act 
                        by the United States or any person; and
                            (iv) to assist the Bureau of Land 
                        Management in providing information to the 
                        students of the System and the citizens of the 
                        State on--
                                    (I) public land (including the 
                                management of public land) in the 
                                Nation; and
                                    (II) the role of the Bureau of Land 
                                Management in managing, preserving, and 
                                protecting the public land in the 
                                State.
                    (B) Agreement with nellis air force base.--
                            (i) In general.--The Federal land conveyed 
                        to the System under paragraph (1)(A)(ii) shall 
                        be used in accordance with the agreement 
                        entitled the ``Cooperative Interlocal Agreement 
                        between the Board of Regents of the Nevada 
                        System of Higher Education, on Behalf of the 
                        University of Nevada, Las Vegas, and the 99th 
                        Air Base Wing, Nellis Air Force Base, Nevada'' 
                        and dated June 19, 2009.
                            (ii) Modifications.--Any modifications to 
                        the agreement described in clause (i) or any 
                        related master plan shall require the mutual 
                        assent of the parties to the agreement.
                            (iii) Limitation.--In no case shall the use 
                        of the Federal land conveyed under paragraph 
                        (1)(A)(ii) compromise the national security 
                        mission or aviation rights of Nellis Air Force 
                        Base.
            (3) Use of federal land.--
                    (A) In general.--The System may use the Federal 
                land conveyed under paragraph (1)(A) for--
                            (i) any purpose relating to the 
                        establishment, operation, growth, and 
                        maintenance of the System; and
                            (ii) any uses relating to the purposes, 
                        including residential and commercial 
                        development that would generally be associated 
                        with an institution of higher education.
                    (B) Other entities.--The System may--
                            (i) consistent with Federal and State law, 
                        lease, or otherwise provide property or space 
                        at, the Campuses, with or without 
                        consideration, to religious, public interest, 
                        community, or other groups for services and 
                        events that are of interest to the System or to 
                        any community located in southern Nevada;
                            (ii) allow any other communities in 
                        southern Nevada to use facilities of the 
                        Campuses for educational and recreational 
                        programs of the community; and
                            (iii) in conjunction with the city of Las 
                        Vegas, North Las Vegas, or Pahrump or Clark or 
                        Nye County plan, finance (including through the 
                        provision of cost-share assistance), construct, 
                        and operate facilities for the city of Las 
                        Vegas, North Las Vegas, or Pahrump or Clark or 
                        Nye County on the Federal land conveyed for 
                        educational or recreational purposes consistent 
                        with this subsection.
            (4) Reversion.--
                    (A) In general.--If the Federal land or any portion 
                of the Federal land conveyed under paragraph (1)(A) 
                ceases to be used for the System, the Federal land, or 
                any portion of the Federal land shall, at the 
                discretion of the Secretary, revert to the United 
                States.
                    (B) University of nevada, las vegas.--If the System 
                fails to complete the first building or show 
                progression toward development of the University of 
                Nevada, Las Vegas campus on the applicable parcels of 
                Federal land by the date that is 50 years after the 
                date of receipt of certification of acceptable 
                remediation of environmental conditions, the parcels of 
                the Federal land described in subsection (a)(3)(B) 
                shall, at the discretion of the Secretary, revert to 
                the United States.
    (c) Authorization of Appropriations.--There are authorized to be 
appropriated such sums as are necessary to carry out this section.

SEC. 10. LAND CONVEYANCE FOR SOUTHERN NEVADA SUPPLEMENTAL AIRPORT.

    (a) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) County.--The term ``County'' means Clark County, 
        Nevada.
            (2) Map.--The term ``Map'' means the map entitled ``Land 
        Conveyance for Southern Nevada Supplemental Airport'' and dated 
        June 26, 2012.
            (3) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary 
        of the Interior.
    (b) Land Conveyance.--
            (1) In general.--As soon as practicable after the date 
        described in paragraph (2), subject to valid existing rights, 
        and notwithstanding the land use planning requirements of 
        sections 202 and 203 of the Federal Land Policy and Management 
        Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1712, 1713), the Secretary shall convey 
        to the County, without consideration, all right, title, and 
        interest of the United States in and to the land described in 
        subsection (c).
            (2) Date on which conveyance may be made.--The Secretary 
        shall not make the conveyance described in paragraph (1) until 
        the later of the date on which the Administrator of the Federal 
        Aviation Administration has--
                    (A) approved an airport layout plan for an airport 
                to be located in the Ivanpah Valley; and
                    (B) with respect to the construction and operation 
                of an airport on the site conveyed to the County 
                pursuant to section 2(a) of the Ivanpah Valley Airport 
                Public Lands Transfer Act (Public Law 106-362; 114 
                Stat. 1404), issued a record of decision after the 
                preparation of an environmental impact statement or 
                similar analysis required under the National 
                Environmental Policy Act of 1969 (42 U.S.C. 4321 et 
                seq.).
            (3) Withdrawal.--Subject to valid existing rights, the 
        public land to be conveyed under paragraph (1) is withdrawn 
        from--
                    (A) location, entry, and patent under the mining 
                laws; and
                    (B) operation of the mineral leasing and geothermal 
                leasing laws.
            (4) Use.--The public land conveyed under paragraph (1) 
        shall be used for the development of flood mitigation 
        infrastructure for the Southern Nevada Supplemental Airport.
    (c) Description of Land.--The land referred to in subsection (b) 
consists of the approximately 2,320 acres of land managed by the Bureau 
of Land Management and described on the map as the ``Conveyance Area''.
    (d) Map and Legal Description.--
            (1) In general.--As soon as practicable after the date of 
        enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall prepare an official 
        legal description and map of the parcel to be conveyed under 
        this section.
            (2) Minor errors.--The Secretary may correct any minor 
        error in--
                    (A) the map; or
                    (B) the legal description.
            (3) Availability.--The map and legal description shall be 
        on file and available for public inspection in the appropriate 
        offices of the Bureau of Land Management.

SEC. 11. SUNRISE MOUNTAIN INSTANT STUDY AREA RELEASE.

    (a) Finding.--Congress finds that for the purposes of section 603 
of the Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1782), 
the public land in Clark County, Nevada, administered by the Bureau of 
Land Management in the Sunrise Mountain Instant Study Area has been 
adequately studied for wilderness designation.
    (b) Release.--Any public land described in subsection (a) that is 
not designated as wilderness--
            (1) is no longer subject to section 603(c) of the Federal 
        Land Policy and Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1782(c)); and
            (2) shall be managed in accordance with land management 
        plans adopted under section 202 of that Act (43 U.S.C. 1712).
    (c) Post Release Land Use Approvals.--Recognizing that the area 
released under subsection (b) presents unique opportunities for the 
granting of additional rights-of-way, including for high voltage 
transmission facilities, the Secretary of the Interior may accommodate 
multiple applicants within a particular right-of-way.

SEC. 12. NELLIS DUNES OFF-HIGHWAY VEHICLE RECREATION AREA.

    (a) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) City.--The term ``City'' means the city of North Las 
        Vegas, Nevada.
            (2) County.--The term ``County'' means Clark County, 
        Nevada.
            (3) Economic support area.--The term ``Economic Support 
        Area'' means the land identified on the map as the ``Economic 
        Support Area''.
            (4) Federal land.--The term ``Federal land'' means the 
        approximately 1,211 acres of Federal land in the County, as 
        depicted on the map.
            (5) Map.--The term ``map'' means the map entitled ``Nellis 
        Dunes Off-Highway Vehicle Recreation Area'' and dated June 26, 
        2012.
            (6) Nellis dunes recreation area.--The term ``Nellis Dunes 
        Recreation Area'' means the Nellis Dunes Off-Highway Vehicle 
        Recreation Area identified on the map as ``Nellis Dunes OHV 
        Recreation Area''.
            (7) Net proceeds.--The term ``net proceeds'' means the 
        amount that is equal to the difference between--
                    (A) the amount of gross revenues received by the 
                County from any activities at the Economic Support 
                Area; and
                    (B) the total amount expended by the County for 
                capital improvements to each of the Economic Support 
                Area and the Nellis Dunes Recreation Area, provided 
                that the capital improvements shall not exceed 80 
                percent of the total gross proceeds.
            (8) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary 
        of the Interior.
            (9) State.--The term ``State'' means the State of Nevada.
    (b) Conveyance of Federal Land to Clark County, Nevada.--
            (1) In general.--As soon as practicable after the date of 
        enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall convey to the 
        County, subject to valid existing rights, without 
        consideration, all right, title, and interest of the United 
        States in and to the parcels of Federal land.
            (2) Use of federal land.--
                    (A) In general.--The parcels of Federal land 
                conveyed under paragraph (1)--
                            (i) shall be used by the County--
                                    (I) to provide a suitable location 
                                for the establishment of a centralized 
                                off-road vehicle recreation park in the 
                                County;
                                    (II) to provide the public with 
                                opportunities for off-road vehicle 
                                recreation, including a location for 
                                races, competitive events, training and 
                                other commercial services that directly 
                                support a centralized off-road vehicle 
                                recreation area and County park; and
                                    (III) to provide a designated area 
                                and facilities that would discourage 
                                unauthorized use of off-highway 
                                vehicles in areas that have been 
                                identified by the Federal Government, 
                                State government, or County government 
                                as containing environmentally sensitive 
                                land; and
                            (ii) shall not be disposed of by the 
                        County.
                    (B) Reversion.--If the County ceases to use any 
                parcel of the Federal land for the purposes described 
                in subparagraph (A)(i) or subparagraph (C)--
                            (i) title to the parcel shall revert to the 
                        United States, at the option of the United 
                        States; and
                            (ii) the County shall be responsible for 
                        any reclamation necessary to revert the parcel 
                        to the United States.
                    (C) Renewable and solar energy.--The Federal land 
                conveyed to the County under paragraph (1) and the land 
                conveyed to the County under section 1(c) of Public Law 
                107-350 (116 Stat. 2975) may be used for the incidental 
                purpose of generating renewable energy and solar energy 
                for use by the Clark County Off Highway Vehicle 
                Recreation Park, the shooting park authorized under 
                Public Law 107-350 (116 Stat. 2975), and the County.
                    (D) Consultation with the secretary of the air 
                force.--
                            (i) Restriction.--Any project authorized 
                        under subparagraph (C) shall not interfere with 
                        the national security mission of Nellis Air 
                        Force Base (or any military operation).
                            (ii) Condition.--Before the construction of 
                        any proposed project under subparagraph (C), 
                        the project proponent shall consult with the 
                        Secretary of Defense (or a designee).
                    (E) Future conveyances.--Any future conveyance of 
                Federal land for addition to the Clark County Off 
                Highway Vehicle Park or the Nellis Dunes Recreation 
                Area shall be subject to--
                            (i) the binding interlocal agreement under 
                        paragraph (3)(B); and
                            (ii) the aviation easement requirements 
                        under paragraph (6).
                    (F) Management plan.--The Secretary, in 
                consultation with the Secretary of the Air Force and 
                the County, may develop a special management plan for 
                the Federal land--
                            (i) to enhance public safety and safe off-
                        highway vehicle recreation use in the Nellis 
                        Dunes Recreation Area;
                            (ii) to ensure compatible development with 
                        the mission requirements of the Nellis Air 
                        Force Base; and
                            (iii) to avoid and mitigate known public 
                        health risks associated with off-highway 
                        vehicle use in the Nellis Dunes Recreation 
                        Area.
            (3) Economic support area.--
                    (A) Designation.--There is designated the Economic 
                Support Area.
                    (B) Interlocal agreement.--
                            (i) In general.--Before the Economic 
                        Support Area may be developed, the City and 
                        County shall enter into an interlocal agreement 
                        regarding the development of the Economic 
                        Support Area.
                            (ii) Limitation of agreement.--In no case 
                        shall the interlocal agreement under this 
                        subparagraph compromise or interfere with the 
                        aviation rights provided under paragraph (6) 
                        and subsection (c)(4).
                    (C) Use of proceeds.--Of the net proceeds from the 
                development of the Economic Support Area, the County 
                shall--
                            (i) annually deposit 50 percent in a 
                        special account in the Treasury, to be used by 
                        the Secretary for the development, maintenance, 
                        operations, and environmental restoration and 
                        mitigation of the Nellis Dunes Recreation Area; 
                        and
                            (ii) retain 50 percent, to be used by the 
                        County--
                                    (I) to pay for capital improvements 
                                that are not covered by subsection 
                                (a)(7)(B); and
                                    (II) to maintain and operate the 
                                park established under paragraph 
                                (2)(A)(i)(I).
            (4) Agreement with nellis air force base.--
                    (A) In general.--Before the Federal land may be 
                conveyed to the County under paragraph (1), the Clark 
                County Board of Commissioners, the Bureau of Land 
                Management, and Nellis Air Force Base shall enter into 
                an interlocal agreement for the Federal land and the 
                Nellis Dunes Recreation Area--
                            (i) to enhance safe off-highway recreation 
                        use; and
                            (ii) to ensure that development of the 
                        Federal land is consistent with the long-term 
                        mission requirements of Nellis Air Force Base.
                    (B) Limitation.--The use of the Federal land 
                conveyed under paragraph (1) shall not compromise the 
                national security mission or aviation rights of Nellis 
                Air Force Base.
            (5) Additional terms and conditions.--With respect to the 
        conveyance of Federal land under paragraph (1), the Secretary 
        may require such additional terms and conditions as the 
        Secretary considers to be appropriate to protect the interests 
        of the United States.
            (6) Aviation easement.--
                    (A) In general.--Each deed entered into for the 
                conveyance of the Federal land shall contain a 
                perpetual aviation easement reserving to the United 
                States all rights necessary to preserve free and 
                unobstructed overflight in and through the airspace 
                above, over, and across the surface of the Federal land 
                for the passage of aircraft owned or operated by any 
                Federal agency or other Federal entity.
                    (B) Requirements.--Each easement described in 
                subparagraph (A) shall include such terms and 
                conditions as the Secretary of the Air Force determines 
                to be necessary to comply with subparagraph (A).
    (c) Designation of the Nellis Dunes National Off-Highway Vehicle 
Recreation Area.--
            (1) In general.--The approximately 10,000 acres of land 
        identified as ``Nellis Dunes'' in the Bureau of Land Management 
        Resource Management Plan shall be known and designated as the 
        ``Nellis Dunes Off-Highway Vehicle Recreation Area''.
            (2) Management plan.--The Director of the Bureau of Land 
        Management may develop a special management plan for the Nellis 
        Dunes Recreation Area to enhance the safe use of off-highway 
        vehicles for recreational purposes.
            (3) Exclusion from national landscape conservation 
        system.--The Nellis Dunes Recreation Area shall not be 
        considered a unit of the National Landscape Conservation 
        System.
            (4) Aviation rights.--The aviation rights described in 
        subsection (b)(6) shall apply to the Nellis Dunes Recreation 
        Area.
    (d) Withdrawal and Reservation of Land for Nellis Air Force Base.--
            (1) Withdrawal.--Subject to valid existing rights and 
        except as otherwise provided in this subsection--
                    (A) the Federal land and interests in the Federal 
                land identified on the map as ``Land to be withdrawn 
                for Nellis Air Force Base'' are withdrawn from all 
                forms of appropriation under the general land laws, 
                including the mining, mineral leasing, and geothermal 
                leasing laws; and
                    (B) jurisdiction over the land and interest in land 
                withdrawn and reserved by this subsection is 
                transferred to the Secretary of the Air Force.
            (2) Reservation.--The land withdrawn under paragraph (1) is 
        reserved for use by the Secretary of the Air Force for--
                    (A) the enlargement and protection of Nellis Air 
                Force Base; or
                    (B) other defense-related purposes consistent with 
                the purposes of this subsection.
            (3) Changes in use.--The Secretary of the Air Force shall 
        consult with the Secretary before using the land withdrawn and 
        reserved by this subsection for any purpose other than the 
        purposes described in subsection (b)(2).
            (4) Easement.--The United States reserves--
                    (A) a right of flight for the passage of aircraft 
                in the airspace above the surface of the Federal land 
                conveyed to the County; and
                    (B) the right to cause in the airspace any noise, 
                vibration, smoke, or other effects that may be inherent 
                in the operation of aircraft landing at, or taking off 
                from, Nellis Air Force Base.
                                 &lt;all&gt;
</pre></body></html>
