<html><body><pre>
[Congressional Bills 116th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H.R. 8021 Introduced in House (IH)]

&lt;DOC&gt;






116th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                H. R. 8021

   To encourage energy efficiency, conservation, and development of 
    renewable energy sources for housing, and to create sustainable 
                              communities.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                            August 11, 2020

Mr. Perlmutter (for himself and Mr. Casten of Illinois) introduced the 
   following bill; which was referred to the Committee on Financial 
Services, and in addition to the Committee on Education and Labor, for 
a period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
consideration of such provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the 
                          committee concerned

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
   To encourage energy efficiency, conservation, and development of 
    renewable energy sources for housing, and to create sustainable 
                              communities.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE; TABLE OF CONTENTS.

    (a) Short Title.--This Act may be cited as the ``Green 
Neighborhoods Act of 2020''.
    (b) Table of Contents.--The table of contents for this Act is as 
follows:

Sec. 1. Short title; table of contents.
Sec. 2. Implementation of energy efficiency participation incentives 
                            for HUD programs.
Sec. 3. Basic HUD energy efficiency standards and standards for 
                            additional credit.
Sec. 4. Enhanced energy efficiency underwriting.
Sec. 5. Energy-efficient certifications for manufactured housing with 
                            mortgages.
Sec. 6. Making it green.
Sec. 7. Including sustainable development and transportation strategies 
                            in comprehensive housing affordability 
                            strategies.
Sec. 8. Grant program to increase sustainable low-income community 
                            development capacity.
Sec. 9. Benchmarking.
Sec. 10. Workforce development.
Sec. 11. Ensuring availability of homeowners insurance for homes not 
                            connected to electricity grid.
Sec. 12. Definitions.

SEC. 2. IMPLEMENTATION OF ENERGY EFFICIENCY PARTICIPATION INCENTIVES 
              FOR HUD PROGRAMS.

    (a) In General.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development 
shall issue such regulations as may be necessary to establish annual 
energy efficiency participation incentives consistent with this Act to 
encourage participants in programs administered by the Secretary, 
including recipients under programs for which HUD assistance is 
provided, to achieve substantial improvements in energy efficiency.
    (b) Requirement for Appropriation of Funds.--The requirement under 
subsection (a) for the Secretary to provide annual energy efficiency 
participation incentives pursuant to the provisions of this Act shall 
be subject to the annual appropriation of necessary funds.

SEC. 3. BASIC HUD ENERGY EFFICIENCY STANDARDS AND STANDARDS FOR 
              ADDITIONAL CREDIT.

    (a) Basic HUD Standard.--
            (1) Residential structures.--A residential single-family or 
        multifamily structure shall be considered to comply with the 
        energy efficiency standards under this subsection if--
                    (A) the structure complies with the applicable 
                provisions of the American Society of Heating, 
                Refrigerating, and Air-Conditioning Engineers Standard 
                90.1-2016, as such standard or successor standard is in 
                effect for purposes of this section pursuant to 
                subsection (c);
                    (B) the structure complies with the applicable 
                provisions of the 2018 International Energy 
                Conservation Code, as such standard or successor 
                standard is in effect for purposes of this section 
                pursuant to subsection (c);
                    (C) in the case only of an existing structure, 
                where determined cost effective, the structure has 
                undergone rehabilitation or improvements, completed 
                after the date of the enactment of this Act, and the 
                energy consumption for the structure has been reduced 
                by at least 20 percent from the previous level of 
                consumption, as determined in accordance with energy 
                audits performed both before and after any 
                rehabilitation or improvements undertaken to reduce 
                such consumption; or
                    (D) the structure complies with the applicable 
                provisions of such other energy efficiency 
                requirements, standards, checklists, or ratings systems 
                as the Secretary may adopt and apply by regulation, as 
                may be necessary, for purposes of this section for 
                specific types of residential single-family or 
                multifamily structures or otherwise, except that the 
                Secretary shall make a determination regarding whether 
                to adopt and apply any such requirements, standards, 
                checklists, or rating system for purposes of this 
                section not later than the expiration of the 180-day 
                period beginning upon the date of receipt of any 
                written request, made in such form as the Secretary 
                shall provide, for such adoption and application.
        In addition to compliance with any of subparagraphs (A) through 
        (D), the Secretary shall by regulation require, for any newly 
        constructed residential single-family or multifamily structure 
        to be considered to comply with the energy efficiency standards 
        under this subsection, that the structure have appropriate 
        electrical outlets with the facility and capacity to recharge a 
        standard electric passenger vehicle, including an electric 
        hybrid vehicle, where such vehicle would normally be parked.
            (2) Nonresidential structures.--For purposes of this 
        section, the Secretary shall identify and adopt by regulation, 
        as may be necessary, energy efficiency requirements, standards, 
        checklists, or rating systems applicable to nonresidential 
        structures that are constructed or rehabilitated with HUD 
        assistance. A nonresidential structure shall be considered to 
        comply with the energy efficiency standards under this 
        subsection if the structure complies with the applicable 
        provisions of any such energy efficiency requirements, 
        standards, checklist, or rating systems identified and adopted 
        by the Secretary pursuant to this paragraph, as such standards 
        are in effect for purposes of this section pursuant to 
        subsection (c).
            (3) Effect.--Nothing in this subsection may be construed to 
        require any structure to comply with any standard established 
        or adopted pursuant to this subsection, or identified in this 
        subsection, or to provide any benefit or credit under any 
        Federal program for any structure that complies with any such 
        standard, except to the extent that--
                    (A) any provision of law other than this subsection 
                provides a benefit or credit under a Federal program 
                for compliance with a standard established or adopted 
                pursuant to this subsection, or identified in this 
                subsection; or
                    (B) the Secretary specifically provides pursuant to 
                subsection (c) for the applicability of such standard.
    (b) Enhanced Energy Efficiency Standards for Purposes of Providing 
Additional Credit Under Certain Federally Assisted Housing Programs.--
            (1) Purpose and effect.--
                    (A) Purpose.--The purpose of this subsection is to 
                establish energy efficiency and conservation standards 
                and green building standards that--
                            (i) provide for greater energy efficiency 
                        and conservation in structures than is required 
                        for compliance with the energy efficiency 
                        standards under subsection (a) and then in 
                        effect;
                            (ii) provide for green and sustainable 
                        building standards not required by such 
                        standards; and
                            (iii) can be used in connection with 
                        Federal housing, housing finance, and 
                        development programs to provide incentives for 
                        greater energy efficiency and conservation and 
                        for green and sustainable building methods, 
                        elements, practices, and materials.
                    (B) Effect.--Nothing in this subsection may be 
                construed to require any structure to comply with any 
                standard established pursuant to this subsection or to 
                provide any benefit or credit under any Federal program 
                for any structure, except to the extent that any 
                provision of law other than this subsection provides a 
                benefit or credit under a Federal program for 
                compliance with a standard established pursuant to this 
                subsection.
            (2) Compliance.--A residential or nonresidential structure 
        shall be considered to comply with the enhanced energy 
        efficiency and conservation standards or the green building 
        standards under this subsection, to the extent that such 
        structure is verified by a third party as compliant with, or 
        certified to, the applicable provisions of the standards under 
        paragraph (3) or (4), respectively (as such standards are in 
        effect for purposes of this section, pursuant to paragraph 
        (7)), in a manner that is not required for compliance with the 
        energy efficiency standards under subsection (a) then in effect 
        and subject to the Secretary's determination of which standards 
        are applicable to which structures.
            (3) Energy efficiency and conservation standards.--The 
        energy efficiency and conservation standards under this 
        paragraph are as follows:
                    (A) Residential structures.--With respect to 
                residential structures:
                            (i) New construction.--For new 
                        construction, the Energy Star for Homes 
                        certification or Energy Star for Multifamily 
                        New Construction certification standards 
                        established by the Environmental Protection 
                        Agency, as such standards are in effect for 
                        purposes of this subsection pursuant to 
                        paragraph (7);
                            (ii) Existing structures.--For existing 
                        structures, a reduction in energy consumption 
                        from the previous level of consumption for the 
                        structure, as determined in accordance with 
                        energy audits performed both before and after 
                        any rehabilitation or improvements undertaken 
                        to reduce such consumption by at least 30 
                        percent or achievement of ENERGY STAR 
                        certification.
                    (B) Nonresidential structures.--With respect to 
                nonresidential structures, such energy efficiency and 
                conservation requirements, standards, checklists, or 
                rating systems for nonresidential structures as the 
                Secretary shall identify and adopt by regulation, as 
                may be necessary, for purposes of this paragraph.
            (4) Green building standards.--The green building standards 
        under this paragraph are the most recent adopted versions of 
        the following:
                    (A) The national Green Communities criteria 
                checklist for residential construction that provides 
                criteria for the design, development, and operation of 
                affordable housing, as such checklist or successor 
                checklist is in effect for purposes of this section 
                pursuant to paragraph (7).
                    (B) The LEED for New Construction rating system, 
                the LEED for Homes rating system, the LEED for Core and 
                Shell rating system, as applicable, as such systems or 
                successor systems are in effect for purposes of this 
                section pursuant to paragraph (7).
                    (C) The Green Globes assessment and rating system 
                of the Green Buildings Initiative.
                    (D) For manufactured housing, energy star rating 
                with respect to fixtures, appliances, and equipment in 
                such housing, as such standard or successor standard is 
                in effect for purposes of this section pursuant to 
                paragraph (7).
                    (E) The National Green Building Standard.
                    (F) Any other proven requirements, standards, 
                checklists, or rating systems for green building or 
                sustainability as the Secretary may identify and adopt 
                by regulation, as may be necessary for purposes of this 
                paragraph, except that the Secretary shall make a 
                determination regarding whether to adopt and apply any 
                such requirements, standards, checklist, or rating 
                system for purposes of this section not later than the 
                expiration of the 180-day period beginning upon date of 
                receipt of any written request, made in such form as 
                the Secretary shall provide, for such adoption and 
                application.
            (5) Green building.--For purposes of this subsection, the 
        term ``green building'' means, with respect to standards for 
        structures, standards to require use of sustainable design 
        principles to reduce the use of nonrenewable resources, 
        minimize the impact of development on the environment, and to 
        improve indoor air quality.
            (6) Energy audits.--The Secretary shall establish standards 
        and requirements for energy audits for purposes of paragraph 
        (3)(A)(ii).
            (7) Applicability and updating of standards.--
                    (A) Applicability.--Except as provided in 
                subparagraph (B), the requirements, standards, 
                checklists, and rating systems referred to in this 
                subsection that are in effect for purposes of this 
                subsection are such requirements, standards, 
                checklists, and systems are as in existence upon the 
                date of the enactment of this Act.
                    (B) Updating.--For purposes of this section, the 
                Secretary may adopt and apply by regulation, as may be 
                necessary, future amendments and supplements to, and 
                editions of, the requirements, standards, checklists, 
                and rating systems referred to in this subsection.
    (c) Authority of Secretary To Apply Standards to Federally Assisted 
Housing and Programs.--
            (1) HUD housing and programs.--The Secretary of Housing and 
        Urban Development may, by regulation, provide for the 
        applicability of the energy efficiency standards under 
        subsection (a) or the enhanced energy efficiency and 
        conservation standards and green building standards under 
        subsection (b), or both, with respect to any covered federally 
        assisted housing described in paragraph (3)(A) or any HUD 
        assistance.
            (2) Rural housing.--The Secretary of Agriculture may, by 
        regulation, provide for the applicability of the energy 
        efficiency standards under subsection (a) or the enhanced 
        energy efficiency and conservation standards and green building 
        standards under subsection (b), or both, with respect to any 
        covered federally assisted housing described in paragraph 
        (3)(B) or any assistance provided with respect to rural housing 
        by the Rural Housing Service of the Department of Agriculture.
            (3) Covered federally assisted housing.--For purposes of 
        this subsection, the term ``covered federally assisted 
        housing'' means--
                    (A) any residential or nonresidential structure for 
                which any HUD assistance is provided; and
                    (B) any new construction of single-family housing 
                (other than manufactured homes) subject to mortgages 
                insured, guaranteed, or made by the Secretary of 
                Agriculture under title V of the Housing Act of 1949 
                (42 U.S.C. 1471 et seq.).

SEC. 4. ENHANCED ENERGY EFFICIENCY UNDERWRITING.

    (a) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Covered agency.--The term ``covered agency''--
                    (A) means--
                            (i) an executive agency, as that term is 
                        defined in section 102 of title 31, United 
                        States Code; and
                            (ii) any other agency of the Federal 
                        Government; and
                    (B) includes each enterprise, as that term is 
                defined under section 1303 of the Federal Housing 
                Enterprises Financial Safety and Soundness Act of 1992 
                (12 U.S.C. 4502).
            (2) Covered loan.--The term ``covered loan'' means a loan 
        secured by a home that is issued, insured, purchased, or 
        securitized by a covered agency.
            (3) Homeowner.--The term ``homeowner'' means the mortgagor 
        under a covered loan.
            (4) Mortgagee.--The term ``mortgagee'' means--
                    (A) an original lender under a covered loan or the 
                holder of a covered loan at the time at which that 
                mortgage transaction is consummated;
                    (B) any affiliate, agent, subsidiary, successor, or 
                assignee of an original lender under a covered loan or 
                the holder of a covered loan at the time at which that 
                mortgage transaction is consummated;
                    (C) any servicer of a covered loan; and
                    (D) any subsequent purchaser, trustee, or 
                transferee of any covered loan issued by an original 
                lender.
            (5) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary 
        of Housing and Urban Development.
            (6) Servicer.--The term ``servicer'' means the person or 
        entity responsible for the servicing of a covered loan, 
        including the person or entity who makes or holds a covered 
        loan if that person or entity also services the covered loan.
            (7) Servicing.--The term ``servicing'' has the meaning 
        given the term in section 6(i) of the Real Estate Settlement 
        Procedures Act of 1974 (12 U.S.C. 2605(i)).
    (b) Findings and Purposes.--
            (1) Findings.--The Congress finds that--
                    (A) energy costs for homeowners are a significant 
                and increasing portion of their household budgets;
                    (B) household energy use can vary substantially 
                depending on the efficiency and characteristics of the 
                house;
                    (C) expected energy cost savings are important to 
                the value of the house;
                    (D) the current test for loan affordability used by 
                most covered agencies, commonly known as the ``debt-to-
                income'' test, is inadequate because it does not take 
                into account the expected energy cost savings for the 
                homeowner of an energy efficient home; and
                    (E) another loan limitation, commonly known as the 
                ``loan-to-value'' test, is tied to the appraisal, which 
                often does not adjust for efficiency features of 
                houses.
            (2) Purposes.--The purposes of this section are to--
                    (A) improve the accuracy of mortgage underwriting 
                by Federal mortgage agencies by ensuring that energy 
                cost savings are included in the underwriting process 
                as described below, and thus to reduce the amount of 
                energy consumed by homes and to facilitate the creation 
                of energy efficiency retrofit and construction jobs;
                    (B) require a covered agency to include the 
                expected energy cost savings of a homeowner as a 
                regular expense in the tests, such as the debt-to-
                income test, used to determine the ability of the loan 
                applicant to afford the cost of homeownership for all 
                loan programs; and
                    (C) require a covered agency to include the value 
                home buyers place on the energy efficiency of a house 
                in tests used to compare the mortgage amount to home 
                value, taking precautions to avoid double-counting and 
                to support safe and sound lending.
    (c) Enhanced Energy Efficiency Underwriting Criteria.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 1 year after the date of 
        enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall, in consultation 
        with the advisory group established in subsection (f)(2), 
        develop and issue guidelines for a covered agency to implement 
        enhanced loan eligibility requirements, for use when testing 
        the ability of a loan applicant to repay a covered loan, that 
        account for the expected energy cost savings for a loan 
        applicant at a subject property, in the manner set forth in 
        paragraphs (2) and (3).
            (2) Requirements to account for energy cost savings.--
                    (A) In general.--The enhanced loan eligibility 
                requirements under paragraph (1) shall require that, 
                for all covered loans for which an energy efficiency 
                report is voluntarily provided to the mortgagee by the 
                mortgagor, the covered agency and the mortgagee shall 
                take into consideration the estimated energy cost 
                savings expected for the owner of the subject property 
                in determining whether the loan applicant has 
                sufficient income to service the mortgage debt plus 
                other regular expenses.
                    (B) Expenses as offsets.--To the extent that a 
                covered agency uses a test, such as a debt-to-income 
                test, that includes certain regular expenses, such as 
                hazard insurance and property taxes, the expected 
                energy cost savings shall be included as an offset to 
                these expenses.
                    (C) Assessed energy costs.--Energy costs to be 
                assessed include the cost of electricity, natural gas, 
                oil, and any other fuel regularly used to supply energy 
                to the subject property.
            (3) Determination of estimated energy cost savings.--
                    (A) In general.--The guidelines to be issued under 
                paragraph (1) shall include instructions for the 
                covered agency to calculate estimated energy cost 
                savings using--
                            (i) the energy efficiency report;
                            (ii) an estimate of baseline average energy 
                        costs; and
                            (iii) additional sources of information as 
                        determined by the Secretary.
                    (B) Report requirements.--For the purposes of 
                subparagraph (A), an energy efficiency report shall--
                            (i) estimate the expected energy cost 
                        savings specific to the subject property, based 
                        on specific information about the property;
                            (ii) be prepared in accordance with the 
                        guidelines to be issued under paragraph (1); 
                        and
                            (iii) be prepared--
                                    (I) in accordance with the 
                                Residential Energy Service Network's 
                                Home Energy Rating System (commonly 
                                known as ``HERS'') by an individual 
                                certified by the Residential Energy 
                                Service Network, unless the Secretary 
                                finds that the use of HERS does not 
                                further the purposes of this section; 
                                or
                                    (II) by other methods approved by 
                                the Secretary, in consultation with the 
                                Secretary of Energy and the advisory 
                                group established in subsection (f)(2), 
                                for use under this section, which shall 
                                include a quality assurance procedure 
                                approved by the Secretary, in 
                                consultation with the Secretary of 
                                Energy.
                    (C) Use by appraiser.--If an energy efficiency 
                report is used under paragraph (2), the energy 
                efficiency report shall be provided to the appraiser to 
                estimate the energy efficiency of the subject property 
                and for potential adjustments for energy efficiency.
            (4) Required disclosure to consumer for a home with an 
        energy efficiency report.--If an energy efficiency report is 
        used under paragraph (2), the guidelines to be issued under 
        paragraph (1) shall require the mortgagee to--
                    (A) inform the loan applicant of the expected 
                energy costs as estimated in the energy efficiency 
                report, in a manner and at a time as prescribed by the 
                Secretary, and if practicable, in the documents 
                delivered at the time of loan application; and
                    (B) include the energy efficiency report in the 
                documentation for the loan provided to the borrower.
            (5) Required disclosure to consumer for a home without an 
        energy efficiency report.--If an energy efficiency report is 
        not used under paragraph (2), the guidelines to be issued under 
        paragraph (1) shall require the mortgagee to inform the loan 
        applicant in a manner and at a time as prescribed by the 
        Secretary, and if practicable, in the documents delivered at 
        the time of loan application of--
                    (A) typical energy cost savings that would be 
                possible from a cost-effective energy upgrade of a home 
                of the size and in the region of the subject property;
                    (B) the impact the typical energy cost savings 
                would have on monthly ownership costs of a typical 
                home;
                    (C) the impact on the size of a mortgage that could 
                be obtained if the typical energy cost savings were 
                reflected in an energy efficiency report; and
                    (D) resources for improving the energy efficiency 
                of a home.
            (6) Pricing of loans.--
                    (A) In general.--A covered agency may price covered 
                loans originated under the enhanced loan eligibility 
                requirements required under this section in accordance 
                with the estimated risk of the loans.
                    (B) Imposition of certain material costs, 
                impediments, or penalties.--In the absence of a 
                publicly disclosed analysis that demonstrates 
                significant additional default risk or prepayment risk 
                associated with the loans, a covered agency shall not 
                impose material costs, impediments, or penalties on 
                covered loans merely because the loan uses an energy 
                efficiency report or the enhanced loan eligibility 
                requirements required under this section.
            (7) Limitations.--
                    (A) In general.--A covered agency may price covered 
                loans originated under the enhanced loan eligibility 
                requirements required under this section in accordance 
                with the estimated risk of those loans.
                    (B) Prohibited actions.--A covered agency shall 
                not--
                            (i) modify existing underwriting criteria 
                        or adopt new underwriting criteria that 
                        intentionally negate or reduce the impact of 
                        the requirements or resulting benefits that are 
                        set forth or otherwise derived from the 
                        enhanced loan eligibility requirements required 
                        under this subsection; or
                            (ii) impose greater buy back requirements, 
                        credit overlays, or insurance requirements, 
                        including private mortgage insurance, on 
                        covered loans merely because the loan uses an 
                        energy efficiency report or the enhanced loan 
                        eligibility requirements required under this 
                        subsection.
            (8) Applicability and implementation date.--Not later than 
        3 years after the date of enactment of this Act, and before 
        December 31, 2023, the enhanced loan eligibility requirements 
        required under this subsection shall be implemented by each 
        covered agency to--
                    (A) apply to any covered loan for the sale, or 
                refinancing of any loan for the sale, of any home;
                    (B) be available on any residential real property 
                (including individual units of condominiums and 
                cooperatives) that qualifies for a covered loan; and
                    (C) provide prospective mortgagees with sufficient 
                guidance and applicable tools to implement the required 
                underwriting methods.
    (d) Enhanced Energy Efficiency Underwriting Valuation Guidelines.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 1 year after the date of 
        enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall--
                    (A) in consultation with the Federal Financial 
                Institutions Examination Council and the advisory group 
                established in subsection (f)(2), develop and issue 
                guidelines for a covered agency to determine the 
                maximum permitted loan amount based on the value of the 
                property for all covered loans made on properties with 
                an energy efficiency report that meets the requirements 
                of subsection (c)(3)(B); and
                    (B) in consultation with the Secretary of Energy, 
                issue guidelines for a covered agency to determine the 
                estimated energy savings under paragraph (3) for 
                properties with an energy efficiency report.
            (2) Requirements.--The enhanced energy efficiency 
        underwriting valuation guidelines required under paragraph (1) 
        shall include--
                    (A) a requirement that if an energy efficiency 
                report that meets the requirements of subsection 
                (c)(3)(B) is voluntarily provided to the mortgagee, 
                such report shall be used by the mortgagee or covered 
                agency to determine the estimated energy savings of the 
                subject property; and
                    (B) a requirement that the estimated energy savings 
                of the subject property be added to the appraised value 
                of the subject property by a mortgagee or covered 
                agency for the purpose of determining the loan-to-value 
                ratio of the subject property, unless the appraisal 
                includes the value of the overall energy efficiency of 
                the subject property, using methods to be established 
                under the guidelines issued under paragraph (1).
            (3) Determination of estimated energy savings.--
                    (A) Amount of energy savings.--The amount of 
                estimated energy savings shall be determined by 
                calculating the difference between the estimated energy 
                costs for the average comparable houses, as determined 
                in guidelines to be issued under paragraph (1), and the 
                estimated energy costs for the subject property based 
                upon the energy efficiency report.
                    (B) Duration of energy savings.--The duration of 
                the estimated energy savings shall be based upon the 
                estimated life of the applicable equipment, consistent 
                with the rating system used to produce the energy 
                efficiency report.
                    (C) Present value of energy savings.--The present 
                value of the future savings shall be discounted using 
                the average interest rate on conventional 30-year 
                mortgages, in the manner directed by guidelines issued 
                under paragraph (1).
            (4) Ensuring consideration of energy efficient features.--
        Section 1110 of the Financial Institutions Reform, Recovery, 
        and Enforcement Act of 1989 (12 U.S.C. 3339) is amended--
                    (A) in paragraph (2), by striking ``and'' at the 
                end;
                    (B) in paragraph (3), by striking the period at the 
                end and inserting ``; and''; and
                    (C) by inserting after paragraph (3) the following:
            ``(4) that State certified and licensed appraisers have 
        timely access, whenever practicable, to information from the 
        property owner and the lender that may be relevant in 
        developing an opinion of value regarding the energy- and water-
        saving improvements or features of a property, such as--
                    ``(A) labels or ratings of buildings;
                    ``(B) installed appliances, measures, systems or 
                technologies;
                    ``(C) blueprints;
                    ``(D) construction costs;
                    ``(E) financial or other incentives regarding 
                energy- and water-efficient components and systems 
                installed in a property;
                    ``(F) utility bills;
                    ``(G) energy consumption and benchmarking data; and
                    ``(H) third-party verifications or representations 
                of energy and water efficiency performance of a 
                property, observing all financial privacy requirements 
                adhered to by certified and licensed appraisers, 
                including section 501 of the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act (15 
                U.S.C. 6801).
        Unless a property owner consents to a lender, an appraiser, in 
        carrying out the requirements of paragraph (4), shall not have 
        access to the commercial or financial information of the owner 
        that is privileged or confidential.''.
            (5) Transactions requiring state certified and competent 
        appraisers.--Section 1113 of the Financial Institutions Reform, 
        Recovery, and Enforcement Act of 1989 (12 U.S.C. 3342) is 
        amended--
                    (A) in paragraph (1), by inserting before the 
                semicolon the following: ``, or any real property on 
                which the appraiser makes adjustments using an energy 
                efficiency report''; and
                    (B) in paragraph (2), by inserting after 
                ``atypical'' the following: ``, or an appraisal on 
                which the appraiser makes adjustments using an energy 
                efficiency report.''.
            (6) Appraiser competency requirement.--Mortgagee shall 
        require that the appraiser conducting an appraisal of any real 
        property for which an energy report is provided shall have the 
        requisite knowledge required to perform a professional quality 
        appraisal, as evidenced by professional certification approved 
        by the Secretary.
            (7) Protections.--
                    (A) Authority to impose limitations.--The 
                guidelines to be issued under paragraph (1) shall 
                include such limitations and conditions as determined 
                by the Secretary to be necessary to protect against 
                meaningful under or over valuation of energy cost 
                savings or duplicative counting of energy efficiency 
                features or energy cost savings in the valuation of any 
                subject property that is used to determine a loan 
                amount.
                    (B) Additional authority.--At the end of the 7-year 
                period following the implementation of enhanced 
                eligibility and underwriting valuation requirements 
                under this section, the Secretary may modify or apply 
                additional exceptions to the approach described in 
                paragraph (2), where the Secretary finds that the 
                unadjusted appraisal will reflect an accurate market 
                value of the efficiency of the subject property or that 
                a modified approach will better reflect an accurate 
                market value.
            (8) Applicability and implementation date.--Not later than 
        3 years after the date of enactment of this Act, and before 
        December 31, 2023, each covered agency shall implement the 
        guidelines required under this subsection, which shall--
                    (A) apply to any covered loan for the sale, or 
                refinancing of any loan for the sale, of any home; and
                    (B) be available on any residential real property, 
                including individual units of condominiums and 
                cooperatives, that qualifies for a covered loan.
    (e) Monitoring.--Not later than 1 year after the date on which the 
enhanced eligibility and underwriting valuation requirements are 
implemented under this section, and every year thereafter, each covered 
agency with relevant activity shall issue and make available to the 
public a report that--
            (1) enumerates the number of covered loans of the agency 
        for which there was an energy efficiency report, and that used 
        energy efficiency appraisal guidelines and enhanced loan 
        eligibility requirements;
            (2) includes the default rates and rates of foreclosures 
        for each category of loans; and
            (3) describes the risk premium, if any, that the agency has 
        priced into covered loans for which there was an energy 
        efficiency report.
    (f) Rulemaking.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary shall prescribe regulations 
        to carry out this section, in consultation with the Secretary 
        of Energy and the advisory group established in paragraph (2), 
        which may contain such classifications, differentiations, or 
        other provisions, and may provide for such proper 
        implementation and appropriate treatment of different types of 
        transactions, as the Secretary determines are necessary or 
        proper to effectuate the purposes of this section, to prevent 
        circumvention or evasion thereof, or to facilitate compliance 
        therewith.
            (2) Advisory group.--To assist in carrying out this 
        section, the Secretary shall establish an advisory group, 
        consisting of individuals representing the interests of--
                    (A) mortgage lenders;
                    (B) appraisers;
                    (C) energy raters and residential energy 
                consumption experts;
                    (D) energy efficiency organizations;
                    (E) real estate agents;
                    (F) home builders and remodelers;
                    (G) State energy officials; and
                    (H) others as determined by the Secretary.
    (g) Additional Study.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 18 months after the date of 
        enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall reconvene the 
        advisory group established in subsection (f)(2), in addition to 
        water and locational efficiency experts, to advise the 
        Secretary on the implementation of the enhanced energy 
        efficiency underwriting criteria established in subsections (c) 
        and (d).
            (2) Recommendations.--
                    (A) In general.--The advisory group established in 
                subsection (f)(2) shall provide recommendations to the 
                Secretary on any revisions or additions to the enhanced 
                energy efficiency underwriting criteria deemed 
                necessary by the group, which may include alternate 
                methods to better account for home energy costs and 
                additional factors to account for substantial and 
                regular costs of homeownership such as location-based 
                transportation costs and water costs.
                    (B) Legislative recommendations.--The Secretary 
                shall forward any legislative recommendations from the 
                advisory group to Congress for consideration.

SEC. 5. ENERGY-EFFICIENT CERTIFICATIONS FOR MANUFACTURED HOUSING WITH 
              MORTGAGES.

    Section 526 of the National Housing Act (12 U.S.C. 1735f-4(a)) is 
amended--
            (1) in subsection (a)--
                    (A) by striking ``, other than manufactured 
                homes,'' each place such term appears;
                    (B) by inserting after the period at the end the 
                following: ``The energy performance requirements 
                developed and established by the Secretary under this 
                section for manufactured homes shall require energy 
                star rating for wall fixtures, appliances, and 
                equipment in such housing.'';
                    (C) by inserting ``(1)'' after ``(a)''; and
                    (D) by adding at the end the following new 
                paragraphs:
            ``(2) The Secretary shall require, with respect to any 
        single- or multi-family residential housing subject to a 
        mortgage insured under this Act, that any approval or 
        certification of the housing for meeting any energy efficiency 
        or conservation criteria, standards, or requirements pursuant 
        to this title and any approval or certification required 
        pursuant to this title with respect to energy-conserving 
        improvements or any renewable energy sources, such as wind, 
        solar energy geothermal, or biomass, shall be conducted only by 
        an individual certified by a home energy rating system provider 
        who has been accredited to conduct such ratings by the Home 
        Energy Ratings System Council, the Residential Energy Services 
        Network, or such other appropriate national organization, as 
        the Secretary may provide, or by licensed professional 
        architect or engineer. If any organization makes a request to 
        the Secretary for approval to accredit individuals to conduct 
        energy efficiency or conservation ratings, the Secretary shall 
        review and approve or disapprove such request not later than 
        the expiration of the 6-month period beginning upon receipt of 
        such request.
            ``(3) The Secretary shall periodically examine the method 
        used to conduct inspections for compliance with the 
        requirements under this section, analyze various other 
        approaches for conducting such inspections, and review the 
        costs and benefits of the current method compared with other 
        methods.''; and
            (2) in subsection (b), by striking ``, other than a 
        manufactured home,''.

SEC. 6. MAKING IT GREEN.

    (a) Partnerships With Tree-Planting Organizations.--The Secretary 
shall establish and provide incentives for developers of housing for 
which any HUD financial assistance, as determined by the Secretary, is 
provided for development, maintenance, operation, or other costs, to 
enter into agreements and partnerships with tree-planting 
organizations, nurseries, and landscapers to certify that trees, 
shrubs, grasses, and other plants are planted in the proper manner, are 
provided adequate maintenance, and survive for at least 3 years after 
planting or are replaced. The financial assistance determined by the 
Secretary as eligible under this section shall take into consideration 
such factors as cost effectiveness and affordability.
    (b) Making It Green Plan.--In the case of any new or substantially 
rehabilitated housing for which HUD financial assistance, as determined 
in accordance with subsection (a), is provided by the Secretary for the 
development, construction, maintenance, rehabilitation, improvement, 
operation, or costs of the housing, including financial assistance 
provided through the Community Development Block Grant program under 
title I of the Housing and Community Development Act of 1974 (42 U.S.C. 
5301 et seq.), the Secretary shall require the development of a plan 
that provides for--
            (1) in the case of new construction and improvements, 
        siting of such housing and improvements in a manner that 
        provides for energy efficiency and conservation to the extent 
        feasible, taking into consideration location and project type;
            (2) minimization of the effects of construction, 
        rehabilitation, or other development on the condition of 
        existing trees;
            (3) selection and installation of indigenous trees, shrubs, 
        grasses, and other plants based upon applicable design 
        guidelines and standards of the International Society for 
        Arboriculture;
            (4) post-planting care and maintenance of the landscaping 
        relating to or affected by the housing in accordance with best 
        management practices; and
            (5) establishment of a goal for minimum greenspace or tree 
        canopy cover for the housing site for which such financial 
        assistance is provided, including guidelines and timetables 
        within which to achieve compliance with such minimum 
        requirements.
    (c) Partnerships.--In carrying out this section, the Secretary is 
encouraged to consult, as appropriate, with national organizations 
dedicated to providing housing assistance and related services to low-
income families, such as the Alliance for Community Trees and its 
affiliates, the American Nursery and Landscape Association, the 
American Society of Landscape Architects, and the National Arbor Day 
Foundation.

SEC. 7. INCLUDING SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT AND TRANSPORTATION STRATEGIES 
              IN COMPREHENSIVE HOUSING AFFORDABILITY STRATEGIES.

    Section 105(b) of the Cranston-Gonzalez National Affordable Housing 
Act (42 U.S.C. 12705(b)) is amended--
            (1) by striking ``and'' at the end of paragraph (19);
            (2) by striking the period at the end of paragraph (20) and 
        inserting ``; and'';
            (3) and by inserting after paragraph (20) the following new 
        paragraphs:
            ``(21) describe the jurisdiction's strategies to encourage 
        sustainable development for affordable housing, including 
        single-family and multifamily housing, as measured by--
                    ``(A) greater energy efficiency and use of 
                renewable energy sources, including any strategies 
                regarding compliance with the energy efficiency 
                standards under section 3(a) of the Green Neighborhoods 
                Act of 2020 and with the enhanced energy efficiency and 
                conservation standards, and the green building 
                standards, under section 3(b) of such Act;
                    ``(B) increased conservation, recycling, and reuse 
                of resources;
                    ``(C) more effective use of existing 
                infrastructure;
                    ``(D) use of building materials and methods that 
                are healthier for residents of the housing, including 
                use of building materials that are free of added known 
                carcinogens that are classified as Group 1 Known 
                Carcinogens by the International Agency for Research on 
                Cancer; and
                    ``(E) such other criteria as the Secretary 
                determines, in consultation with the Secretary of 
                Energy, the Secretary of Agriculture, and the 
                Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency, 
                are in accordance with the purposes of this paragraph; 
                and
            ``(22) describe the jurisdiction's efforts to coordinate 
        its housing strategy with its transportation planning 
        strategies to ensure to the extent practicable that residents 
        of affordable housing have access to public transportation.''.

SEC. 8. GRANT PROGRAM TO INCREASE SUSTAINABLE LOW-INCOME COMMUNITY 
              DEVELOPMENT CAPACITY.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary may make grants to nonprofit 
organizations to use for any of the following purposes:
            (1) Training, educating, supporting, or advising an 
        eligible community development organization or qualified youth 
        service and conservation corps in improving energy efficiency, 
        resource conservation and reuse, design strategies to maximize 
        energy efficiency, installing or constructing renewable energy 
        improvements (such as wind, wave, solar, biomass, and 
        geothermal energy sources), and effective use of existing 
        infrastructure in affordable housing and economic development 
        activities in low-income communities, taking into consideration 
        energy efficiency standards under section 3(a) of this Act and 
        with the enhanced energy efficiency and conservation standards, 
        and the green building standards, under section 3(b) of this 
        Act.
            (2) Providing loans, grants, or predevelopment assistance 
        to eligible community development organizations or qualified 
        youth service and conservation corps to carry out energy 
        efficiency improvements that comply with the energy efficiency 
        standards under section 3(a) of this Act, resource conservation 
        and reuse, and effective use of existing infrastructure in 
        affordable housing and economic development activities in low-
        income communities. In providing assistance under this 
        paragraph, the Secretary shall give more preference to 
        activities based on the extent to which the activities will 
        result in compliance with the enhanced energy efficiency and 
        conservation standards, and the green building standards, under 
        section 3(b) of this Act.
            (3) Such other purposes as the Secretary determines are in 
        accordance with the purposes of this subsection.
    (b) Application Requirement.--To be eligible for a grant under this 
section, a nonprofit organization shall prepare and submit to the 
Secretary an application at such time, in such manner, and containing 
such information as the Secretary may require.
    (c) Award of Contracts.--Contracts for architectural or engineering 
services funded with amounts from grants made under this section shall 
be awarded in accordance with chapter 11 of title 40, United States 
Code (relating to selection of architects and engineers).
    (d) Matching Requirement.--A grant made under this section may not 
exceed the amount that the nonprofit organization receiving the grant 
certifies, to the Secretary, will be provided (in cash or in-kind) from 
nongovernmental sources to carry out the purposes for which the grant 
is made.
    (e) Definitions.--For purposes of this section, the following 
definitions shall apply:
            (1) Nonprofit organization.--The term ``nonprofit 
        organization'' has the meaning given such term in section 104 
        of the Cranston-Gonzalez National Affordable Housing Act (42 
        U.S.C. 12704).
            (2) Eligible community development organization.--The term 
        ``eligible community development organization'' means--
                    (A) a unit of general local government (as defined 
                in section 104 of the Cranston-Gonzalez National 
                Affordable Housing Act (42 U.S.C. 12704));
                    (B) a community housing development organization 
                (as defined in section 104 of the Cranston-Gonzalez 
                National Affordable Housing Act (42 U.S.C. 12704));
                    (C) an Indian tribe or tribally designated housing 
                entity (as such terms are defined in section 4 of the 
                Native American Housing Assistance and Self-
                Determination Act of 1996 (25 U.S.C. 4103)); or
                    (D) a public housing agency, as such term is 
                defined in section 3(b) of the United States Housing 
                Act of 1937 (42 U.S.C. 1437(b)).
            (3) Low-income community.--The term ``low-income 
        community'' means a census tract in which 50 percent or more of 
        the households have an income which is less than 80 percent of 
        the greater of--
                    (A) the median gross income for such year for the 
                area in which such census tract is located; or
                    (B) the median gross income for such year for the 
                State in which such census tract is located.
    (f) Authorization of Appropriations.--There are authorized to be 
appropriated to the Secretary to carry out this section $20,000,000 for 
each of fiscal years 2021 through 2025.

SEC. 9. BENCHMARKING.

    (a) Definitions.--For purposes of this section, the following 
definitions shall apply:
            (1) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary 
        of Housing and Urban Development.
            (2) Hud-assisted property.--The term ``HUD-assisted 
        property'' means a property assisted by any of the following 
        programs:
                    (A) The program under section 202 of the Housing 
                Act of 1959 (12 U.S.C. 1701q) for supportive housing 
                for the elderly.
                    (B) The program under section 811 of the Cranston-
                Gonzalez National Affordable Housing Act (42 U.S.C. 
                8013) for supportive housing for persons with 
                disabilities.
                    (C) Any program under section 8 of the United 
                States Housing Act of 1937 (42 U.S.C. 1437f) for rental 
                assistance for low-income families.
                    (D) Any program for mortgage insurance for single-
                family housing under title II of the National Housing 
                Act (12 U.S.C. 1707 et seq.).
                    (E) The programs under section 223(a)(7), 223(f), 
                or 241(a) of the National Housing Act (12 U.S.C. 
                1715n(a), 1715n(f), 1715z-6(a)).
            (3) Benchmarked hud-assisted property.--The term 
        ``benchmarked HUD-assisted property'' means a HUD-assisted 
        property with respect to which energy and water benchmarking 
        data is required by a State or local authority to be reported 
        through the ENERGY STAR Portfolio Manager.
            (4) Climate zone.--The term ``Climate Zone'' means a region 
        of the United States as defined by the Environmental Protection 
        Agency under the ENERGY STAR program or the Office of Energy 
        Efficiency and Renewable Energy of the Department of Energy.
    (b) Benchmarking Report.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than the expiration of the 1-
        year period beginning on the date of the enactment of this Act, 
        the Secretary shall submit to the Committee on Financial 
        Services of the House of Representatives and the Committee on 
        Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs of the Senate, a report 
        that includes--
                    (A) an assessment of the current state of energy 
                and water use benchmarking in the multifamily property 
                sector;
                    (B) data identifying the number and square footage 
                of multifamily properties that are required by State or 
                local authorities to report benchmarking data, the 
                proportion that are HUD-assisted properties, and the 
                proportion of all HUD-assisted properties that are 
                subject to such requirements;
                    (C) data identifying multifamily properties that 
                participate in each pathway in the HUD Green Mortgage 
                Insurance Premium program, including the number and 
                square footage of participating properties and the 
                proportion of eligible properties participating;
                    (D) data identifying multifamily properties that 
                participate in the HUD Better Buildings Challenge, 
                including the number and square footage of 
                participating properties;
                    (E) estimates of the extent of HUD-assisted 
                properties that are not conducting energy and water 
                benchmarking;
                    (F) estimates of potential energy and Federal cost 
                savings if various levels of efficiency were 
                implemented in HUD-assisted properties;
                    (G) information identifying the typical costs of 
                multifamily benchmarking and resources available to 
                support multifamily owners and operators in 
                benchmarking; and
                    (H) information relevant to the impact of 
                multifamily benchmarking, including published research 
                studies.
            (2) Public availability.--The Secretary shall make the 
        report publicly available on the website of HUD.
    (c) Provision of Existing Benchmarking Data.--
            (1) Policies.--Not later than the expiration of the 6-month 
        period beginning on the date of the enactment of this Act, the 
        Secretary shall issue such regulations as may be necessary to 
        ensure that owners of benchmarked HUD-assisted properties 
        provide to the Secretary-selected ENERGY STAR Portfolio Manager 
        data for the property. In developing such regulations, the 
        Secretary shall--
                    (A) provide for data to be released in a manner 
                that protects information that identifies particular 
                properties, but retains essential geographical and 
                building characteristics to enable aggregate analysis;
                    (B) require data sharing not less often than every 
                three years;
                    (C) identifies the minimum data to be shared; and
                    (D) develop mechanisms to streamline data requests 
                and sharing in collaboration with the Environmental 
                Protection Agency ENERGY STAR program.
            (2) Analysis.--Not later than the expiration of the 2-year 
        period beginning on the date of the enactment of this Act and 
        annually thereafter, the Secretary shall conduct an analysis of 
        the data received under this subsection and shall make the 
        findings publicly available on the website of HUD.
    (d) Energy Use Targets by Climate Zone.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than the expiration of the 1-
        year period beginning on the date of the enactment of this Act, 
        the Secretary shall--
                    (A) compile energy consumption and bill data from 
                multifamily properties that is provided to HUD in 
                connection with utility allowance determination and 
                capital needs assessment activities;
                    (B) analyze the data in order to better understand 
                energy consumption patterns and trends throughout the 
                portfolio of properties represented, including relevant 
                subcategory types of multifamily properties;
                    (C) using the data from subparagraphs (A) and (B), 
                develop energy intensity statistics for each climate 
                zone and multifamily subcategory; and
                    (D) using the data from subparagraphs (A) and (B), 
                develop energy intensity targets for each climate zone 
                and multifamily subcategory reflecting energy 
                efficiency performance of at least 25 percent below the 
                baseline and related to ENERGY STAR performance scores 
                for each respective climate zone and multifamily 
                subcategory.
            (2) Public availability.--The Secretary shall make the 
        analysis and energy intensity targets publicly available on the 
        website of HUD.
    (e) Multifamily Utility Benchmarking Toolkit.--The Secretary shall 
maintain and update, from time to time, the Multifamily Utility 
Benchmarking Toolkit.
    (f) Stakeholder Engagement.--In carrying out this section, the 
Secretary shall--
            (1) engage with stakeholders regarding multifamily 
        sustainability, including providing education and opportunities 
        for robust stakeholder input; and
            (2) conduct targeted outreach to representatives of public 
        housing agencies, housing and tenant advocates, multifamily 
        property owners and managers, energy efficiency organizations, 
        State and local governments, multifamily finance entities, and 
        other interested groups.

SEC. 10. WORKFORCE DEVELOPMENT.

    Subtitle D of title I of the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity 
Act (29 U.S.C. 3221 et seq.) is amended by adding at the end the 
following:

``SEC. 173. GRANTS FOR REGISTERED APPRENTICESHIP PROGRAMS IN CERTAIN 
              INDUSTRIES.

    ``(a) In General.--The Secretary shall provide grants to workforce 
development boards, labor organizations, nonprofit organizations, and 
businesses for the purpose of establishing training and registered 
apprenticeship programs with respect to the following industries:
            ``(1) Energy-efficient building, construction, and retrofit 
        industries.
            ``(2) Deconstruction and materials use industries.
            ``(3) Energy efficiency assessment industry serving 
        residential, commercial, or industrial sectors.
            ``(4) Manufacturers that produce sustainable processes and 
        materials.
            ``(5) Building maintenance and management.
    ``(b) Requirements.--The Secretary shall require a recipient of a 
grant under this section, as a condition of receipt of such grant--
            ``(1) to advertise opportunities available as a result of 
        such grant--
                    ``(A) on a publicly available website; and
                    ``(B) to dislocated workers;
            ``(2) to coordinate such program with related efforts of--
                    ``(A) local governments and subdivisions thereof; 
                and
                    ``(B) labor, industry, and environmental advocacy 
                groups;
            ``(3) on an annual basis, to submit to the Secretary a 
        report with respect to the area served by the recipient on--
                    ``(A) the availability of employment opportunities 
                in the relevant field;
                    ``(B) the risk of an increase in unemployment in 
                such field; and
                    ``(C) other employment trends in such field.
    ``(c) Eligible Use of Funds.--A recipient of a grant under this 
section may use such funds to cover the costs associated with an 
employee participating in a Registered Apprenticeship Program, 
including wages of, or stipends for, employees for the duration of the 
Registered Apprenticeship Program.
    ``(d) Report.--Not later than 1 year after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, and annually thereafter, the Secretary shall 
submit to Congress a report on the effects of grants issued under this 
section, including a description of--
            ``(1) the number of individuals who are employed upon 
        completion of a registered apprenticeship program funded under 
        this section;
            ``(2) a description of the wages, benefits, and quality of 
        employment that such individuals receive upon completion of 
        such program;
            ``(3) a description of the demographics of individuals who 
        receive such employment; and
            ``(4) the retention rate of individuals who are employed 
        upon completion of a registered apprenticeship program funded 
        under this section.
    ``(e) Authorization.--There is authorized to be appropriated to 
carry out this section $100,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2021 
through 2025.''.

SEC. 11. ENSURING AVAILABILITY OF HOMEOWNERS INSURANCE FOR HOMES NOT 
              CONNECTED TO ELECTRICITY GRID.

    (a) Congressional Intent.--The Congress intends that--
            (1) consumers shall not be denied homeowners insurance for 
        a dwelling (as such term is defined in subsection (c)) based 
        solely on the fact that the dwelling is not connected to or 
        able to receive electricity service from any wholesale or 
        retail electric power provider;
            (2) States should ensure that consumers are able to obtain 
        homeowners insurance for such dwellings;
            (3) States should support insurers that develop voluntary 
        incentives to provide such insurance; and
            (4) States may not prohibit insurers from offering a 
        homeowners insurance product specifically designed for such 
        dwellings.
    (b) Insuring Homes and Related Property in Indian Areas.--
Notwithstanding any other provision of law, dwellings located in Indian 
areas (as such term is defined in section 4 of the Native American 
Housing Assistance and Self-Determination Act of 1996 (25 U.S.C. 4103)) 
and constructed or maintained using assistance, loan guarantees, or 
other authority under the Native American Housing Assistance and Self-
Determination Act of 1996 may be insured by any tribally owned self-
insurance risk pool approved by the Secretary of Housing and Urban 
Development.
    (c) Dwelling Defined.--For purposes of this section, the term 
``dwelling'' means a residential structure that--
            (1) consists of one to four dwelling units;
            (2) is provided electricity from renewable energy sources; 
        and
            (3) is not connected to any wholesale or retail electrical 
        power grid.

SEC. 12. DEFINITIONS.

    For purposes of this Act, the following definitions shall apply:
            (1) Green building standards.--The term ``green building 
        standards'' means standards to require use of sustainable 
        design principles to reduce the use of nonrenewable resources, 
        encourage energy-efficient construction and rehabilitation and 
        the use of renewable energy resources, minimize the impact of 
        development on the environment, and improve indoor air quality.
            (2) HUD.--The term ``HUD'' means the Department of Housing 
        and Urban Development.
            (3) HUD assistance.--The term ``HUD assistance'' means 
        financial assistance that is awarded, competitively or 
        noncompetitively, allocated by formula, or provided by HUD 
        through loan insurance or guarantee.
            (4) Nonresidential structure.--The term ``nonresidential 
        structures'' means only nonresidential structures that are 
        appurtenant to single-family or multifamily housing residential 
        structures, or those that are funded by the Secretary of 
        Housing and Urban Development through the HUD Community 
        Development Block Grant program.
            (5) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'', unless otherwise 
        specified, means the Secretary of Housing and Urban 
        Development.
                                 &lt;all&gt;
</pre></body></html>
