<html><body><pre>
[Congressional Bills 116th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H.R. 5470 Introduced in House (IH)]

&lt;DOC&gt;






116th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                H. R. 5470

    To ensure American leadership in low-Earth orbit and deep space 
                  exploration, and for other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                           December 17, 2019

Mr. Weber of Texas introduced the following bill; which was referred to 
            the Committee on Science, Space, and Technology

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
    To ensure American leadership in low-Earth orbit and deep space 
                  exploration, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE; TABLE OF CONTENTS.

    (a) Short Title.--This Act may be cited as the ``U.S. Leadership in 
Space Act of 2019''.
    (b) Table of Contents.--The table of contents of this Act is as 
follows:

Sec. 1. Short title; table of contents.
Sec. 2. Definitions.
               TITLE I--HUMAN SPACEFLIGHT AND EXPLORATION

Sec. 101. Steppingstone approach to exploration.
Sec. 102. Technical amendments relating to Artemis missions.
Sec. 103. Establishment of Artemis program management office.
Sec. 104. Advanced cislunar and lunar surface capabilities.
Sec. 105. Advanced spacesuits.
Sec. 106. Life science and physical science research.
Sec. 107. Value of International Space Station and capabilities in low-
                            Earth orbit.
Sec. 108. Extension and modification relating to International Space 
                            Station.
Sec. 109. Commercial development in low-Earth orbit.
Sec. 110. Maintaining a national laboratory in space.
                   TITLE II--SAFETY AND TRANSPARENCY

Sec. 201. Crew transportation safety.
                   TITLE III--U.S. NATIONAL SECURITY

Sec. 301. Cybersecurity.
Sec. 302. Exemption from the Iran, North Korea, and Syria 
                            Nonproliferation Act.
Sec. 303. Limitation on cooperation with the People's Republic of 
                            China.
Sec. 304. Countering Chinese threats to U.S. activities in space.
Sec. 305. Consideration of issues related to contracting with entities 
                            receiving assistance from or affiliated 
                            with the People's Republic of China.

SEC. 2. DEFINITIONS.

    In this Act:
            (1) Administration.--The term ``Administration'' means the 
        National Aeronautics and Space Administration.
            (2) Administrator.--The term ``Administrator'' means the 
        Administrator of the National Aeronautics and Space 
        Administration.
            (3) Appropriate committees of congress.--Except as 
        otherwise expressly provided, the term ``appropriate committees 
        of Congress'' means--
                    (A) the Committee on Commerce, Science, and 
                Transportation of the Senate; and
                    (B) the Committee on Science, Space, and Technology 
                of the House of Representatives.
            (4) Cislunar space.--The term ``cislunar space'' means the 
        region of space beyond low-Earth orbit out to and including the 
        region around the surface of the Moon.
            (5) Deep space.--The term ``deep space'' means the region 
        of space beyond low-Earth orbit, including cislunar space.
            (6) Development cost.--The term ``development cost'' has 
        the meaning given the term in section 30104 of title 51, United 
        States Code.
            (7) ISS.--The term ``ISS'' means the International Space 
        Station.
            (8) ISS management entity.--The term ``ISS management 
        entity'' means the organization with which the Administrator 
        has entered into a cooperative agreement under section 504(a) 
        of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration 
        Authorization Act of 2010 (42 U.S.C. 18354(a)).
            (9) NASA.--The term ``NASA'' means the National Aeronautics 
        and Space Administration.
            (10) Johnson space center.--The term ``Johnson Space 
        Center'' means the Lyndon B. Johnson Space Center in Houston, 
        Texas.
            (11) Orion.--The term ``Orion'' means the multipurpose crew 
        vehicle described in section 303 of the National Aeronautics 
        and Space Administration Authorization Act of 2010 (42 U.S.C. 
        18323).
            (12) OSTP.--The term ``OSTP'' means the Office of Science 
        and Technology Policy.
            (13) Space launch system.--The term ``Space Launch System'' 
        means the Space Launch System authorized under section 302 of 
        the National Aeronautics and Space Administration Act of 2010 
        (42 U.S.C. 18322).
            (14) Lunar gateway.--The term ``Lunar Gateway'' means the 
        Lunar Orbital Platform referenced in the Consolidated 
        Appropriations Act, 2019 (Public Law 116-6).

               TITLE I--HUMAN SPACEFLIGHT AND EXPLORATION

SEC. 101. STEPPINGSTONE APPROACH TO EXPLORATION.

    (a) In General.--Section 70504 of title 51, United States Code, is 
amended to read as follows:
``Sec. 70504. Steppingstone approach to exploration
    ``(a) In General.--The Administrator, in sustainable steps, may 
conduct missions to intermediate destinations, such as the Moon, in 
accordance with section 20302(b), and on a timetable determined by the 
availability of funding, in order to achieve the objective of human 
exploration of Mars specified in section 202(b)(5) of the National 
Aeronautics and Space Administration Authorization Act of 2010 (42 
U.S.C. 18312(b)(5)), if the Administrator--
            ``(1) determines that each such mission demonstrates or 
        advances a technology or operational concept that will enable 
        human missions to Mars; and
            ``(2) incorporates each such mission into the human 
        exploration roadmap under section 432 of the National 
        Aeronautics and Space Administration Transition Authorization 
        Act of 2017 (Public Law 115-10; 51 U.S.C. 20302 note).
    ``(b) Cislunar Space Exploration Activities.--In conducting a 
mission under subsection (a), the Administrator shall--
            ``(1) use a combination of launches of the Space Launch 
        System and space transportation services from United States 
        commercial providers, as appropriate, for the mission;
            ``(2) plan for not fewer than one Space Launch System 
        launch annually beginning after the Artemis II mission; and
            ``(3) establish an outpost in orbit around the Moon that--
                    ``(A) demonstrates technologies, systems, and 
                operational concepts directly applicable to the space 
                vehicle that will be used to transport humans to Mars;
                    ``(B) has the capability for periodic human 
                habitation; and
                    ``(C) can function as a point of departure, return, 
                or staging for Administration or nongovernmental or 
                international partner missions to multiple locations on 
                the lunar surface or other destinations.
    ``(c) Cost-Effectiveness.--To maximize the cost-effectiveness of 
the long-term space exploration and utilization activities of the 
United States, the Administrator shall take all necessary steps, 
including engaging nongovernmental and international partners, to 
ensure that activities in the Administration's human space exploration 
program are balanced in order to help meet the requirements of future 
exploration and utilization activities leading to human habitation on 
the surface of Mars.
    ``(d) Completion.--Within budgetary considerations, once an 
exploration-related project enters its development phase, the 
Administrator shall seek, to the maximum extent practicable, to 
complete that project without undue delay.
    ``(e) International Participation.--To achieve the goal of 
successfully conducting a crewed mission to the surface of Mars, the 
Administrator shall invite the partners in the ISS program and other 
nations, as appropriate, to participate in an international initiative 
under the leadership of the United States.''.
    (b) Definition of Cislunar Space.--Section 10101 of title 51, 
United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following:
            ``(3) Cislunar space.--The term `cislunar space' means the 
        region of space beyond low-Earth orbit out to and including the 
        region around the surface of the Moon.''.
    (c) Technical and Conforming Amendments.--Section 3 of the National 
Aeronautics and Space Administration Authorization Act of 2010 (42 
U.S.C. 18302) is amended by striking paragraphs (2) and (3) and 
inserting the following:
            ``(2) Appropriate committees of congress.--The term 
        `appropriate committees of Congress' means--
                    ``(A) the Committee on Commerce, Science, and 
                Transportation of the Senate; and
                    ``(B) the Committee on Science, Space, and 
                Technology of the House of Representatives.
            ``(3) Cislunar space.--The term `cislunar space' means the 
        region of space beyond low-Earth orbit out to and including the 
        region around the surface of the Moon.''.

SEC. 102. TECHNICAL AMENDMENTS RELATING TO ARTEMIS MISSIONS.

            (1) Section 421 of the National Aeronautics and Space 
        Administration Authorization Act of 2017 (Public Law 115-10; 51 
        U.S.C. 20301 note) is amended--
                    (A) in subsection (c)(3)--
                            (i) by striking ``EM-1'' and inserting 
                        ``Artemis I'';
                            (ii) by striking ``EM-2'' and inserting 
                        ``Artemis II''; and
                            (iii) by striking ``EM-3'' and inserting 
                        ``Artemis III''; and
                    (B) in subsection (f)(3), by striking ``EM-3'' and 
                inserting ``Artemis III''.
            (2) Section 432(b) of the National Aeronautics and Space 
        Administration Authorization Act of 2017 (Public Law 115-10; 51 
        U.S.C. 20302 note) is amended--
                    (A) in paragraph (3)(D)--
                            (i) by striking ``EM-1'' and inserting 
                        ``Artemis I''; and
                            (ii) by striking ``EM-2'' and inserting 
                        ``Artemis II''; and
                    (B) in paragraph (4)(C), by striking ``EM-3'' and 
                inserting ``Artemis III''.

SEC. 103. ESTABLISHMENT OF ARTEMIS PROGRAM MANAGEMENT OFFICE.

    (a) Sense of Congress.--It is the sense of Congress that--
            (1) the Johnson Space Center was established in 1961 to 
        serve as the centralized location to house the organizations 
        that led the Apollo program;
            (2) the Johnson Space Center has decades of experience 
        working with international partners, other Federal agencies, 
        and partners in industry and academia to study, develop, and 
        carry out the human spaceflight priorities of the United 
        States;
            (3) the Johnson Space Center's architecture and program 
        roles include crewed mission management, program definition and 
        management, systems analysis and concepts, as well as overall 
        crewed destination system development integration;
            (4) NASA has documented its lessons learned for complex 
        program management within the NASA Policy Directive (NPD 
        7120.4) for Program/Project Management and NASA Space Flight 
        Program and Project Management Requirements (NPR 7120.5). These 
        documents delineate the scope and expectations for successful 
        program implementation in NASA; and
            (5) the Artemis program should leverage the expertise 
        unique to Johnson Space Center.
    (b) Establishment of Artemis Program Management Office.--
            (1) In general.--The Administrator shall establish the 
        Artemis program management office at Johnson Space Center.

SEC. 104. ADVANCED CISLUNAR AND LUNAR SURFACE CAPABILITIES.

    (a) Sense of Congress.--It is the sense of Congress that--
            (1) NASA developed the Artemis program--
                    (A) to fulfill the goal of landing United States 
                astronauts, including the first woman and the next man, 
                on the Moon by 2024; and
                    (B) to collaborate with commercial and 
                international partners to establish sustainable lunar 
                exploration by 2028; and
            (2) in carrying out the Artemis program, the Administration 
        should ensure that the entire Artemis program is inclusive and 
        representative of all people of the United States, including 
        women and minorities.
    (b) Lander Program.--
            (1) In general.--The Administrator shall foster the flight 
        demonstration of not more than 2 human-class lunar lander 
        designs through public-private partnerships.
            (2) Initial development phase.--The Administrator may 
        support the formulation of more than 2 concepts in the initial 
        development phase.
    (c) Lunar Gateway Program.--
            (1) In general.--The Administrator shall establish an 
        outpost in orbit around the Moon that--
                    (A) demonstrates technologies, systems, and 
                operational concepts directly applicable to the space 
                vehicle that will be used to transport humans to Mars;
                    (B) has the capability for periodic human 
                habitation; and
                    (C) can function as a point of departure, return, 
                or staging for Administration or nongovernmental or 
                international partner missions to multiple locations on 
                the lunar surface or other destinations.
    (d) Requirements.--In carrying out the programs under subsection 
(b) and subsection (c), the Administrator shall--
            (1) enter into industry-led partnerships using a fixed-
        price, milestone-based approach;
            (2) to the maximum extent practicable, encourage 
        reusability and sustainability of systems developed;
            (3) ensure availability of one or more lunar polar science 
        payloads for a demonstration mission; and
            (4) to the maximum extent practicable, offer existing 
        capabilities and assets of NASA centers to support these 
        partnerships.
    (e) Full Utilization of Space Launch System, Exploration Upper 
Stage, and Exploration Ground Systems.--In carrying out the program 
under subsection (b), the Administrator shall--
            (1) to the maximum extent practicable, make use of the 
        Space Launch System, Exploration Upper Stage, Exploration 
        Ground Systems, and associated facilities and infrastructure 
        available for the launch of an integrated Human Landing System; 
        and
            (2) as space allows, add secondary payload capacity on the 
        Space Launch System to support ongoing Human Landing Systems 
        and Lunar Gateway elements.

SEC. 105. ADVANCED SPACESUITS.

    (a) Sense of Congress.--It is the sense of Congress that next-
generation advanced spacesuits are a critical technology for human 
space exploration and use of low-Earth orbit, cislunar space, the 
surface of the Moon, and Mars.
    (b) Development Plan.--The Administrator shall establish a detailed 
plan for the development and manufacture of advanced spacesuits, 
consistent with the deep space exploration goals and timetables of 
NASA.
    (c) Diverse Astronaut Corps.--The Administrator shall ensure that 
spacesuits developed and manufactured after the date of the enactment 
of this Act are capable of accommodating a wide range of sizes of 
astronauts so as to meet the needs of the diverse NASA astronaut corps.
    (d) ISS Use.--Throughout the operational life of the ISS, the 
Administrator should fully use the ISS for testing advanced spacesuits.
    (e) Prior Investments.--
            (1) In general.--In developing an advanced spacesuit, the 
        Administrator shall, to the maximum extent practicable, 
        leverage prior and existing investments in advanced spacesuit 
        technologies to maximize the benefits of such investments and 
        technologies.
            (2) Agreements with private entities.--In carrying out this 
        subsection, the Administrator may enter into one or more 
        agreements with one or more private entities for the 
        manufacture of advanced spacesuits, as the Administrator 
        considers appropriate.
    (f) Briefing.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, and semiannually thereafter until NASA procures 
advanced spacesuits under this section, the Administrator shall brief 
the appropriate committees of Congress on the development plan in 
subsection (b).

SEC. 106. LIFE SCIENCE AND PHYSICAL SCIENCE RESEARCH.

    (a) Sense of Congress.--It is the sense of Congress that--
            (1) the 2011 decadal survey on biological and physical 
        sciences in space identifies--
                    (A) many areas in which fundamental scientific 
                research is needed to efficiently advance the range of 
                human activities in space, from the first stages of 
                exploration to eventual economic development; and
                    (B) many areas of basic and applied scientific 
                research that could use the microgravity, radiation, 
                and other aspects of the spaceflight environment to 
                answer fundamental scientific questions;
            (2) given the central role of life science and physical 
        science research in developing the future of space exploration, 
        NASA should continue to invest strategically in such research 
        to maintain United States leadership in space exploration; and
            (3) such research remains important to the objectives of 
        NASA with respect to long-duration deep space human exploration 
        to the Moon and Mars, and developing a commercial space economy 
        in low-Earth orbit.
    (b) Program Continuation.--
            (1) In general.--In support of the goals described in 
        section 20302 of title 51, United States Code, the 
        Administrator shall continue to implement a collaborative, 
        multidisciplinary life science and physical science fundamental 
        research program--
                    (A) to build a scientific foundation for the 
                exploration and development of space;
                    (B) to investigate the mechanisms of changes to 
                biological systems and physical systems, and the 
                environments of those systems in space, including the 
                effects of long-duration exposure to deep space-related 
                environmental factors on those systems;
                    (C) to understand the effects of combined deep 
                space radiation and altered gravity levels on 
                biological systems so as to inform the development and 
                testing of potential countermeasures;
                    (D) to understand physical phenomena in reduced 
                gravity that affect design and performance of enabling 
                technologies necessary for the space exploration 
                program;
                    (E) to provide scientific opportunities to educate, 
                train, and develop the next generation of researchers 
                and engineers; and
                    (F) to provide state-of-the-art data repositories 
                and curation of large multi-data sets to enable 
                comparative research analyses.
            (2) Elements.--The program under paragraph (1) shall--
                    (A) include fundamental research relating to life 
                science, space bioscience, and physical science; and
                    (B) maximize intra-agency and interagency 
                partnerships to advance space exploration, scientific 
                knowledge, and benefits to Earth.
            (3) Use of facilities.--In carrying out the program under 
        paragraph (1), the Administrator may use ground-based, air-
        based, and space-based facilities in low-Earth orbit and beyond 
        low-Earth orbit.
    (c) Lunar Discovery Programs.--
            (1) In general.--The Administrator may carry out a program 
        to conduct lunar science research, including missions to the 
        surface of the Moon, that materially contributes to the 
        objective described in section 20102(d)(1) of title 51, United 
        States Code.
                    (A) Commercial landers.--In carrying out a program 
                under subsection (a), the Administrator may procure the 
                services of commercial landers developed primarily by 
                United States industry to land science payloads of all 
                classes on the lunar surface.
                    (B) Lunar science research.--The Administrator 
                shall ensure that lunar science research carried out 
                under subsection (a) is consistent with recommendations 
                made by the National Academies of Sciences, 
                Engineering, and Medicine.
                    (C) Lunar polar volatiles.--In carrying out a 
                program under subsection (a), the Administrator shall, 
                at the earliest opportunity, consider mission proposals 
                to evaluate the potential of lunar polar volatiles to 
                contribute to sustainable lunar exploration.

SEC. 107. VALUE OF INTERNATIONAL SPACE STATION AND CAPABILITIES IN LOW-
              EARTH ORBIT.

    (a) Sense of Congress.--It is the sense of Congress that--
            (1) it is in the national and economic security interests 
        of the United States to maintain a continuous human presence in 
        low-Earth orbit;
            (2) low-Earth orbit should be used as a test bed to advance 
        human space exploration and scientific discoveries; and
            (3) the ISS is a critical component of economic, 
        commercial, and industrial development in low-Earth orbit.
    (b) Human Presence Requirement.--The United States shall 
continuously maintain the capability for a continuous human presence in 
low-Earth orbit through and beyond the useful life of the ISS.

SEC. 108. EXTENSION AND MODIFICATION RELATING TO INTERNATIONAL SPACE 
              STATION.

    (a) Policy.--Section 501(a) of the National Aeronautics and Space 
Administration Authorization Act of 2010 (42 U.S.C. 18351(a)) is 
amended by striking ``2024'' and inserting ``2030''.
    (b) Maintenance of United States Segment and Assurance of Continued 
Operations.--Section 503(a) of the National Aeronautics and Space 
Administration Authorization Act of 2010 (42 U.S.C. 18353(a)) is 
amended by striking ``September 30, 2024'' and inserting ``September 
30, 2030''.
    (c) Research Capacity Allocation and Integration of Research 
Payloads.--Section 504(d) of the National Aeronautics and Space 
Administration Authorization Act of 2010 (42 U.S.C. 18354(d)) is 
amended--
            (1) in paragraph (1), in the first sentence--
                    (A) by striking ``As soon as practicable'' and all 
                that follows through ``2011,'' and inserting ``The''; 
                and
                    (B) by striking ``September 30, 2024'' and 
                inserting ``September 30, 2030''; and
            (2) in paragraph (2), in the third sentence, by striking 
        ``September 30, 2024'' and inserting ``September 30, 2030''.
    (d) Maintenance of Use.--
            (1) In general.--Section 70907 of title 51, United States 
        Code, is amended--
                    (A) in the section heading, by striking ``2024'' 
                and inserting ``2030'';
                    (B) in subsection (a), by striking ``September 30, 
                2024'' and inserting ``September 30, 2030''; and
                    (C) in subsection (b)(3), by striking ``September 
                30, 2024'' and inserting ``September 30, 2030''.
    (e) Transition Plan Reports.--Section 50111(c)(2) of title 51, 
United States Code, is amended--
            (1) in the matter preceding subparagraph (A), by striking 
        ``2023'' and inserting ``2028''; and
            (2) in subparagraph (J), by striking ``2028'' and inserting 
        ``2030''.
    (f) Elimination of International Space Station National Laboratory 
Advisory Committee.--Section 70906 of title 51, United States Code, is 
repealed.
    (g) Conforming Amendments.--Chapter 709 of title 51, United States 
Code, is amended--
            (1) by redesignating section 70907 as section 70906; and
            (2) in the table of sections for the chapter, by striking 
        the items relating to sections 70906 and 70907 and inserting 
        the following:

``Sec. 70906. Maintaining use through at least 2030.''.

SEC. 109. COMMERCIAL DEVELOPMENT IN LOW-EARTH ORBIT.

    (a) Statement of Policy.--It is the policy of the United States to 
encourage the development of a thriving and robust United States 
commercial sector in low-Earth orbit.
    (b) Preference for United States Commercial Products and 
Services.--The Administrator shall continue to increase the use of 
assets, products, and services of private entities in the United States 
to fulfill the low-Earth orbit requirements of the Administration.
    (c) Noncompetition.--
            (1) In general.--Except as provided in paragraph (2), the 
        Administrator may not offer to a foreign person or a foreign 
        government a spaceflight product or service relating to the 
        ISS, if a comparable spaceflight product or service, as 
        applicable, is offered by a private entity in the United 
        States.
            (2) Exception.--The Administrator may offer a space-flight 
        product or service relating to the ISS to the government of a 
        country that is a signatory to the Agreement Among the 
        Government of Canada, Governments of Member States of the 
        European Space Agency, the Government of Japan, the Government 
        of the Russian Federation, and the Government of the United 
        States of America Concerning Cooperation on the Civil 
        International Space Station, signed at Washington January 29, 
        1998, and entered into force on March 27, 2001 (TIAS 12927). 
        This includes any foreign nationals that are sponsored by the 
        signatories of the Agreement.
    (d) Short-Duration Commercial Missions.--To provide opportunities 
for additional transport of astronauts to the ISS and help establish a 
commercial market in low-Earth orbit, the Administrator may permit 
short-duration missions to the ISS for commercial passengers.
    (e) Program Authorization.--
            (1) Establishment.--The Administrator shall establish a 
        low-Earth orbit development program to encourage the fullest 
        commercial use and development of space by private entities in 
        the United States.
            (2) Elements.--The program established under paragraph (1) 
        shall, to the maximum extent practicable, include activities--
                    (A) to stimulate demand for--
                            (i) space-based commercial research, 
                        development, and manufacturing;
                            (ii) spaceflight products and services; and
                            (iii) human spaceflight products and 
                        services in low-Earth orbit;
                    (B) to improve the capability of the ISS to 
                accommodate commercial users; and
                    (C) subject to paragraph (3), to foster the 
                development of commercial space stations and habitats.
            (3) Commercial space stations and habitats.--
                    (A) Priority.--With respect to an activity to 
                develop a commercial space station or habitat, the 
                Administrator shall give priority to an activity for 
                which a private entity provides a share of the cost to 
                develop and operate the activity.
                    (B) Limitation.--The Administrator may not provide 
                funding for the development of a commercial space 
                station or habitat until after the date on which the 
                Administrator awards a contract for the use of a 
                docking port on the ISS.
                    (C) Report.--Not later than 30 days after the date 
                that an award or agreement is made to carry out an 
                activity to develop a commercial space station or 
                habitat, the Administrator shall submit to the 
                appropriate committees of Congress a report on the 
                development of the commercial space station or habitat, 
                as applicable, that includes--
                            (i) a business plan that describes the 
                        manner in which the project will--
                                    (I) meet the future requirements of 
                                NASA for low-Earth orbit human space-
                                flight services; and
                                    (II) fulfill the cost-share funding 
                                prioritization under subparagraph (A); 
                                and
                            (ii) a review of the viability of the 
                        operational business case, including--
                                    (I) the level of expected 
                                Government participation;
                                    (II) a list of anticipated 
                                nongovernmental and international 
                                customers and associated contributions; 
                                and
                                    (III) an assessment of long-term 
                                sustainability for the nongovernmental 
                                customers, including an independent 
                                assessment of the viability of the 
                                market for such commercial services or 
                                products.

SEC. 110. MAINTAINING A NATIONAL LABORATORY IN SPACE.

    (a) Sense of Congress.--It is the sense of Congress that--
            (1) the United States segment of the International Space 
        Station (as defined in section 70905 of title 51, United States 
        Code), which is designated as a national laboratory under 
        section 70905(b) of title 51, United States Code--
                    (A) benefits the scientific community and promotes 
                commerce in space;
                    (B) fosters stronger relationships among NASA and 
                other Federal agencies, the private sector, and 
                research groups and universities;
                    (C) advances science, technology, engineering, and 
                mathematics education through use of the unique 
                microgravity environment; and
                    (D) advances human knowledge and international 
                cooperation;
            (2) after the ISS is decommissioned, the United States 
        should maintain a national microgravity laboratory in space;
            (3) in maintaining a national microgravity laboratory in 
        space, the United States should make appropriate accommodations 
        for different types of ownership and operation arrangements for 
        the ISS and future space stations;
            (4) to the maximum extent practicable, a national 
        microgravity laboratory in space should be maintained in 
        cooperation with international space partners; and
            (5) NASA should continue to support fundamental science 
        research on future platforms in low-Earth orbit and cislunar 
        space, orbital and suborbital flights, drop towers, and other 
        microgravity testing environments.
    (b) Report.--The Administrator, in coordination with the National 
Space Council and other Federal agencies as the Administrator considers 
appropriate, shall issue a report detailing the feasibility of 
establishing a microgravity national laboratory federally funded 
research and development center to carry out activities relating to the 
study and use of in-space conditions.

                   TITLE II--SAFETY AND TRANSPARENCY

SEC. 201. CREW TRANSPORTATION SAFETY.

    (a) Sense of Congress.--It is the sense of Congress that--
            (1) ensuring the safety of American astronauts is the top 
        priority of NASA's human spaceflight program;
            (2) in efforts to meet deadlines to return humans to the 
        Moon, NASA should take all steps necessary to mitigate any and 
        all risk to crew; and
            (3) it is the role of Congress to exercise prudence in the 
        use of taxpayer dollars and ensure transparency to the taxpayer 
        to the greatest extent possible.
    (b) In General.--To ensure that NASA's human exploration systems 
comply with the direction in this Act to have a shared safety standard 
that is consistent across all elements of the architecture, the 
Administrator shall--
            (1) implement a program to ensure that best practices, 
        lessons learned and other information is shared across all 
        elements of the human exploration program, including public-
        private partnerships and commercial service procurement;
            (2) require that any entity receiving funding for the 
        development or operation of a human spaceflight element or 
        activity make all necessary information available to NASA and 
        the appropriate government oversight entities, including the 
        NASA Advisory Committee and its subcommittees, the Aerospace 
        Safety Advisory Committee and the relevant committees of 
        Congress; and
            (3) produce a public report twice a year detailing progress 
        towards meeting or sustaining the shared safety standards and 
        identifying areas, programs, or services where these standards 
        have not been met or maintained, and the associated corrective 
        action to address these issues.
    (c) Report.--Within 120 days of enactment, the Administrator shall 
provide a report to the Committees on the implementation of this 
direction and how it plans to ensure these comparable safety standards 
are met throughout the development, test and operation of such systems.
    (d) Congressional Notice.--
            (1) Should any element of human exploration system 
        architecture, whether owned and operated by NASA, developed and 
        operated as a public-private partnership or procured as a 
        commercial service, fails to meet the common safety standards 
        established, Congress shall be notified and receive a report on 
        corrective actions and options available to improve safety and 
        resiliency of such system(s) within 30 days.

                   TITLE III--U.S. NATIONAL SECURITY

SEC. 301. CYBERSECURITY.

    (a) In General.--Section 20301 of title 51, United States Code, is 
amended by adding at the end the following:
    ``(c) Cybersecurity.--The Administrator shall update and improve 
the cybersecurity of NASA space assets and supporting 
infrastructure.''.
    (b) Security Operations Center.--
            (1) Establishment.--The Administrator shall maintain a 
        Security Operations Center, to identify and respond to 
        cybersecurity threats to NASA information technology systems, 
        including institutional systems and mission systems.
            (2) Inspector general recommendations.--The Administrator 
        shall implement, to the maximum extent practicable, each of the 
        recommendations contained in the report of the Inspector 
        General of NASA entitled ``Audit of NASA's Security Operations 
        Center'', issued on May 23, 2018.
    (c) Cyber Threat Hunt.--
            (1) In general.--The Administrator, in coordination with 
        the Secretary of Homeland Security and the heads of other 
        relevant Federal agencies, may implement a cyber threat hunt 
        capability to proactively search NASA information systems for 
        advanced cyber threats that otherwise evade existing security 
        tools.
            (2) Threat-hunting process.--In carrying out paragraph (1), 
        the Administrator shall develop and document a threat-hunting 
        process, including the roles and responsibilities of 
        individuals conducting a cyber threat hunt.
    (d) GAO Priority Recommendations.--The Administrator shall 
implement, to the maximum extent practicable, the recommendations for 
NASA contained in the report of the Comptroller General of the United 
States entitled ``Information Security: Agencies Need to Improve 
Controls over Selected High-Impact Systems'', issued May 18, 2016, 
including--
            (1) re-evaluating security control assessments; and
            (2) specifying metrics for the continuous monitoring 
        strategy of the Administration.

SEC. 302. EXEMPTION FROM THE IRAN, NORTH KOREA, AND SYRIA 
              NONPROLIFERATION ACT.

    Section 7(1) of the Iran, North Korea, and Syria Nonproliferation 
Act (Public Law 106-178; 50 U.S.C. 1701 note) is amended, in the 
undesignated matter following subparagraph (B), by striking ``December 
31, 2020'' and inserting ``December 31, 2030''.

SEC. 303. LIMITATION ON COOPERATION WITH THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF 
              CHINA.

    (a) In General.--Except as provided by subsection (b), the 
Administrator, the Director of the Office of Science and Technology 
Policy, and the Chair of the National Space Council, shall not--
            (1) develop, design, plan, promulgate, implement, or 
        execute a bilateral policy, program, order, or contract of any 
        kind to participate, collaborate, or coordinate bilaterally in 
        any manner with--
                    (A) the Government of the People's Republic of 
                China; or
                    (B) any company--
                            (i) owned by the Government of the People's 
                        Republic of China; or
                            (ii) incorporated under the laws of the 
                        People's Republic of China; and
            (2) host official visitors from the People's Republic of 
        China at a facility belonging to or used by NASA.
    (b) Waiver.--
            (1) In general.--The Administrator, the Director, or the 
        Chair may waive the limitation under subsection (a) with 
        respect to an activity described in that subsection only if the 
        Administrator, the Director, or the Chair, as applicable, makes 
        a determination that the activity--
                    (A) does not pose a risk of a transfer of 
                technology, data, or other information with national 
                security or economic security implications to an entity 
                described in paragraph (1) of such subsection; and
                    (B) does not involve knowing interactions with 
                officials who have been determined by the United States 
                to have direct involvement with violations of human 
                rights.
            (2) Certification to congress.--Not later than 30 days 
        after the date on which a waiver is granted under paragraph 
        (1), the Administrator, the Director, or the Chair, as 
        applicable, shall submit to the Committee on Commerce, Science, 
        and Transportation and the Committee on Appropriations of the 
        Senate and the Committee on Science, Space, and Technology and 
        the Committee on Appropriations of the House of Representatives 
        a written certification that the activity complies with the 
        requirements in subparagraphs (A) and (B) of that paragraph.

SEC. 304. COUNTERING CHINESE THREATS TO U.S. ACTIVITIES IN SPACE.

    (a) Findings.--
            (1) The Government of the People's Republic of China 
        maintains, as a national priority, a global program of theft 
        and other misappropriation of intellectual property, and 
        unacceptable technology transfer requirements, particularly in 
        fields of high technology.
            (2) China is taking steps to establish a commanding 
        position in the commercial launch and satellite sectors relying 
        in part on aggressive state-backed financing that market-driven 
        companies cannot match.
            (3) China has engaged in an aggressive campaign to dominate 
        sensitive markets such as germanium wafer production, used for 
        nearly all specialized satellite solar panels, allowing China 
        ownership of over 70 percent of global germanium mining, 
        refining, and production.
            (4) China has begun focusing on the lunar surface and 
        cislunar space as priorities in its space program, which is 
        indistinguishable from its armed forces.
    (b) Report.--Not later than 90 days after the date of enactment, 
the Executive Secretary of the National Space Council shall submit to 
the appropriate committees of Congress a report that includes:
            (1) How China is harming the U.S. commercial space 
        industry's competitiveness and threatening U.S. national 
        security. Specifically, the Executive Secretary shall 
        investigate--
                    (A) theft of intellectual property through 
                technology transfer requirements or otherwise;
                    (B) Chinese efforts to seize control over critical 
                elements of the space industry supply chain;
                    (C) Chinese efforts to seize control over space 
                industry companies, sister companies with shared 
                leadership, or supply chain; and
                    (D) U.S. cybersecurity weaknesses.
            (2) Current steps the United States is taking to protect 
        its domestic space industry from Chinese influence.
            (3) Recommendations to Congress on legislative action 
        necessary to address Chinese threats to the U.S. domestic 
        commercial launch and satellite industries and improve U.S. 
        efforts to counter threats to U.S. activities in space.
            (4) Recommendations on how the U.S. Government can best 
        utilize existing Federal entities to investigate and act 
        against potentially harmful Chinese investment into the U.S. 
        commercial space industry, and how the U.S. Government can 
        bolster domestic investment in critical U.S. space industry 
        technologies.

SEC. 305. CONSIDERATION OF ISSUES RELATED TO CONTRACTING WITH ENTITIES 
              RECEIVING ASSISTANCE FROM OR AFFILIATED WITH THE PEOPLE'S 
              REPUBLIC OF CHINA.

    In considering any response to a request for a proposal, request 
for information, broad area announcement, or any other form of request 
or solicitation, and in considering or undertaking any negotiation or 
conclusion of any contract, agreement, or other transaction with any 
commercial or non-commercial entity, the Administrator shall, in 
consultation with appropriate Federal departments and agencies, take 
into account the implications of any benefit received by such 
commercial or non-commercial entity (or any other commercial or non-
commercial entity related through ownership, control, or other 
affiliation to such entity) as a result of a significant loan or other 
financial assistance provided by--
            (1) any governmental organization of the People's Republic 
        of China; or
            (2) any other entity that is--
                    (A) majority owned or controlled by, or otherwise 
                affiliated with, any governmental organization of the 
                People's Republic of China; or
                    (B) organized under, or otherwise subject to, the 
                laws of the People's Republic of China.
                                 &lt;all&gt;
</pre></body></html>
