<html><body><pre>
[Congressional Bills 108th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[S. 2836 Introduced in Senate (IS)]







108th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                S. 2836

 To amend the Omnibus Parks and Public Lands Management Act of 1996 to 
 extend the authorization for certain national heritage areas, and for 
                            other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                   IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

                           September 23, 2004

 Mr. Voinovich (for himself, Mr. Lautenberg, Mr. Corzine, Mr. Chafee, 
 and Mr. Kennedy) introduced the following bill; which was read twice 
     and referred to the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
 To amend the Omnibus Parks and Public Lands Management Act of 1996 to 
 extend the authorization for certain national heritage areas, and for 
                            other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE; TABLE OF CONTENTS.

    (a) Short Title.--This Act may be cited as the ``National Heritage 
Area Extension Act of 2004''.
    (b) Table of Contents.--The table of contents of this Act is as 
follows:

Sec. 1. Short title; table of contents.
                          TITLE I--EXTENSIONS

Sec. 101. Authorization and appropriation extensions.
               TITLE II--NATIONAL AVIATION HERITAGE AREA

Sec. 201. Short title.
Sec. 202. Definitions.
Sec. 203. National Aviation Heritage Area.
Sec. 204. Management plan.
Sec. 205. Administration.
Sec. 206. Technical and financial assistance; other Federal agencies.
Sec. 207. Authorization of appropriations.
Sec. 208. Termination of authority.
                 TITLE III--NATIONAL COAL HERITAGE AREA

Sec. 301. National Coal Heritage Area.
          TITLE IV--COASTAL HERITAGE TRAIL ROUTE IN NEW JERSEY

Sec. 401. Reauthorization of appropriations for Coastal Heritage Trail 
                            Route in New Jersey.
    TITLE V--ILLINOIS AND MICHIGAN CANAL NATIONAL HERITAGE CORRIDOR

Sec. 501. Short title.
Sec. 502. Transition and provisions for new management entity.
Sec. 503. Private property protection.
Sec. 504. Technical amendments.
              TITLE VI--OIL REGION NATIONAL HERITAGE AREA

Sec. 601. Short title; definitions.
Sec. 602. Findings and purpose.
Sec. 603. Oil Region National Heritage Area.
Sec. 604. Compact.
Sec. 605. Authorities and duties of management entity.
Sec. 606. Duties and authorities of the Secretary.
Sec. 607. Duties of other Federal entities.
Sec. 608. Sunset.
Sec. 609. Requirements for inclusion of private property.
Sec. 610. Private property protection.
Sec. 611. Use of Federal funds from other sources.
Sec. 612. Authorization of appropriations.
TITLE VII--CROSSROADS OF THE AMERICAN REVOLUTION NATIONAL HERITAGE AREA

Sec. 701. Short title.
Sec. 702. Definitions.
Sec. 703. Crossroads of the American Revolution National Heritage Area.
Sec. 704. Management plan.
Sec. 705. Authorities, duties, and prohibitions applicable to the 
                            management entity.
Sec. 706. Technical and financial assistance; other Federal agencies.
Sec. 707. Authorization of appropriations.
Sec. 708. Termination of authority.
            TITLE VIII--WESTERN RESERVE HERITAGE AREAS STUDY

Sec. 801. Short title.
Sec. 802. National Park Service study regarding the Western Reserve, 
                            Ohio.
  TITLE IX--JOHN H. CHAFEE BLACKSTONE RIVER VALLEY NATIONAL HERITAGE 
                                CORRIDOR

Sec. 901. Update of plan.
Sec. 902. Extension of Commission.
Sec. 903. Authorization of appropriations.

                          TITLE I--EXTENSIONS

SECTION 101. AUTHORIZATION AND APPROPRIATION EXTENSIONS.

    Division II of the Omnibus Parks and Public Lands Management Act of 
1996 (Public Law 104-333; 16 U.S.C. 461 note) is amended--
            (1) in each of sections 107, 208, 408, 507, 811, and 910, 
        by striking ``September 30, 2012'' and inserting ``September 
        30, 2027'';
            (2) in each of sections 108(a), 209(a), 409(a), 508(a), 
        812(a), and 909(c), by striking ``$10,000,000'' and inserting 
        ``$20,000,000''; and
            (3) in title VIII, by striking ``Canal National Heritage 
        Corridor'' each place it appears in the section headings and 
        text and inserting ``National Heritage Canalway''.

               TITLE II--NATIONAL AVIATION HERITAGE AREA

SEC. 201. SHORT TITLE.

    This title may be cited as the ``National Aviation Heritage Area 
Act''.

SEC. 202. DEFINITIONS.

    In this title:
            (1) Heritage area.--The term ``Heritage Area'' means the 
        National Aviation Heritage Area established by section 203(a).
            (2) Management entity.--The term ``management entity'' 
        means the Aviation Heritage Foundation, Incorporated, a 
        nonprofit corporation established under the laws of the State 
        of Ohio.
            (3) Management plan.--The term ``management plan'' means 
        the management plan for the Heritage Area developed under 
        section 204.
            (4) Partner.--The term ``partner'' means--
                    (A) a Federal, State, or local governmental entity; 
                or
                    (B) an organization, private industry, or person 
                involved in promoting the conservation and preservation 
                of the cultural and natural resources of the Heritage 
                Area.
            (5) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary 
        of the Interior.

SEC. 203. NATIONAL AVIATION HERITAGE AREA.

    (a) Establishment.--There is established in the States of Ohio and 
Indiana the National Aviation Heritage Area.
    (b) Boundaries.--
            (1) In general.--The Heritage Area shall include--
                    (A) a core area consisting of resources in 
                Montgomery, Greene, Warren, Miami, Clark, Shelby, 
                Auglaize, and Champaign Counties in the State of Ohio;
                    (B) the Neil Armstrong Air & Space Museum, 
                Wapakoneta, Ohio;
                    (C) the Wilbur Wright Birthplace and Museum, 
                Millville, Indiana; and
                    (D) any sites, buildings, and districts within the 
                core area described in subparagraph (A) that are 
                recommended for inclusion in the Heritage Area in the 
                management plan.
            (2) Map.--
                    (A) In general.--The Secretary shall prepare a map 
                of the Heritage Area for inclusion in the management 
                plan.
                    (B) Availability.--The map shall be on file and 
                available for public inspection in the appropriate 
                offices of the National Park Service.

SEC. 204. MANAGEMENT PLAN.

    (a) In General.--Not later than 3 years after the date of enactment 
of this Act, the management entity shall submit to the Secretary for 
approval a management plan for the Heritage Area.
    (b) Requirements.--The management plan shall--
            (1) incorporate an integrated and cooperative approach for 
        the protection, enhancement, and interpretation of the natural, 
        cultural, historic, scenic, and recreational resources of the 
        Heritage Area;
            (2) take into consideration Federal, State, and local 
        plans;
            (3) involve residents, public agencies, and private 
        organizations in the Heritage Area;
            (4) include--
                    (A) an assessment of cultural landscapes in the 
                Heritage Area;
                    (B) provisions for the protection, interpretation, 
                and enjoyment of the resources of the Heritage Area 
                that are consistent with the purposes of this title;
                    (C) an interpretation plan for the Heritage Area;
                    (D) a program for the implementation of the 
                management plan by the management entity that 
                includes--
                            (i) provisions for facilitating ongoing 
                        collaboration among the partners to--
                                    (I) promote heritage tourism; and
                                    (II) develop educational and 
                                cultural programs for the public;
                            (ii) provisions for assisting partners in 
                        plans for restoration and construction of the 
                        Heritage Area; and
                            (iii) to the maximum extent practicable, 
                        specific commitments from partners for the 
                        first 5 years of operation of the Heritage 
                        Area; and
                    (E) an inventory of the resources contained in the 
                core area of the Heritage Area, including--
                            (i) the Dayton Aviation Heritage Historical 
                        Park;
                            (ii) the sites, buildings, and districts 
                        listed in section 202 of the Dayton Aviation 
                        Heritage Preservation Act of 1992 (Public Law 
                        102-419); and
                            (iii) any other property that--
                                    (I) is related to the themes of the 
                                Heritage Area; and
                                    (II) should be preserved, restored, 
                                managed, or maintained because of the 
                                significance of the property;
            (5) identify sources of funding for the implementation of 
        the management plan; and
            (6) describe and evaluate the management entity, including 
        a description and evaluation of--
                    (A) the membership of the management entity; and
                    (B) the organizational structure of the management 
                entity.
    (c) Failure To Submit.--If the management entity fails to submit 
the management plan by the date described in subsection (a), the 
Secretary shall not provide any additional funding under this title to 
the management entity until the date on which the management entity 
submits a management plan to the Secretary.
    (d) Approval and Disapproval of Management Plans.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 90 days after the date of 
        the receipt of the management plan under subsection (a), the 
        Secretary, in consultation with the State of Ohio, shall 
        approve or disapprove the plan.
            (2) Disapproval and revision.--If the Secretary disapproves 
        a management plan under paragraph (1), the Secretary shall--
                    (A) advise the management entity in writing of the 
                reasons for the disapproval;
                    (B) make recommendations for revisions to the 
                management plan; and
                    (C) not later than 90 days after the receipt of any 
                proposed revision of the management plan from the 
                management entity, approve or disapprove the proposed 
                revision.
    (e) Amendments.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary shall review each amendment 
        to the management plan that the Secretary determines may make a 
        substantial change to the management plan.
            (2) Use of funds.--Funds made available under this title 
        shall not be expended to implement an amendment described in 
        paragraph (1) until the Secretary approves the amendment.

SEC. 205. ADMINISTRATION.

    (a) In General.--The management entity shall administer the 
Heritage Area in accordance with this title.
    (b) Authorities.--The management entity may, for purposes of 
implementing the management plan, use Federal funds made available 
under this title to--
            (1) make grants to, and enter into cooperative agreements 
        with--
                    (A) the State of Ohio (including a political 
                subdivision of the State);
                    (B) a private organization; or
                    (C) any person;
            (2) hire and compensate staff;
            (3) contract for goods and services; and
            (4) obtain funds from any source (including a program that 
        has a cost-sharing requirement).
    (c) Duties of Management Entity.--In addition to developing the 
management plan under section 204, in carrying out this title, the 
management entity shall--
            (1) give priority to the implementation of actions set 
        forth in the management plan, including--
                    (A) assisting units of government and nonprofit 
                organizations in preserving the resources of the 
                Heritage Area; and
                    (B) encouraging local governments to adopt land use 
                policies that are consistent with--
                            (i) the management of the Heritage Area; 
                        and
                            (ii) the goals of the management plan;
            (2) in developing and implementing the management plan, 
        consider the interests of diverse governmental, business, and 
        nonprofit organizations in the Heritage Area;
            (3) maintain a collaboration among the partners to promote 
        heritage tourism;
            (4) assist partners in developing educational and cultural 
        programs for the public;
            (5) encourage economic viability in the Heritage Area in 
        accordance with the goals of the management plan;
            (6) assist units of government and nonprofit organizations 
        in--
                    (A) establishing and maintaining interpretive 
                exhibits in the Heritage Area;
                    (B) developing recreational resources in the 
                Heritage Area;
                    (C) increasing public awareness of and appreciation 
                for the historical, natural, and architectural 
                resources and sites of the Heritage Area;
                    (D) installing throughout the Heritage Area, clear, 
                consistent, and environmentally appropriate signs that 
                identify access points and sites of interest; and
                    (E) restoring historic buildings that relate to the 
                purposes of the Heritage Area;
            (7) conduct public meetings at least quarterly regarding 
        the implementation of the management plan;
            (8) submit to the Secretary for approval substantial 
        amendments to the management plan; and
            (9) for any fiscal year for which Federal funds are made 
        available to carry out this Act under section 207--
                    (A) submit to the Secretary a report that 
                describes, for the fiscal year--
                            (i) any activities conducted by the 
                        management entity with respect to the Heritage 
                        Area; and
                            (ii) any expenses incurred by the 
                        management entity in carrying out this title;
                    (B) make available to the Secretary for audit all 
                records relating to the expenditure of the funds and 
                any matching funds; and
                    (C) require, for all agreements authorizing the 
                expenditure of Federal funds by any entity, that the 
                receiving entity make available to the Secretary for 
                audit all records relating to the expenditure of the 
                funds.
    (d) Prohibition of Acquisition of Real Property.--
            (1) Use of federal funds.--The management entity shall not 
        use Federal funds made available under this title to acquire 
        real property or any interest in real property.
            (2) Funds from other sources.--The management entity may 
        acquire real property or an interest in real property using 
        non-Federal funds.

SEC. 206. TECHNICAL AND FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE; OTHER FEDERAL AGENCIES.

    (a) Technical and Financial Assistance.--
            (1) In general.--On the request of the management entity, 
        the Secretary may provide to the Heritage Area technical 
        assistance, on a reimbursable or nonreimbursable basis, and 
        financial assistance for use in the development and 
        implementation of the management plan.
            (2) Cooperative agreements.--The Secretary may enter into a 
        cooperative agreement with the management entity or other 
        public or private organizations for purposes of providing 
        technical or financial assistance under paragraph (1).
            (3) Priority for assistance.--In providing technical or 
        financial assistance under paragraph (1), the Secretary shall 
        give priority to actions that assist in--
                    (A) conserving the significant historical, 
                cultural, and natural resources of the Heritage Area; 
                and
                    (B) providing educational, interpretive, and 
                recreational opportunities consistent with the purposes 
                of the Heritage Area.
    (b) Operational Assistance.--Subject to the availability of 
appropriations, the Secretary may provide to public or private 
organizations in the Heritage Area such operational assistance as is 
appropriate to support the implementation of the management plan.
    (c) Duties of Other Federal Agencies.--A Federal agency conducting 
or supporting any activity directly affecting the Heritage Area shall--
            (1) consult with the Secretary and the management entity 
        with respect to the activity;
            (2) cooperate with the Secretary and the management entity 
        in carrying out the duties of the Secretary and the management 
        entity under this title;
            (3) to the maximum extent practicable, coordinate the 
        activity with the duties of the Secretary and the management 
        entity under this title; and
            (4) conduct or support the activity in a manner that, to 
        the maximum extent practicable, will not have an adverse effect 
        on the Heritage Area, as determined by the management entity.
    (d) Coordination Between the Secretary, the Secretary of Defense, 
and the Administrator of NASA.--Any decision relating to the 
application of this title to properties under the jurisdiction of the 
Secretary of Defense or the Administrator of the National Aeronautics 
and Space Administration shall be made by the Secretary of Defense or 
the Administrator, respectively, in consultation with the Secretary.

SEC. 207. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.

    (a) In General.--There is authorized to be appropriated to carry 
out this title $10,000,000, of which not more than $1,000,000 may be 
made available for any fiscal year.
    (b) Federal Share.--The Federal share of the total cost of any 
activity assisted under this title shall be not more than 50 percent.

SEC. 208. TERMINATION OF AUTHORITY.

    The authority of the Secretary to provide assistance under this 
title terminates on the date that is 15 years after the date of 
enactment of this Act.

                 TITLE III--NATIONAL COAL HERITAGE AREA

SEC. 301. NATIONAL COAL HERITAGE AREA.

    (a) National Coal Heritage Area Authority; Boundary Revision.--
Title I of division II of the Omnibus Parks and Public Lands Management 
Act of 1996 (Public Law 104-333; 16 U.S.C. 461 note) is amended as 
follows:
            (1) In section 103(b), by inserting ``(1)'' before ``the 
        counties'' and by inserting the following before the period: 
        ``; (2) Lincoln County, West Virginia; and (3) Paint Creek and 
        Cabin Creek in Kanawha County, West Virginia''.
            (2) In section 104, by striking ``Governor'' and all that 
        follows through ``organizations'' in the matter preceding 
        paragraph (1) and inserting ``National Coal Heritage Area 
        Authority, a public corporation and government instrumentality 
        established by the State of West Virginia, pursuant to which 
        the Secretary shall assist the National Coal Heritage Area 
        Authority''.
            (3) In section 105--
                    (A) by striking ``paragraph (2) of''; and
                    (B) by adding at the end the following new 
                sentence: ``Resources within Lincoln County, West 
                Virginia, and Paint Creek and Cabin Creek within 
                Kanawha County, West Virginia, shall also be eligible 
                for assistance as determined by the National Coal 
                Heritage Area Authority.''.
            (4) In section 106(a)--
                    (A) by striking ``Governor'' and all that follows 
                through ``and Parks'' and inserting ``National Coal 
                Heritage Area Authority''; and
                    (B) in paragraph (3), by striking ``State of West 
                Virginia'' and all that follows through ``entities'' 
                and inserting ``National Coal Heritage Area 
                Authority''.
    (b) Agreement Continuing in Effect.--The contractual agreement 
entered into by the Secretary of the Interior and the Governor of West 
Virginia prior to the date of the enactment of this Act pursuant to 
section 104 of title I of division II of the Omnibus Parks and Public 
Lands Management Act of 1996 (16 U.S.C. 461 note) shall be deemed as 
continuing in effect, except that such agreement shall be between the 
Secretary and the National Coal Heritage Area Authority.

          TITLE IV--COASTAL HERITAGE TRAIL ROUTE IN NEW JERSEY

SEC. 401. REAUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS FOR COASTAL HERITAGE TRAIL 
              ROUTE IN NEW JERSEY.

    (a) Reauthorization.--Section 6 of Public Law 100-515 (16 U.S.C. 
1244 note) is amended--
            (1) in subsection (b)(1), by striking ``$4,000,000'' and 
        all that follows and inserting ``such sums as may be 
        necessary.''; and
            (2) in subsection (c), by striking ``10'' and inserting 
        ``12''.
    (b) Strategic Plan.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary of the Interior shall, by 
        not later than 2 years after the date of the enactment of this 
        Act, prepare a strategic plan for the New Jersey Coastal 
        Heritage Trail Route.
            (2) Contents.--The strategic plan shall describe--
                    (A) opportunities to increase participation by 
                national and local private and public interests in 
                planning, development, and administration of the New 
                Jersey Coastal Heritage Trail Route; and
                    (B) organizational options for sustaining the New 
                Jersey Coastal Heritage Trail Route.

    TITLE V--ILLINOIS AND MICHIGAN CANAL NATIONAL HERITAGE CORRIDOR

SEC. 501. SHORT TITLE.

    This title may be cited as the ``Illinois and Michigan Canal 
National Heritage Corridor Act Amendments Act of 2004''.

SEC. 502. TRANSITION AND PROVISIONS FOR NEW MANAGEMENT ENTITY.

    The Illinois and Michigan Canal National Heritage Corridor Act of 
1984 (Public Law 98-398; 16 U.S.C. 461 note) is amended as follows:
            (1) In section 103--
                    (A) in paragraph (8), by striking ``and'';
                    (B) in paragraph (9), by striking the period and 
                inserting ``; and''; and
                    (C) by adding at the end the following:
            ``(10) the term `Association' means the Canal Corridor 
        Association (an organization described under section 501(c)(3) 
        of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 and exempt from taxation 
        under section 501(a) of such Code).''.
            (2) By adding at the end of section 112 the following new 
        paragraph:
            ``(7) The Secretary shall enter into a memorandum of 
        understanding with the Association to help ensure appropriate 
        transition of the management entity to the Association and 
        coordination with the Association regarding that role.''.
            (3) By adding at the end the following new sections:

``SEC. 119. ASSOCIATION AS MANAGEMENT ENTITY.

    ``Upon the termination of the Commission, the management entity for 
the corridor shall be the Association.

``SEC. 120. DUTIES AND AUTHORITIES OF ASSOCIATION.

    ``For purposes of preparing and implementing the management plan 
developed under section 121, the Association may use Federal funds made 
available under this title--
            ``(1) to make loans and grants to, and enter into 
        cooperative agreements with, States and their political 
        subdivisions, private organizations, or any person;
            ``(2) to hire, train, and compensate staff; and
            ``(3) to enter into contracts for goods and services.

``SEC. 121. DUTIES OF THE ASSOCIATION.

    ``The Association shall--
            ``(1) develop and submit to the Secretary for approval 
        under section 123 a proposed management plan for the corridor 
        not later than 2 years after Federal funds are made available 
        for this purpose;
            ``(2) give priority to implementing actions set forth in 
        the management plan, including taking steps to assist units of 
        local government, regional planning organizations, and other 
        organizations--
                    ``(A) in preserving the corridor;
                    ``(B) in establishing and maintaining interpretive 
                exhibits in the corridor;
                    ``(C) in developing recreational resources in the 
                corridor;
                    ``(D) in increasing public awareness of and 
                appreciation for the natural, historical, and 
                architectural resources and sites in the corridor; and
                    ``(E) in facilitating the restoration of any 
                historic building relating to the themes of the 
                corridor;
            ``(3) encourage by appropriate means economic viability in 
        the corridor consistent with the goals of the management plan;
            ``(4) consider the interests of diverse governmental, 
        business, and other groups within the corridor;
            ``(5) conduct public meetings at least quarterly regarding 
        the implementation of the management plan;
            ``(6) submit substantial changes (including any increase of 
        more than 20 percent in the cost estimates for implementation) 
        to the management plan to the Secretary;
            ``(7) for any year in which Federal funds have been 
        received under this title--
                    ``(A) submit an annual report to the Secretary 
                setting forth the Association's accomplishments, 
                expenses and income, and the identity of each entity to 
                which any loans and grants were made during the year 
                for which the report is made;
                    ``(B) make available for audit all records 
                pertaining to the expenditure of such funds and any 
                matching funds; and
                    ``(C) require, for all agreements authorizing 
                expenditure of Federal funds by other organizations, 
                that the receiving organizations make available for 
                audit all records pertaining to the expenditure of such 
                funds.

``SEC. 122. USE OF FEDERAL FUNDS.

            ``(a) In General.--The Association shall not use Federal 
        funds received under this title to acquire real property or an 
        interest in real property.
            ``(b) Other Sources.--Nothing in this title precludes the 
        Association from using Federal funds from other sources for 
        authorized purposes.

``SEC. 123. MANAGEMENT PLAN.

    ``(a) Preparation of Management Plan.--Not later than 2 years after 
the date that Federal funds are made available for this purpose, the 
Association shall submit to the Secretary for approval a proposed 
management plan that shall--
            ``(1) take into consideration State and local plans and 
        involve residents, local governments and public agencies, and 
        private organizations in the corridor;
            ``(2) present comprehensive recommendations for the 
        corridor's conservation, funding, management, and development;
            ``(3) include actions proposed to be undertaken by units of 
        government and nongovernmental and private organizations to 
        protect the resources of the corridor;
            ``(4) specify the existing and potential sources of funding 
        to protect, manage, and develop the corridor; and
            ``(5) include the following:
                    ``(A) Identification of the geographic boundaries 
                of the corridor.
                    ``(B) A brief description and map of the corridor's 
                overall concept or vision that show key sites, visitor 
                facilities and attractions, and physical linkages.
                    ``(C) Identification of overall goals and the 
                strategies and tasks intended to reach them, and a 
                realistic schedule for completing the tasks.
                    ``(D) A listing of the key resources and themes of 
                the corridor.
                    ``(E) Identification of parties proposed to be 
                responsible for carrying out the tasks.
                    ``(F) A financial plan and other information on 
                costs and sources of funds.
                    ``(G) A description of the public participation 
                process used in developing the plan and a proposal for 
                public participation in the implementation of the 
                management plan.
                    ``(H) A mechanism and schedule for updating the 
                plan based on actual progress.
                    ``(I) A bibliography of documents used to develop 
                the management plan.
                    ``(J) A discussion of any other relevant issues 
                relating to the management plan.
    ``(b) Disqualification From Funding.--If a proposed management plan 
is not submitted to the Secretary within 2 years after the date that 
Federal funds are made available for this purpose, the Association 
shall be ineligible to receive additional funds under this title until 
the Secretary receives a proposed management plan from the Association.
    ``(c) Approval of Management Plan.--The Secretary shall approve or 
disapprove a proposed management plan submitted under this title not 
later than 180 days after receiving such proposed management plan. If 
action is not taken by the Secretary within the time period specified 
in the preceding sentence, the management plan shall be deemed 
approved. The Secretary shall consult with the local entities 
representing the diverse interests of the corridor including 
governments, natural and historic resource protection organizations, 
educational institutions, businesses, recreational organizations, 
community residents, and private property owners prior to approving the 
management plan. The Association shall conduct semi-annual public 
meetings, workshops, and hearings to provide adequate opportunity for 
the public and local and governmental entities to review and to aid in 
the preparation and implementation of the management plan.
    ``(d) Effect of Approval.--Upon the approval of the management plan 
as provided in subsection (c), the management plan shall supersede the 
conceptual plan contained in the National Park Service report.
    ``(e) Action Following Disapproval.--If the Secretary disapproves a 
proposed management plan within the time period specified in subsection 
(c), the Secretary shall advise the Association in writing of the 
reasons for the disapproval and shall make recommendations for 
revisions to the proposed management plan.
    ``(f) Approval of Amendments.--The Secretary shall review and 
approve all substantial amendments (including any increase of more than 
20 percent in the cost estimates for implementation) to the management 
plan. Funds made available under this title may not be expended to 
implement any changes made by a substantial amendment until the 
Secretary approves that substantial amendment.

``SEC. 124. TECHNICAL AND FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE; OTHER FEDERAL AGENCIES.

    ``(a) Technical and Financial Assistance.--Upon the request of the 
Association, the Secretary may provide technical assistance, on a 
reimbursable or nonreimbursable basis, and financial assistance to the 
Association to develop and implement the management plan. The Secretary 
is authorized to enter into cooperative agreements with the Association 
and other public or private entities for this purpose. In assisting the 
Association, the Secretary shall give priority to actions that in 
general assist in--
            ``(1) conserving the significant natural, historic, 
        cultural, and scenic resources of the corridor; and
            ``(2) providing educational, interpretive, and recreational 
        opportunities consistent with the purposes of the corridor.
    ``(b) Duties of Other Federal Agencies.--Any Federal agency 
conducting or supporting activities directly affecting the corridor 
shall--
            ``(1) consult with the Secretary and the Association with 
        respect to such activities;
            ``(2) cooperate with the Secretary and the Association in 
        carrying out their duties under this title;
            ``(3) to the maximum extent practicable, coordinate such 
        activities with the carrying out of such duties; and
            ``(4) to the maximum extent practicable, conduct or support 
        such activities in a manner which the Association determines is 
        not likely to have an adverse effect on the corridor.

``SEC. 125. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.

    ``(a) In General.--To carry out this title there is authorized to 
be appropriated $10,000,000, except that not more than $1,000,000 may 
be appropriated to carry out this title for any fiscal year.
    ``(b) 50 Percent Match.--The Federal share of the cost of 
activities carried out using any assistance or grant under this title 
shall not exceed 50 percent of that cost.

``SEC. 126. SUNSET.

    ``The authority of the Secretary to provide assistance under this 
title terminates on September 30, 2027.''.

SEC. 503. PRIVATE PROPERTY PROTECTION.

    The Illinois and Michigan Canal National Heritage Corridor Act of 
1984 is further amended by adding after section 126 (as added by 
section 502 of this title) the following new sections:

``SEC. 127. REQUIREMENTS FOR INCLUSION OF PRIVATE PROPERTY.

    ``(a) Notification and Consent of Property Owners Required.--No 
privately owned property shall be preserved, conserved, or promoted by 
the management plan for the corridor until the owner of that private 
property has been notified in writing by the Association and has given 
written consent for such preservation, conservation, or promotion to 
the Association.
    ``(b) Landowner Withdraw.--Any owner of private property included 
within the boundary of the corridor, and not notified under subsection 
(a), shall have their property immediately removed from the boundary of 
the corridor by submitting a written request to the Association.

``SEC. 128. PRIVATE PROPERTY PROTECTION.

    ``(a) Access to Private Property.--Nothing in this title shall be 
construed to--
            ``(1) require any private property owner to allow public 
        access (including Federal, State, or local government access) 
        to such private property; or
            ``(2) modify any provision of Federal, State, or local law 
        with regard to public access to or use of private property.
    ``(b) Liability.--Designation of the corridor shall not be 
considered to create any liability, or to have any effect on any 
liability under any other law, of any private property owner with 
respect to any persons injured on such private property.
    ``(c) Recognition of Authority to Control Land Use.--Nothing in 
this title shall be construed to modify the authority of Federal, 
State, or local governments to regulate land use.
    ``(d) Participation of Private Property Owners in Corridor.--
Nothing in this title shall be construed to require the owner of any 
private property located within the boundaries of the corridor to 
participate in or be associated with the corridor.
    ``(e) Effect of Establishment.--The boundaries designated for the 
corridor represent the area within which Federal funds appropriated for 
the purpose of this title may be expended. The establishment of the 
corridor and its boundaries shall not be construed to provide any 
nonexisting regulatory authority on land use within the corridor or its 
viewshed by the Secretary, the National Park Service, or the 
Association.''.

SEC. 504. TECHNICAL AMENDMENTS.

    Section 116 of Illinois and Michigan Canal National Heritage 
Corridor Act of 1984 is amended--
            (1) by striking subsection (b); and
            (2) in subsection (a)--
                    (A) by striking ``(a)'' and all that follows 
                through ``For each'' and inserting ``(a) For each'';
                    (B) by striking ``Commission'' and inserting 
                ``Association'';
                    (C) by striking ``Commission's'' and inserting 
                ``Association's'';
                    (D) by redesignating paragraph (2) as subsection 
                (b); and
                    (E) by redesignating subparagraphs (A) and (B) as 
                paragraphs (1) and (2), respectively.

              TITLE VI--OIL REGION NATIONAL HERITAGE AREA

SEC. 601. SHORT TITLE; DEFINITIONS.

    (a) Short Title.--This title may be cited as the ``Oil Region 
National Heritage Area Act''.
    (b) Definitions.--For the purposes of this title, the following 
definitions shall apply:
            (1) Heritage area.--The term ``Heritage Area'' means the 
        Oil Region National Heritage Area established in section 
        603(a).
            (2) Management entity.--The term ``management entity'' 
        means the Oil Heritage Region, Inc., or its successor entity.
            (3) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary 
        of the Interior.

SEC. 602. FINDINGS AND PURPOSE.

    (a) Findings.--The Congress finds the following:
            (1) The Oil Region of Northwestern Pennsylvania, with 
        numerous sites and districts listed on the National Register of 
        Historic Places, and designated by the Governor of Pennsylvania 
        as one of the State Heritage Park Areas, is a region with 
        tremendous physical and natural resources and possesses a story 
        of State, national, and international significance.
            (2) The single event of Colonel Edwin Drake's drilling of 
        the world's first successful oil well in 1859 has affected the 
        industrial, natural, social, and political structures of the 
        modern world.
            (3) Six national historic districts are located within the 
        State Heritage Park boundary, in Emlenton, Franklin, Oil City, 
        and Titusville, as well as 17 separate National Register sites.
            (4) The Allegheny River, which was designated as a 
        component of the national wild and scenic rivers system in 1992 
        by Public Law 102-271, traverses the Oil Region and connects 
        several of its major sites, as do some of the river's 
        tributaries such as Oil Creek, French Creek, and Sandy Creek.
            (5) The unspoiled rural character of the Oil Region 
        provides many natural and recreational resources, scenic 
        vistas, and excellent water quality for people throughout the 
        United States to enjoy.
            (6) Remnants of the oil industry, visible on the landscape 
        to this day, provide a direct link to the past for visitors, as 
        do the historic valley settlements, riverbed settlements, 
        plateau developments, farmlands, and industrial landscapes.
            (7) The Oil Region also represents a cross section of 
        American history associated with Native Americans, frontier 
        settlements, the French and Indian War, African Americans and 
        the Underground Railroad, and immigration of Swedish and Polish 
        individuals, among others.
            (8) Involvement by the Federal Government shall serve to 
        enhance the efforts of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, local 
        subdivisions of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, volunteer 
        organizations, and private businesses, to promote the cultural, 
        national, and recreational resources of the region in order to 
        fulfill their full potential.
    (b) Purpose.--The purpose of this title is to enhance a cooperative 
management framework to assist the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, its 
units of local government, and area citizens in conserving, enhancing, 
and interpreting the significant features of the lands, water, and 
structures of the Oil Region, in a manner consistent with compatible 
economic development for the benefit and inspiration of present and 
future generations in the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania and the United 
States.

SEC. 603. OIL REGION NATIONAL HERITAGE AREA.

    (a) Establishment.--There is hereby established the Oil Region 
National Heritage Area.
    (b) Boundaries.--The boundaries of the Heritage Area shall include 
all of those lands depicted on a map entitled ``Oil Region National 
Heritage Area'', numbered OIRE/20,000 and dated October, 2000. The map 
shall be on file in the appropriate offices of the National Park 
Service. The Secretary of the Interior shall publish in the Federal 
Register, as soon as practical after the date of the enactment of this 
Act, a detailed description and map of the boundaries established under 
this subsection.
    (c) Management Entity.--The management entity for the Heritage Area 
shall be the Oil Heritage Region, Inc., the locally based private, 
nonprofit management corporation which shall oversee the development of 
a management plan in accordance with section 605(b).

SEC. 604. COMPACT.

    To carry out the purposes of this title, the Secretary shall enter 
into a compact with the management entity. The compact shall include 
information relating to the objectives and management of the area, 
including a discussion of the goals and objectives of the Heritage 
Area, including an explanation of the proposed approach to conservation 
and interpretation and a general outline of the protection measures 
committed to by the Secretary and management entity.

SEC. 605. AUTHORITIES AND DUTIES OF MANAGEMENT ENTITY.

    (a) Authorities of the Management Entity.--The management entity 
may use funds made available under this title for purposes of 
preparing, updating, and implementing the management plan developed 
under subsection (b). Such purposes may include--
            (1) making grants to, and entering into cooperative 
        agreements with, States and their political subdivisions, 
        private organizations, or any other person;
            (2) hiring and compensating staff; and
            (3) undertaking initiatives that advance the purposes of 
        the Heritage Area.
    (b) Management Plan.--The management entity shall develop a 
management plan for the Heritage Area that--
            (1) presents comprehensive strategies and recommendations 
        for conservation, funding, management, and development of the 
        Heritage Area;
            (2) takes into consideration existing State, county, and 
        local plans and involves residents, public agencies, and 
        private organizations working in the Heritage Area;
            (3) includes a description of actions that units of 
        government and private organizations have agreed to take to 
        protect the resources of the Heritage Area;
            (4) specifies the existing and potential sources of funding 
        to protect, manage, and develop the Heritage Area;
            (5) includes an inventory of the resources contained in the 
        Heritage Area, including a list of any property in the Heritage 
        Area that is related to the themes of the Heritage Area and 
        that should be preserved, restored, managed, developed, or 
        maintained because of its natural, cultural, historic, 
        recreational, or scenic significance;
            (6) describes a program for implementation of the 
        management plan by the management entity, including plans for 
        restoration and construction, and specific commitments for that 
        implementation that have been made by the management entity and 
        any other persons for the first 5 years of implementation;
            (7) lists any revisions to the boundaries of the Heritage 
        Area proposed by the management entity and requested by the 
        affected local government; and
            (8) includes an interpretation plan for the Heritage Area.
    (c) Deadline; Termination of Funding.--
            (1) Deadline.--The management entity shall submit the 
        management plan to the Secretary within 2 years after the funds 
        are made available for this title.
            (2) Termination of funding.--If a management plan is not 
        submitted to the Secretary in accordance with this subsection, 
        the management entity shall not qualify for Federal assistance 
        under this title.
    (d) Duties of Management Entity.--The management entity shall--
            (1) give priority to implementing actions set forth in the 
        compact and management plan;
            (2) assist units of government, regional planning 
        organizations, and nonprofit organizations in--
                    (A) establishing and maintaining interpretive 
                exhibits in the Heritage Area;
                    (B) developing recreational resources in the 
                Heritage Area;
                    (C) increasing public awareness of and appreciation 
                for the natural, historical, and architectural 
                resources and sites in the Heritage Area;
                    (D) the restoration of any historic building 
                relating to the themes of the Heritage Area;
                    (E) ensuring that clear signs identifying access 
                points and sites of interest are put in place 
                throughout the Heritage Area; and
                    (F) carrying out other actions that the management 
                entity determines to be advisable to fulfill the 
                purposes of this title;
            (3) encourage by appropriate means economic viability in 
        the Heritage Area consistent with the goals of the management 
        plan;
            (4) consider the interests of diverse governmental, 
        business, and nonprofit groups within the Heritage Area; and
            (5) for any year in which Federal funds have been provided 
        to implement the management plan under subsection (b)--
                    (A) conduct public meetings at least annually 
                regarding the implementation of the management plan;
                    (B) submit an annual report to the Secretary 
                setting forth accomplishments, expenses and income, and 
                each person to which any grant was made by the 
                management entity in the year for which the report is 
                made; and
                    (C) require, for all agreements entered into by the 
                management entity authorizing expenditure of Federal 
                funds by any other person, that the person making the 
                expenditure make available to the management entity for 
                audit all records pertaining to the expenditure of such 
                funds.
    (e) Prohibition on the Acquisition of Real Property.--The 
management entity may not use Federal funds received under this title 
to acquire real property or an interest in real property.

SEC. 606. DUTIES AND AUTHORITIES OF THE SECRETARY.

    (a) Technical and Financial Assistance.--
            (1) In general.--
                    (A) Overall assistance.--The Secretary may, upon 
                the request of the management entity, and subject to 
                the availability of appropriations, provide technical 
                and financial assistance to the management entity to 
                carry out its duties under this title, including 
                updating and implementing a management plan that is 
                submitted under section 605(b) and approved by the 
                Secretary and, prior to such approval, providing 
                assistance for initiatives.
                    (B) Other assistance.--If the Secretary has the 
                resources available to provide technical assistance to 
                the management entity to carry out its duties under 
                this title (including updating and implementing a 
                management plan that is submitted under section 605(b) 
                and approved by the Secretary and, prior to such 
                approval, providing assistance for initiatives), upon 
                the request of the management entity the Secretary 
                shall provide such assistance on a reimbursable basis. 
                This subparagraph does not preclude the Secretary from 
                providing nonreimbursable assistance under subparagraph 
                (A).
            (2) Priority.--In assisting the management entity, the 
        Secretary shall give priority to actions that assist in the--
                    (A) implementation of the management plan;
                    (B) provision of educational assistance and advice 
                regarding land and water management techniques to 
                conserve the significant natural resources of the 
                region;
                    (C) development and application of techniques 
                promoting the preservation of cultural and historic 
                properties;
                    (D) preservation, restoration, and reuse of 
                publicly and privately owned historic buildings;
                    (E) design and fabrication of a wide range of 
                interpretive materials based on the management plan, 
                including guide brochures, visitor displays, audio-
                visual and interactive exhibits, and educational 
                curriculum materials for public education; and
                    (F) implementation of initiatives prior to approval 
                of the management plan.
            (3) Documentation of structures.--The Secretary, acting 
        through the Historic American Building Survey and the Historic 
        American Engineering Record, shall conduct studies necessary to 
        document the industrial, engineering, building, and 
        architectural history of the Heritage Area.
    (b) Approval and Disapproval of Management Plans.--The Secretary, 
in consultation with the Governor of Pennsylvania, shall approve or 
disapprove a management plan submitted under this title not later than 
90 days after receiving such plan. In approving the plan, the Secretary 
shall take into consideration the following criteria:
            (1) The extent to which the management plan adequately 
        preserves and protects the natural, cultural, and historical 
        resources of the Heritage Area.
            (2) The level of public participation in the development of 
        the management plan.
            (3) The extent to which the board of directors of the 
        management entity is representative of the local government and 
        a wide range of interested organizations and citizens.
    (c) Action Following Disapproval.--If the Secretary disapproves a 
management plan, the Secretary shall advise the management entity in 
writing of the reasons for the disapproval and shall make 
recommendations for revisions in the management plan. The Secretary 
shall approve or disapprove a proposed revision within 90 days after 
the date it is submitted.
    (d) Approving Changes.--The Secretary shall review and approve 
amendments to the management plan under section 605(b) that make 
substantial changes. Funds appropriated under this title may not be 
expended to implement such changes until the Secretary approves the 
amendments.
    (e) Effect of Inaction.--If the Secretary does not approve or 
disapprove a management plan, revision, or change within 90 days after 
it is submitted to the Secretary, then such management plan, revision, 
or change shall be deemed to have been approved by the Secretary.

SEC. 607. DUTIES OF OTHER FEDERAL ENTITIES.

    Any Federal entity conducting or supporting activities directly 
affecting the Heritage Area shall--
            (1) consult with the Secretary and the management entity 
        with respect to such activities;
            (2) cooperate with the Secretary and the management entity 
        in carrying out their duties under this title and, to the 
        maximum extent practicable, coordinate such activities with the 
        carrying out of such duties; and
            (3) to the maximum extent practicable, conduct or support 
        such activities in a manner that the management entity 
        determines shall not have an adverse effect on the Heritage 
        Area.

SEC. 608. SUNSET.

    The Secretary may not make any grant or provide any assistance 
under this title after the expiration of the 15-year period beginning 
on the date that funds are first made available for this title.

SEC. 609. REQUIREMENTS FOR INCLUSION OF PRIVATE PROPERTY.

    (a) Notification and Consent of Property Owners Required.--No 
privately owned property shall be preserved, conserved, or promoted by 
the management plan for the Heritage Area until the owner of that 
private property has been notified in writing by the management entity 
and has given written consent for such preservation, conservation, or 
promotion to the management entity.
    (b) Landowner Withdraw.--Any owner of private property included 
within the boundary of the Heritage Area shall have their property 
immediately removed from the boundary by submitting a written request 
to the management entity.

SEC. 610. PRIVATE PROPERTY PROTECTION.

    (a) Access to Private Property.--Nothing in this title shall be 
construed to--
            (1) require any private property owner to allow public 
        access (including Federal, State, or local government access) 
        to such private property; or
            (2) modify any provision of Federal, State, or local law 
        with regard to public access to or use of private property.
    (b) Liability.--Designation of the Heritage Area shall not be 
considered to create any liability, or to have any effect on any 
liability under any other law, of any private property owner with 
respect to any persons injured on such private property.
    (c) Recognition of Authority to Control Land Use.--Nothing in this 
title shall be construed to modify the authority of Federal, State, or 
local governments to regulate land use.
    (d) Participation of Private Property Owners in Heritage Area.--
Nothing in this title shall be construed to require the owner of any 
private property located within the boundaries of the Heritage Area to 
participate in or be associated with the Heritage Area.
    (e) Effect of Establishment.--The boundaries designated for the 
Heritage Area represent the area within which Federal funds 
appropriated for the purpose of this title may be expended. The 
establishment of the Heritage Area and its boundaries shall not be 
construed to provide any nonexisting regulatory authority on land use 
within the Heritage Area or its viewshed by the Secretary, the National 
Park Service, or the management entity.

SEC. 611. USE OF FEDERAL FUNDS FROM OTHER SOURCES.

    Nothing in this title shall preclude the management entity from 
using Federal funds available under Acts other than this title for the 
purposes for which those funds were authorized.

SEC. 612. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.

    (a) In General.--There are authorized to be appropriated to carry 
out this title--
            (1) not more than $1,000,000 for any fiscal year; and
            (2) not more than a total of $10,000,000.
    (b) 50 Percent Match.--Financial assistance provided under this 
title may not be used to pay more than 50 percent of the total cost of 
any activity carried out with that assistance.

TITLE VII--CROSSROADS OF THE AMERICAN REVOLUTION NATIONAL HERITAGE AREA

SEC. 701. SHORT TITLE.

    This title may be cited as the ``Crossroads of the American 
Revolution National Heritage Area Act of 2004''.

SEC. 702. DEFINITIONS.

    In this title:
            (1) Association.--The term ``Association'' means the 
        Crossroads of the American Revolution Association, Inc., a 
        nonprofit corporation in the State.
            (2) Heritage area.--The term ``Heritage Area'' means the 
        Crossroads of the American Revolution National Heritage Area 
        established by section 703(a).
            (3) Management entity.--The term ``management entity'' 
        means the management entity for the Heritage Area designated by 
        section 703(d).
            (4) Management plan.--The term ``management plan'' means 
        the management plan for the Heritage Area developed under 
        section 704.
            (5) Map.--The term ``map'' means the map entitled 
        ``Crossroads of the American Revolution National Heritage 
        Area'', numbered CRRE\80,000, and dated April 2002.
            (6) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary 
        of the Interior.
            (7) State.--The term ``State'' means the State of New 
        Jersey.

SEC. 703. CROSSROADS OF THE AMERICAN REVOLUTION NATIONAL HERITAGE AREA.

    (a) Establishment.--There is established in the State the 
Crossroads of the American Revolution National Heritage Area.
    (b) Boundaries.--The Heritage Area shall consist of the land and 
water within the boundaries of the Heritage Area, as depicted on the 
map.
    (c) Availability of Map.--The map shall be on file and available 
for public inspection in the appropriate offices of the National Park 
Service.
    (d) Management Entity.--The Association shall be the management 
entity for the Heritage Area.

SEC. 704. MANAGEMENT PLAN.

    (a) In General.--Not later than 3 years after the date on which 
funds are first made available to carry out this title, the management 
entity shall submit to the Secretary for approval a management plan for 
the Heritage Area.
    (b) Requirements.--The management plan shall--
            (1) include comprehensive policies, strategies, and 
        recommendations for conservation, funding, management, and 
        development of the Heritage Area;
            (2) take into consideration existing State, county, and 
        local plans;
            (3) describe actions that units of local government, 
        private organizations, and individuals have agreed to take to 
        protect the cultural, historic, and natural resources of the 
        Heritage Area;
            (4) identify existing and potential sources of funding for 
        the protection, management, and development of the Heritage 
        Area during the first 5 years of implementation of the 
        management plan; and
            (5) include--
                    (A) an inventory of the cultural, educational, 
                historic, natural, recreational, and scenic resources 
                of the Heritage Area relating to the themes of the 
                Heritage Area that should be restored, managed, or 
                developed;
                    (B) recommendations of policies and strategies for 
                resource management that result in--
                            (i) application of appropriate land and 
                        water management techniques; and
                            (ii) development of intergovernmental and 
                        interagency cooperative agreements to protect 
                        the cultural, educational, historic, natural, 
                        recreational, and scenic resources of the 
                        Heritage Area;
                    (C) a program of implementation of the management 
                plan that includes for the first 5 years of 
                implementation--
                            (i) plans for resource protection, 
                        restoration, construction; and
                            (ii) specific commitments for 
                        implementation that have been made by the 
                        management entity or any government, 
                        organization, or individual;
                    (D) an analysis of and recommendations for ways in 
                which Federal, State, and local programs, including 
                programs of the National Park Service, may be best 
                coordinated to promote the purposes of this title; and
                    (E) an interpretive plan for the Heritage Area.
    (c) Approval or Disapproval of Management Plan.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 90 days after the date of 
        receipt of the management plan under subsection (a), the 
        Secretary shall approve or disapprove the management plan.
            (2) Criteria.--In determining whether to approve the 
        management plan, the Secretary shall consider whether--
                    (A) the Board of Directors of the management entity 
                is representative of the diverse interests of the 
                Heritage Area, including--
                            (i) governments;
                            (ii) natural and historic resource 
                        protection organizations;
                            (iii) educational institutions;
                            (iv) businesses; and
                            (v) recreational organizations;
                    (B) the management entity provided adequate 
                opportunity for public and governmental involvement in 
                the preparation of the management plan, including 
                public hearings;
                    (C) the resource protection and interpretation 
                strategies in the management plan would adequately 
                protect the cultural, historic, and natural resources 
                of the Heritage Area; and
                    (D) the Secretary has received adequate assurances 
                from the appropriate State and local officials whose 
                support is needed to ensure the effective 
                implementation of the State and local aspects of the 
                management plan.
            (3) Action following disapproval.--If the Secretary 
        disapproves the management plan under paragraph (1), the 
        Secretary shall--
                    (A) advise the management entity in writing of the 
                reasons for the disapproval;
                    (B) make recommendations for revisions to the 
                management plan; and
                    (C) not later than 60 days after the receipt of any 
                proposed revision of the management plan from the 
                management entity, approve or disapprove the proposed 
                revision.
    (d) Amendments.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary shall approve or disapprove 
        each amendment to the management plan that the Secretary 
        determines may make a substantial change to the management 
        plan.
            (2) Use of funds.--Funds made available under this title 
        shall not be expended by the management entity to implement an 
        amendment described in paragraph (1) until the Secretary 
        approves the amendment.
    (e) Implementation.--On completion of the 3-year period described 
in subsection (a), any funding made available under this title shall be 
made available to the management entity only for implementation of the 
approved management plan.

SEC. 705. AUTHORITIES, DUTIES, AND PROHIBITIONS APPLICABLE TO THE 
              MANAGEMENT ENTITY.

    (a) Authorities.--For purposes of preparing and implementing the 
management plan, the management entity may use funds made available 
under this title to--
            (1) make grants to, provide technical assistance to, and 
        enter into cooperative agreements with, the State (including a 
        political subdivision), a nonprofit organization, or any other 
        person;
            (2) hire and compensate staff, including individuals with 
        expertise in--
                    (A) cultural, historic, or natural resource 
                protection; or
                    (B) heritage programming;
            (3) obtain funds or services from any source (including a 
        Federal law or program);
            (4) contract for goods or services; and
            (5) support any other activity--
                    (A) that furthers the purposes of the Heritage 
                Area; and
                    (B) that is consistent with the management plan.
    (b) Duties.--In addition to developing the management plan, the 
management entity shall--
            (1) assist units of local government, regional planning 
        organizations, and nonprofit organizations in implementing the 
        approved management plan by--
                    (A) carrying out programs and projects that 
                recognize, protect, and enhance important resource 
                values in the Heritage Area;
                    (B) establishing and maintaining interpretive 
                exhibits and programs in the Heritage Area;
                    (C) developing recreational and educational 
                opportunities in the Heritage Area;
                    (D) increasing public awareness of and appreciation 
                for cultural, historic, and natural resources of the 
                Heritage Area;
                    (E) protecting and restoring historic sites and 
                buildings that are--
                            (i) located in the Heritage Area; and
                            (ii) related to the themes of the Heritage 
                        Area;
                    (F) ensuring that clear, consistent, and 
                appropriate signs identifying points of public access 
                and sites of interest are installed throughout the 
                Heritage Area; and
                    (G) promoting a wide range of partnerships among 
                governments, organizations, and individuals to further 
the purposes of the Heritage Area;
            (2) in preparing and implementing the management plan, 
        consider the interests of diverse units of government, 
        businesses, organizations, and individuals in the Heritage 
        Area;
            (3) conduct public meetings at least semiannually regarding 
        the development and implementation of the management plan;
            (4) for any fiscal year for which Federal funds are 
        received under this title--
                    (A) submit to the Secretary a report that describes 
                for the year--
                            (i) the accomplishments of the management 
                        entity;
                            (ii) the expenses and income of the 
                        management entity; and
                            (iii) each entity to which a grant was 
                        made;
                    (B) make available for audit all information 
                relating to the expenditure of the funds and any 
                matching funds; and
                    (C) require, for all agreements authorizing 
                expenditures of Federal funds by any entity, that the 
                receiving entity make available for audit all records 
                and other information relating to the expenditure of 
                the funds;
            (5) encourage, by appropriate means, economic viability 
        that is consistent with the purposes of the Heritage Area; and
            (6) maintain headquarters for the management entity at 
        Morristown National Historical Park and in Mercer County.
    (c) Prohibition on the Acquisition of Real Property.--
            (1) Federal funds.--The management entity shall not use 
        Federal funds made available under this title to acquire real 
        property or any interest in real property.
            (2) Other funds.--Notwithstanding paragraph (1), the 
        management entity may acquire real property or an interest in 
        real property using any other source of funding, including 
        other Federal funding.

SEC. 706. TECHNICAL AND FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE; OTHER FEDERAL AGENCIES.

    (a) Technical and Financial Assistance.--
            (1) In general.--On the request of the management entity, 
        the Secretary may provide technical and financial assistance to 
        the Heritage Area for the development and implementation of the 
        management plan.
            (2) Priority for assistance.--In providing assistance under 
        paragraph (1), the Secretary shall give priority to actions 
        that assist in--
                    (A) conserving the significant cultural, historic, 
                natural, and scenic resources of the Heritage Area; and
                    (B) providing educational, interpretive, and 
                recreational opportunities consistent with the purposes 
                of the Heritage Area.
            (3) Operational assistance.--Subject to the availability of 
        appropriations, the Superintendent of Morristown National 
        Historical Park may, on request, provide to public and private 
        organizations in the Heritage Area, including the management 
        entity, any operational assistance that is appropriate for the 
        purpose of supporting the implementation of the management 
        plan.
            (4) Preservation of historic properties.--To carry out the 
        purposes of this title, the Secretary may provide assistance to 
        a State or local government or nonprofit organization to 
        provide for the appropriate treatment of--
                    (A) historic objects; or
                    (B) structures that are listed or eligible for 
                listing on the National Register of Historic Places.
            (5) Cooperative agreements.--The Secretary may enter into 
        cooperative agreements with the management entity and other 
        public or private entities to carry out this subsection.
    (b) Other Federal Agencies.--Any Federal agency conducting or 
supporting an activity that directly affects the Heritage Area shall--
            (1) consult with the Secretary and the management entity 
        regarding the activity;
            (2)(A) cooperate with the Secretary and the management 
        entity in carrying out the duties of the Federal agency under 
        this title; and
            (B) to the maximum extent practicable, coordinate the 
        activity with the carrying out of those duties; and
            (3) to the maximum extent practicable, conduct the activity 
        to avoid adverse effects on the Heritage Area.

SEC. 707. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.

    (a) In General.--There is authorized to be appropriated to carry 
out this title $10,000,000, of which not more than $1,000,000 may be 
authorized to be appropriated for any fiscal year.
    (b) Cost-Sharing Requirement.--The Federal share of the cost of any 
activity assisted under this title shall be not more than 50 percent.

SEC. 708. TERMINATION OF AUTHORITY.

    The authority of the Secretary to provide assistance under this 
title terminates on the date that is 15 years after the date of 
enactment of this Act.

            TITLE VIII--WESTERN RESERVE HERITAGE AREAS STUDY

SEC. 801. SHORT TITLE.

    This title may be cited as the ``Western Reserve Heritage Areas 
Study Act''.

SEC. 802. NATIONAL PARK SERVICE STUDY REGARDING THE WESTERN RESERVE, 
              OHIO.

    (a) Findings.--Congress finds the following:
            (1) The area that encompasses the modern-day counties of 
        Trumbull, Mahoning, Ashtabula, Portage, Geagua, Lake, Cuyahoga, 
        Summit, Medina, Huron, Lorain, Erie, Ottawa, and Ashland in 
        Ohio with the rich history in what was once the Western 
        Reserve, has made a unique contribution to the cultural, 
        political and industrial development of the United States.
            (2) The Western Reserve is distinctive as the land settled 
        by the people of Connecticut after the Revolutionary War. The 
        Western Reserve holds a unique mark as the original wilderness 
        land of the West that many settlers migrated to in order to 
        begin life outside of the original 13 colonies.
            (3) The Western Reserve played a significant role in 
        providing land to the people of Connecticut whose property and 
        land was destroyed during the Revolution. These settlers were 
        descendants of the brave immigrants who came to the Americas in 
        the 17th century.
            (4) The Western Reserve offered a new destination for those 
        who moved west in search of land and prosperity. The 
        agricultural and industrial base that began in the Western 
        Reserve still lives strong in these prosperous and historical 
        counties.
            (5) The heritage of the Western Reserve remains transfixed 
        in the counties of Trumbull, Mahoning, Ashtabula, Portage, 
        Geagua, Lake, Cuyahoga, Summit, Medina, Huron, Lorain, Erie, 
        Ottawa, and Ashland in Ohio. The people of these counties are 
        proud of their heritage as shown through the unwavering 
        attempts to preserve agricultural land and the industrial 
        foundation that has been embedded in this region since the 
        establishment of the Western Reserve. Throughout these 
        counties, historical sites, and markers preserve the unique 
        traditions and customs of its original heritage.
            (6) The counties that encompass the Western Reserve 
        continue to maintain a strong connection to its historic past 
        as seen through its preservation of its local heritage, 
        including historic homes, buildings, and centers of public 
        gatherings.
            (7) There is a need for assistance for the preservation and 
        promotion of the significance of the Western Reserve as the 
        natural, historic and cultural heritage of the counties of 
        Trumbull, Mahoning, Ashtabula, Portage, Geagua, Lake, Cuyahoga, 
        Summit, Medina, Huron, Lorain, Erie, Ottawa and Ashland in 
        Ohio.
            (8) The Department of the Interior is responsible for 
        protecting the Nation's cultural and historical resources. 
        There are significant examples of such resources within these 
        counties and what was once the Western Reserve to merit the 
        involvement of the Federal Government in the development of 
        programs and projects, in cooperation with the State of Ohio 
        and other local governmental entities, to adequately conserve, 
        protect, and interpret this heritage for future generations, 
        while providing opportunities for education and revitalization.
    (b) Study.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary shall, in consultation with 
        the State of Ohio, the counties of Trumbull, Mahoning, 
        Ashtabula, Portage, Geagua, Lake, Cuyahoga, Summit, Medina, 
        Huron, Lorain, Erie, Ottawa, and Ashland, and other appropriate 
        organizations, carry out a study regarding the suitability and 
        feasibility of establishing the Western Reserve Heritage Area 
        in these counties in Ohio.
            (2) Contents.--The study shall include analysis and 
        documentation regarding whether the Study Area--
                    (A) has an assemblage of natural, historic, and 
                cultural resources that together represent distinctive 
                aspects of American heritage worthy of recognition, 
                conservation, interpretation, and continuing use, and 
                are best managed through partnerships among public and 
                private entities and by combining diverse and sometimes 
                noncontiguous resources and active communities;
                    (B) reflects traditions, customs, beliefs, and 
                folklife that are a valuable part of the national 
                story;
                    (C) provides outstanding opportunities to conserve 
                natural, historic, cultural, or scenic features;
                    (D) provides outstanding recreational and 
                educational opportunities;
                    (E) contains resources important to the identified 
                theme or themes of the Study Area that retain a degree 
                of integrity capable of supporting interpretation;
                    (F) includes residents, business interests, 
                nonprofit organizations, and local and State 
                governments that are involved in the planning, have 
                developed a conceptual financial plan that outlines the 
                roles for all participants, including the Federal 
                Government, and have demonstrated support for the 
                concept of a national heritage area;
                    (G) has a potential management entity to work in 
                partnership with residents, business interests, 
                nonprofit organizations, and local and State 
                governments to develop a national heritage area 
                consistent with continued local and State economic 
                activity;
                    (H) has a conceptual boundary map that is supported 
                by the public; and
                    (I) has potential or actual impact on private 
                property located within or abutting the Study Area.
    (c) Boundaries of the Study Area.--The Study Area shall be 
comprised of the counties of Trumbull, Mahoning, Ashtabula, Portage, 
Geagua, Lake, Cuyahoga, Summit, Medina, Huron, Lorain, Erie, Ottawa, 
and Ashland in Ohio.

  TITLE IX--JOHN H. CHAFEE BLACKSTONE RIVER VALLEY NATIONAL HERITAGE 
                                CORRIDOR

SEC. 901. UPDATE OF PLAN.

    Section 6 of Public Law 99-647 (16 U.S.C. 461 note) is amended by 
adding at the end the following:
    ``(e) Update of Plan.--(1) Not later than 2 years after the date of 
enactment of this subsection, the Commission shall update the plan.
    ``(2) In updating the plan under paragraph (1), the Commission 
shall take into account the findings and recommendations included in 
the Blackstone Sustainability Study conducted by the National Park 
System Advisory Board.
    ``(3) The update shall--
            ``(A) examine the sustainability of the Corridor and the 
        Commission form of management for the Corridor; and
            ``(B) include an analysis of--
                    ``(i) options for preserving, enhancing, and 
                interpreting the resources of the Corridor; and
                    ``(ii) the partnerships that sustain those 
                resources.
    ``(4)(A) Except as provided in subparagraph (B), the Secretary 
shall approve or disapprove any changes to the plan proposed in the 
update in accordance with subsection (b).
    ``(B) Minor revisions to the plan shall not be subject to the 
approval of the Secretary.''.

SEC. 902. EXTENSION OF COMMISSION.

    Section 7 of Public Law 99-647 (16 U.S.C. 461 note) is amended to 
read as follows:

``SEC. 7. TERMINATION OF COMMISSION.

    ``The Commission shall terminate on the date that is 10 years after 
the date of enactment of the National Heritage Area Extension Act of 
2004.''.

SEC. 903. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.

    Section 10 of Public Law 99-647 (16 U.S.C. 461 note) is amended--
            (1) in subsection (a), by striking ``$650,000'' and 
        inserting ``$1,000,000''; and
            (2) by striking subsection (b) and inserting the following:
    ``(b) Development Funds.--There is authorized to be appropriated to 
carry out section 8(c) not more than $10,000,000 for the period of 
fiscal years 2006 through 2016, to remain available until expended.''.
                                 &lt;all&gt;
</pre></body></html>
