<html><body><pre>
[109th Congress Public Law 338]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]


[DOCID: f:publ338.109]

[[Page 120 STAT. 1783]]

Public Law 109-338
109th Congress

                                 An Act


 
    To reduce temporarily the royalty required to be paid for sodium 
 produced, to establish certain National Heritage Areas, and for other 
             purposes. &lt;&lt;NOTE: Oct. 12, 2006 -  [S. 203]&gt;&gt; 

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled, &lt;&lt;NOTE: National 
Heritage Areas Act of 2006.&gt;&gt; 

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE; TABLE OF CONTENTS.

    (a) &lt;&lt;NOTE: 16 USC 461 note.&gt;&gt; Short Title.--This Act may be cited 
as the ``National Heritage Areas Act of 2006''.

    (b) Table of Contents.--The table of contents of this Act is as 
follows:

Sec. 1. Short title; table of contents.

                   TITLE I--SODA ASH ROYALTY REDUCTION

Sec. 101. Short title.
Sec. 102. Reduction in royalty rate on soda ash.
Sec. 103. Study.

           TITLE II--ESTABLISHMENT OF NATIONAL HERITAGE AREAS

         Subtitle A--Northern Rio Grande National Heritage Area

Sec. 201. Short title.
Sec. 202. Congressional findings.
Sec. 203. Definitions.
Sec. 204. Northern Rio Grande National Heritage Area.
Sec. 205. Authority and duties of the Management Entity.
Sec. 206. Duties of the Secretary.
Sec. 207. Private property protections; savings provisions.
Sec. 208. Sunset.
Sec. 209. Authorization of appropriations.

             Subtitle B--Atchafalaya National Heritage Area

Sec. 211. Short title.
Sec. 212. Definitions.
Sec. 213. Atchafalaya National Heritage Area.
Sec. 214. Authorities and duties of the local coordinating entity.
Sec. 215. Management Plan.
Sec. 216. Requirements for inclusion of private property.
Sec. 217. Private property protection.
Sec. 218. Effect of subtitle.
Sec. 219. Reports.
Sec. 220. Authorization of appropriations.
Sec. 221. Termination of authority.

           Subtitle C--Arabia Mountain National Heritage Area

Sec. 231. Short title.
Sec. 232. Findings and purposes.
Sec. 233. Definitions.
Sec. 234. Arabia Mountain National Heritage Area.
Sec. 235. Authorities and duties of the local coordinating entity.
Sec. 236. Management Plan.

[[Page 120 STAT. 1784]]

Sec. 237. Technical and financial assistance.
Sec. 238. Effect on certain authority.
Sec. 239. Authorization of appropriations.
Sec. 240. Termination of authority.
Sec. 241. Requirements for inclusion of private property.
Sec. 242. Private property protection.

            Subtitle D--Mormon Pioneer National Heritage Area

Sec. 251. Short title.
Sec. 252. Findings and purpose.
Sec. 253. Definitions.
Sec. 254. Mormon Pioneer National Heritage Area.
Sec. 255. Designation of Alliance as local coordinating entity.
Sec. 256. Management of the Heritage Area.
Sec. 257. Duties and authorities of Federal agencies.
Sec. 258A. Requirements for inclusion of private property.
Sec. 258B. Private property protection.
Sec. 259. Authorization of appropriations.
Sec. 260. Termination of authority.

          Subtitle E--Freedom's Frontier National Heritage Area

Sec. 261. Short title.
Sec. 262. Purpose.
Sec. 263. Definitions.
Sec. 264. Freedom's Frontier National Heritage Area.
Sec. 265. Technical and financial assistance; other Federal agencies.
Sec. 266. Private property protection.
Sec. 267. Savings provisions.
Sec. 268. Authorization of appropriations.
Sec. 269. Termination of authority.

       Subtitle F--Upper Housatonic Valley National Heritage Area

Sec. 271. Short title.
Sec. 272. Findings and purposes.
Sec. 273. Definitions.
Sec. 274. Upper Housatonic Valley National Heritage Area.
Sec. 275. Authorities, prohibitions, and duties of the Management 
           Entity.
Sec. 276. Management Plan.
Sec. 277. Duties and authorities of the Secretary.
Sec. 278. Duties of other Federal agencies.
Sec. 279. Requirements for inclusion of private property.
Sec. 280. Private property protection.
Sec. 280A. Authorization of appropriations.
Sec. 280B. Sunset.

       Subtitle G--Champlain Valley National Heritage Partnership

Sec. 281. Short title.
Sec. 282. Findings and purposes.
Sec. 283. Definitions.
Sec. 284. Heritage Partnership.
Sec. 285. Requirements for inclusion of private property.
Sec. 286. Private property protection.
Sec. 287. Effect.
Sec. 288. Authorization of appropriations.
Sec. 289. Termination of authority.

             Subtitle H--Great Basin National Heritage Route

Sec. 291. Short title.
Sec. 291A. Findings and purposes.
Sec. 291B. Definitions.
Sec. 291C. Great Basin National Heritage Route.
Sec. 291D. Memorandum of understanding.
Sec. 291E. Management Plan.
Sec. 291F. Authority and duties of local coordinating entity.
Sec. 291G. Duties and authorities of Federal agencies.
Sec. 291H. Land use regulation; applicability of Federal law.
Sec. 291I. Authorization of appropriations.
Sec. 291J. Termination of authority.
Sec. 291K. Requirements for inclusion of private property.
Sec. 291L. Private property protection.

[[Page 120 STAT. 1785]]

              Subtitle I--Gullah/Geechee Heritage Corridor

Sec. 295. Short title.
Sec. 295A. Purposes.
Sec. 295B. Definitions.
Sec. 295C. Gullah/Geechee Cultural Heritage Corridor.
Sec. 295D. Gullah/Geechee Cultural Heritage Corridor Commission.
Sec. 295E. Operation of the local coordinating entity.
Sec. 295F. Management Plan.
Sec. 295G. Technical and financial assistance.
Sec. 295H. Duties of other Federal agencies.
Sec. 295I. Coastal Heritage Centers.
Sec. 295J. Private property protection.
Sec. 295K. Authorization of appropriations.
Sec. 295L. Termination of authority.

Subtitle J--Crossroads of the American Revolution National Heritage Area

Sec. 297. Short title.
Sec. 297A. Findings and purposes.
Sec. 297B. Definitions.
Sec. 297C. Crossroads of the American Revolution National Heritage Area.
Sec. 297D. Management Plan.
Sec. 297E. Authorities, duties, and prohibitions applicable to the local 
           coordinating entity.
Sec. 297F. Technical and financial assistance; other Federal agencies.
Sec. 297G. Authorization of appropriations.
Sec. 297H. Termination of authority.
Sec. 297I. Requirements for inclusion of private property.
Sec. 297J. Private property protection.

                TITLE III--NATIONAL HERITAGE AREA STUDIES

             Subtitle A--Western Reserve Heritage Area Study

Sec. 301. Short title.
Sec. 302. National Park Service study regarding the Western Reserve, 
           Ohio.

           Subtitle B--St. Croix National Heritage Area Study

Sec. 311. Short title.
Sec. 312. Study.

             Subtitle C--Southern Campaign of the Revolution

Sec. 321. Short title.
Sec. 322. Southern Campaign of the Revolution Heritage Area study.
Sec. 323. Private property.

  TITLE IV--ILLINOIS AND MICHIGAN CANAL NATIONAL HERITAGE CORRIDOR ACT 
                               AMENDMENTS

Sec. 401. Short title.
Sec. 402. Transition and provisions for new local coordinating entity.
Sec. 403. Private property protection.
Sec. 404. Technical amendments.

               TITLE V--MOKELUMNE RIVER FEASIBILITY STUDY

Sec. 501. Authorization of Mokelumne River Regional Water Storage and 
           Conjunctive Use Project Study.
Sec. 502. Use of reports and other information.
Sec. 503. Cost shares.
Sec. 504. Water rights.
Sec. 505. Authorization of appropriations.

       TITLE VI--DELAWARE NATIONAL COASTAL SPECIAL RESOURCES STUDY

Sec. 601. Short title.
Sec. 602. Study.
Sec. 603. Themes.
Sec. 604. Report.

  TITLE VII--JOHN H. CHAFEE BLACKSTONE RIVER VALLEY NATIONAL HERITAGE 
                        CORRIDOR REAUTHORIZATION

Sec. 701. Short title.
Sec. 702. John H. Chafee Blackstone River Valley National Heritage 
           Corridor.

[[Page 120 STAT. 1786]]

Sec. 703. New Jersey Coastal Heritage Trail Route.

  TITLE VIII--CALIFORNIA RECLAMATION GROUNDWATER REMEDIATION INITIATIVE

Sec. 801. Short title.
Sec. 802. Definitions.
Sec. 803. California basins remediation.
Sec. 804. Sunset of authority.

                  TITLE IX--NATIONAL COAL HERITAGE AREA

Sec. 901. National Coal Heritage Area amendments.

  TITLE I-- &lt;&lt;NOTE: Soda Ash Royalty Reduction Act of 2006.&gt;&gt; SODA ASH 
ROYALTY REDUCTION

SEC. 101. &lt;&lt;NOTE: 30 USC 262 note.&gt;&gt; SHORT TITLE.

    This title may be cited as the ``Soda Ash Royalty Reduction Act of 
2006''.

SEC. 102. &lt;&lt;NOTE: 30 USC 262 note.&gt;&gt; REDUCTION IN ROYALTY RATE ON SODA 
            ASH.

    Notwithstanding section 102(a)(9) of the Federal Land Policy 
Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1701(a)(9)), section 24 of the Mineral 
Leasing Act (30 U.S.C. 262), and the terms of any lease under that Act, 
the royalty rate on the quantity or gross value of the output of sodium 
compounds and related products at the point of shipment to market from 
Federal land in the 5-year period beginning on the date of enactment of 
this Act shall be 2 percent.

SEC. 103. &lt;&lt;NOTE: 30 USC 262 note.&gt;&gt; STUDY.

     &lt;&lt;NOTE: Reports.&gt;&gt; After the end of the 4-year period beginning on 
the date of enactment of this Act, and before the end of the 5-year 
period beginning on that date, the Secretary of the Interior shall 
report to Congress on the effects of the royalty reduction under this 
title, including--
            (1) the amount of sodium compounds and related products at 
        the point of shipment to market from Federal land during that 4-
        year period;
            (2) the number of jobs that have been created or maintained 
        during the royalty reduction period;
            (3) the total amount of royalty paid to the United States on 
        the quantity or gross value of the output of sodium compounds 
        and related products at the point of shipment to market produced 
        during that 4-year period, and the portion of such royalty paid 
        to States; and
            (4) a recommendation of whether the reduced royalty rate 
        should apply after the end of the 5-year period beginning on the 
        date of enactment of this Act.

[[Page 120 STAT. 1787]]

           TITLE II--ESTABLISHMENT OF NATIONAL HERITAGE AREAS

 Subtitle A &lt;&lt;NOTE: Northern Rio Grande National Heritage Area Act. New 
Mexico. 16 USC 461 note.&gt;&gt; --Northern Rio Grande National Heritage Area

SEC. 201. SHORT TITLE.

    This subtitle may be cited as the ``Northern Rio Grande National 
Heritage Area Act''.

SEC. 202. CONGRESSIONAL FINDINGS.

    The Congress finds that--
            (1) northern New Mexico encompasses a mosaic of cultures and 
        history, including 8 Pueblos and the descendants of Spanish 
        ancestors who settled in the area in 1598;
            (2) the combination of cultures, languages, folk arts, 
        customs, and architecture make northern New Mexico unique;
            (3) the area includes spectacular natural, scenic, and 
        recreational resources;
            (4) there is broad support from local governments and 
        interested individuals to establish a National Heritage Area to 
        coordinate and assist in the preservation and interpretation of 
        these resources;
            (5) in 1991, the National Park Service study Alternative 
        Concepts for Commemorating Spanish Colonization identified 
        several alternatives consistent with the establishment of a 
        National Heritage Area, including conducting a comprehensive 
        archaeological and historical research program, coordinating a 
        comprehensive interpretation program, and interpreting a 
        cultural heritage scene; and
            (6) establishment of a National Heritage Area in northern 
        New Mexico would assist local communities and residents in 
        preserving these unique cultural, historical and natural 
        resources.

SEC. 203. DEFINITIONS.

    As used in this subtitle--
            (1) the term ``heritage area'' means the Northern Rio Grande 
        Heritage Area; and
            (2) the term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary of the 
        Interior.

SEC. 204. NORTHERN RIO GRANDE NATIONAL HERITAGE AREA.

    (a) Establishment.--There is hereby established the Northern Rio 
Grande National Heritage Area in the State of New Mexico.
    (b) Boundaries.--The heritage area shall include the counties of 
Santa Fe, Rio Arriba, and Taos.
    (c) Management Entity.--
            (1) The Northern Rio Grande National Heritage Area, Inc., a 
        non-profit corporation chartered in the State of New Mexico, 
        shall serve as the management entity for the heritage area.
            (2) The Board of Directors for the management entity shall 
        include representatives of the State of New Mexico, the counties 
        of Santa Fe, Rio Arriba and Taos, tribes and pueblos within the 
        heritage area, the cities of Santa Fe, Espanola and Taos,

[[Page 120 STAT. 1788]]

        and members of the general public. The total number of Board 
        members and the number of Directors representing State, local 
        and tribal governments and interested communities shall be 
        established to ensure that all parties have appropriate 
        representation on the Board.

SEC. 205. AUTHORITY AND DUTIES OF THE MANAGEMENT ENTITY.

    (a) Management Plan.--
            (1) &lt;&lt;NOTE: Deadline.&gt;&gt; Not later than 3 years after the 
        date of enactment of this Act, the management entity shall 
        develop and forward to the Secretary a management plan for the 
        heritage area.
            (2) The management entity shall develop and implement the 
        management plan in cooperation with affected communities, tribal 
        and local governments and shall provide for public involvement 
        in the development and implementation of the management plan.
            (3) The management plan shall, at a minimum--
                    (A) provide recommendations for the conservation, 
                funding, management, and development of the resources of 
                the heritage area;
                    (B) identify sources of funding;
                    (C) include an inventory of the cultural, 
                historical, archaeological, natural, and recreational 
                resources of the heritage area;
                    (D) provide recommendations for educational and 
                interpretive programs to inform the public about the 
                resources of the heritage area; and
                    (E) include an analysis of ways in which local, 
                State, Federal, and tribal programs may best be 
                coordinated to promote the purposes of this subtitle.
            (4) If the management entity fails to submit a management 
        plan to the Secretary as provided in paragraph (1), the heritage 
        area shall no longer be eligible to receive Federal funding 
        under this subtitle until such time as a plan is submitted to 
        the Secretary.
            (5) &lt;&lt;NOTE: Deadline.&gt;&gt; The Secretary shall approve or 
        disapprove the management plan within 90 days after the date of 
        submission. If the Secretary disapproves the management plan, 
        the Secretary shall advise the management entity in writing of 
        the reasons therefore and shall make recommendations for 
        revisions to the plan.
            (6) &lt;&lt;NOTE: Recommen-dations.&gt;&gt; The management entity shall 
        periodically review the management plan and submit to the 
        Secretary any recommendations for proposed revisions to the 
        management plan. Any major revisions to the management plan must 
        be approved by the Secretary.

    (b) Authority.--The management entity may make grants and provide 
technical assistance to tribal and local governments, and other public 
and private entities to carry out the management plan.
    (c) Duties.--The management entity shall--
            (1) give priority in implementing actions set forth in the 
        management plan;
            (2) encourage by appropriate means economic viability in the 
        heritage area consistent with the goals of the management plan; 
        and

[[Page 120 STAT. 1789]]

            (3) assist local and tribal governments and non-profit 
        organizations in--
                    (A) establishing and maintaining interpretive 
                exhibits in the heritage area;
                    (B) developing recreational resources in the 
                heritage area;
                    (C) increasing public awareness of, and appreciation 
                for, the cultural, historical, archaeological and 
                natural resources and sits in the heritage area;
                    (D) the restoration of historic structures related 
                to the heritage area; and
                    (E) carrying out other actions that the management 
                entity determines appropriate to fulfill the purposes of 
                this subtitle, consistent with the management plan.

    (d) Prohibition on Acquiring Real Property.--The management entity 
may not use Federal funds received under this subtitle to acquire real 
property or an interest in real property.
    (e) Public Meetings.--The management entity shall hold public 
meetings at least annually regarding the implementation of the 
management plan.
    (f) Annual Reports and Audits.--
            (1) For any year in which the management entity receives 
        Federal funds under this subtitle, the management entity shall 
        submit an annual report to the Secretary setting forth 
        accomplishments, expenses and income, and each entity to which 
        any grant was made by the management entity.
            (2) The management entity shall make available to the 
        Secretary for audit all records relating to the expenditure of 
        Federal funds and any matching funds. The management entity 
        shall also require, for all agreements authorizing expenditure 
        of Federal funds by other organizations, that the receiving 
        organization make available to the Secretary for audit all 
        records concerning the expenditure of those funds.

SEC. 206. DUTIES OF THE SECRETARY.

    (a) Technical and Financial Assistance.--The Secretary may, upon 
request of the management entity, provide technical and financial 
assistance to develop and implement the management plan.
    (b) Priority.--In providing assistance under subsection (a), the 
Secretary shall give priority to actions that facilitate--
            (1) the conservation of the significant natural, cultural, 
        historical, archaeological, scenic, and recreational resources 
        of the heritage area; and
            (2) the provision of educational, interpretive, and 
        recreational opportunities consistent with the resources and 
        associated values of the heritage area.

SEC. 207. PRIVATE PROPERTY PROTECTIONS; SAVINGS PROVISIONS.

    (a) Private Property Protection.--
            (1) Notification and consent of property owners required.--
        No privately owned property shall be preserved, conserved, or 
        promoted by the management plan for the Heritage Area until the 
        owner of that private property has been notified in writing by 
        the management entity and has given written consent for such 
        preservation, conservation or promotion to the management 
        entity.

[[Page 120 STAT. 1790]]

            (2) Landowner withdrawal.--Any owner of private property 
        included within the boundary of the heritage area, shall have 
        their property immediately removed from within the boundary by 
        submitting a written request to the management entity.
            (3) Access to private property.--Nothing in this subtitle 
        shall be construed to require any private property owner to 
        permit public access (including Federal, State, or local 
        government access) to such private property. Nothing in this 
        subtitle shall be construed to modify any provision of Federal, 
        State, or local law with regard to public access to or use of 
        private lands.
            (4) Liability.--Designation of the heritage area shall not 
        be considered to create any liability, or to have any effect on 
        any liability under any other law, of any private property owner 
        with respect to any persons injured on such private property.
            (5) Recognition of authority to control land use.--Nothing 
        in this subtitle shall be construed to modify any authority of 
        Federal, State, or local governments to regulate land use.
            (6) Participation of private property owners in heritage 
        area.--Nothing in this subtitle shall be construed to require 
        the owner of any private property located within the boundaries 
        of the heritage area to participate in or be associated with the 
        heritage area.

    (b) Effect of Establishment.--The boundaries designated for the 
heritage area represent the area within which Federal funds appropriated 
for the purpose of this subtitle shall be expended. The establishment of 
the heritage area and its boundaries shall not be construed to provide 
any nonexisting regulatory authority on land use within the heritage 
area or its viewshed by the Secretary, the National Park Service, or the 
management entity.
    (c) Tribal Lands.--Nothing in this subtitle shall restrict or limit 
a tribe from protecting cultural or religious sites on tribal lands.
    (d) Trust Responsibilities.--Nothing in this subtitle shall diminish 
the Federal Government's trust responsibilities or government-to-
government obligations to any federally recognized Indian tribe.

SEC. 208. SUNSET.

    The authority of the Secretary to provide assistance under this 
subtitle terminates on the date that is 15 years after the date of 
enactment of this Act.

SEC. 209. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.

    (a) In General.--There are authorized to be appropriated to carry 
out this subtitle $10,000,000, of which not more than $1,000,000 may be 
authorized to be appropriated for any fiscal year.
    (b) Cost-Sharing Requirement.--The Federal share of the total cost 
of any activity assisted under this subtitle shall be not more than 50 
percent.

[[Page 120 STAT. 1791]]

Subtitle B &lt;&lt;NOTE: Atchafalaya National Heritage Area Act. Louisiana. 16 
USC 461 note.&gt;&gt; --Atchafalaya National Heritage Area

SEC. 211. SHORT TITLE.

    This subtitle may be cited as the ``Atchafalaya National Heritage 
Area Act''.

SEC. 212. DEFINITIONS.

    In this subtitle:
            (1) Heritage area.--The term ``Heritage Area'' means the 
        Atchafalaya National Heritage Area established by section 
        213(a).
            (2) Local coordinating entity.--The term ``local 
        coordinating entity'' means the local coordinating entity for 
        the Heritage Area designated by section 213(c).
            (3) Management plan.--The term ``management plan'' means the 
        management plan for the Heritage Area developed under section 
        215.
            (4) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary 
        of the Interior.
            (5) State.--The term ``State'' means the State of Louisiana.

SEC. 213. ATCHAFALAYA NATIONAL HERITAGE AREA.

    (a) Establishment.--There is established in the State the 
Atchafalaya National Heritage Area.
    (b) Boundaries.--The Heritage Area shall consist of the whole of the 
following parishes in the State: St. Mary, Iberia, St. Martin, St. 
Landry, Avoyelles, Pointe Coupee, Iberville, Assumption, Terrebonne, 
Lafayette, West Baton Rouge, Concordia, East Baton Rouge, and Ascension 
Parish.
    (c) Local Coordinating Entity.--
            (1) In general.--The Atchafalaya Trace Commission shall be 
        the local coordinating entity for the Heritage Area.
            (2) Composition.--The local coordinating entity shall be 
        composed of 14 members appointed by the governing authority of 
        each parish within the Heritage Area.

SEC. 214. AUTHORITIES AND DUTIES OF THE LOCAL COORDINATING ENTITY.

    (a) Authorities.--For the purposes of developing and implementing 
the management plan and otherwise carrying out this subtitle, the local 
coordinating entity may--
            (1) make grants to, and enter into cooperative agreements 
        with, the State, units of local government, and private 
        organizations;
            (2) hire and compensate staff; and
            (3) enter into contracts for goods and services.

    (b) Duties.--The local coordinating entity shall--
            (1) submit to the Secretary for approval a management plan;
            (2) implement the management plan, including providing 
        assistance to units of government and others in--
                    (A) carrying out programs that recognize important 
                resource values within the Heritage Area;
                    (B) encouraging sustainable economic development 
                within the Heritage Area;

[[Page 120 STAT. 1792]]

                    (C) establishing and maintaining interpretive sites 
                within the Heritage Area; and
                    (D) increasing public awareness of, and appreciation 
                for the natural, historic, and cultural resources of, 
                the Heritage Area;
            (3) adopt bylaws governing the conduct of the local 
        coordinating entity; and
            (4) for any year for which Federal funds are received under 
        this subtitle, submit to the Secretary a report that describes, 
        for the year--
                    (A) the accomplishments of the local coordinating 
                entity; and
                    (B) the expenses and income of the local 
                coordinating entity.

    (c) Acquisition of Real Property.--The local coordinating entity 
shall not use Federal funds received under this subtitle to acquire real 
property or an interest in real property.
    (d) Public Meetings.--The local coordinating entity shall conduct 
public meetings at least quarterly.

SEC. 215. MANAGEMENT PLAN.

    (a) In General.--The local coordinating entity shall develop a 
management plan for the Heritage Area that incorporates an integrated 
and cooperative approach to protect, interpret, and enhance the natural, 
scenic, cultural, historic, and recreational resources of the Heritage 
Area.
    (b) Consideration of Other Plans and Actions.--In developing the 
management plan, the local coordinating entity shall--
            (1) take into consideration State and local plans; and
            (2) invite the participation of residents, public agencies, 
        and private organizations in the Heritage Area.

    (c) Contents.--The management plan shall include--
            (1) &lt;&lt;NOTE: Records.&gt;&gt; an inventory of the resources in the 
        Heritage Area, including--
                    (A) a list of property in the Heritage Area that--
                          (i) relates to the purposes of the Heritage 
                      Area; and
                          (ii) should be preserved, restored, managed, 
                      or maintained because of the significance of the 
                      property; and
                    (B) an assessment of cultural landscapes within the 
                Heritage Area;
            (2) provisions for the protection, interpretation, and 
        enjoyment of the resources of the Heritage Area consistent with 
        this subtitle;
            (3) an interpretation plan for the Heritage Area; and
            (4) a program for implementation of the management plan that 
        includes--
                    (A) actions to be carried out by units of 
                government, private organizations, and public-private 
                partnerships to protect the resources of the Heritage 
                Area; and
                    (B) the identification of existing and potential 
                sources of funding for implementing the plan.

    (d) Submission to Secretary for Approval.--
            (1) In general.-- &lt;&lt;NOTE: Deadline.&gt;&gt; Not later than 3 years 
        after the date on which funds are made available to carry out 
        this subtitle,

[[Page 120 STAT. 1793]]

        the local coordinating entity shall submit the management plan 
        to the Secretary for approval.
            (2) Effect of failure to submit.--If a management plan is 
        not submitted to the Secretary by the date specified in 
        paragraph (1), the Secretary shall not provide any additional 
        funding under this subtitle until a management plan for the 
        Heritage Area is submitted to the Secretary.

    (e) Approval.--
            (1) In general. &lt;&lt;NOTE: Deadline.&gt;&gt; --Not later than 90 days 
        after receiving the management plan submitted under subsection 
        (d)(1), the Secretary, in consultation with the State, shall 
        approve or disapprove the management plan.
            (2) Action following disapproval.--
                    (A) In general.--If the Secretary disapproves a 
                management plan under paragraph (1), the Secretary 
                shall--
                          (i) advise the local coordinating entity in 
                      writing of the reasons for the disapproval;
                          (ii) make recommendations for revisions to the 
                      management plan; and
                          (iii) allow the local coordinating entity to 
                      submit to the Secretary revisions to the 
                      management plan.
                    (B) Deadline for approval of revision.--Not later 
                than 90 days after the date on which a revision is 
                submitted under subparagraph (A)(iii), the Secretary 
                shall approve or disapprove the revision.

    (f) Revision.--
            (1) In general.--After approval by the Secretary of a 
        management plan, the local coordinating entity shall 
        periodically--
                    (A) review the management plan; and
                    (B) &lt;&lt;NOTE: Recommen-dations.&gt;&gt; submit to the 
                Secretary, for review and approval by the Secretary, the 
                recommendations of the local coordinating entity for any 
                revisions to the management plan that the local 
                coordinating entity considers to be appropriate.
            (2) Expenditure of funds.--No funds made available under 
        this subtitle shall be used to implement any revision proposed 
        by the local coordinating entity under paragraph (1)(B) until 
        the Secretary approves the revision.

SEC. 216. REQUIREMENTS FOR INCLUSION OF PRIVATE PROPERTY.

    (a) Notification and Consent of Property Owners Required.--No 
privately owned property shall be preserved, conserved, or promoted by 
the management plan for the Heritage Area until the owner of that 
private property has been notified in writing by the local coordinating 
entity and has given written consent to the local coordinating entity 
for such preservation, conservation, or promotion.
    (b) Landowner Withdrawal.--Any owner of private property included 
within the boundary of the Heritage Area shall have that private 
property immediately removed from the boundary by submitting a written 
request to the local coordinating entity.

SEC. 217. PRIVATE PROPERTY PROTECTION.

    (a) Access to Private Property.--Nothing in this subtitle shall be 
construed to--

[[Page 120 STAT. 1794]]

            (1) require any private property owner to allow public 
        access (including Federal, State, or local government access) to 
        such private property; or
            (2) modify any provision of Federal, State, or local law 
        with regard to public access to or use of private property.

    (b) Liability.--Designation of the Heritage Area shall not be 
considered to create any liability, or to have any effect on any 
liability under any other law, of any private property owner with 
respect to any persons injured on that private property.
    (c) Participation of Private Property Owners in Heritage Area.--
Nothing in this subtitle shall be construed to require the owner of any 
private property located within the boundaries of the Heritage Area to 
participate in or be associated with the Heritage Area.

SEC. 218. EFFECT OF SUBTITLE.

    Nothing in this subtitle or in establishment of the Heritage Area--
            (1) grants any Federal agency regulatory authority over any 
        interest in the Heritage Area, unless cooperatively agreed on by 
        all involved parties;
            (2) modifies, enlarges, or diminishes any authority of the 
        Federal Government or a State or local government to regulate 
        any use of land as provided for by law (including regulations) 
        in existence on the date of enactment of this Act;
            (3) grants any power of zoning or land use to the local 
        coordinating entity;
            (4) imposes any environmental, occupational, safety, or 
        other rule, standard, or permitting process that is different 
        from those in effect on the date of enactment of this Act that 
        would be applicable had the Heritage Area not been established;
            (5)(A) imposes any change in Federal environmental quality 
        standards; or
            (B) authorizes designation of any portion of the Heritage 
        Area that is subject to part C of title I of the Clean Air Act 
        (42 U.S.C. 7470 et seq.) as class 1 for the purposes of that 
        part solely by reason of the establishment of the Heritage Area;
            (6) authorizes any Federal or State agency to impose more 
        restrictive water use designations, or water quality standards 
        on uses of or discharges to, waters of the United States or 
        waters of the State within or adjacent to the Heritage Area 
        solely by reason of the establishment of the Heritage Area;
            (7) abridges, restricts, or alters any applicable rule, 
        standard, or review procedure for permitting of facilities 
        within or adjacent to the Heritage Area; or
            (8) affects the continuing use and operation, where located 
        on the date of enactment of this Act, of any public utility or 
        common carrier.

SEC. 219. REPORTS.

    For any year in which Federal funds have been made available under 
this subtitle, the local coordinating entity shall submit to the 
Secretary a report that describes--
            (1) the accomplishments of the local coordinating entity; 
        and
            (2) the expenses and income of the local coordinating 
        entity.

[[Page 120 STAT. 1795]]

SEC. 220. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.

    (a) In General.--There is authorized to be appropriated to carry out 
this subtitle $10,000,000, to remain available until expended, of which 
not more than $1,000,000 may be authorized to be appropriated for any 
fiscal year.
    (b) Cost-Sharing Requirement.--The Federal share of the total cost 
of any activity assisted under this subtitle shall be not more than 50 
percent unless the Secretary determines that no reasonable means are 
available through which the local coordinating entity can meet its cost 
sharing requirement for that activity.

SEC. 221. TERMINATION OF AUTHORITY.

    The authority of the Secretary to provide assistance to the local 
coordinating entity under this subtitle terminates on the date that is 
15 years after the date of enactment of this Act.

      Subtitle C-- &lt;&lt;NOTE: Arabia Mountain National Heritage Area 
Act. Georgia. 16 USC 461 note.&gt;&gt; Arabia Mountain National Heritage Area

SEC. 231. SHORT TITLE.

    This subtitle may be cited as the ``Arabia Mountain National 
Heritage Area Act''.

SEC. 232. FINDINGS AND PURPOSES.

    (a) Findings.--Congress finds the following:
            (1) The Arabia Mountain area contains a variety of natural, 
        cultural, historical, scenic, and recreational resources that 
        together represent distinctive aspects of the heritage of the 
        United States that are worthy of recognition, conservation, 
        interpretation, and continuing use.
            (2) The best methods for managing the resources of the 
        Arabia Mountain area would be through partnerships between 
        public and private entities that combine diverse resources and 
        active communities.
            (3) Davidson-Arabia Mountain Nature Preserve, a 535-acre 
        park in DeKalb County, Georgia--
                    (A) protects granite outcrop ecosystems, wetland, 
                and pine and oak forests; and
                    (B) includes federally-protected plant species.
            (4) Panola Mountain, a national natural landmark, located in 
        the 860-acre Panola Mountain State Conservation Park, is a rare 
        example of a pristine granite outcrop.
            (5) The archaeological site at Miners Creek Preserve along 
        the South River contains documented evidence of early human 
        activity.
            (6) The city of Lithonia, Georgia, and related sites of 
        Arabia Mountain and Stone Mountain possess sites that display 
        the history of granite mining as an industry and culture in 
        Georgia, and the impact of that industry on the United States.
            (7) The community of Klondike is eligible for designation as 
        a National Historic District.
            (8) The city of Lithonia has 2 structures listed on the 
        National Register of Historic Places.

    (b) Purposes.--The purposes of this subtitle are as follows:
            (1) To recognize, preserve, promote, interpret, and make 
        available for the benefit of the public the natural, cultural,

[[Page 120 STAT. 1796]]

        historical, scenic, and recreational resources in the area that 
        includes Arabia Mountain, Panola Mountain, Miners Creek, and 
        other significant sites and communities.
            (2) To assist the State of Georgia and the counties of 
        DeKalb, Rockdale, and Henry in the State in developing and 
        implementing an integrated cultural, historical, and land 
        resource management program to protect, enhance, and interpret 
        the significant resources within the heritage area.

SEC. 233. DEFINITIONS.

    In this subtitle:
            (1) Heritage area.--The term ``heritage area'' means the 
        Arabia Mountain National Heritage Area established by section 
        234(a).
            (2) Local coordinating entity.--The term ``local 
        coordinating entity'' means the Arabia Mountain Heritage Area 
        Alliance or a successor of the Arabia Mountain Heritage Area 
        Alliance.
            (3) Management plan.--The term ``management plan'' means the 
        management plan for the heritage area developed under section 
        236.
            (4) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary 
        of the Interior.
            (5) State.--The term ``State'' means the State of Georgia.

SEC. 234. ARABIA MOUNTAIN NATIONAL HERITAGE AREA.

    (a) Establishment.--There is established the Arabia Mountain 
National Heritage Area in the State.
    (b) Boundaries.--The heritage area shall consist of certain parcels 
of land in the counties of DeKalb, Rockdale, and Henry in the State, as 
generally depicted on the map entitled ``Arabia Mountain National 
Heritage Area'', numbered AMNHA-80,000, and dated October 2003.
    (c) Availability of Map.--The map shall be on file and available for 
public inspection in the appropriate offices of the National Park 
Service.
    (d) Local Coordinating Entity.--The Arabia Mountain Heritage Area 
Alliance shall be the local coordinating entity for the heritage area.

SEC. 235. AUTHORITIES AND DUTIES OF THE LOCAL COORDINATING ENTITY.

    (a) Authorities.--For purposes of developing and implementing the 
management plan, the local coordinating entity may--
            (1) make grants to, and enter into cooperative agreements 
        with, the State, political subdivisions of the State, and 
        private organizations;
            (2) hire and compensate staff; and
            (3) enter into contracts for goods and services.

    (b) Duties.--
            (1) Management plan.--
                    (A) In general.--The local coordinating entity shall 
                develop and submit to the Secretary the management plan.
                    (B) Considerations.--In developing and implementing 
                the management plan, the local coordinating entity shall 
                consider the interests of diverse governmental, 
                business, and nonprofit groups within the heritage area.

[[Page 120 STAT. 1797]]

            (2) Priorities.--The local coordinating entity shall give 
        priority to implementing actions described in the management 
        plan, including the following:
                    (A) Assisting units of government and nonprofit 
                organizations in preserving resources within the 
                heritage area.
                    (B) Encouraging local governments to adopt land use 
                policies consistent with the management of the heritage 
                area and the goals of the management plan.
            (3) Public meetings.--The local coordinating entity shall 
        conduct public meetings at least quarterly on the implementation 
        of the management plan.
            (4) Annual report.--For any year in which Federal funds have 
        been made available under this title, the local coordinating 
        entity shall submit to the Secretary an annual report that 
        describes the following:
                    (A) The accomplishments of the local coordinating 
                entity.
                    (B) The expenses and income of the local 
                coordinating entity.
            (5) Audit.--The local coordinating entity shall--
                    (A) make available to the Secretary for audit all 
                records relating to the expenditure of Federal funds and 
                any matching funds; and
                    (B) require, with respect to all agreements 
                authorizing expenditure of Federal funds by other 
                organizations, that the receiving organizations make 
                available to the Secretary for audit all records 
                concerning the expenditure of those funds.

    (c) Use of Federal Funds.--
            (1) In general.--The local coordinating entity shall not use 
        Federal funds made available under this title to acquire real 
        property or an interest in real property.
            (2) Other sources.--Nothing in this title precludes the 
        local coordinating entity from using Federal funds made 
        available under other Federal laws for any purpose for which the 
        funds are authorized to be used.

SEC. 236. MANAGEMENT PLAN.

    (a) In General.--The local coordinating entity shall develop a 
management plan for the heritage area that incorporates an integrated 
and cooperative approach to protect, interpret, and enhance the natural, 
cultural, historical, scenic, and recreational resources of the heritage 
area.
    (b) Basis.--The management plan shall be based on the preferred 
concept in the document entitled ``Arabia Mountain National Heritage 
Area Feasibility Study'', dated February 28, 2001.
    (c) Consideration of Other Plans and Actions.--The management plan 
shall--
            (1) take into consideration State and local plans; and
            (2) involve residents, public agencies, and private 
        organizations in the heritage area.

    (d) Requirements.--The management plan shall include the following:
            (1) &lt;&lt;NOTE: Records.&gt;&gt; An inventory of the resources in the 
        heritage area, including--
                    (A) a list of property in the heritage area that--

[[Page 120 STAT. 1798]]

                          (i) relates to the purposes of the heritage 
                      area; and
                          (ii) should be preserved, restored, managed, 
                      or maintained because of the significance of the 
                      property; and
                    (B) an assessment of cultural landscapes within the 
                heritage area.
            (2) Provisions for the protection, interpretation, and 
        enjoyment of the resources of the heritage area consistent with 
        the purposes of this subtitle.
            (3) An interpretation plan for the heritage area.
            (4) A program for implementation of the management plan that 
        includes--
                    (A) actions to be carried out by units of 
                government, private organizations, and public-private 
                partnerships to protect the resources of the heritage 
                area; and
                    (B) the identification of existing and potential 
                sources of funding for implementing the plan.
            (5) A description and evaluation of the local coordinating 
        entity, including the membership and organizational structure of 
        the local coordinating entity.

    (e) Submission to Secretary for Approval.--
            (1) In general.-- &lt;&lt;NOTE: Deadline.&gt;&gt; Not later than 3 years 
        after the date on which funds are made available to carry out 
        this subtitle, the local coordinating entity shall submit the 
        management plan to the Secretary for approval.
            (2) Effect of failure to submit.--If a management plan is 
        not submitted to the Secretary by the date specified in 
        paragraph (1), the Secretary shall not provide any additional 
        funding under this subtitle until such date as a management plan 
        for the heritage area is submitted to the Secretary.

    (f) Approval and Disapproval of Management Plan.--
            (1) In general.-- &lt;&lt;NOTE: Deadline.&gt;&gt; Not later than 90 days 
        after receiving the management plan submitted under subsection 
        (e), the Secretary, in consultation with the State, shall 
        approve or disapprove the management plan.
            (2) Action following disapproval.--
                    (A) Revision.--If the Secretary disapproves a 
                management plan submitted under paragraph (1), the 
                Secretary shall--
                          (i) advise the local coordinating entity in 
                      writing of the reasons for the disapproval;
                          (ii) make recommendations for revisions to the 
                      management plan; and
                          (iii) allow the local coordinating entity to 
                      submit to the Secretary revisions to the 
                      management plan.
                    (B) Deadline for approval of revision.--Not later 
                than 90 days after the date on which a revision is 
                submitted under subparagraph (A)(iii), the Secretary 
                shall approve or disapprove the revision.

    (g) Revision of Management Plan.--
            (1) In general.--After approval by the Secretary of a 
        management plan, the local coordinating entity shall 
        periodically--
                    (A) review the management plan; and

[[Page 120 STAT. 1799]]

                    (B) &lt;&lt;NOTE: Recommen-dations.&gt;&gt; submit to the 
                Secretary, for review and approval by the Secretary, the 
                recommendations of the local coordinating entity for any 
                revisions to the management plan that the local 
                coordinating entity considers to be appropriate.
            (2) Expenditure of funds.--No funds made available under 
        this subtitle shall be used to implement any revision proposed 
        by the local coordinating entity under paragraph (1)(B) until 
        the Secretary approves the revision.

SEC. 237. TECHNICAL AND FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE.

    (a) In General.--At the request of the local coordinating entity, 
the Secretary may provide technical and financial assistance to the 
heritage area to develop and implement the management plan.
    (b) Priority.--In providing assistance under subsection (a), the 
Secretary shall give priority to actions that facilitate--
            (1) the conservation of the significant natural, cultural, 
        historical, scenic, and recreational resources that support the 
        purposes of the heritage area; and
            (2) the provision of educational, interpretive, and 
        recreational opportunities that are consistent with the 
        resources and associated values of the heritage area.

SEC. 238. EFFECT ON CERTAIN AUTHORITY.

    (a) Occupational, Safety, Conservation, and Environmental 
Regulation.--Nothing in this subtitle--
            (1) imposes an occupational, safety, conservation, or 
        environmental regulation on the heritage area that is more 
        stringent than the regulations that would be applicable to the 
        land described in section 234(b) but for the establishment of 
        the heritage area by section 234(a); or
            (2) authorizes a Federal agency to promulgate an 
        occupational, safety, conservation, or environmental regulation 
        for the heritage area that is more stringent than the 
        regulations applicable to the land described in section 234(b) 
        as of the date of enactment of this Act, solely as a result of 
        the establishment of the heritage area by section 234(a).

    (b) Land Use Regulation.--Nothing in this subtitle--
            (1) modifies, enlarges, or diminishes any authority of the 
        Federal Government or a State or local government to regulate 
        any use of land as provided for by law (including regulations) 
        in existence on the date of enactment of this Act; or
            (2) grants powers of zoning or land use to the local 
        coordinating entity.

SEC. 239. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.

    (a) In General.--There is authorized to be appropriated to carry out 
this subtitle $10,000,000, to remain available until expended, of which 
not more than $1,000,000 may be authorized to be appropriated for any 
fiscal year.
    (b) Federal Share.--The Federal share of the cost of any project or 
activity carried out using funds made available under this subtitle 
shall not exceed 50 percent.

SEC. 240. TERMINATION OF AUTHORITY.

    The authority of the Secretary to provide assistance under this 
subsubtitle terminates on the date that is 15 years after the date of 
enactment of this Act.

[[Page 120 STAT. 1800]]

SEC. 241. REQUIREMENTS FOR INCLUSION OF PRIVATE PROPERTY.

    (a) Notification and Consent of Property Owners Required.--No 
privately owned property shall be preserved, conserved, or promoted by 
the management plan for the Heritage Area until the owner of that 
private property has been notified in writing by the management entity 
and has given written consent for such preservation, conservation, or 
promotion to the management entity.
    (b) Landowner Withdraw.--Any owner of private property included 
within the boundary of the Heritage Area shall have their property 
immediately removed from the boundary by submitting a written request to 
the management entity.

SEC. 242. PRIVATE PROPERTY PROTECTION.

    (a) Access to Private Property.--Nothing in this subtitle shall be 
construed to--
            (1) require any private property owner to allow public 
        access (including Federal, State, or local government access) to 
        such private property; or
            (2) modify any provision of Federal, State, or local law 
        with regard to public access to or use of private property.

    (b) Liability.--Designation of the Heritage Area shall not be 
considered to create any liability, or to have any effect on any 
liability under any other law, of any private property owner with 
respect to any persons injured on such private property.
    (c) Recognition of Authority To Control Land Use.--Nothing in this 
subtitle shall be construed to modify the authority of Federal, State, 
or local governments to regulate land use.
    (d) Participation of Private Property Owners in Heritage Area.--
Nothing in this subtitle shall be construed to require the owner of any 
private property located within the boundaries of the Heritage Area to 
participate in or be associated with the Heritage Area.
    (e) Effect of Establishment.--The boundaries designated for the 
Heritage Area represent the area within which Federal funds appropriated 
for the purpose of this subtitle may be expended. The establishment of 
the Heritage Area and its boundaries shall not be construed to provide 
any nonexisting regulatory authority on land use within the Heritage 
Area or its viewshed by the Secretary, the National Park Service, or the 
management entity.

Subtitle D-- &lt;&lt;NOTE: Mormon Pioneer National Heritage Area Act. Utah. 16 
USC 461 note.&gt;&gt; Mormon Pioneer National Heritage Area

SEC. 251. SHORT TITLE.

    This subtitle may be cited as the ``Mormon Pioneer National Heritage 
Area Act''.

SEC. 252. FINDINGS AND PURPOSE.

    (a) Findings.--Congress finds that--
            (1) the historical, cultural, and natural heritage legacies 
        of Mormon colonization and settlement are nationally 
        significant;
            (2) in the area starting along the Highway 89 corridor at 
        the Arizona border, passing through Kane, Garfield, Piute, 
        Sevier, Wayne, and Sanpete Counties in the State of Utah,

[[Page 120 STAT. 1801]]

        and terminating in Fairview, Utah, there are a variety of 
        heritage resources that demonstrate--
                    (A) the colonization of the western United States; 
                and
                    (B) the expansion of the United States as a major 
                world power;
            (3) the great relocation to the western United States was 
        facilitated by--
                    (A) the 1,400-mile trek from Illinois to the Great 
                Salt Lake by the Mormon pioneers; and
                    (B) the subsequent colonization effort in Nevada, 
                Utah, the southeast corner of Idaho, the southwest 
                corner of Wyoming, large areas of southeastern Oregon, 
                much of southern California, and areas along the eastern 
                border of California;
            (4) the 250-mile Highway 89 corridor from Kanab to Fairview, 
        Utah, contains some of the best features of the Mormon 
        colonization experience in the United States;
            (5) the landscape, architecture, traditions, beliefs, folk 
        life, products, and events along Highway 89 convey the heritage 
        of the pioneer settlement;
            (6) the Boulder Loop, Capitol Reef National Park, Zion 
        National Park, Bryce Canyon National Park, and the Highway 89 
        area convey the compelling story of how early settlers--
                    (A) interacted with Native Americans; and
                    (B) established towns and cities in a harsh, yet 
                spectacular, natural environment;
            (7) the colonization and settlement of the Mormon settlers 
        opened up vast amounts of natural resources, including coal, 
        uranium, silver, gold, and copper;
            (8) the Mormon colonization played a significant role in the 
        history and progress of the development and settlement of the 
        western United States; and
            (9) the artisans, crafters, innkeepers, outfitters, farmers, 
        ranchers, loggers, miners, historic landscape, customs, national 
        parks, and architecture in the Heritage Area make the Heritage 
        Area unique.

    (b) Purpose.--The purpose of this subtitle is to establish the 
Heritage Area to--
            (1) foster a close working relationship with all levels of 
        government, the private sector, residents, business interests, 
        and local communities in the State;
            (2) empower communities in the State to conserve, preserve, 
        and enhance the heritage of the communities while strengthening 
        future economic opportunities;
            (3) conserve, interpret, and develop the historical, 
        cultural, natural, and recreational resources within the 
        Heritage Area; and
            (4) expand, foster, and develop heritage businesses and 
        products relating to the cultural heritage of the Heritage Area.

SEC. 253. DEFINITIONS.

    In this subtitle:
            (1) Alliance.--The term ``Alliance'' means the Utah Heritage 
        Highway 89 Alliance.
            (2) Heritage area.--The term ``Heritage Area'' means the 
        Mormon Pioneer National Heritage Area established by section 
        254(a).

[[Page 120 STAT. 1802]]

            (3) Local coordinating entity.--The term ``local 
        coordinating entity'' means the local coordinating entity for 
        the Heritage Area designated by section 255(a).
            (4) Management plan.--The term ``management plan'' means the 
        plan developed by the local coordinating entity under section 
        256(a).
            (5) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary 
        of the Interior.
            (6) State.--The term ``State'' means the State of Utah.

SEC. 254. MORMON PIONEER NATIONAL HERITAGE AREA.

    (a) Establishment.--There is established the Mormon Pioneer National 
Heritage Area.
    (b) Boundaries.--
            (1) In general.--The boundaries of the Heritage Area shall 
        include areas in the State--
                    (A) that are related to the corridors--
                          (i) from the Arizona border northward through 
                      Kanab, Utah, and to the intersection of Highway 89 
                      and Highway 12, including Highway 12 and Highway 
                      24 as those highways loop off Highway 89 and 
                      rejoin Highway 89 at Sigurd;
                          (ii) from Highway 89 at the intersection of 
                      Highway 12 through Panguitch, Junction, Marysvale, 
                      and Sevier County to Sigurd;
                          (iii) continuing northward along Highway 89 
                      through Axtell and Sterling, Sanpete County, to 
                      Fairview, Sanpete County, at the junction with 
                      Utah Highway 31; and
                          (iv) continuing northward along Highway 89 
                      through Fairview and Thistle Junction, to the 
                      junction with Highway 6; and
                    (B) including the following communities: Kanab, Mt. 
                Carmel, Orderville, Glendale, Alton, Cannonville, 
                Tropic, Henrieville, Escalante, Boulder, Teasdale, 
                Fruita, Hanksville, Torrey, Bicknell, Loa, Hatch, 
                Panquitch, Circleville, Antimony, Junction, Marysvale, 
                Koosharem, Sevier, Joseph, Monroe, Elsinore, Richfield, 
                Glenwood, Sigurd, Aurora, Salina, Mayfield, Sterling, 
                Gunnison, Fayette, Manti, Ephraim, Spring City, Mt. 
                Pleasant, Moroni, Fountain Green, and Fairview.
            (2) Map.--The Secretary shall prepare a map of the Heritage 
        Area, which shall be on file and available for public inspection 
        in the office of the Director of the National Park Service.
            (3) Notice to local governments.--The local coordinating 
        entity shall provide to the government of each city, town, and 
        county that has jurisdiction over property proposed to be 
        included in the Heritage Area written notice of the proposed 
        inclusion.

    (c) Administration.--The Heritage Area shall be administered in 
accordance with this subtitle.

SEC. 255. DESIGNATION OF ALLIANCE AS LOCAL COORDINATING ENTITY.

    (a) In General.--The Board of Directors of the Alliance shall be the 
local coordinating entity for the Heritage Area.
    (b) Federal Funding.--

[[Page 120 STAT. 1803]]

            (1) Authorization to receive funds.--The local coordinating 
        entity may receive amounts made available to carry out this 
        subtitle.
            (2) Disqualification.--If a management plan is not submitted 
        to the Secretary as required under section 256 within the time 
        period specified in that section, the local coordinating entity 
        may not receive Federal funding under this subtitle until a 
        management plan is submitted to the Secretary.

    (c) Use of Federal Funds.--The local coordinating entity may, for 
the purposes of developing and implementing the management plan, use 
Federal funds made available under this subtitle--
            (1) to make grants to the State, political subdivisions of 
        the State, nonprofit organizations, and other persons;
            (2) to enter into cooperative agreements with or provide 
        technical assistance to the State, political subdivisions of the 
        State, nonprofit organizations, and other organizations;
            (3) to hire and compensate staff;
            (4) to obtain funds from any source under any program or law 
        requiring the recipient of funds to make a contribution in order 
        to receive the funds; and
            (5) to contract for goods and services.

    (d) Prohibition of Acquisition of Real Property.--The local 
coordinating entity shall not use Federal funds received under this 
subtitle to acquire real property or any interest in real property.

SEC. 256. MANAGEMENT OF THE HERITAGE AREA.

    (a) Heritage Area Management Plan.--
            (1) Development and submission for review.--
        No &lt;&lt;NOTE: Deadline.&gt;&gt; t later than 3 years after the date on 
        which funds are made available to carry out the subtitle, the 
        local coordinating entity, with public participation, shall 
        develop and submit for review to the Secretary a management plan 
        for the Heritage Area.
            (2) Contents.--The management plan shall--
                    (A) &lt;&lt;NOTE: Recommen-dations.&gt;&gt; present 
                comprehensive recommendations for the conservation, 
                funding, management, and development of the Heritage 
                Area;
                    (B) take into consideration Federal, State, county, 
                and local plans;
                    (C) involve residents, public agencies, and private 
                organizations in the Heritage Area;
                    (D) include a description of actions that units of 
                government and private organizations are recommended to 
                take to protect the resources of the Heritage Area;
                    (E) specify existing and potential sources of 
                Federal and non-Federal funding for the conservation, 
                management, and development of the Heritage Area; and
                    (F) include--
                          (i) &lt;&lt;NOTE: Records.&gt;&gt; an inventory of 
                      resources in the Heritage Area that--
                                    (I) includes a list of property in 
                                the Heritage Area that should be 
                                conserved, restored, managed, developed, 
                                or maintained because of the historical, 
                                cultural, or natural significance of the 
                                property as the property relates to the 
                                themes of the Heritage Area; and

[[Page 120 STAT. 1804]]

                                    (II) does not include any property 
                                that is privately owned unless the owner 
                                of the property consents in writing to 
                                the inclusion;
                          (ii) &lt;&lt;NOTE: Recommen-dations.&gt;&gt; a 
                      recommendation of policies for resource management 
                      that consider the application of appropriate land 
                      and water management techniques, including 
                      policies for the development of intergovernmental 
                      cooperative agreements to manage the historical, 
                      cultural, and natural resources and recreational 
                      opportunities of the Heritage Area in a manner 
                      that is consistent with the support of appropriate 
                      and compatible economic viability;
                          (iii) a program for implementation of the 
                      management plan, including plans for restoration 
                      and construction;
                          (iv) a description of any commitments that 
                      have been made by persons interested in management 
                      of the Heritage Area;
                          (v) an analysis of means by which Federal, 
                      State, and local programs may best be coordinated 
                      to promote the purposes of this subtitle; and
                          (vi) an interpretive plan for the Heritage 
                      Area.
            (3) Approval or disapproval of the management plan.--
                    (A) In general.-- &lt;&lt;NOTE: Deadline.&gt;&gt; Not later than 
                180 days after submission of the management plan by the 
                local coordinating entity, the Secretary shall approve 
                or disapprove the management plan.
                    (B) Disapproval and revisions.--
                          (i) In general.--If the Secretary disapproves 
                      the management plan, the Secretary shall--
                                    (I) advise the local coordinating 
                                entity, in writing, of the reasons for 
                                the disapproval; and
                                    (II) &lt;&lt;NOTE: Recommen-
                                dations.&gt;&gt; make recommendations for 
                                revision of the management plan.
                          (ii) Approval or disapproval.-- 
                      &lt;&lt;NOTE: Deadline.&gt;&gt; The Secretary shall approve or 
                      disapprove proposed revisions to the management 
                      plan not later than 60 days after receipt of the 
                      revisions from the local coordinating entity.

    (b) Priorities.--The local coordinating entity shall give priority 
to the implementation of actions, goals, and policies set forth in the 
management plan, including--
            (1) assisting units of government, regional planning 
        organizations, and nonprofit organizations in--
                    (A) conserving the historical, cultural, and natural 
                resources of the Heritage Area;
                    (B) establishing and maintaining interpretive 
                exhibits in the Heritage Area;
                    (C) developing recreational opportunities in the 
                Heritage Area;
                    (D) increasing public awareness of and appreciation 
                for the historical, cultural, and natural resources of 
                the Heritage Area;
                    (E) restoring historic buildings that are--
                          (i) located within the boundaries of the 
                      Heritage Area; and
                          (ii) related to the theme of the Heritage 
                      Area; and

[[Page 120 STAT. 1805]]

                    (F) ensuring that clear, consistent, and 
                environmentally appropriate signs identifying access 
                points and sites of interest are put in place throughout 
                the Heritage Area; and
            (2) consistent with the goals of the management plan, 
        encouraging economic viability in the affected communities by 
        appropriate means, including encouraging and soliciting the 
        development of heritage products.

    (c) Consideration of Interests of Local Groups.--In developing and 
implementing the management plan, the local coordinating entity shall 
consider the interests of diverse units of government, businesses, 
private property owners, and nonprofit organizations in the Heritage 
Area.
    (d) Public Meetings.--The local coordinating entity shall conduct 
public meetings at least annually regarding the implementation of the 
management plan.
    (e) Annual Reports.--For any fiscal year in which the local 
coordinating entity receives Federal funds under this subtitle, the 
local coordinating entity shall submit to the Secretary an annual report 
that describes--
            (1) the accomplishments of the local coordinating entity;
            (2) the expenses and income of the local coordinating 
        entity; and
            (3) the entities to which the local coordinating entity made 
        any grants during the year for which the report is made.

    (f) Cooperation With Audits.--For any fiscal year in which the local 
coordinating entity receives Federal funds under this subtitle, the 
local coordinating entity shall--
            (1) make available for audit by Congress, the Secretary, and 
        appropriate units of government all records and other 
        information relating to the expenditure of the Federal funds and 
        any matching funds; and
            (2) require, with respect to all agreements authorizing 
        expenditure of the Federal funds by other organizations, that 
        the receiving organizations make available for audit all records 
        and other information relating to the expenditure of the Federal 
        funds.

    (g) Delegation.--
            (1) In general.--The local coordinating entity may delegate 
        the responsibilities and actions under this subtitle for each 
        area identified in section 254(b)(1).
            (2) Review.--All delegated responsibilities and actions are 
        subject to review and approval by the local coordinating entity.

SEC. 257. DUTIES AND AUTHORITIES OF FEDERAL AGENCIES.

    (a) Technical Assistance and Grants.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary may provide technical 
        assistance and, subject to the availability of appropriations, 
        grants to--
                    (A) units of government, nonprofit organizations, 
                and other persons, at the request of the local 
                coordinating entity; and
                    (B) the local coordinating entity, for use in 
                developing and implementing the management plan.
            (2) Prohibition of certain requirements.--The Secretary may 
        not, as a condition of the award of technical assistance or 
        grants under this subtitle, require any recipient of

[[Page 120 STAT. 1806]]

        the technical assistance or a grant to enact or modify any land 
        use restriction.
            (3) Determinations regarding assistance.--The Secretary 
        shall determine whether a unit of government, nonprofit 
        organization, or other person shall be awarded technical 
        assistance or grants and the amount of technical assistance--
                    (A) based on the extent to which the assistance--
                          (i) fulfills the objectives of the management 
                      plan; and
                          (ii) achieves the purposes of this subtitle; 
                      and
                    (B) after giving special consideration to projects 
                that provide a greater leverage of Federal funds.

    (b) &lt;&lt;NOTE: Public information.&gt;&gt; Provision of Information.--In 
cooperation with other Federal agencies, the Secretary shall provide the 
public with information concerning the location and character of the 
Heritage Area.

    (c) Other Assistance.--The Secretary may enter into cooperative 
agreements with public and private organizations for the purposes of 
implementing this subtitle.
    (d) Duties of Other Federal Agencies.--A Federal entity conducting 
any activity directly affecting the Heritage Area shall--
            (1) consider the potential effect of the activity on the 
        management plan; and
            (2) consult with the local coordinating entity with respect 
        to the activity to minimize the adverse effects of the activity 
        on the Heritage Area.

SEC. 258A. REQUIREMENTS FOR INCLUSION OF PRIVATE PROPERTY.

    (a) Notification and Consent of Property Owners Required.--No 
privately owned property shall be preserved, conserved, or promoted by 
the management plan for the Heritage Area until the owner of that 
private property has been notified in writing by the management entity 
and has given written consent for such preservation, conservation, or 
promotion to the management entity.
    (b) Landowner Withdraw.--Any owner of private property included 
within the boundary of the Heritage Area shall have their property 
immediately removed from the boundary by submitting a written request to 
the management entity.

SEC. 258B. PRIVATE PROPERTY PROTECTION.

    (a) Access to Private Property.--Nothing in this title shall be 
construed to--
            (1) require any private property owner to allow public 
        access (including Federal, State, or local government access) to 
        such private property; or
            (2) modify any provision of Federal, State, or local law 
        with regard to public access to or use of private property.

    (b) Liability.--Designation of the Heritage Area shall not be 
considered to create any liability, or to have any effect on any 
liability under any other law, of any private property owner with 
respect to any persons injured on such private property.
    (c) Recognition of Authority To Control Land Use.--Nothing in this 
title shall be construed to modify the authority of Federal, State, or 
local governments to regulate land use.
    (d) Participation of Private Property Owners in Heritage Area.--
Nothing in this title shall be construed to require the owner of any 
private property located within the boundaries of the Heritage Area to 
participate in or be associated with the Heritage Area.

[[Page 120 STAT. 1807]]

    (e) Effect of Establishment.--The boundaries designated for the 
Heritage Area represent the area within which Federal funds appropriated 
for the purpose of this title may be expended. The establishment of the 
Heritage Area and its boundaries shall not be construed to provide any 
nonexisting regulatory authority on land use within the Heritage Area or 
its viewshed by the Secretary, the National Park Service, or the 
management entity.

SEC. 259. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.

    (a) In General.--There is authorized to be appropriated to carry out 
this subtitle $10,000,000, to remain available until expended, of which 
not more than $1,000,000 may be authorized to be appropriated for any 
fiscal year.
    (b) Federal Share.--The Federal share of the cost of any activity 
carried out using funds made available under this subtitle shall not 
exceed 50 percent.

SEC. 260. TERMINATION OF AUTHORITY.

    The authority of the Secretary to provide assistance under this 
subtitle terminates on the date that is 15 years after the date of 
enactment of this Act.

     Subtitle E-- &lt;&lt;NOTE: Freedom's Frontier National Heritage Area 
 Act. Kansas. Missouri. 16 USC 461 note.&gt;&gt; Freedom's Frontier National 
Heritage Area

SEC. 261. SHORT TITLE.

    This subtitle may be cited as the ``Freedom's Frontier National 
Heritage Area Act''.

SEC. 262. PURPOSE.

    The purpose of this subtitle is to use preservation, conservation, 
education, interpretation, and recreation in eastern Kansas and Western 
Missouri in heritage development and sustainability of the American 
story recognized by the American people.

SEC. 263. DEFINITIONS.

    In this subtitle:
            (1) Heritage area.--The term ``Heritage Area'' means the 
        Freedom's Frontier National Heritage Area in eastern Kansas and 
        western Missouri.
            (2) Local coordinating entity.--The term ``local 
        coordinating entity'' means Territorial Kansas Heritage 
        Alliance, recognized by the Secretary, in consultation with the 
        Governors of the States, that agrees to perform the duties of a 
        local coordinating entity under this subtitle, so long as that 
        Alliance is composed of not less than 25 percent residents of 
        Missouri.
            (3) Management plan.--The term ``management plan'' means the 
        management plan for the Heritage Area developed under section 
        264(e).
            (4) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary 
        of the Interior.
            (5) State.--The term ``State'' means each of the States of 
        Kansas and Missouri.
            (6) Unit of local government.--The term ``unit of local 
        government'' means the government of a State, a political 
        subdivision of a State, or an Indian tribe.

[[Page 120 STAT. 1808]]

SEC. 264. FREEDOM'S FRONTIER NATIONAL HERITAGE AREA.

    (a) Establishment.--There is established in the States the Freedom's 
Frontier National Heritage Area.
    (b) Boundaries.--The Heritage Area may include the following:
            (1) An area located in eastern Kansas and western Missouri, 
        consisting of--
                    (A) Allen, Anderson, Atchison, Bourbon, Chautauqua, 
                Cherokee, Clay, Coffey, Crawford, Douglas, Franklin, 
                Geary, Jackson, Johnson, Labette, Leavenworth, Linn, 
                Miami, Neosho, Pottawatomie, Riley, Shawnee, Wabaunsee, 
                Wilson, Woodson, Jefferson, Montgomery, Osage, and 
                Wyandotte Counties in Kansas; and
                    (B) Buchanan, Platte, Clay, Ray, Lafayette, Jackson, 
                Cass, Johnson, Bates, Vernon, Barton, and St. Clair 
                Counties in Missouri.
            (2) Contributing sites, buildings, and districts within the 
        area that are recommended by the management plan.

    (c) Map.--The final boundary of the Heritage Area within the 
counties identified in subsection (b)(1) shall be specified in the 
management plan. A map of the Heritage Area shall be included in the 
management plan. The map shall be on file in the appropriate offices of 
the National Park Service, Department of the Interior.
    (d) Local Coordinating Entity.--
            (1) In general.--The local coordinating entity for the 
        Heritage Area shall be Territorial Kansas Heritage Alliance, a 
        nonprofit organization established in the State of Kansas, 
        recognized by the Secretary, in consultation with the Governors 
        of the States, so long as that Alliance is composed of not less 
        than 25 percent residents of Missouri and agrees to perform the 
        duties of the local coordinating entity under this subtitle.
            (2) Authorities.--For purposes of developing and 
        implementing the management plan, the local coordinating entity 
        may--
                    (A) make grants to, and enter into cooperative 
                agreements with, the States, political subdivisions of 
                the States, and private organizations;
                    (B) hire and compensate staff; and
                    (C) enter into contracts for goods and services.

    (e) Management Plan.--
            (1) In general.-- &lt;&lt;NOTE: Deadline.&gt;&gt; Not later than 3 years 
        after the date on which funds are made available to carry out 
        this subtitle, the local coordinating entity shall develop and 
        submit to the Secretary a management plan reviewed by 
        participating units of local government within the boundaries of 
        the proposed Heritage Area.
            (2) Contents.--The management plan shall--
                    (A) present a comprehensive program for the 
                conservation, interpretation, funding, management, and 
                development of the Heritage Area, in a manner consistent 
                with the existing local, State, and Federal land use 
                laws and compatible economic viability of the Heritage 
                Area;
                    (B) &lt;&lt;NOTE: Standards.&gt;&gt; establish criteria or 
                standards to measure what is selected for conservation, 
                interpretation, funding, management, and development;
                    (C) involve residents, public agencies, and private 
                organizations working in the Heritage Area;

[[Page 120 STAT. 1809]]

                    (D) specify and coordinate, as of the date of the 
                management plan, existing and potential sources of 
                technical and financial assistance under this and other 
                Federal laws to protect, manage, and develop the 
                Heritage Area; and
                    (E) include--
                          (i) actions to be undertaken by units of 
                      government and private organizations to protect, 
                      conserve, and interpret the resources of the 
                      Heritage Area;
                          (ii) &lt;&lt;NOTE: Records.&gt;&gt; an inventory of the 
                      resources contained in the Heritage Area, 
                      including a list of any property in the Heritage 
                      Area that is related to the themes of the Heritage 
                      Area and that meets the establishing criteria 
                      (such as, but not exclusive to, visitor readiness) 
                      to merit preservation, restoration, management, 
                      development, or maintenance because of its 
                      natural, cultural, historical, or recreational 
                      significance;
                          (iii) policies for resource management 
                      including the development of intergovernmental 
                      cooperative agreements, private sector agreements, 
                      or any combination thereof, to protect the 
                      historical, cultural, recreational, and natural 
                      resources of the Heritage Area in a manner 
                      consistent with supporting appropriate and 
                      compatible economic viability;
                          (iv) a program for implementation of the 
                      management plan by the designated local 
                      coordinating entity, in cooperation with its 
                      partners and units of local government;
                          (v) evidence that relevant State, county, and 
                      local plans applicable to the Heritage Area have 
                      been taken into consideration;
                          (vi) an analysis of ways in which local, 
                      State, and Federal programs may best be 
                      coordinated to promote the purposes of this 
                      subtitle; and
                          (vii) a business plan that--
                                    (I) describes in detail the role, 
                                operation, financing, and functions of 
                                the local coordinating entity for each 
                                activity included in the recommendations 
                                contained in the management plan; and
                                    (II) provides, to the satisfaction 
                                of the Secretary, adequate assurances 
                                that the local coordinating entity is 
                                likely to have the financial resources 
                                necessary to implement the management 
                                plan for the Heritage Area, including 
                                resources to meet matching requirement 
                                for grants awarded under this subtitle.
            (3) Considerations.--In developing and implementing the 
        management plan, the local coordinating entity shall consider 
        the interests of diverse governmental, business, and nonprofit 
        groups within the Heritage Area.
            (4) Disqualification from funding.-- &lt;&lt;NOTE: Deadline.&gt;&gt; If 
        a proposed management plan is not submitted to the Secretary 
        within 3 years after the date on which funds are made available 
        to carry out this subtitle, the local coordinating entity shall 
        be ineligible to receive additional funding under this subtitle 


[[Page 120 STAT. 1810]]

        until the date on which the Secretary receives the proposed 
        management plan.
            (5) &lt;&lt;NOTE: Deadline.&gt;&gt; Approval and disapproval of 
        management plan.--The Secretary shall approve or disapprove the 
        proposed management plan submitted under this subtitle not later 
        than 90 days after receiving such proposed management plan.
            (6) Action following disapproval.-- &lt;&lt;NOTE: Recommen-
        dations.&gt;&gt; If the Secretary disapproves a proposed management 
        plan, the Secretary shall advise the local coordinating entity 
        in writing of the reasons for the disapproval and shall make 
        recommendations for revisions to the proposed management plan. 
        The Secretary shall approve or disapprove a proposed revision 
        within 90 days after the date it is submitted.
            (7) Approval of amendments.--The Secretary shall review and 
        approve substantial amendments to the management plan. Funds 
        appropriated under this subtitle may not be expended to 
        implement any changes made by such amendment until the Secretary 
        approves the amendment.
            (8) Implementation.--
                    (A) Priorities.--The local coordinating entity shall 
                give priority to implementing actions described in the 
                management plan, including--
                          (i) assisting units of government and 
                      nonprofit organizations in preserving resources 
                      within the Heritage Area; and
                          (ii) encouraging local governments to adopt 
                      land use policies consistent with the management 
                      of the Heritage Area and the goals of the 
                      management plan.
                    (B) Public meetings.--The local coordinating entity 
                shall conduct public meetings at least quarterly on the 
                implementation of the management plan. Not less than 25 
                percent of the public meetings shall be conducted in 
                Missouri.

    (f) Public Notice.--The local coordinating entity shall place a 
notice of each of its public meetings in a newspaper of general 
circulation in the Heritage Area and shall make the minutes of the 
meeting available to the public.
    (g) Annual Report.--For any year in which Federal funds have been 
made available under this subtitle, the local coordinating entity shall 
submit to the Secretary an annual report that describes--
            (1) the accomplishments of the local coordinating entity; 
        and
            (2) the expenses and income of the local coordinating 
        entity.

    (h) Audit.--The local coordinating entity shall--
            (1) make available to the Secretary for audit all records 
        relating to the expenditure of Federal funds and any matching 
        funds; and
            (2) require, with respect to all agreements authorizing 
        expenditure of Federal funds by other organizations, that the 
        receiving organizations make available to the Secretary for 
        audit all records concerning the expenditure of the Federal 
        funds and any matching funds.

    (i) Use of Federal Funds.--
            (1) In general.--No Federal funds made available under this 
        subtitle may be used to acquire real property or an interest in 
        real property.

[[Page 120 STAT. 1811]]

            (2) Other sources.--Nothing in this subtitle precludes the 
        local coordinating entity from using Federal funds made 
        available under other Federal laws for any purpose for which the 
        funds are authorized to be used.

SEC. 265. TECHNICAL AND FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE; OTHER FEDERAL AGENCIES.

    (a) Technical and Financial Assistance.--
            (1) In general.--On the request of the local coordinating 
        entity, the Secretary may provide technical and financial 
        assistance for the development and implementation of the 
        management plan.
            (2) Priority for assistance.--In providing assistance under 
        paragraph (1), the Secretary shall give priority to actions that 
        assist in--
                    (A) conserving the significant cultural, historic, 
                and natural resources of the Heritage Area; and
                    (B) providing educational, interpretive, and 
                recreational opportunities consistent with the purposes 
                of the Heritage Area.
            (3) Spending for non-federal property.--The local 
        coordinating entity may expend Federal funds made available 
        under this subtitle on non-Federal property that--
                    (A) meets the criteria in the approved management 
                plan; or
                    (B) is listed or eligible for listing on the 
                National Register of Historic Places.
            (4) Other assistance.--The Secretary may enter into 
        cooperative agreements with public and private organizations to 
        carry out this subsection.

    (b) Other Federal Agencies.--Any Federal entity conducting or 
supporting an activity that directly affects the Heritage Area shall--
            (1) consider the potential effect of the activity on the 
        purposes of the Heritage Area and the management plan;
            (2) consult with the local coordinating entity regarding the 
        activity; and
            (3) to the maximum extent practicable, conduct or support 
        the activity to avoid adverse effects on the Heritage Area.

    (c) Other Assistance Not Affected.--This subtitle does not affect 
the authority of any Federal official to provide technical or financial 
assistance under any other law.
    (d) Notification of Other Federal Activities.--The head of each 
Federal agency shall provide to the Secretary and the local coordinating 
entity, to the extent practicable, advance notice of all activities that 
may have an impact on the Heritage Area.

SEC. 266. PRIVATE PROPERTY PROTECTION.

    (a) Access to Private Property.--Nothing in this subtitle shall be 
construed to require any private property owner to permit public access 
(including Federal, State, or local government access) to such private 
property. Nothing in this subtitle shall be construed to modify any 
provision of Federal, State, or local law with regard to public access 
to or use of private lands.
    (b) Liability.--Designation of the Heritage Area shall not be 
considered to create any liability, or to have any effect on any 
liability under any other law, of any private property owner with 
respect to any persons injured on such private property.

[[Page 120 STAT. 1812]]

    (c) Recognition of Authority To Control Land Use.--Nothing in this 
subtitle shall be construed to modify any authority of Federal, State, 
or local governments to regulate land use.
    (d) Participation of Private Property Owners in Heritage Areas.--
Nothing in this subtitle shall be construed to require the owner of any 
private property located within the boundaries of the Heritage Area to 
participate in or be associated with the Heritage Area.
    (e) Land Use Regulation.--
            (1) In general.--The local coordinating entity shall provide 
        assistance and encouragement to State and local governments, 
        private organizations, and persons to protect and promote the 
        resources and values of the Heritage Area.
            (2) Effect.--Nothing in this subtitle--
                    (A) affects the authority of the State or local 
                governments to regulate under law any use of land; or
                    (B) grants any power of zoning or land use to the 
                local coordinating entity.

    (f) Private Property.--
            (1) In general.--The local coordinating entity shall be an 
        advocate for land management practices consistent with the 
        purposes of the Heritage Area.
            (2) Effect.--Nothing in this subtitle--
                    (A) abridges the rights of any person with regard to 
                private property;
                    (B) affects the authority of the State or local 
                government regarding private property; or
                    (C) imposes any additional burden on any property 
                owner.

    (g) Requirements for Inclusion of Private Property.--
            (1) Notification and consent of property owners required.--
        No privately owned property shall be preserved, conserved, or 
        promoted by the management plan for the Heritage Area until the 
        owner of that private property has been notified in writing by 
        the management entity and has given written consent for such 
        preservation, conservation, or promotion to the management 
        entity.
            (2) Landowner withdrawal.--Any owner of private property 
        included within the boundary of the Heritage Area shall have 
        their property immediately removed from the boundary by 
        submitting a written request to the management entity.

SEC. 267. SAVINGS PROVISIONS.

    (a) Rules, Regulations, Standards, and Permit Processes.--Nothing in 
this subtitle shall be construed to impose any environmental, 
occupational, safety, or other rule, regulation, standard, or permit 
process in the Heritage Area that is different from those that would be 
applicable if the Heritage Area had not been established.
    (b) Water and Water Rights.--Nothing in this subtitle shall be 
construed to authorize or imply the reservation or appropriation of 
water or water rights.
    (c) No Diminishment of State Authority.--Nothing in this subtitle 
shall be construed to diminish the authority of the State to manage fish 
and wildlife, including the regulation of fishing and hunting within the 
Heritage Area.

[[Page 120 STAT. 1813]]

SEC. 268. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.

    (a) In General.--There is authorized to be appropriated to carry out 
this subtitle $10,000,000, to remain available until expended, of which 
not more than $1,000,000 may be authorized to be appropriated for any 
fiscal year.
    (b) Cost-Sharing Requirement.--The Federal share of the total cost 
of any activity assisted under this subtitle shall be not more than 50 
percent.

SEC. 269. TERMINATION OF AUTHORITY.

    The authority of the Secretary to provide assistance under this 
subtitle terminates on the date that is 15 years after the date of 
enactment of this Act.

  Subtitle F-- &lt;&lt;NOTE: Upper Housatonic Valley National Heritage Area 
  Act. Connecticut. Massachusetts. 16 USC 461 note.&gt;&gt; Upper Housatonic 
Valley National Heritage Area

SEC. 271. SHORT TITLE.

    This subtitle may be cited as the ``Upper Housatonic Valley National 
Heritage Area Act''.

SEC. 272. FINDINGS AND PURPOSES.

    (a) Findings.--Congress finds the following:
            (1) The upper Housatonic Valley, encompassing 29 towns in 
        the hilly terrain of western Massachusetts and northwestern 
        Connecticut, is a singular geographical and cultural region that 
        has made significant national contributions through its 
        literary, artistic, musical, and architectural achievements, its 
        iron, paper, and electrical equipment industries, and its scenic 
        beautification and environmental conservation efforts.
            (2) The upper Housatonic Valley has 139 properties and 
        historic districts listed on the National Register of Historic 
        Places, including--
                    (A) five National Historic Landmarks--
                          (i) Edith Wharton's home, The Mount, Lenox, 
                      Massachusetts;
                          (ii) Herman Melville's home, Arrowhead, 
                      Pittsfield, Massachusetts;
                          (iii) W.E.B. DuBois' Boyhood Homesite, Great 
                      Barrington, Massachusetts;
                          (iv) Mission House, Stockbridge, 
                      Massachusetts; and
                          (v) Crane and Company Old Stone Mill Rag Room, 
                      Dalton, Massachusetts; and
                    (B) four National Natural Landmarks--
                          (i) Bartholomew's Cobble, Sheffield, 
                      Massachusetts, and Salisbury, Connecticut;
                          (ii) Beckley Bog, Norfolk, Connecticut;
                          (iii) Bingham Bog, Salisbury, Connecticut; and
                          (iv) Cathedral Pines, Cornwall, Connecticut.
            (3) Writers, artists, musicians, and vacationers have 
        visited the region for more than 150 years to enjoy its scenic 
        wonders, making it one of the country's leading cultural 
        resorts.
            (4) The upper Housatonic Valley has made significant 
        national cultural contributions through such writers as Herman 
        Melville, Nathaniel Hawthorne, Edith Wharton, and W.E.B.

[[Page 120 STAT. 1814]]

        DuBois, artists Daniel Chester French and Norman Rockwell, and 
        the performing arts centers of Tanglewood, Music Mountain, 
        Norfolk (Connecticut) Chamber Music Festival, Jacob's Pillow, 
        and Shakespeare & Company.
            (5) The upper Housatonic Valley is noted for its pioneering 
        achievements in the iron, paper, and electrical generation 
        industries and has cultural resources to interpret those 
        industries.
            (6) The region became a national leader in scenic 
        beautification and environmental conservation efforts following 
        the era of industrialization and deforestation and maintains a 
        fabric of significant conservation areas including the 
        meandering Housatonic River.
            (7) Important historical events related to the American 
        Revolution, Shays' Rebellion, and early civil rights took place 
        in the upper Housatonic Valley.
            (8) The region had an American Indian presence going back 
        10,000 years and Mohicans had a formative role in contact with 
        Europeans during the seventeenth and eighteenth centuries.
            (9) The Upper Housatonic Valley National Heritage Area has 
        been proposed in order to heighten appreciation of the region, 
        preserve its natural and historical resources, and improve the 
        quality of life and economy of the area.

    (b) Purposes.--The purposes of this subtitle are as follows:
            (1) To establish the Upper Housatonic Valley National 
        Heritage Area in the State of Connecticut and the Commonwealth 
        of Massachusetts.
            (2) To implement the national heritage area alternative as 
        described in the document entitled ``Upper Housatonic Valley 
        National Heritage Area Feasibility Study, 2003''.
            (3) To provide a management framework to foster a close 
        working relationship with all levels of government, the private 
        sector, and the local communities in the upper Housatonic Valley 
        region to conserve the region's heritage while continuing to 
        pursue compatible economic opportunities.
            (4) To assist communities, organizations, and citizens in 
        the State of Connecticut and the Commonwealth of Massachusetts 
        in identifying, preserving, interpreting, and developing the 
        historical, cultural, scenic, and natural resources of the 
        region for the educational and inspirational benefit of current 
        and future generations.

SEC. 273. DEFINITIONS.

    In this subtitle:
            (1) Heritage area.--The term ``Heritage Area'' means the 
        Upper Housatonic Valley National Heritage Area, established in 
        section 274.
            (2) Management entity.--The term ``Management Entity'' means 
        the management entity for the Heritage Area designated by 
        section 274(d).
            (3) Management plan.--The term ``Management Plan'' means the 
        management plan for the Heritage Area specified in section 276.
            (4) Map.--The term ``map'' means the map entitled ``Boundary 
        Map Upper Housatonic Valley National Heritage Area'', numbered 
        P17/80,000, and dated February 2003.

[[Page 120 STAT. 1815]]

            (5) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary 
        of the Interior.
            (6) State.--The term ``State'' means the State of 
        Connecticut and the Commonwealth of Massachusetts.

SEC. 274. UPPER HOUSATONIC VALLEY NATIONAL HERITAGE AREA.

    (a) Establishment.--There is established the Upper Housatonic Valley 
National Heritage Area.
    (b) Boundaries.--The Heritage Area shall be comprised of--
            (1) part of the Housatonic River's watershed, which extends 
        60 miles from Lanesboro, Massachusetts to Kent, Connecticut;
            (2) the towns of Canaan, Colebrook, Cornwall, Kent, Norfolk, 
        North Canaan, Salisbury, Sharon, and Warren in Connecticut; and
            (3) the towns of Alford, Becket, Dalton, Egremont, Great 
        Barrington, Hancock, Hinsdale, Lanesboro, Lee, Lenox, Monterey, 
        Mount Washington, New Marlboro, Pittsfield, Richmond, Sheffield, 
        Stockbridge, Tyringham, Washington, and West Stockbridge in 
        Massachusetts.

    (c) Availability of Map.--The map shall be on file and available for 
public inspection in the appropriate offices of the National Park 
Service, Department of the Interior.
    (d) Management Entity.--The Upper Housatonic Valley National 
Heritage Area, Inc. shall be the management entity for the Heritage 
Area.

SEC. 275. AUTHORITIES, PROHIBITIONS, AND DUTIES OF THE MANAGEMENT 
            ENTITY.

    (a) Duties of the Management Entity.--To further the purposes of the 
Heritage Area, the management entity shall--
            (1) prepare and submit a management plan for the Heritage 
        Area to the Secretary in accordance with section 276;
            (2) assist units of local government, regional planning 
        organizations, and nonprofit organizations in implementing the 
        approved management plan by--
                    (A) carrying out programs and projects that 
                recognize, protect and enhance important resource values 
                within the Heritage Area;
                    (B) establishing and maintaining interpretive 
                exhibits and programs within the Heritage Area;
                    (C) developing recreational and educational 
                opportunities in the Heritage Area;
                    (D) increasing public awareness of and appreciation 
                for natural, historical, scenic, and cultural resources 
                of the Heritage Area;
                    (E) protecting and restoring historic sites and 
                buildings in the Heritage Area that are consistent with 
                heritage area themes;
                    (F) ensuring that signs identifying points of public 
                access and sites of interest are posted throughout the 
                Heritage Area; and
                    (G) promoting a wide range of partnerships among 
                governments, organizations and individuals to further 
                the purposes of the Heritage Area;
            (3) consider the interests of diverse units of government, 
        businesses, organizations and individuals in the Heritage Area 
        in the preparation and implementation of the management plan;

[[Page 120 STAT. 1816]]

            (4) &lt;&lt;NOTE: Public meetings.&gt;&gt; conduct meetings open to the 
        public at least semi-annually regarding the development and 
        implementation of the management plan;
            (5) &lt;&lt;NOTE: Reports.&gt;&gt; submit an annual report to the 
        Secretary for any fiscal year in which the management entity 
        receives Federal funds under this subtitle, setting forth its 
        accomplishments, expenses, and income, including grants to any 
        other entities during the year for which the report is made;
            (6) &lt;&lt;NOTE: Records.&gt;&gt; make available for audit for any 
        fiscal year in which it receives Federal funds under this 
        subtitle, all information pertaining to the expenditure of such 
        funds and any matching funds, and require in all agreements 
        authorizing expenditures of Federal funds by other 
        organizations, that the receiving organizations make available 
        for such audit all records and other information pertaining to 
        the expenditure of such funds; and
            (7) encourage by appropriate means economic development that 
        is consistent with the purposes of the Heritage Area.

    (b) Authorities.--The management entity may, for the purposes of 
preparing and implementing the management plan for the Heritage Area, 
use Federal funds made available through this subtitle to--
            (1) make grants to the State of Connecticut and the 
        Commonwealth of Massachusetts, their political subdivisions, 
        nonprofit organizations and other persons;
            (2) enter into cooperative agreements with or provide 
        technical assistance to the State of Connecticut and the 
        Commonwealth of Massachusetts, their subdivisions, nonprofit 
        organizations, and other interested parties;
            (3) hire and compensate staff, which shall include 
        individuals with expertise in natural, cultural, and historical 
        resources protection, and heritage programming;
            (4) obtain money or services from any source including any 
        that are provided under any other Federal law or program;
            (5) contract for goods or services; and
            (6) undertake to be a catalyst for any other activity that 
        furthers the purposes of the Heritage Area and is consistent 
        with the approved management plan.

    (c) Prohibitions on the Acquisition of Real Property.--The 
management entity may not use Federal funds received under this subtitle 
to acquire real property, but may use any other source of funding, 
including other Federal funding outside this authority, intended for the 
acquisition of real property.

SEC. 276. MANAGEMENT PLAN.

    (a) In General.--The management plan for the Heritage Area shall--
            (1) include comprehensive policies, strategies and 
        recommendations for conservation, funding, management and 
        development of the Heritage Area;
            (2) take into consideration existing State, county, and 
        local plans in the development of the management plan and its 
        implementation;
            (3) include a description of actions that governments, 
        private organizations, and individuals have agreed to take to 
        protect the natural, historical and cultural resources of the 
        Heritage Area;

[[Page 120 STAT. 1817]]

            (4) specify the existing and potential sources of funding to 
        protect, manage, and develop the Heritage Area in the first 5 
        years of implementation;
            (5) &lt;&lt;NOTE: Records.&gt;&gt; include an inventory of the natural, 
        historical, cultural, educational, scenic, and recreational 
        resources of the Heritage Area related to the themes of the 
        Heritage Area that should be preserved, restored, managed, 
        developed, or maintained;
            (6) describe a program of implementation for the management 
        plan including plans for resource protection, restoration, 
        construction, and specific commitments for implementation that 
        have been made by the management entity or any government, 
        organization, or individual for the first 5 years of 
        implementation; and
            (7) include an interpretive plan for the Heritage Area.

    (b) Deadline and Termination of Funding.--
            (1) Deadline.--The management entity shall submit the 
        management plan to the Secretary for approval within 3 years 
        after funds are made available for this subtitle.
            (2) Termination of funding.--If the management plan is not 
        submitted to the Secretary in accordance with this subsection, 
        the management entity shall not qualify for Federal funding 
        under this subtitle until such time as the management plan is 
        submitted to the Secretary.

SEC. 277. DUTIES AND AUTHORITIES OF THE SECRETARY.

    (a) Technical and Financial Assistance.--The Secretary may, upon the 
request of the management entity, provide technical assistance on a 
reimbursable or non-reimbursable basis and financial assistance to the 
Heritage Area to develop and implement the approved management 
plan. &lt;&lt;NOTE: Contracts.&gt;&gt; The Secretary is authorized to enter into 
cooperative agreements with the management entity and other public or 
private entities for this purpose. In assisting the Heritage Area, the 
Secretary shall give priority to actions that in general assist in--
            (1) conserving the significant natural, historical, 
        cultural, and scenic resources of the Heritage Area; and
            (2) providing educational, interpretive, and recreational 
        opportunities consistent with the purposes of the Heritage Area.

    (b) Approval and Disapproval of Management Plan.--
            (1) In general.-- &lt;&lt;NOTE: Deadline.&gt;&gt; The Secretary shall 
        approve or disapprove the management plan not later than 90 days 
        after receiving the management plan.
            (2) Criteria for approval.--In determining the approval of 
        the management plan, the Secretary shall consider whether--
                    (A) the management entity is representative of the 
                diverse interests of the Heritage Area, including 
                governments, natural and historic resource protection 
                organizations, educational institutions, businesses, and 
                recreational organizations;
                    (B) the management entity has afforded adequate 
                opportunity, including public hearings, for public and 
                governmental involvement in the preparation of the 
                management plan;
                    (C) the resource protection and interpretation 
                strategies contained in the management plan, if 
                implemented, would adequately protect the natural, 
                historical, and cultural resources of the Heritage Area; 
                and

[[Page 120 STAT. 1818]]

                    (D) the management plan is supported by the 
                appropriate State and local officials whose cooperation 
                is needed to ensure the effective implementation of the 
                State and local aspects of the management plan.
            (3) Action following disapproval.-- &lt;&lt;NOTE: Recommen-
        dations.&gt;&gt; If the Secretary disapproves the management plan, the 
        Secretary shall advise the management entity in writing of the 
        reasons therefore and shall make recommendations for revisions 
        to the management plan. &lt;&lt;NOTE: Deadline.&gt;&gt; The Secretary shall 
        approve or disapprove a proposed revision within 60 days after 
        the date it is submitted.
            (4) Approval of amendments.--Substantial amendments to the 
        management plan shall be reviewed by the Secretary and approved 
        in the same manner as provided for the original management plan. 
        The management entity shall not use Federal funds authorized by 
        this subtitle to implement any amendments until the Secretary 
        has approved the amendments.

SEC. 278. DUTIES OF OTHER FEDERAL AGENCIES.

    Any Federal agency conducting or supporting activities directly 
affecting the Heritage Area shall--
            (1) consult with the Secretary and the management entity 
        with respect to such activities;
            (2) cooperate with the Secretary and the management entity 
        in carrying out their duties under this subtitle and, to the 
        maximum extent practicable, coordinate such activities with the 
        carrying out of such duties; and
            (3) to the maximum extent practicable, conduct or support 
        such activities in a manner which the management entity 
        determines will not have an adverse effect on the Heritage Area.

SEC. 279. REQUIREMENTS FOR INCLUSION OF PRIVATE PROPERTY.

    (a) Notification and Consent of Property Owners Required.--No 
privately owned property shall be preserved, conserved, or promoted by 
the management plan for the Heritage Area until the owner of that 
private property has been notified in writing by the management entity 
and has given written consent for such preservation, conservation, or 
promotion to the management entity.
    (b) Landowner Withdraw.--Any owner of private property included 
within the boundary of the Heritage Area shall have their property 
immediately removed from the boundary by submitting a written request to 
the management entity.

SEC. 280. PRIVATE PROPERTY PROTECTION.

    (a) Access to Private Property.--Nothing in this subtitle shall be 
construed to--
            (1) require any private property owner to allow public 
        access (including Federal, State, or local government access) to 
        such private property; or
            (2) modify any provision of Federal, State, or local law 
        with regard to public access to or use of private property.

    (b) Liability.--Designation of the Heritage Area shall not be 
considered to create any liability, or to have any effect on any 
liability under any other law, of any private property owner with 
respect to any persons injured on such private property.
    (c) Recognition of Authority To Control Land Use.--Nothing in this 
subtitle shall be construed to modify the authority of Federal, State, 
or local governments to regulate land use.

[[Page 120 STAT. 1819]]

    (d) Participation of Private Property Owners in Heritage Area.--
Nothing in this subtitle shall be construed to require the owner of any 
private property located within the boundaries of the Heritage Area to 
participate in or be associated with the Heritage Area.
    (e) Effect of Establishment.--The boundaries designated for the 
Heritage Area represent the area within which Federal funds appropriated 
for the purpose of this subtitle may be expended. The establishment of 
the Heritage Area and its boundaries shall not be construed to provide 
any nonexisting regulatory authority on land use within the Heritage 
Area or its viewshed by the Secretary, the National Park Service, or the 
management entity.

SEC. 280A. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.

    (a) In General.--There is authorized to be appropriated for the 
purposes of this subtitle not more than $1,000,000 for any fiscal year. 
Not more than a total of $10,000,000 may be appropriated for the 
Heritage Area under this subtitle.
    (b) Matching Funds.--Federal funding provided under this subtitle 
may not exceed 50 percent of the total cost of any assistance or grant 
provided or authorized under this subtitle.

SEC. 280B. SUNSET.

    The authority of the Secretary to provide assistance under this 
subtitle shall terminate on the day occurring 15 years after the date of 
the enactment of this subtitle.

Subtitle G-- &lt;&lt;NOTE: Champlain Valley National Heritage Partnership Act 
of 2006. Vermont. New York. 16 USC 461 note.&gt;&gt; Champlain Valley National 
Heritage Partnership

SEC. 281. SHORT TITLE.

    This subtitle may be cited as the ``Champlain Valley National 
Heritage Partnership Act of 2006''.

SEC. 282. FINDINGS AND PURPOSES.

    (a) Findings.--Congress finds that--
            (1) the Champlain Valley and its extensive cultural and 
        natural resources have played a significant role in the history 
        of the United States and the individual States of Vermont and 
        New York;
            (2) archaeological evidence indicates that the Champlain 
        Valley has been inhabited by humans since the last retreat of 
        the glaciers, with the Native Americans living in the area at 
        the time of European discovery being primarily of Iroquois and 
        Algonquin descent;
            (3) the linked waterways of the Champlain Valley, including 
        the Richelieu River in Canada, played a unique and significant 
        role in the establishment and development of the United States 
        and Canada through several distinct eras, including--
                    (A) the era of European exploration, during which 
                Samuel de Champlain and other explorers used the 
                waterways as a means of access through the wilderness;
                    (B) the era of military campaigns, including highly 
                significant military campaigns of the French and Indian 
                War, the American Revolution, and the War of 1812; and

[[Page 120 STAT. 1820]]

                    (C) the era of maritime commerce, during which canal 
                boats, schooners, and steamships formed the backbone of 
                commercial transportation for the region;
            (4) those unique and significant eras are best described by 
        the theme ``The Making of Nations and Corridors of Commerce'';
            (5) the artifacts and structures associated with those eras 
        are unusually well-preserved;
            (6) the Champlain Valley is recognized as having one of the 
        richest collections of historical resources in North America;
            (7) the history and cultural heritage of the Champlain 
        Valley are shared with Canada and the Province of Quebec;
            (8) there are benefits in celebrating and promoting this 
        mutual heritage;
            (9) tourism is among the most important industries in the 
        Champlain Valley, and heritage tourism in particular plays a 
        significant role in the economy of the Champlain Valley;
            (10) it is important to enhance heritage tourism in the 
        Champlain Valley while ensuring that increased visitation will 
        not impair the historical and cultural resources of the region;
            (11) according to the 1999 report of the National Park 
        Service entitled ``Champlain Valley Heritage Corridor Project'', 
        ``the Champlain Valley contains resources and represents a theme 
        `The Making of Nations and Corridors of Commerce', that is of 
        outstanding importance in United States history''; and
            (12) it is in the interest of the United States to preserve 
        and interpret the historical and cultural resources of the 
        Champlain Valley for the education and benefit of present and 
        future generations.

    (b) Purposes.--The purposes of this subtitle are--
            (1) to establish the Champlain Valley National Heritage 
        Partnership in the States of Vermont and New York to recognize 
        the importance of the historical, cultural, and recreational 
        resources of the Champlain Valley region to the United States;
            (2) to assist the States of Vermont and New York, including 
        units of local government and nongovernmental organizations in 
        the States, in preserving, protecting, and interpreting those 
        resources for the benefit of the people of the United States;
            (3) to use those resources and the theme ``the making of 
        nations and corridors of commerce'' to--
                    (A) revitalize the economy of communities in the 
                Champlain Valley; and
                    (B) generate and sustain increased levels of tourism 
                in the Champlain Valley;
            (4) to encourage--
                    (A) partnerships among State and local governments 
                and nongovernmental organizations in the United States; 
                and
                    (B) collaboration with Canada and the Province of 
                Quebec to--
                          (i) interpret and promote the history of the 
                      waterways of the Champlain Valley region;
                          (ii) form stronger bonds between the United 
                      States and Canada; and
                          (iii) promote the international aspects of the 
                      Champlain Valley region; and

[[Page 120 STAT. 1821]]

            (5) to provide financial and technical assistance for the 
        purposes described in paragraphs (1) through (4).

SEC. 283. DEFINITIONS.

    In this subtitle:
            (1) Heritage partnership.--The term ``Heritage Partnership'' 
        means the Champlain Valley National Heritage Partnership 
        established by section 104(a).
            (2) Management entity.--The term ``management entity'' means 
        the Lake Champlain Basin Program.
            (3) Management plan.--The term ``management plan'' means the 
        management plan developed under section 284(b)(1)(B)(i).
            (4) Region.--
                    (A) In general.--The term ``region'' means any area 
                or community in 1 of the States in which a physical, 
                cultural, or historical resource that represents the 
                theme is located.
                    (B) Inclusions.--The term ``region'' includes
                          (i) The linked navigable waterways of.--
                                    (I) Lake Champlain;
                                    (II) Lake George;
                                    (III) the Champlain Canal; and
                                    (IV) the portion of the Upper Hudson 
                                River extending south to Saratoga;
                          (ii) portions of Grand Isle, Franklin, 
                      Chittenden, Addison, Rutland, and Bennington 
                      Counties in the State of Vermont; and
                          (iii) portions of Clinton, Essex, Warren, 
                      Saratoga and Washington Counties in the State of 
                      New York.
            (5) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary 
        of the Interior.
            (6) State.--the term ``State'' means
                    (A) the State of Vermont; and
                    (B) the State of New York.
            (7) Theme.--The term ``theme'' means the theme ``The Making 
        of Nations and Corridors of Commerce'', as the term is used in 
        the 1999 report of the National Park Service entitled 
        ``Champlain Valley Heritage Corridor Project'', that describes 
        the periods of international conflict and maritime commerce 
        during which the region played a unique and significant role in 
        the development of the United States and Canada.

SEC. 284. HERITAGE PARTNERSHIP.

    (a) Establishment.--There is established in the region the Champlain 
Valley National Heritage Partnership.
    (b) Management Entity.--
            (1) Duties.--
                    (A) In general.--The management entity shall 
                implement this subtitle.
                    (B) Management plan.--
                          (i) In general.-- &lt;&lt;NOTE: Deadline.&gt;&gt; Not 
                      later than 3 years after the date of enactment of 
                      this Act, the management entity shall develop a 
                      management plan for the Heritage Partnership.
                          (ii) Existing plan.--Pending the completion 
                      and approval of the management plan, the 
                      management entity may implement the provisions of 
                      this subtitle

[[Page 120 STAT. 1822]]

                      based on its federally authorized plan 
                      ``Opportunities for Action, an Evolving Plan For 
                      Lake Champlain''.
                          (iii) Contents.--The management plan shall 
                      include--
                                    (I) &lt;&lt;NOTE: Recommen-
                                dations.&gt;&gt; recommendations for funding, 
                                managing, and developing the Heritage 
                                Partnership;
                                    (II) a description of activities to 
                                be carried out by public and private 
                                organizations to protect the resources 
                                of the Heritage Partnership;
                                    (III) &lt;&lt;NOTE: Records.&gt;&gt; a list of 
                                specific, potential sources of funding 
                                for the protection, management, and 
                                development of the Heritage Partnership;
                                    (IV) an assessment of the 
                                organizational capacity of the 
                                management entity to achieve the goals 
                                for implementation; and
                                    (V) &lt;&lt;NOTE: Recommen-
                                dations.&gt;&gt; recommendations of ways in 
                                which to encourage collaboration with 
                                Canada and the Province of Quebec in 
                                implementing this subtitle.
                          (iv) Considerations.--In developing the 
                      management plan under clause (i), the management 
                      entity shall take into consideration existing 
                      Federal, State, and local plans relating to the 
                      region.
                          (v) Submission to secretary for approval.--
                                    (I) In general.-- 
                                &lt;&lt;NOTE: Deadline.&gt;&gt; Not later than 3 
                                years after the date of enactment of 
                                this Act, the management entity shall 
                                submit the management plan to the 
                                Secretary for approval.
                                    (II) Effect of failure to submit.--
                                If a management plan is not submitted to 
                                the Secretary by the date specified in 
                                subclause (I), the Secretary shall not 
                                provide any additional funding under 
                                this subtitle until a management plan 
                                for the Heritage Partnership is 
                                submitted to the Secretary.
                          (vi) Approval.--N &lt;&lt;NOTE: Deadline.&gt;&gt; ot later 
                      than 90 days after receiving the management plan 
                      submitted under clause (v)(I), the Secretary, in 
                      consultation with the States, shall approve or 
                      disapprove the management plan.
                          (vii) Action following disapproval.--
                                    (I) General.--If the Secretary 
                                disapproves a management plan under 
                                clause (vi), the Secretary shall--
                                            (aa) advise the management 
                                        entity in writing of the reasons 
                                        for the disapproval;
                                            (bb) &lt;&lt;NOTE: Recommen-
                                        dations.&gt;&gt; make recommendations 
                                        for revisions to the management 
                                        plan; and
                                            (cc) allow the management 
                                        entity to submit to the 
                                        Secretary revisions to the 
                                        management plan.
                                    (II) Deadline for approval of 
                                revision.--Not later than 90 days after 
                                the date on which a revision is 
                                submitted under subclause (I)(cc), the 
                                Secretary shall approve or disapprove 
                                the revision.
                          (viii) Amendment.--

[[Page 120 STAT. 1823]]

                                    (I) In general.--After approval by 
                                the Secretary of the management plan, 
                                the management entity shall 
                                periodically--
                                            (aa) review the management 
                                        plan; and
                                            (bb) &lt;&lt;NOTE: Recommen-
                                        dations.&gt;&gt; submt to the 
                                        Secretary, for review and 
                                        approval by the Secretary, the 
                                        recommendations of the 
                                        management entity for any 
                                        amendments to the management 
                                        plan that the management entity 
                                        considers to be appropriate.
                                    (II) Expenditure of funds.--No funds 
                                made available under this subtitle shall 
                                be used to implement any amendment 
                                proposed by the management entity under 
                                subclause (I) until the Secretary 
                                approves the amendments.
            (2) Partnerships.--
                    (A) In general.--In carrying out this subtitle, the 
                management entity may enter into partnerships with--
                          (i) the States, including units of local 
                      governments in the States;
                          (ii) nongovernmental organizations;
                          (iii) Indian Tribes; and
                          (iv) other persons in the Heritage 
                      Partnership.
                    (B) Grants.--Subject to the availability of funds, 
                the management entity may provide grants to partners 
                under subparagraph (A) to assist in implementing this 
                subtitle.
            (3) Prohibition on the acquisition of real property.--The 
        management entity shall not use Federal funds made available 
        under this subtitle to acquire real property or any interest in 
        real property.

    (c) Assistance From Secretary.--To carry out the purposes of this 
subtitle, the Secretary may provide technical and financial assistance 
to the management entity.

SEC. 285. REQUIREMENTS FOR INCLUSION OF PRIVATE PROPERTY.

    (a) Notification and Consent of Property Owners Required.--No 
privately owned property shall be preserved, conserved, or promoted by 
the management plan until--
            (1) the management entity notifies the owner of the private 
        property in writing; and
            (2) the owner of the private property provides to the 
        management entity written consent for the preservation, 
        conservation, or promotion.

    (b) Landowner Withdrawal.--Private property included within the 
boundary of the Heritage Partnership shall immediately be withdrawn from 
the Heritage Partnership if the owner of the property submits a written 
request to the management entity.

SEC. 286. PRIVATE PROPERTY PROTECTION.

    (a) Access to Private Property.--Nothing in this subtitle--
            (1) requires a private property owner to allow public access 
        (including access by the Federal Government or State or local 
        governments) to private property; or
            (2) modifies any provision of Federal, State, or local law 
        with respect to public access to, or use of, private property.

    (b) Liability.--Designation of the Heritage Partnership under this 
subtitle does not create any liability, or have any effect on

[[Page 120 STAT. 1824]]

liability under any other law, of a private property owner with respect 
to any persons injured on the private property.
    (c) Recognition of Authority To Control Land Use.--Nothing in this 
subtitle modifies any authority of the Federal Government or State or 
local governments to regulate land use.
    (d) Participation of Private Property Owners.--Nothing in this 
subtitle requires the owner of any private property located within the 
boundaries of the Heritage Partnership to participate in, or be 
associated with the Heritage Partnership.
    (e) Effect of Establishment.--
            (1) In general.--The boundaries designated for the Heritage 
        Partnership represent the area within which Federal funds 
        appropriated for the purpose of this subtitle shall be expended.
            (2) Regulatory authority.--The establishment of the Heritage 
        Partnership and the boundaries of the Heritage Partnership do 
        not provide any regulatory authority that is not in existence on 
        the date of enactment of this Act relating to land use within 
        the Heritage Partnership or the viewshed of the Heritage 
        Partnership by the Secretary, the National Park Service, or the 
        management entity.

SEC. 287. EFFECT.

    Nothing in this subtitle--
            (1) grants powers of zoning or land use to the management 
        entity; or
            (2) obstructs or limits private business development 
        activities or resource development activities.

SEC. 288. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.

    (a) In General.--There is authorized to be appropriated to carry out 
this subtitle not more than a total of $10,000,000, of which not more 
than $1,000,000 may be made available for any fiscal year.
    (b) Non-Federal Share.--The non-Federal share of the cost of any 
activities carried out using Federal funds made available under 
subsection (a) shall be not less than 50 percent.

SEC. 289. TERMINATION OF AUTHORITY.

    The authority of the Secretary to provide assistance under this 
subtitle terminates on the date that is 15 years after the date of 
enactment of this Act.

        Subtitle H-- &lt;&lt;NOTE: Great Basin National Heritage Route 
  Act. Utah. Nevada. Native Americans. 16 USC 461 note.&gt;&gt; Great Basin 
National Heritage Route

SEC. 291. SHORT TITLE.

    This subtitle may be cited as the ``Great Basin National Heritage 
Route Act''.

SEC. 291A. FINDINGS AND PURPOSES.

    (a) Findings.--Congress finds that--
            (1) the natural, cultural, and historic heritage of the 
        North American Great Basin is nationally significant;
            (2) communities along the Great Basin Heritage Route 
        (including the towns of Delta, Utah, Ely, Nevada, and the 
        surrounding communities) are located in a classic western 
        landscape that contains long natural vistas, isolated high 
        desert

[[Page 120 STAT. 1825]]

        valleys, mountain ranges, ranches, mines, historic railroads, 
        archaeological sites, and tribal communities;
            (3) the Native American, pioneer, ranching, mining, timber, 
        and railroad heritages associated with the Great Basin Heritage 
        Route include the social history and living cultural traditions 
        of a rich diversity of nationalities;
            (4) the pioneer, Mormon, and other religious settlements, 
        and ranching, timber, and mining activities of the region played 
        and continue to play a significant role in the development of 
        the United States, shaped by--
                    (A) the unique geography of the Great Basin;
                    (B) an influx of people of Greek, Chinese, Basque, 
                Serb, Croat, Italian, and Hispanic descent; and
                    (C) a Native American presence (Western Shoshone, 
                Northern and Southern Paiute, and Goshute) that 
                continues in the Great Basin today;
            (5) the Great Basin housed internment camps for Japanese-
        American citizens during World War II, 1 of which, Topaz, was 
        located along the Heritage Route;
            (6) the pioneer heritage of the Heritage Route includes the 
        Pony Express route and stations, the Overland Stage, and many 
        examples of 19th century exploration of the western United 
        States;
            (7) the Native American heritage of the Heritage Route dates 
        back thousands of years and includes--
                    (A) archaeological sites;
                    (B) petroglyphs and pictographs;
                    (C) the westernmost village of the Fremont culture; 
                and
                    (D) communities of Western Shoshone, Paiute, and 
                Goshute tribes;
            (8) the Heritage Route contains multiple biologically 
        diverse ecological communities that are home to exceptional 
        species such as--
                    (A) bristlecone pines, the oldest living trees in 
                the world;
                    (B) wildlife adapted to harsh desert conditions;
                    (C) unique plant communities, lakes, and streams; 
                and
                    (D) native Bonneville cutthroat trout;
            (9) the air and water quality of the Heritage Route is among 
        the best in the United States, and the clear air permits 
        outstanding viewing of the night skies;
            (10) the Heritage Route includes unique and outstanding 
        geologic features such as numerous limestone caves, classic 
        basin and range topography with playa lakes, alluvial fans, 
        volcanics, cold and hot springs, and recognizable features of 
        ancient Lake Bonneville;
            (11) the Heritage Route includes an unusual variety of open 
        space and recreational and educational opportunities because of 
        the great quantity of ranching activity and public land 
        (including city, county, and State parks, national forests, 
        Bureau of Land Management land, and a national park);
            (12) there are significant archaeological, historical, 
        cultural, natural, scenic, and recreational resources in the 
        Great Basin to merit the involvement of the Federal Government 
        in the development, in cooperation with the Great Basin Heritage

[[Page 120 STAT. 1826]]

        Route Partnership and other local and governmental entities, of 
        programs and projects to--
                    (A) adequately conserve, protect, and interpret the 
                heritage of the Great Basin for present and future 
                generations; and
                    (B) provide opportunities in the Great Basin for 
                education; and
            (13) the Great Basin Heritage Route Partnership shall serve 
        as the local coordinating entity for a Heritage Route 
        established in the Great Basin.

    (b) Purposes.--The purposes of this subtitle are--
            (1) to foster a close working relationship with all levels 
        of government, the private sector, and the local communities 
        within White Pine County, Nevada, Millard County, Utah, and the 
        Duckwater Shoshone Reservation;
            (2) to enable communities referred to in paragraph (1) to 
        conserve their heritage while continuing to develop economic 
        opportunities; and
            (3) to conserve, interpret, and develop the archaeological, 
        historical, cultural, natural, scenic, and recreational 
        resources related to the unique ranching, industrial, and 
        cultural heritage of the Great Basin, in a manner that promotes 
        multiple uses permitted as of the date of enactment of this Act, 
        without managing or regulating land use.

SEC. 291B. DEFINITIONS.

    In this subtitle:
            (1) Great basin.--The term ``Great Basin'' means the North 
        American Great Basin.
            (2) Heritage route.--The term ``Heritage Route'' means the 
        Great Basin National Heritage Route established by section 
        291C(a).
            (3) Local coordinating entity.--The term ``local 
        coordinating entity'' means the Great Basin Heritage Route 
        Partnership established by section 291C(c).
            (4) Management plan.--The term ``management plan'' means the 
        plan developed by the local coordinating entity under section 
        291E(a).
            (5) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary 
        of the Interior, acting through the Director of the National 
        Park Service.

SEC. 291C. GREAT BASIN NATIONAL HERITAGE ROUTE.

    (a) Establishment.--There is established the Great Basin National 
Heritage Route to provide the public with access to certain historical, 
cultural, natural, scenic, and recreational resources in White Pine 
County, Nevada, Millard County, Utah, and the Duckwater Shoshone 
Reservation in the State of Nevada, as designated by the local 
coordinating entity.
    (b) Boundaries.--The local coordinating entity shall determine the 
specific boundaries of the Heritage Route.
    (c) Local Coordinating Entity.--
            (1) In general.--The Great Basin Heritage Route Partnership 
        shall serve as the local coordinating entity for the Heritage 
        Route.
            (2) Board of directors.--The Great Basin Heritage Route 
        Partnership shall be governed by a board of directors that 
        consists of--

[[Page 120 STAT. 1827]]

                    (A) 4 members who are appointed by the Board of 
                County Commissioners for Millard County, Utah;
                    (B) 4 members who are appointed by the Board of 
                County Commissioners for White Pine County, Nevada; and
                    (C) a representative appointed by each Native 
                American Tribe participating in the Heritage Route.

SEC. 291D. MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING.

    (a) In General.--In carrying out this subtitle, the Secretary, in 
consultation with the Governors of the States of Nevada and Utah and the 
tribal government of each Indian tribe participating in the Heritage 
Route, shall enter into a memorandum of understanding with the local 
coordinating entity.
    (b) Inclusions.--The memorandum of understanding shall include 
information relating to the objectives and management of the Heritage 
Route, including--
            (1) a description of the resources of the Heritage Route;
            (2) a discussion of the goals and objectives of the Heritage 
        Route, including--
                    (A) an explanation of the proposed approach to 
                conservation, development, and interpretation; and
                    (B) a general outline of the anticipated protection 
                and development measures;
            (3) a description of the local coordinating entity;
            (4) a list and statement of the financial commitment of the 
        initial partners to be involved in developing and implementing 
        the management plan; and
            (5) a description of the role of the States of Nevada and 
        Utah in the management of the Heritage Route.

    (c) Additional Requirements.--In developing the terms of the 
memorandum of understanding, the Secretary and the local coordinating 
entity shall--
            (1) provide opportunities for local participation; and
            (2) include terms that ensure, to the maximum extent 
        practicable, timely implementation of all aspects of the 
        memorandum of understanding.

    (d) Amendments.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary shall review any amendments 
        of the memorandum of understanding proposed by the local 
        coordinating entity or the Governor of the State of Nevada or 
        Utah.
            (2) Use of funds.--Funds made available under this subtitle 
        shall not be expended to implement a change made by a proposed 
        amendment described in paragraph (1) until the Secretary 
        approves the amendment.

SEC. 291E. MANAGEMENT PLAN.

    (a) In General.-- &lt;&lt;NOTE: Deadline.&gt;&gt; Not later than 3 years after 
the date on which funds are made available to carry out this subtitle, 
the local coordinating entity shall develop and submit to the Secretary 
for approval a management plan for the Heritage Route that--
            (1) specifies--
                    (A) any resources designated by the local 
                coordinating entity under section 291C(a); and
                    (B) the specific boundaries of the Heritage Route, 
                as determined under section 291C(b); and

[[Page 120 STAT. 1828]]

            (2) presents clear and comprehensive recommendations for the 
        conservation, funding, management, and development of the 
        Heritage Route.

    (b) Considerations.--In developing the management plan, the local 
coordinating entity shall--
            (1) provide for the participation of local residents, public 
        agencies, and private organizations located within the counties 
        of Millard County, Utah, White Pine County, Nevada, and the 
        Duckwater Shoshone Reservation in the protection and development 
        of resources of the Heritage Route, taking into consideration 
        State, tribal, county, and local land use plans in existence on 
        the date of enactment of this Act;
            (2) identify sources of funding;
            (3) include--
                    (A) a program for implementation of the management 
                plan by the local coordinating entity, including--
                          (i) plans for restoration, stabilization, 
                      rehabilitation, and construction of public or 
                      tribal property; and
                          (ii) specific commitments by the identified 
                      partners referred to in section 291D(b)(4) for the 
                      first 5 years of operation; and
                    (B) an interpretation plan for the Heritage Route; 
                and
            (4) develop a management plan that will not infringe on 
        private property rights without the consent of the owner of the 
        private property.

    (c) Failure To Submit.--If the local coordinating entity fails to 
submit a management plan to the Secretary in accordance with subsection 
(a), the Heritage Route shall no longer qualify for Federal funding.
    (d) Approval and Disapproval of Management Plan.--
            (1) In general.-- &lt;&lt;NOTE: Deadline.&gt;&gt; Not later than 90 days 
        after receipt of a management plan under subsection (a), the 
        Secretary, in consultation with the Governors of the States of 
        Nevada and Utah, shall approve or disapprove the management 
        plan.
            (2) Criteria.--In determining whether to approve a 
        management plan, the Secretary shall consider whether the 
        management plan--
                    (A) has strong local support from a diversity of 
                landowners, business interests, nonprofit organizations, 
                and governments associated with the Heritage Route;
                    (B) is consistent with and complements continued 
                economic activity along the Heritage Route;
                    (C) has a high potential for effective partnership 
                mechanisms;
                    (D) avoids infringing on private property rights; 
                and
                    (E) provides methods to take appropriate action to 
                ensure that private property rights are observed.
            (3) Action following disapproval.--If the Secretary 
        disapproves a management plan under paragraph (1), the Secretary 
        shall--
                    (A) advise the local coordinating entity in writing 
                of the reasons for the disapproval;
                    (B) &lt;&lt;NOTE: Recommen-dations.&gt;&gt; make recommendations 
                for revisions to the management plan; and
                    (C) &lt;&lt;NOTE: Deadline.&gt;&gt; not later than 90 days after 
                the receipt of any proposed revision of the management 
                plan from the local

[[Page 120 STAT. 1829]]

                coordinating entity, approve or disapprove the proposed 
                revision.

    (e) Implementation.--On approval of the management plan as provided 
in subsection (d)(1), the local coordinating entity, in conjunction with 
the Secretary, shall take appropriate steps to implement the management 
plan.
    (f) Amendments.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary shall review each amendment 
        to the management plan that the Secretary determines may make a 
        substantial change to the management plan.
            (2) Use of funds.--Funds made available under this subtitle 
        shall not be expended to implement an amendment described in 
        paragraph (1) until the Secretary approves the amendment.

SEC. 291F. AUTHORITY AND DUTIES OF LOCAL COORDINATING ENTITY.

    (a) Authorities.--The local coordinating entity may, for purposes of 
preparing and implementing the management plan, use funds made available 
under this subtitle to--
            (1) make grants to, and enter into cooperative agreements 
        with, a State (including a political subdivision), an Indian 
        tribe, a private organization, or any person; and
            (2) hire and compensate staff.

    (b) Duties.--In addition to developing the management plan, the 
local coordinating entity shall--
            (1) give priority to implementing the memorandum of 
        understanding and the management plan, including taking steps 
        to--
                    (A) assist units of government, regional planning 
                organizations, and nonprofit organizations in--
                          (i) establishing and maintaining interpretive 
                      exhibits along the Heritage Route;
                          (ii) developing recreational resources along 
                      the Heritage Route;
                          (iii) increasing public awareness of and 
                      appreciation for the archaeological, historical, 
                      cultural, natural, scenic, and recreational 
                      resources and sites along the Heritage Route; and
                          (iv) if requested by the owner, restoring, 
                      stabilizing, or rehabilitating any private, 
                      public, or tribal historical building relating to 
                      the themes of the Heritage Route;
                    (B) encourage economic viability and diversity along 
                the Heritage Route in accordance with the objectives of 
                the management plan; and
                    (C) encourage the installation of clear, consistent, 
                and environmentally appropriate signage identifying 
                access points and sites of interest along the Heritage 
                Route;
            (2) consider the interests of diverse governmental, 
        business, and nonprofit groups associated with the Heritage 
        Route;
            (3) conduct public meetings in the region of the Heritage 
        Route at least semiannually regarding the implementation of the 
        management plan;
            (4) submit substantial amendments (including any increase of 
        more than 20 percent in the cost estimates for implementation) 
        to the management plan to the Secretary for approval by the 
        Secretary; and

[[Page 120 STAT. 1830]]

            (5) for any year for which Federal funds are received under 
        this subtitle--
                    (A) submit to the Secretary a report that describes, 
                for the year--
                          (i) the accomplishments of the local 
                      coordinating entity;
                          (ii) the expenses and income of the local 
                      coordinating entity; and
                          (iii) each entity to which any loan or grant 
                      was made;
                    (B) make available for audit all records pertaining 
                to the expenditure of the funds and any matching funds; 
                and
                    (C) require, for all agreements authorizing the 
                expenditure of Federal funds by any entity, that the 
                receiving entity make available for audit all records 
                pertaining to the expenditure of the funds.

    (c) Prohibition on the Acquisition of Real Property.--The local 
coordinating entity shall not use Federal funds made available under 
this subtitle to acquire real property or any interest in real property.
    (d) Prohibition on the Regulation of Land Use.--The local 
coordinating entity shall not regulate land use within the Heritage 
Route.

SEC. 291G. DUTIES AND AUTHORITIES OF FEDERAL AGENCIES.

    (a) Technical and Financial Assistance.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary may, on request of the local 
        coordinating entity, provide technical and financial assistance 
        to develop and implement the management plan and memorandum of 
        understanding.
            (2) Priority for assistance.--In providing assistance under 
        paragraph (1), the Secretary shall, on request of the local 
        coordinating entity, give priority to actions that assist in--
                    (A) conserving the significant archaeological, 
                historical, cultural, natural, scenic, and recreational 
                resources of the Heritage Route; and
                    (B) providing education, interpretive, and 
                recreational opportunities, and other uses consistent 
                with those resources.

    (b) Application of Federal Law.--The establishment of the Heritage 
Route shall have no effect on the application of any Federal law to any 
property within the Heritage Route.

SEC. 291H. LAND USE REGULATION; APPLICABILITY OF FEDERAL LAW.

    (a) Land Use Regulation.--Nothing in this subtitle--
            (1) modifies, enlarges, or diminishes any authority of the 
        Federal, State, tribal, or local government to regulate by law 
        (including by regulation) any use of land; or
            (2) grants any power of zoning or land use to the local 
        coordinating entity.

    (b) Applicability of Federal Law.--Nothing in this subtitle--
            (1) imposes on the Heritage Route, as a result of the 
        designation of the Heritage Route, any regulation that is not 
        applicable to the area within the Heritage Route as of the date 
        of enactment of this Act; or

[[Page 120 STAT. 1831]]

            (2) authorizes any agency to promulgate a regulation that 
        applies to the Heritage Route solely as a result of the 
        designation of the Heritage Route under this subtitle.

SEC. 291I. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.

    (a) In General.--There is authorized to be appropriated to carry out 
this subtitle $10,000,000, of which not more than $1,000,000 may be made 
available for any fiscal year.
    (b) Cost Sharing.--
            (1) Federal share.--The Federal share of the cost of any 
        activity assisted under this subtitle shall not exceed 50 
        percent.
            (2) Form of non-federal share.--The non-Federal share may be 
        in the form of in-kind contributions, donations, grants, and 
        loans from individuals and State or local governments or 
        agencies.

SEC. 291J. TERMINATION OF AUTHORITY.

    The authority of the Secretary to provide assistance under this 
subtitle terminates on the date that is 15 years after the date of 
enactment of this Act.

SEC. 291K. REQUIREMENTS FOR INCLUSION OF PRIVATE PROPERTY.

    (a) Notification and Consent of Property Owners Required.--No 
privately owned property shall be preserved, conserved, or promoted by 
the management plan for the Heritage Route until the owner of that 
private property has been notified in writing by the management entity 
and has given written consent for such preservation, conservation, or 
promotion to the management entity.
    (b) Landowner Withdraw.--Any owner of private property included 
within the boundary of the Heritage Route shall have their property 
immediately removed from the boundary by submitting a written request to 
the management entity.

SEC. 291L. PRIVATE PROPERTY PROTECTION.

    (a) Access to Private Property.--Nothing in this title shall be 
construed to--
            (1) require any private property owner to allow public 
        access (including Federal, State, or local government access) to 
        such private property; or
            (2) modify any provision of Federal, State, or local law 
        with regard to public access to or use of private property.

    (b) Liability.--Designation of the Heritage Route shall not be 
considered to create any liability, or to have any effect on any 
liability under any other law, of any private property owner with 
respect to any persons injured on such private property.
    (c) Recognition of Authority To Control Land Use.--Nothing in this 
title shall be construed to modify the authority of Federal, State, or 
local governments to regulate land use.
    (d) Participation of Private Property Owners in Heritage Route.--
Nothing in this title shall be construed to require the owner of any 
private property located within the boundaries of the Heritage Route to 
participate in or be associated with the Heritage Route.
    (e) Effect of Establishment.--The boundaries designated for the 
Heritage Route represent the area within which Federal funds 
appropriated for the purpose of this title may be expended. The 
establishment of the Heritage Route and its boundaries shall not

[[Page 120 STAT. 1832]]

be construed to provide any nonexisting regulatory authority on land use 
within the Heritage Route or its viewshed by the Secretary, the National 
Park Service, or the management entity.

    Subtitle I-- &lt;&lt;NOTE: Gullah/Geechee Cultural Heritage Act. State 
listing. 16 USC 461 note.&gt;&gt; Gullah/Geechee Heritage Corridor

SEC. 295. SHORT TITLE.

    This subtitle may be cited as the ``Gullah/Geechee Cultural Heritage 
Act''.

SEC. 295A. PURPOSES.

    The purposes of this subtitle are to--
            (1) recognize the important contributions made to American 
        culture and history by African Americans known as the Gullah/
        Geechee who settled in the coastal counties of South Carolina, 
        Georgia, North Carolina, and Florida;
            (2) assist State and local governments and public and 
        private entities in South Carolina, Georgia, North Carolina, and 
        Florida in interpreting the story of the Gullah/Geechee and 
        preserving Gullah/Geechee folklore, arts, crafts, and music; and
            (3) assist in identifying and preserving sites, historical 
        data, artifacts, and objects associated with the Gullah/Geechee 
        for the benefit and education of the public.

SEC. 295B. DEFINITIONS.

    In this subtitle:
            (1) Local coordinating entity.--The term ``local 
        coordinating entity'' means the Gullah/Geechee Cultural Heritage 
        Corridor Commission established by section 295D(a).
            (2) Heritage corridor.--The term ``Heritage Corridor'' means 
        the Gullah/Geechee Cultural Heritage Corridor established by 
        section 295C(a).
            (3) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary 
        of the Interior.

SEC. 295C. GULLAH/GEECHEE CULTURAL HERITAGE CORRIDOR.

    (a) Establishment.--There is established the Gullah/Geechee Cultural 
Heritage Corridor.
    (b) Boundaries.--
            (1) In general.--The Heritage Corridor shall be comprised of 
        those lands and waters generally depicted on a map entitled 
        ``Gullah/Geechee Cultural Heritage Corridor'' numbered GGCHC 
        80,000 and dated September 2004. The map shall be on file and 
        available for public inspection in the appropriate offices of 
        the National Park Service and in an appropriate State office in 
        each of the States included in the Heritage 
        Corridor. &lt;&lt;NOTE: Federal Register, publication.&gt;&gt; The Secretary 
        shall publish in the Federal Register, as soon as practicable 
        after the date of enactment of this Act, a detailed description 
        and map of the boundaries established under this subsection.
            (2) Revisions.--The boundaries of the Heritage Corridor may 
        be revised if the revision is--
                    (A) proposed in the management plan developed for 
                the Heritage Corridor;

[[Page 120 STAT. 1833]]

                    (B) approved by the Secretary in accordance with 
                this subtitle; and
                    (C) placed on file in accordance with paragraph (1).

    (c) Administration.--The Heritage Corridor shall be administered in 
accordance with the provisions of this subtitle.

SEC. 295D. GULLAH/GEECHEE CULTURAL HERITAGE CORRIDOR COMMISSION.

    (a) Establishment.--There is hereby established a local coordinating 
entity to be known as the ``Gullah/Geechee Cultural Heritage Corridor 
Commission'' whose purpose shall be to assist Federal, State, and local 
authorities in the development and implementation of a management plan 
for those land and waters specified in section 295C(b).
    (b) Membership.--The local coordinating entity shall be composed of 
15 members appointed by the Secretary as follows:
            (1) Four individuals nominated by the State Historic 
        Preservation Officer of South Carolina and two individuals each 
        nominated by the State Historic Preservation Officer of each of 
        Georgia, North Carolina, and Florida and appointed by the 
        Secretary.
            (2) Two individuals from South Carolina and one individual 
        from each of Georgia, North Carolina, and Florida who are 
        recognized experts in historic preservation, anthropology, and 
        folklore, appointed by the Secretary.

    (c) Terms.--Members of the local coordinating entity shall be 
appointed to terms not to exceed 3 years. The Secretary may stagger the 
terms of the initial appointments to the local coordinating entity in 
order to assure continuity of operation. Any member of the local 
coordinating entity may serve after the expiration of their term until a 
successor is appointed. A vacancy shall be filled in the same manner in 
which the original appointment was made.
    (d) Termination.--The local coordinating entity shall terminate 10 
years after the date of enactment of this Act.

SEC. 295E. OPERATION OF THE LOCAL COORDINATING ENTITY.

    (a) Duties of the Local Coordinating Entity.--To further the 
purposes of the Heritage Corridor, the local coordinating entity shall--
            (1) prepare and submit a management plan to the Secretary in 
        accordance with section 295F;
            (2) assist units of local government and other persons in 
        implementing the approved management plan by--
                    (A) carrying out programs and projects that 
                recognize, protect, and enhance important resource 
                values within the Heritage Corridor;
                    (B) establishing and maintaining interpretive 
                exhibits and programs within the Heritage Corridor;
                    (C) developing recreational and educational 
                opportunities in the Heritage Corridor;
                    (D) increasing public awareness of and appreciation 
                for the historical, cultural, natural, and scenic 
                resources of the Heritage Corridor;
                    (E) protecting and restoring historic sites and 
                buildings in the Heritage Corridor that are consistent 
                with Heritage Corridor themes;

[[Page 120 STAT. 1834]]

                    (F) ensuring that clear, consistent, and appropriate 
                signs identifying points of public access and sites of 
                interest are posted throughout the Heritage Corridor; 
                and
                    (G) promoting a wide range of partnerships among 
                governments, organizations, and individuals to further 
                the purposes of the Heritage Corridor;
            (3) consider the interests of diverse units of government, 
        business, organizations, and individuals in the Heritage 
        Corridor in the preparation and implementation of the management 
        plan;
            (4) &lt;&lt;NOTE: Public meetings.&gt;&gt; conduct meetings open to the 
        public at least quarterly regarding the development and 
        implementation of the management plan;
            (5) &lt;&lt;NOTE: Reports.&gt;&gt; submit an annual report to the 
        Secretary for any fiscal year in which the local coordinating 
        entity receives Federal funds under this subtitle, setting forth 
        its accomplishments, expenses, and income, including grants made 
        to any other entities during the year for which the report is 
        made;
             &lt;&lt;NOTE: Records.&gt;&gt; (6) make available for audit for any 
        fiscal year in which it receives Federal funds under this 
        subtitle, all information pertaining to the expenditure of such 
        funds and any matching funds, and require all agreements 
        authorizing expenditures of Federal funds by other 
        organizations, that the receiving organization make available 
        for audit all records and other information pertaining to the 
        expenditure of such funds; and
            (7) encourage by appropriate means economic viability that 
        is consistent with the purposes of the Heritage Corridor.

    (b) Authorities.--The local coordinating entity may, for the 
purposes of preparing and implementing the management plan, use funds 
made available under this subtitle to--
            (1) make grants to, and enter into cooperative agreements 
        with, the States of South Carolina, North Carolina, Florida, and 
        Georgia, political subdivisions of those States, a nonprofit 
        organization, or any person;
            (2) hire and compensate staff;
            (3) obtain funds from any source including any that are 
        provided under any other Federal law or program; and
            (4) contract for goods and services.

SEC. 295F. MANAGEMENT PLAN.

    (a) In General.--The management plan for the Heritage Corridor 
shall--
            (1) include comprehensive policies, strategies, and 
        recommendations for conservation, funding, management, and 
        development of the Heritage Corridor;
            (2) take into consideration existing State, county, and 
        local plans in the development of the management plan and its 
        implementation;
            (3) include a description of actions that governments, 
        private organizations, and individuals have agreed to take to 
        protect the historical, cultural, and natural resources of the 
        Heritage Corridor;
            (4) specify the existing and potential sources of funding to 
        protect, manage, and develop the Heritage Corridor in the first 
        5 years of implementation;
            (5) &lt;&lt;NOTE: Records.&gt;&gt; include an inventory of the 
        historical, cultural, natural, resources of the Heritage 
        Corridor related to the themes of

[[Page 120 STAT. 1835]]

        the Heritage Corridor that should be preserved, restored, 
        managed, developed, or maintained;
            (6) recommend policies and strategies for resource 
        management that consider and detail the application of 
        appropriate land and water management techniques, including the 
        development of intergovernmental and interagency cooperative 
        agreements to protect the Heritage Corridor's historical, 
        cultural, and natural resources;
            (7) describe a program for implementation of the management 
        plan including plans for resources protection, restoration, 
        construction, and specific commitments for implementation that 
        have been made by the local coordinating entity or any 
        government, organization, or individual for the first 5 years of 
        implementation;
            (8) include an analysis and recommendations for the ways in 
        which Federal, State, or local programs may best be coordinated 
        to further the purposes of this subtitle; and
            (9) include an interpretive plan for the Heritage Corridor.

    (b) Submittal of Management Plan.-- &lt;&lt;NOTE: Deadline.&gt;&gt; The local 
coordinating entity shall submit the management plan to the Secretary 
for approval not later than 3 years after funds are made available for 
this subtitle.

    (c) Failure To Submit.--If the local coordinating entity fails to 
submit the management plan to the Secretary in accordance with 
subsection (b), the Heritage Corridor shall not qualify for Federal 
funding until the management plan is submitted.
    (d) Approval or Disapproval of Management Plan.--
            (1) &lt;&lt;NOTE: Deadline.&gt;&gt; In general.--The Secretary shall 
        approve or disapprove the management plan not later than 90 days 
        after receiving the management plan.
            (2) Criteria.--In determining whether to approve the 
        management plan, the Secretary shall consider whether--
                    (A) the local coordinating entity has afforded 
                adequate opportunity, including public hearings, for 
                public and governmental involvement in the preparation 
                of the management plan;
                    (B) the resource preservation and interpretation 
                strategies contained in the management plan would 
                adequately protect the cultural and historic resources 
                of the Heritage Corridor; and
                    (C) the Secretary has received adequate assurances 
                from appropriate State and local officials whose support 
                is needed to ensure the effective implementation of the 
                State and local aspects of the plan.
            (3) Action following disapproval.-- &lt;&lt;NOTE: Recommen-
        dations.&gt;&gt; If the Secretary disapproves the management plan, the 
        Secretary shall advise the local coordinating entity in writing 
        of the reasons therefore and shall make recommendations for 
        revisions to the management plan. &lt;&lt;NOTE: Deadline.&gt;&gt; The 
        Secretary shall approve or disapprove a proposed revision not 
        later than 60 days after the date it is submitted.
            (4) Approval of amendments.--Substantial amendments to the 
        management plan shall be reviewed and approved by the Secretary 
        in the same manner as provided in the original management plan. 
        The local coordinating entity shall not use Federal funds 
        authorized by this subtitle to implement any amendments until 
        the Secretary has approved the amendments.

[[Page 120 STAT. 1836]]

SEC. 295G. TECHNICAL AND FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE.

    (a) In General.--Upon a request of the local coordinating entity, 
the Secretary may provide technical and financial assistance for the 
development and implementation of the management plan.
    (b) Priority for Assistance.--In providing assistance under 
subsection (a), the Secretary shall give priority to actions that assist 
in--
            (1) conserving the significant cultural, historical, and 
        natural resources of the Heritage Corridor; and
            (2) providing educational and interpretive opportunities 
        consistent with the purposes of the Heritage Corridor.

    (c) Spending for Non-Federal Property.--
            (1) In general.--The local coordinating entity may expend 
        Federal funds made available under this subtitle on nonfederally 
        owned property that is--
                    (A) identified in the management plan; or
                    (B) listed or eligible for listing on the National 
                Register for Historic Places.
            (2) Agreements.--Any payment of Federal funds made pursuant 
        to this subtitle shall be subject to an agreement that 
        conversion, use, or disposal of a project so assisted for 
        purposes contrary to the purposes of this subtitle, as 
        determined by the Secretary, shall result in a right of the 
        United States to compensation of all funds made available to 
        that project or the proportion of the increased value of the 
        project attributable to such funds as determined at the time of 
        such conversion, use, or disposal, whichever is greater.

SEC. 295H. DUTIES OF OTHER FEDERAL AGENCIES.

    Any Federal agency conducting or supporting activities directly 
affecting the Heritage Corridor shall--
            (1) consult with the Secretary and the local coordinating 
        entity with respect to such activities;
            (2) cooperate with the Secretary and the local coordinating 
        entity in carrying out their duties under this subtitle and, to 
        the maximum extent practicable, coordinate such activities with 
        the carrying out of such duties; and
            (3) to the maximum extent practicable, conduct or support 
        such activities in a manner in which the local coordinating 
        entity determines will not have an adverse effect on the 
        Heritage Corridor.

SEC. 295I. &lt;&lt;NOTE: Establishment.&gt;&gt; COASTAL HERITAGE CENTERS.

    In furtherance of the purposes of this subtitle and using the 
authorities made available under this subtitle, the local coordinating 
entity shall establish one or more Coastal Heritage Centers at 
appropriate locations within the Heritage Corridor in accordance with 
the preferred alternative identified in the Record of Decision for the 
Low Country Gullah Culture Special Resource Study and Environmental 
Impact Study, December 2003, and additional appropriate sites.

SEC. 295J. PRIVATE PROPERTY PROTECTION.

    (a) Access to Private Property.--Nothing in this subtitle shall be 
construed to require any private property owner to permit public access 
(including Federal, State, or local government access) to such private 
property. Nothing in this subtitle shall be construed

[[Page 120 STAT. 1837]]

to modify any provision of Federal, State, or local law with regard to 
public access to or use of private lands.
    (b) Liability.--Designation of the Heritage Corridor shall not be 
considered to create any liability, or to have any effect on any 
liability under any other law, of any private property owner with 
respect to any persons injured on such private property.
    (c) Recognition of Authority To Control Land Use.--Nothing in this 
subtitle shall be construed to modify any authority of Federal, State, 
or local governments to regulate land use.
    (d) Participation of Private Property Owners in Heritage Corridor.--
Nothing in this subtitle shall be construed to require the owner of any 
private property located within the boundaries of the Heritage Corridor 
to participate in or be associated with the Heritage Corridor.
    (e) Effect of Establishment.--The boundaries designated for the 
Heritage Corridor represent the area within which Federal funds 
appropriated for the purpose of this subtitle shall be expended. The 
establishment of the Heritage Corridor and its boundaries shall not be 
construed to provide any nonexisting regulatory authority on land use 
within the Heritage Corridor or its viewshed by the Secretary or the 
local coordinating entity.
    (f) Notification and Consent of Property Owners Required.--No 
privately owned property shall be preserved, conserved, or promoted by 
the management plan for the Heritage Corridor until the owner of that 
private property has been notified in writing by the local coordinating 
entity and has given written consent for such preservation, 
conservation, or promotion to the local coordinating entity.
    (g) Landowner Withdrawal.--Any owner of private property included 
within the boundary of the Heritage Corridor shall have their property 
immediately removed from within the boundary by submitting a written 
request to the local coordinating entity.

SEC. 295K. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.

    (a) In General.--There is authorized to be appropriated for the 
purposes of this subtitle not more than $1,000,000 for any fiscal year. 
Not more than a total of $10,000,000 may be appropriated for the 
Heritage Corridor under this subtitle.
    (b) Cost Share.--Federal funding provided under this subtitle may 
not exceed 50 percent of the total cost of any activity for which 
assistance is provided under this subtitle.
    (c) In-Kind Contributions.--The Secretary may accept in-kind 
contributions as part of the non-Federal cost share of any activity for 
which assistance is provided under this subtitle.

SEC. 295L. TERMINATION OF AUTHORITY.

    The authority of the Secretary to provide assistance under this 
subtitle terminates on the date that is 15 years after the date of 
enactment of this Act.

  Subtitle J-- &lt;&lt;NOTE: Crossroads of the American Revolution National 
Heritage Area Act of 2006. New Jersey. 16 USC 461 note.&gt;&gt; Crossroads of 
the American Revolution National Heritage Area

SEC. 297. SHORT TITLE.

    This subtitle may be cited as the ``Crossroads of the American 
Revolution National Heritage Area Act of 2006''.

[[Page 120 STAT. 1838]]

SEC. 297A. FINDINGS AND PURPOSES.

    (a) Findings.--Congress finds that--
            (1) the State of New Jersey was critically important during 
        the American Revolution because of the strategic location of the 
        State between the British armies headquartered in New York City, 
        New York, and the Continental Congress in the city of 
        Philadelphia, Pennsylvania;
            (2) General George Washington spent almost half of the 
        period of the American Revolution personally commanding troops 
        of the Continental Army in the State of New Jersey, including 2 
        severe winters spent in encampments in the area that is now 
        Morristown National Historical Park, a unit of the National Park 
        System;
            (3) it was during the 10 crucial days of the American 
        Revolution between December 25, 1776, and January 3, 1777, that 
        General Washington, after retreating across the State of New 
        Jersey from the State of New York to the Commonwealth of 
        Pennsylvania in the face of total defeat, recrossed the Delaware 
        River on the night of December 25, 1776, and went on to win 
        crucial battles at Trenton and Princeton in the State of New 
        Jersey;
            (4) Thomas Paine, who accompanied the troops during the 
        retreat, described the events during those days as ``the times 
        that try men's souls'';
            (5) the sites of 296 military engagements are located in the 
        State of New Jersey, including--
                    (A) several important battles of the American 
                Revolution that were significant to--
                          (i) the outcome of the American Revolution; 
                      and
                          (ii) the history of the United States; and
                    (B) several national historic landmarks, including 
                Washington's Crossing, the Old Trenton Barracks, and 
                Princeton, Monmouth, and Red Bank Battlefields;
            (6) additional national historic landmarks in the State of 
        New Jersey include the homes of--
                    (A) Richard Stockton, Joseph Hewes, John 
                Witherspoon, and Francis Hopkinson, signers of the 
                Declaration of Independence;
                    (B) Elias Boudinout, President of the Continental 
                Congress; and
                    (C) William Livingston, patriot and Governor of the 
                State of New Jersey from 1776 to 1790;
            (7) portions of the landscapes important to the strategies 
        of the British and Continental armies, including waterways, 
        mountains, farms, wetlands, villages, and roadways--
                    (A) retain the integrity of the period of the 
                American Revolution; and
                    (B) offer outstanding opportunities for 
                conservation, education, and recreation;
            (8) the National Register of Historic Places lists 251 
        buildings and sites in the National Park Service study area for 
        the Crossroads of the American Revolution that are associated 
        with the period of the American Revolution;
            (9) civilian populations residing in the State of New Jersey 
        during the American Revolution suffered extreme hardships 
        because of--
                    (A) the continuous conflict in the State;

[[Page 120 STAT. 1839]]

                    (B) foraging armies; and
                    (C) marauding contingents of loyalist Tories and 
                rebel sympathizers;
            (10) because of the important role that the State of New 
        Jersey played in the successful outcome of the American 
        Revolution, there is a Federal interest in developing a regional 
        framework to assist the State of New Jersey, local governments 
        and organizations, and private citizens in--
                    (A) preserving and protecting cultural, historic, 
                and natural resources of the period; and
                    (B) bringing recognition to those resources for the 
                educational and recreational benefit of the present and 
                future generations of citizens of the United States; and
            (11) the National Park Service has conducted a national 
        heritage area feasibility study in the State of New Jersey that 
        demonstrates that there is a sufficient assemblage of nationally 
        distinctive cultural, historic, and natural resources necessary 
        to establish the Crossroads of the American Revolution National 
        Heritage Area.

    (b) Purposes.--The purposes of this subtitle are--
            (1) to assist communities, organizations, and citizens in 
        the State of New Jersey in preserving--
                    (A) the special historic identity of the State; and
                    (B) the importance of the State to the United 
                States;
            (2) to foster a close working relationship among all levels 
        of government, the private sector, and local communities in the 
        State;
            (3) to provide for the management, preservation, protection, 
        and interpretation of the cultural, historic, and natural 
        resources of the State for the educational and inspirational 
        benefit of future generations;
            (4) to strengthen the value of Morristown National 
        Historical Park as an asset to the State by--
                    (A) establishing a network of related historic 
                resources, protected landscapes, educational 
                opportunities, and events depicting the landscape of the 
                State of New Jersey during the American Revolution; and
                    (B) establishing partnerships between Morristown 
                National Historical Park and other public and privately 
                owned resources in the Heritage Area that represent the 
                strategic fulcrum of the American Revolution; and
            (5) to authorize Federal financial and technical assistance 
        for the purposes described in paragraphs (1) through (4).

SEC. 297B. DEFINITIONS.

    In this subtitle:
            (1) Heritage area.--The term ``Heritage Area'' means the 
        Crossroads of the American Revolution National Heritage Area 
        established by section 297C(a).
            (2) Local coordinating entity.--The term ``local 
        coordinating entity'' means the local coordinating entity for 
        the Heritage Area designated by section 297C(d).
            (3) Management plan.--The term ``management plan'' means the 
        management plan for the Heritage Area developed under section 
        297D.

[[Page 120 STAT. 1840]]

            (4) Map.--The term ``map'' means the map entitled 
        ``Crossroads of the American Revolution National Heritage 
        Area'', numbered CRRE/80,000, and dated April 2002.
            (5) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary 
        of the Interior.
            (6) State.--The term ``State'' means the State of New 
        Jersey.

SEC. 297C. CROSSROADS OF THE AMERICAN REVOLUTION NATIONAL HERITAGE AREA.

    (a) Establishment.--There is established in the State the Crossroads 
of the American Revolution National Heritage Area.
    (b) Boundaries.--The Heritage Area shall consist of the land and 
water within the boundaries of the Heritage Area, as depicted on the 
map.
    (c) Availability of Map.--The map shall be on file and available for 
public inspection in the appropriate offices of the National Park 
Service.
    (d) Local Coordinating Entity.--The Crossroads of the American 
Revolution Association, Inc., a nonprofit corporation in the State, 
shall be the local coordinating entity for the Heritage Area.

SEC. 297D. MANAGEMENT PLAN.

    (a) In General.-- &lt;&lt;NOTE: Deadline.&gt;&gt; Not later than 3 years after 
the date on which funds are made available to carry out this subtitle, 
the local coordinating entity shall develop and forward to the Secretary 
a management plan for the Heritage Area.

    (b) Requirements.--The management plan shall--
            (1) include comprehensive policies, strategies, and 
        recommendations for conservation, funding, management, and 
        development of the Heritage Area;
            (2) take into consideration existing State, county, and 
        local plans;
            (3) describe actions that units of local government, private 
        organizations, and individuals have agreed to take to protect 
        the cultural, historic, and natural resources of the Heritage 
        Area;
            (4) identify existing and potential sources of funding for 
        the protection, management, and development of the Heritage Area 
        during the first 5 years of implementation of the management 
        plan; and
            (5) include--
                    (A) an inventory of the cultural, educational, 
                historic, natural, recreational, and scenic resources of 
                the Heritage Area relating to the themes of the Heritage 
                Area that should be restored, managed, or developed;
                    (B) recommendations of policies and strategies for 
                resource management that result in--
                          (i) application of appropriate land and water 
                      management techniques; and
                          (ii) development of intergovernmental and 
                      interagency cooperative agreements to protect the 
                      cultural, educational, historic, natural, 
                      recreational, and scenic resources of the Heritage 
                      Area;
                    (C) a program of implementation of the management 
                plan that includes for the first 5 years of 
                implementation--
                          (i) plans for resource protection, 
                      restoration, construction; and

[[Page 120 STAT. 1841]]

                          (ii) specific commitments for implementation 
                      that have been made by the local coordinating 
                      entity or any government, organization, or 
                      individual;
                    (D) an analysis of and recommendations for ways in 
                which Federal, State, and local programs, including 
                programs of the National Park Service, may be best 
                coordinated to promote the purposes of this subtitle; 
                and
                    (E) an interpretive plan for the Heritage Area.

    (c) Approval or Disapproval of Management Plan.--
            (1) In general.-- &lt;&lt;NOTE: Deadline.&gt;&gt; Not later than 90 days 
        after the date of receipt of the management plan under 
        subsection (a), the Secretary shall approve or disapprove the 
        management plan.
            (2) Criteria.--In determining whether to approve the 
        management plan, the Secretary shall consider whether--
                    (A) the Board of Directors of the local coordinating 
                entity is representative of the diverse interests of the 
                Heritage Area, including--
                          (i) governments;
                          (ii) natural and historic resource protection 
                      organizations;
                          (iii) educational institutions;
                          (iv) businesses; and
                          (v) recreational organizations;
                    (B) the local coordinating entity provided adequate 
                opportunity for public and governmental involvement in 
                the preparation of the management plan, including public 
                hearings;
                    (C) the resource protection and interpretation 
                strategies in the management plan would adequately 
                protect the cultural, historic, and natural resources of 
                the Heritage Area; and
                    (D) the Secretary has received adequate assurances 
                from the appropriate State and local officials whose 
                support is needed to ensure the effective implementation 
                of the State and local aspects of the management plan.
            (3) Action following disapproval.--If the Secretary 
        disapproves the management plan under paragraph (1), the 
        Secretary shall--
                    (A) advise the local coordinating entity in writing 
                of the reasons for the disapproval;
                    (B) &lt;&lt;NOTE: Recommen-dations.&gt;&gt; make recommendations 
                for revisions to the management plan; and
                    (C) &lt;&lt;NOTE: Deadline.&gt;&gt; not later than 60 days after 
                the receipt of any proposed revision of the management 
                plan from the local coordinating entity, approve or 
                disapprove the proposed revision.

    (d) Amendments.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary shall approve or disapprove 
        each amendment to the management plan that the Secretary 
        determines may make a substantial change to the management plan.
            (2) Use of funds.--Funds made available under this subtitle 
        shall not be expended by the local coordinating entity to 
        implement an amendment described in paragraph (1) until the 
        Secretary approves the amendment.

    (e) Implementation.--On completion of the 3-year period described in 
subsection (a), any funding made available under this

[[Page 120 STAT. 1842]]

subtitle shall be made available to the local coordinating entity only 
for implementation of the approved management plan.

SEC. 297E. AUTHORITIES, DUTIES, AND PROHIBITIONS APPLICABLE TO THE LOCAL 
            COORDINATING ENTITY.

    (a) Authorities.--For purposes of preparing and implementing the 
management plan, the local coordinating entity may use funds made 
available under this subtitle to--
            (1) make grants to, provide technical assistance to, and 
        enter into cooperative agreements with, the State (including a 
        political subdivision), a nonprofit organization, or any other 
        person;
            (2) hire and compensate staff, including individuals with 
        expertise in--
                    (A) cultural, historic, or natural resource 
                protection; or
                    (B) heritage programming;
            (3) obtain funds or services from any source (including a 
        Federal law or program);
            (4) contract for goods or services; and
            (5) support any other activity--
                    (A) that furthers the purposes of the Heritage Area; 
                and
                    (B) that is consistent with the management plan.

    (b) Duties.--In addition to developing the management plan, the 
local coordinating entity shall--
            (1) assist units of local government, regional planning 
        organizations, and nonprofit organizations in implementing the 
        approved management plan by--
                    (A) carrying out programs and projects that 
                recognize, protect, and enhance important resource 
                values in the Heritage Area;
                    (B) establishing and maintaining interpretive 
                exhibits and programs in the Heritage Area;
                    (C) developing recreational and educational 
                opportunities in the Heritage Area;
                    (D) increasing public awareness of and appreciation 
                for cultural, historic, and natural resources of the 
                Heritage Area;
                    (E) protecting and restoring historic sites and 
                buildings that are--
                          (i) located in the Heritage Area; and
                          (ii) related to the themes of the Heritage 
                      Area;
                    (F) ensuring that clear, consistent, and appropriate 
                signs identifying points of public access and sites of 
                interest are installed throughout the Heritage Area; and
                    (G) promoting a wide range of partnerships among 
                governments, organizations, and individuals to further 
                the purposes of the Heritage Area;
            (2) in preparing and implementing the management plan, 
        consider the interests of diverse units of government, 
        businesses, organizations, and individuals in the Heritage Area;
            (3) &lt;&lt;NOTE: Public meetings.&gt;&gt; conduct public meetings at 
        least semiannually regarding the development and implementation 
        of the management plan;
            (4) for any fiscal year for which Federal funds are received 
        under this subtitle--

[[Page 120 STAT. 1843]]

                    (A) &lt;&lt;NOTE: Reports.&gt;&gt; submit to the Secretary a 
                report that describes for the year--
                          (i) the accomplishments of the local 
                      coordinating entity;
                          (ii) the expenses and income of the local 
                      coordinating entity; and
                          (iii) each entity to which a grant was made;
                    (B) &lt;&lt;NOTE: Records.&gt;&gt; make available for audit all 
                information relating to the expenditure of the funds and 
                any matching funds; and
                    (C) require, for all agreements authorizing 
                expenditures of Federal funds by any entity, that the 
                receiving entity make available for audit all records 
                and other information relating to the expenditure of the 
                funds;
            (5) encourage, by appropriate means, economic viability that 
        is consistent with the purposes of the Heritage Area; and
            (6) maintain headquarters for the local coordinating entity 
        at Morristown National Historical Park and in Mercer County.

    (c) Prohibition on the Acquisition of Real Property.--
            (1) Federal funds.--The local coordinating entity shall not 
        use Federal funds made available under this subtitle to acquire 
        real property or any interest in real property.
            (2) Other funds.--Notwithstanding paragraph (1), the local 
        coordinating entity may acquire real property or an interest in 
        real property using any other source of funding, including other 
        Federal funding.

SEC. 297F. TECHNICAL AND FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE; OTHER FEDERAL AGENCIES.

    (a) Technical and Financial Assistance.--
            (1) In general.--On the request of the local coordinating 
        entity, the Secretary may provide technical and financial 
        assistance to the Heritage Area for the development and 
        implementation of the management plan.
            (2) Priority for assistance.--In providing assistance under 
        paragraph (1), the Secretary shall give priority to actions that 
        assist in--
                    (A) conserving the significant cultural, historic, 
                natural, and scenic resources of the Heritage Area; and
                    (B) providing educational, interpretive, and 
                recreational opportunities consistent with the purposes 
                of the Heritage Area.
            (3) Operational assistance.--Subject to the availability of 
        appropriations, the Superintendent of Morristown National 
        Historical Park may, on request, provide to public and private 
        organizations in the Heritage Area, including the local 
        coordinating entity, any operational assistance that is 
        appropriate for the purpose of supporting the implementation of 
        the management plan.
            (4) Preservation of historic properties.--To carry out the 
        purposes of this subtitle, the Secretary may provide assistance 
        to a State or local government or nonprofit organization to 
        provide for the appropriate treatment of--
                    (A) historic objects; or
                    (B) structures that are listed or eligible for 
                listing on the National Register of Historic Places.

[[Page 120 STAT. 1844]]

            (5) Cooperative agreements.--The Secretary may enter into 
        cooperative agreements with the local coordinating entity and 
        other public or private entities to carry out this subsection.

    (b) Other Federal Agencies.--Any Federal agency conducting or 
supporting an activity that directly affects the Heritage Area shall--
            (1) consult with the Secretary and the local coordinating 
        entity regarding the activity;
            (2)(A) cooperate with the Secretary and the local 
        coordinating entity in carrying out the of the Federal agency 
        under this subtitle; and
            (B) to the maximum extent practicable, coordinate the 
        activity with the carrying out of those duties; and
            (3) to the maximum extent practicable, conduct the activity 
        to avoid adverse effects on the Heritage Area.

SEC. 297G. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.

    (a) In General.--There is authorized to be appropriated to carry out 
this subtitle $10,000,000, of which not more than $1,000,000 may be 
authorized to be appropriated for any fiscal year.
    (b) Cost-Sharing Requirement.--The Federal share of the cost of any 
activity assisted under this subtitle shall be not more than 50 percent.

SEC. 297H. TERMINATION OF AUTHORITY.

    The authority of the Secretary to provide assistance under this 
subtitle terminates on the date that is 15 years after the date of 
enactment of this Act.

SEC. 297I. REQUIREMENTS FOR INCLUSION OF PRIVATE PROPERTY.

    (a) Notification and Consent of Property Owners Required.--No 
privately owned property shall be preserved, conserved, or promoted by 
the management plan for the Heritage Area until the owner of that 
private property has been notified in writing by the management entity 
and has given written consent for such preservation, conservation, or 
promotion to the management entity.
    (b) Landowner Withdraw.--Any owner of private property included 
within the boundary of the Heritage Area shall have their property 
immediately removed from the boundary by submitting a written request to 
the management entity.

SEC. 297J. PRIVATE PROPERTY PROTECTION.

    (a) Access to Private Property.--Nothing in this title shall be 
construed to--
            (1) require any private property owner to allow public 
        access (including Federal, State, or local government access) to 
        such private property; or
            (2) modify any provision of Federal, State, or local law 
        with regard to public access to or use of private property.

    (b) Liability.--Designation of the Heritage Area shall not be 
considered to create any liability, or to have any effect on any 
liability under any other law, of any private property owner with 
respect to any persons injured on such private property.
    (c) Recognition of Authority To Control Land Use.--Nothing in this 
title shall be construed to modify the authority of Federal, State, or 
local governments to regulate land use.

[[Page 120 STAT. 1845]]

    (d) Participation of Private Property Owners in Heritage Area.--
Nothing in this title shall be construed to require the owner of any 
private property located within the boundaries of the Heritage Area to 
participate in or be associated with the Heritage Area.
    (e) Effect of Establishment.--The boundaries designated for the 
Heritage Area represent the area within which Federal funds appropriated 
for the purpose of this title may be expended. The establishment of the 
Heritage Area and its boundaries shall not be construed to provide any 
nonexisting regulatory authority on land use within the Heritage Area or 
its viewshed by the Secretary, the National Park Service, or the 
management entity.

                TITLE III--NATIONAL HERITAGE AREA STUDIES

       Subtitle A-- &lt;&lt;NOTE: Western Reserve Heritage Areas Study 
Act. Ohio.&gt;&gt; Western Reserve Heritage Area Study

SEC. 301. SHORT TITLE.

    This subtitle may be cited as the ``Western Reserve Heritage Areas 
Study Act''.

SEC. 302. NATIONAL PARK SERVICE STUDY REGARDING THE WESTERN RESERVE, 
            OHIO.

    (a) Findings.--The Congress finds the following:
            (1) The area that encompasses the modern-day counties of 
        Trumbull, Mahoning, Ashtabula, Portage, Geagua, Lake, Cuyahoga, 
        Summit, Medina, Huron, Lorain, Erie, Ottawa, and Ashland in Ohio 
        with the rich history in what was once the Western Reserve, has 
        made a unique contribution to the cultural, political, and 
        industrial development of the United States.
            (2) The Western Reserve is distinctive as the land settled 
        by the people of Connecticut after the Revolutionary War. The 
        Western Reserve holds a unique mark as the original wilderness 
        land of the West that many settlers migrated to in order to 
        begin life outside of the original 13 colonies.
            (3) The Western Reserve played a significant role in 
        providing land to the people of Connecticut whose property and 
        land was destroyed during the Revolution. These settlers were 
        descendants of the brave immigrants who came to the Americas in 
        the 17th century.
            (4) The Western Reserve offered a new destination for those 
        who moved west in search of land and prosperity. The 
        agricultural and industrial base that began in the Western 
        Reserve still lives strong in these prosperous and historical 
        counties.
            (5) The heritage of the Western Reserve remains transfixed 
        in the counties of Trumbull, Mahoning, Ashtabula, Portage, 
        Geagua, Lake, Cuyahoga, Summit, Medina, Huron, Lorain, Erie, 
        Ottawa, and Ashland in Ohio. The people of these counties are 
        proud of their heritage as shown through the unwavering attempts 
        to preserve agricultural land and the industrial foundation that 
        has been embedded in this region since the

[[Page 120 STAT. 1846]]

        establishment of the Western Reserve. Throughout these counties, 
        historical sites, and markers preserve the unique traditions and 
        customs of its original heritage.
            (6) The counties that encompass the Western Reserve continue 
        to maintain a strong connection to its historic past as seen 
        through its preservation of its local heritage, including 
        historic homes, buildings, and centers of public gatherings.
            (7) There is a need for assistance for the preservation and 
        promotion of the significance of the Western Reserve as the 
        natural, historic and cultural heritage of the counties of 
        Trumbull, Mahoning, Ashtabula, Portage, Geagua, Lake, Cuyahoga, 
        Summit, Medina, Huron, Lorain, Erie, Ottawa and Ashland in Ohio.
            (8) The Department of the Interior is responsible for 
        protecting the Nation's cultural and historical resources. There 
        are significant examples of such resources within these counties 
        and what was once the Western Reserve to merit the involvement 
        of the Federal Government in the development of programs and 
        projects, in cooperation with the State of Ohio and other local 
        governmental entities, to adequately conserve, protect, and 
        interpret this heritage for future generations, while providing 
        opportunities for education and revitalization.

    (b) Study.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary, acting through the National 
        Park Service Rivers, Trails, and Conservation Assistance 
        Program, Midwest Region, and in consultation with the State of 
        Ohio, the counties of Trumbull, Mahoning, Ashtabula, Portage, 
        Geagua, Lake, Cuyahoga, Summit, Medina, Huron, Lorain, Erie, 
        Ottawa, and Ashland, and other appropriate organizations, shall 
        carry out a study regarding the suitability and feasibility of 
        establishing the Western Reserve Heritage Area in these counties 
        in Ohio.
            (2) Contents.--The study shall include analysis and 
        documentation regarding whether the Study Area--
                    (A) has an assemblage of natural, historic, and 
                cultural resources that together represent distinctive 
                aspects of American heritage worthy of recognition, 
                conservation, interpretation, and continuing use, and 
                are best managed through partnerships among public and 
                private entities and by combining diverse and sometimes 
                noncontiguous resources and active communities;
                    (B) reflects traditions, customs, beliefs, and 
                folklife that are a valuable part of the national story;
                    (C) provides outstanding opportunities to conserve 
                natural, historic, cultural, or scenic features;
                    (D) provides outstanding recreational and 
                educational opportunities;
                    (E) contains resources important to the identified 
                theme or themes of the Study Area that retain a degree 
                of integrity capable of supporting interpretation;
                    (F) includes residents, business interests, 
                nonprofit organizations, and local and State governments 
                that are involved in the planning, have developed a 
                conceptual financial plan that outlines the roles for 
                all participants, including the Federal Government, and 
                have demonstrated support for the concept of a national 
                heritage area;

[[Page 120 STAT. 1847]]

                    (G) has a potential local coordinating entity to 
                work in partnership with residents, business interests, 
                nonprofit organizations, and local and State governments 
                to develop a national heritage area consistent with 
                continued local and State economic activity;
                    (H) has a conceptual boundary map that is supported 
                by the public; and
                    (I) has potential or actual impact on private 
                property located within or abutting the Study Area.

    (c) Boundaries of the Study Area.--The Study Area shall be comprised 
of the counties of Trumbull, Mahoning, Ashtabula, Portage, Geagua, Lake, 
Cuyahoga, Summit, Medina, Huron, Lorain, Erie, Ottawa, and Ashland in 
Ohio.

  Subtitle B--St. Croix National Heritage Area Study &lt;&lt;NOTE: St. Croix 
National Heritage Area Study Act.&gt;&gt; 

SEC. 311. SHORT TITLE.

    This subtitle may be cited as the ``St. Croix National Heritage Area 
Study Act''.

SEC. 312. STUDY.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary of the Interior, in consultation with 
appropriate State historic preservation officers, States historical 
societies, and other appropriate organizations, shall conduct a study 
regarding the suitability and feasibility of designating the island of 
St. Croix as the St. Croix National Heritage Area. The study shall 
include analysis, documentation, and determination regarding whether the 
island of St. Croix--
            (1) has an assemblage of natural, historic, and cultural 
        resources that together represent distinctive aspects of 
        American heritage worthy of recognition, conservation, 
        interpretation, and continuing use, and are best managed through 
        partnerships among public and private entities and by combining 
        diverse and sometimes noncontiguous resources and active 
        communities;
            (2) reflects traditions, customs, beliefs, and folklife that 
        are a valuable part of the national story;
            (3) provides outstanding opportunities to conserve natural, 
        historic, cultural, or scenic features;
            (4) provides outstanding recreational and educational 
        opportunities;
            (5) contains resources important to the identified theme or 
        themes of the island of St. Croix that retain a degree of 
        integrity capable of supporting interpretation;
            (6) includes residents, business interests, nonprofit 
        organizations, and local and State governments that are involved 
        in the planning, have developed a conceptual financial plan that 
        outlines the roles of all participants (including the Federal 
        Government), and have demonstrated support for the concept of a 
        national heritage area;
            (7) has a potential local coordinating entity to work in 
        partnership with residents, business interests, nonprofit 
        organizations, and local and State governments to develop a 
        national heritage area consistent with continued local and State 
        economic activity; and

[[Page 120 STAT. 1848]]

            (8) has a conceptual boundary map that is supported by the 
        public.

    (b) Report.--Not later than 3 fiscal years after the date on which 
funds are first made available for this section, the Secretary of the 
Interior shall submit to the Committee on Resources of the House of 
Representatives and the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources of the 
Senate a report on the findings, conclusions, and recommendations of the 
study.
    (c) Private Property.--In conducting the study required by this 
section, the Secretary of the Interior shall analyze the potential 
impact that designation of the area as a national heritage area is 
likely to have on land within the proposed area or bordering the 
proposed area that is privately owned at the time that the study is 
conducted.

 Subtitle C-- &lt;&lt;NOTE: Southern Campaign of the Revolution Heritage Area 
 Study Act. South Carolina. North Carolina.&gt;&gt; Southern Campaign of the 
Revolution

SEC. 321. SHORT TITLE.

    This subtitle may be cited as the ``Southern Campaign of the 
Revolution Heritage Area Study Act''.

SEC. 322. SOUTHERN CAMPAIGN OF THE REVOLUTION HERITAGE AREA STUDY.

    (a) Study.--The Secretary of the Interior, in consultation with 
appropriate State historic preservation officers, States historical 
societies, the South Carolina Department of Parks, Recreation, and 
Tourism, and other appropriate organizations, shall conduct a study 
regarding the suitability and feasibility of designating the study area 
described in subsection (b) as the Southern Campaign of the Revolution 
Heritage Area. The study shall include analysis, documentation, and 
determination regarding whether the study area--
            (1) has an assemblage of natural, historic, and cultural 
        resources that together represent distinctive aspects of 
        American heritage worthy of recognition, conservation, 
        interpretation, and continuing use, and are best managed through 
        partnerships among public and private entities and by combining 
        diverse and sometimes noncontiguous resources and active 
        communities;
            (2) reflects traditions, customs, beliefs, and folklife that 
        are a valuable part of the national story;
            (3) provides outstanding opportunities to conserve natural, 
        historic, cultural, or scenic features;
            (4) provides outstanding recreational and educational 
        opportunities;
            (5) contains resources important to the identified theme or 
        themes of the study area that retain a degree of integrity 
        capable of supporting interpretation;
            (6) includes residents, business interests, nonprofit 
        organizations, and local and State governments that are involved 
        in the planning, have developed a conceptual financial plan that 
        outlines the roles of all participants (including the Federal 
        Government), and have demonstrated support for the concept of a 
        national heritage area;
            (7) has a potential local coordinating entity to work in 
        partnership with residents, business interests, nonprofit

[[Page 120 STAT. 1849]]

        organizations, and local and State governments to develop a 
        national heritage area consistent with continued local and State 
        economic activity; and
            (8) has a conceptual boundary map that is supported by the 
        public.

    (b) Study Area.--
            (1) In general.--
                    (A) South carolina.--The study area shall include 
                the following counties in South Carolina: Anderson, 
                Pickens, Greenville County, Spartanburg, Cherokee 
                County, Greenwood, Laurens, Union, York, Chester, 
                Darlington, Florence, Chesterfield, Marlboro, Fairfield, 
                Richland, Lancaster, Kershaw, Sumter, Orangeburg, 
                Georgetown, Dorchester, Colleton, Charleston, Beaufort, 
                Calhoun, Clarendon, and Williamsburg.
                    (B) North carolina.--The study area may include 
                sites and locations in North Carolina as appropriate.
            (2) Specific sites.--The heritage area may include the 
        following sites of interest:
                    (A) National park service site.--Kings Mountain 
                National Military Park, Cowpens National Battlefield, 
                Fort Moultrie National Monument, Charles Pickney 
                National Historic Site, and Ninety Six National Historic 
                Site as well as the National Park Affiliate of Historic 
                Camden Revolutionary War Site.
                    (B) State-maintained sites.--Colonial Dorchester 
                State Historic Site, Eutaw Springs Battle Site, Hampton 
                Plantation State Historic Site, Landsford Canal State 
                Historic Site, Andrew Jackson State Park, and Musgrove 
                Mill State Park.
                    (C) Communities.--Charleston, Beaufort, Georgetown, 
                Kingstree, Cheraw, Camden, Winnsboro, Orangeburg, and 
                Cayce.
                    (D) Other key sites open to the public.--Middleton 
                Place, Goose Creek Church, Hopsewee Plantation, Walnut 
                Grove Plantation, Fort Watson, and Historic 
                Brattonsville.

    (c) Report.--Not later than 3 fiscal years after the date on which 
funds are first made available to carry out this subtitle, the Secretary 
of the Interior shall submit to the Committee on Resources of the House 
of Representatives and the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources of 
the Senate a report on the findings, conclusions, and recommendations of 
the study.

SEC. 323. PRIVATE PROPERTY.

     In conducting the study required by this subtitle, the Secretary of 
the Interior shall analyze the potential impact that designation of the 
area as a national heritage area is likely to have on land within the 
proposed area or bordering the proposed area that is privately owned at 
the time that the study is conducted.

[[Page 120 STAT. 1850]]

    TITLE IV-- &lt;&lt;NOTE: Illinois and Michigan Canal National Heritage 
    Corridor Act Amendments of 2006. 16 USC 461 note.&gt;&gt; ILLINOIS AND 
MICHIGAN CANAL NATIONAL HERITAGE CORRIDOR ACT AMENDMENTS

SEC. 401. SHORT TITLE.

    This title may be cited as the ``Illinois and Michigan Canal 
National Heritage Corridor Act Amendments of 2006''.

SEC. 402. TRANSITION AND PROVISIONS FOR NEW LOCAL COORDINATING ENTITY.

    The Illinois and Michigan Canal National Heritage Corridor Act of 
1984 (Public Law 98-398; 16 U.S.C. 461 note) is amended as follows:
            (1) In section 103-- &lt;&lt;NOTE: 16 USC 461 note.&gt;&gt; 
                    (A) in paragraph (8), by striking ``and'';
                    (B) in paragraph (9), by striking the period and 
                inserting ``; and''; and
                    (C) by adding at the end the following:
            ``(10) the term `Association' means the Canal Corridor 
        Association (an organization described under section 501(c)(3) 
        of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 and exempt from taxation 
        under section 501(a) of such Code).''.
            (2) By adding at the end of section 112 &lt;&lt;NOTE: 16 USC 461 
        note.&gt;&gt; the following new paragraph:
            ``(7) &lt;&lt;NOTE: Memorandum.&gt;&gt; The Secretary shall enter into a 
        memorandum of understanding with the Association to help ensure 
        appropriate transition of the local coordinating entity to the 
        Association and coordination with the Association regarding that 
        role.''.
            (3) By adding at the end the following new sections:

``SEC. 119. ASSOCIATION AS LOCAL COORDINATING ENTITY.

    ``Upon the termination of the Commission, the local coordinating 
entity for the corridor shall be the Association.

``SEC. 120. DUTIES AND AUTHORITIES OF ASSOCIATION.

    ``For purposes of preparing and implementing the management plan 
developed under section 121, the Association may use Federal funds made 
available under this title--
            ``(1) to make loans and grants to, and enter into 
        cooperative agreements with, States and their political 
        subdivisions, private organizations, or any person;
            ``(2) to hire, train, and compensate staff; and
            ``(3) to enter into contracts for goods and services.

``SEC. 121. DUTIES OF THE ASSOCIATION.

    ``The Association shall--
            ``(1) &lt;&lt;NOTE: Deadline.&gt;&gt; develop and submit to the 
        Secretary for approval under section 123 a proposed management 
        plan for the corridor not later than 2 years after Federal funds 
        are made available for this purpose;
            ``(2) give priority to implementing actions set forth in the 
        management plan, including taking steps to assist units of local 
        government, regional planning organizations, and other 
        organizations--
                    ``(A) in preserving the corridor;

[[Page 120 STAT. 1851]]

                    ``(B) in establishing and maintaining interpretive 
                exhibits in the corridor;
                    ``(C) in developing recreational resources in the 
                corridor;
                    ``(D) in increasing public awareness of and 
                appreciation for the natural, historical, and 
                architectural resources and sites in the corridor; and
                    ``(E) in facilitating the restoration of any 
                historic building relating to the themes of the 
                corridor;
            ``(3) encourage by appropriate means economic viability in 
        the corridor consistent with the goals of the management plan;
            ``(4) consider the interests of diverse governmental, 
        business, and other groups within the corridor;
            ``(5) &lt;&lt;NOTE: Public meetings.&gt;&gt; conduct public meetings at 
        least quarterly regarding the implementation of the management 
        plan;
            ``(6) submit substantial changes (including any increase of 
        more than 20 percent in the cost estimates for implementation) 
        to the management plan to the Secretary; and
            ``(7) for any year in which Federal funds have been received 
        under this title--
                    `` &lt;&lt;NOTE: Reports.&gt;&gt; (A) submit an annual report to 
                the Secretary setting forth the Association's 
                accomplishments, expenses and income, and the identity 
                of each entity to which any loans and grants were made 
                during the year for which the report is made;
                    ``(B) &lt;&lt;NOTE: Records.&gt;&gt; make available for audit 
                all records pertaining to the expenditure of such funds 
                and any matching funds; and
                    ``(C) &lt;&lt;NOTE: Records.&gt;&gt; require, for all agreements 
                authorizing expenditure of Federal funds by other 
                organizations, that the receiving organizations make 
                available for audit all records pertaining to the 
                expenditure of such funds.

``SEC. 122. USE OF FEDERAL FUNDS.

    ``(a) In General.--The Association shall not use Federal funds 
received under this title to acquire real property or an interest in 
real property.
    ``(b) Other Sources.--Nothing in this title precludes the 
Association from using Federal funds from other sources for authorized 
purposes.

``SEC. 123. MANAGEMENT PLAN.

    ``(a) Preparation of Management Plan.-- &lt;&lt;NOTE: Deadline.&gt;&gt; Not 
later than 2 years after the date that Federal funds are made available 
for this purpose, the Association shall submit to the Secretary for 
approval a proposed management plan that shall--
            ``(1) take into consideration State and local plans and 
        involve residents, local governments and public agencies, and 
        private organizations in the corridor;
            ``(2) &lt;&lt;NOTE: Recommen-dations.&gt;&gt; present comprehensive 
        recommendations for the corridor's conservation, funding, 
        management, and development;
            ``(3) include actions proposed to be undertaken by units of 
        government and nongovernmental and private organizations to 
        protect the resources of the corridor;
            ``(4) specify the existing and potential sources of funding 
        to protect, manage, and develop the corridor; and
            ``(5) include--

[[Page 120 STAT. 1852]]

                    ``(A) identification of the geographic boundaries of 
                the corridor;
                    ``(B) a brief description and map of the corridor's 
                overall concept or vision that show key sites, visitor 
                facilities and attractions, and physical linkages;
                    ``(C) identification of overall goals and the 
                strategies and tasks intended to reach them, and a 
                realistic schedule for completing the tasks;
                    ``(D) a listing of the key resources and themes of 
                the corridor;
                    ``(E) identification of parties proposed to be 
                responsible for carrying out the tasks;
                    ``(F) a financial plan and other information on 
                costs and sources of funds;
                    ``(G) a description of the public participation 
                process used in developing the plan and a proposal for 
                public participation in the implementation of the 
                management plan;
                    ``(H) a mechanism and schedule for updating the plan 
                based on actual progress;
                    ``(I) a bibliography of documents used to develop 
                the management plan; and
                    ``(J) a discussion of any other relevant issues 
                relating to the management plan.

    ``(b) Disqualification From Funding.-- &lt;&lt;NOTE: Deadline.&gt;&gt; If a 
proposed management plan is not submitted to the Secretary within 2 
years after the date that Federal funds are made available for this 
purpose, the Association shall be ineligible to receive additional funds 
under this title until the Secretary receives a proposed management plan 
from the Association.

    ``(c) Approval of Management Plan.-- &lt;&lt;NOTE: Deadline.&gt;&gt; The 
Secretary shall approve or disapprove a proposed management plan 
submitted under this title not later than 180 days after receiving such 
proposed management plan. If action is not taken by the Secretary within 
the time period specified in the preceding sentence, the management plan 
shall be deemed approved. The Secretary shall consult with the local 
entities representing the diverse interests of the corridor including 
governments, natural and historic resource protection organizations, 
educational institutions, businesses, recreational organizations, 
community residents, and private property owners prior to approving the 
management plan. &lt;&lt;NOTE: Public meetings.&gt;&gt; The Association shall 
conduct semi-annual public meetings, workshops, and hearings to provide 
adequate opportunity for the public and local and governmental entities 
to review and to aid in the preparation and implementation of the 
management plan.

    ``(d) Effect of Approval.--Upon the approval of the management plan 
as provided in subsection (c), the management plan shall supersede the 
conceptual plan contained in the National Park Service report.
    ``(e) Action Following Disapproval.-- &lt;&lt;NOTE: Recommen-dations.&gt;&gt; If 
the Secretary disapproves a proposed management plan within the time 
period specified in subsection (c), the Secretary shall advise the 
Association in writing of the reasons for the disapproval and shall make 
recommendations for revisions to the proposed management plan.

    ``(f) Approval of Amendments.--The Secretary shall review and 
approve all substantial amendments (including any increase of more than 
20 percent in the cost estimates for implementation)

[[Page 120 STAT. 1853]]

to the management plan. Funds made available under this title may not be 
expended to implement any changes made by a substantial amendment until 
the Secretary approves that substantial amendment.

``SEC. 124. TECHNICAL AND FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE; OTHER FEDERAL AGENCIES.

    ``(a) Technical and Financial Assistance.--Upon the request of the 
Association, the Secretary may provide technical assistance, on a 
reimbursable or nonreimbursable basis, and financial assistance to the 
Association to develop and implement the management 
plan. &lt;&lt;NOTE: Contracts.&gt;&gt; The Secretary is authorized to enter into 
cooperative agreements with the Association and other public or private 
entities for this purpose. In assisting the Association, the Secretary 
shall give priority to actions that in general assist in--
            ``(1) conserving the significant natural, historic, 
        cultural, and scenic resources of the corridor; and
            ``(2) providing educational, interpretive, and recreational 
        opportunities consistent with the purposes of the corridor.

    ``(b) Duties of Other Federal Agencies.--Any Federal agency 
conducting or supporting activities directly affecting the corridor 
shall--
            ``(1) consult with the Secretary and the Association with 
        respect to such activities;
            ``(2) cooperate with the Secretary and the Association in 
        carrying out their duties under this title;
            ``(3) to the maximum extent practicable, coordinate such 
        activities with the carrying out of such duties; and
            ``(4) to the maximum extent practicable, conduct or support 
        such activities in a manner which the Association determines is 
        not likely to have an adverse effect on the corridor.

``SEC. 125. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.

    ``(a) In General.--To carry out this title there is authorized to be 
appropriated $10,000,000, except that not more than $1,000,000 may be 
appropriated to carry out this title for any fiscal year.
    ``(b) 50 Percent Match.--The Federal share of the cost of activities 
carried out using any assistance or grant under this title shall not 
exceed 50 percent of that cost.

``SEC. 126. SUNSET.

    ``The authority of the Secretary to provide assistance under this 
title terminates on the date that is 15 years after the date of 
enactment of this section.''.

SEC. 403. PRIVATE PROPERTY PROTECTION.

    The Illinois and Michigan Canal National Heritage Corridor Act of 
1984 is further amended by adding after section 126 (as added by section 
402) the following new sections:

``SEC. 127. REQUIREMENTS FOR INCLUSION OF PRIVATE PROPERTY.

    ``(a) Notification and Consent of Property Owners Required.--No 
privately owned property shall be preserved, conserved, or promoted by 
the management plan for the corridor until the owner of that private 
property has been notified in writing by the Association and has given 
written consent for such preservation, conservation, or promotion to the 
Association.

[[Page 120 STAT. 1854]]

    ``(b) Landowner Withdrawal.--Any owner of private property included 
within the boundary of the corridor, and not notified under subsection 
(a), shall have their property immediately removed from the boundary of 
the corridor by submitting a written request to the Association.

``SEC. 128. PRIVATE PROPERTY PROTECTION.

    ``(a) Access to Private Property.--Nothing in this title shall be 
construed to--
            ``(1) require any private property owner to allow public 
        access (including Federal, State, or local government access) to 
        such private property; or
            ``(2) modify any provision of Federal, State, or local law 
        with regard to public access to or use of private property.

    ``(b) Liability.--Designation of the corridor shall not be 
considered to create any liability, or to have any effect on any 
liability under any other law, of any private property owner with 
respect to any persons injured on such private property.
    ``(c) Recognition of Authority To Control Land Use.--Nothing in this 
title shall be construed to modify the authority of Federal, State, or 
local governments to regulate land use.
    ``(d) Participation of Private Property Owners in Corridor.--Nothing 
in this title shall be construed to require the owner of any private 
property located within the boundaries of the corridor to participate in 
or be associated with the corridor.
    ``(e) Effect of Establishment.--The boundaries designated for the 
corridor represent the area within which Federal funds appropriated for 
the purpose of this title may be expended. The establishment of the 
corridor and its boundaries shall not be construed to provide any 
nonexisting regulatory authority on land use within the corridor or its 
viewshed by the Secretary, the National Park Service, or the 
Association.''.

SEC. 404. TECHNICAL AMENDMENTS.

    Section 116 of Illinois and Michigan Canal National Heritage 
Corridor Act of 1984 &lt;&lt;NOTE: 16 USC 461 note.&gt;&gt; is amended--
            (1) by striking subsection (b); and
            (2) in subsection (a)--
                    (A) by striking ``(a)'' and all that follows through 
                ``For each'' and inserting ``(a) For each'';
                    (B) by striking ``Commission'' and inserting 
                ``Association'';
                    (C) by striking ``Commission's'' and inserting 
                ``Association's'';
                    (D) by redesignating paragraph (2) as subsection 
                (b); and
                    (E) by redesignating subparagraphs (A) and (B) as 
                paragraphs (1) and (2), respectively.

               TITLE V--MOKELUMNE RIVER FEASIBILITY STUDY

SEC. 501. AUTHORIZATION OF MOKELUMNE RIVER REGIONAL WATER STORAGE AND 
            CONJUNCTIVE USE PROJECT STUDY.

     &lt;&lt;NOTE: Deadline.&gt;&gt; Pursuant to the Reclamation Act of 1902 (32 
Stat. 388) and Acts amendatory thereof and supplemental thereto, not 
later than

[[Page 120 STAT. 1855]]

2 years after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of 
the Interior (hereafter in this title referred to as the ``Secretary''), 
through the Bureau of Reclamation, and in consultation and cooperation 
with the Mokelumne River Water and Power Authority, shall complete and 
submit to the Committee on Resources of the House of Representatives and 
the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources of the Senate copies of a 
study to determine the feasibility of constructing a project to provide 
additional water supply and improve water management reliability through 
the development of new water storage and conjunctive use programs.

SEC. 502. USE OF REPORTS AND OTHER INFORMATION.

     In developing the study under section 501, the Secretary shall use, 
as appropriate, reports and any other relevant information supplied by 
the Mokelumne River Water and Power Authority, the East Bay Municipal 
Utility District, and other Mokelumne River Forum stakeholders.

SEC. 503. COST SHARES.

    (a) Federal Share.--The Federal share of the costs of the study 
conducted under this title shall not exceed 50 percent of the total cost 
of the study.
    (b) In-Kind Contributions.--The Secretary shall accept, as 
appropriate, such in-kind contributions of goods or services from the 
Mokelumne River Water and Power Authority as the Secretary determines 
will contribute to the conduct and completion of the study conducted 
under this title. Goods and services accepted under this section shall 
be counted as part of the non-Federal cost share for that study.

SEC. 504. WATER RIGHTS.

     Nothing in this title shall be construed to invalidate, preempt, or 
create any exception to State water law, State water rights, or Federal 
or State permitted activities or agreements.

SEC. 505. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.

     There is authorized to be appropriated to the Secretary $3,300,000 
for the Federal cost share of the study conducted under this title.

  TITLE VI-- &lt;&lt;NOTE: Delaware National Coastal Special Resources Study 
Act.&gt;&gt; DELAWARE NATIONAL COASTAL SPECIAL RESOURCES STUDY

SEC. 601. SHORT TITLE.

    This title may be cited as the ``Delaware National Coastal Special 
Resources Study Act''.

SEC. 602. STUDY.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary of the Interior (referred to in this 
title as the ``Secretary'') shall conduct a special resources study of 
the national significance, suitability, and feasibility of including 
sites in the coastal region of the State of Delaware in the National 
Park System.
    (b) Inclusion of Sites in the National Park System.--The study under 
subsection (a) shall include an analysis and any recommendations of the 
Secretary concerning the suitability and feasibility of designating 1 or 
more of the sites along the Delaware

[[Page 120 STAT. 1856]]

coast, including Fort Christina, as a unit of the National Park System 
that relates to the themes described in section 603.
    (c) Study Guidelines.--In conducting the study authorized under 
subsection (a), the Secretary shall use the criteria for the study of 
areas for potential inclusion in the National Park System contained in 
section 8 of Public Law 91-383 (16 U.S.C. 1a-5).
    (d) Consultation.--In preparing and conducting the study under 
subsection (a), the Secretary shall consult with--
            (1) the State of Delaware;
            (2) the coastal region communities;
            (3) owners of private property that would likely be impacted 
        by a National Park Service designation; and
            (4) the general public.

SEC. 603. THEMES.

    The study authorized under section 602 shall evaluate sites along 
the coastal region of the State of Delaware that relate to--
            (1) the history of indigenous peoples, which would explore 
        the history of Native American tribes of Delaware, such as the 
        Nanticoke and Lenni Lenape;
            (2) the colonization and establishment of the frontier, 
        which would chronicle the first European settlers in the 
        Delaware Valley who built fortifications for the protection of 
        settlers, such as Fort Christina;
            (3) the founding of a nation, which would document the 
        contributions of Delaware to the development of our 
        constitutional republic;
            (4) industrial development, which would investigate the 
        exploitation of water power in Delaware with the mill 
        development on the Brandywine River;
            (5) transportation, which would explore how water served as 
        the main transportation link, connecting Colonial Delaware with 
        England, Europe, and other colonies;
            (6) coastal defense, which would document the collection of 
        fortifications spaced along the river and bay from Fort Delaware 
        on Pea Patch Island to Fort Miles near Lewes;
            (7) the last stop to freedom, which would detail the role 
        Delaware has played in the history of the Underground Railroad 
        network; and
            (8) the coastal environment, which would examine natural 
        resources of Delaware that provide resource-based recreational 
        opportunities such as crabbing, fishing, swimming, and boating.

SEC. 604. REPORT.

    Not later than 2 years after funds are made available to carry out 
this title under section 605, the Secretary shall submit to the 
Committee on Energy and Natural Resources of the Senate and the 
Committee on Resources of the House of Representatives a report 
containing the findings, conclusions, and recommendations of the study 
conducted under section 602.

[[Page 120 STAT. 1857]]

   TITLE VII &lt;&lt;NOTE: John H. Chafee Blackstone River Valley National 
   Heritage Corridor Reauthorization Act of 2006.&gt;&gt; --JOHN H. CHAFEE 
BLACKSTONE RIVER VALLEY NATIONAL HERITAGE CORRIDOR REAUTHORIZATION

SEC. 701. &lt;&lt;NOTE: 16 USC 461 note.&gt;&gt; SHORT TITLE.

    This title may be cited as the ``John H. Chafee Blackstone River 
Valley National Heritage Corridor Reauthorization Act of 2006''.

SEC. 702. &lt;&lt;NOTE: 16 USC 461 note.&gt;&gt; JOHN H. CHAFEE BLACKSTONE RIVER 
            VALLEY NATIONAL HERITAGE CORRIDOR.

    (a) Commission Membership.--Section 3(b) of Public Law 99-647 (16 
U.S.C. 461 note) is amended--
            (1) by striking ``nineteen members'' and inserting ``25 
        members'';
            (2) in paragraph (2)--
                    (A) by striking ``six'' and inserting ``6''; and
                    (B) by striking ``Department of Environmental 
                Management Directors from Rhode Island and 
                Massachusetts'' and inserting ``the Director of the 
                Rhode Island Department of Environmental Management and 
                the Secretary of the Massachusetts Executive Office of 
                Environmental Affairs'';
            (3) in paragraph (3)--
                    (A) by striking ``four'' each place it appears and 
                inserting ``5''; and
                    (B) by striking ``and'' after the semicolon;
            (4) in paragraph (4)--
                    (A) by striking ``two'' each place it appears and 
                inserting ``3''; and
                    (B) by striking the period and inserting ``; and''; 
                and
            (5) by inserting after paragraph (4) the following:
            ``(5) 1 representative of a nongovernmental organization 
        from Massachusetts and 1 from Rhode Island, to be appointed by 
        the Secretary, which have expertise in historic preservation, 
        conservation, outdoor recreation, cultural conservation, 
        traditional arts, community development, or tourism.''.

    (b) Quorum.--Section 3(f)(1) of Public Law 99-647 (16 U.S.C. 461 
note) is amended by striking ``Ten'' and inserting ``13''.
    (c) Update of Plan.--Section 6 of Public Law 99-647 (16 U.S.C. 461 
note) is amended by adding at the end the following:
    ``(e) Update of Plan.--(1) &lt;&lt;NOTE: Deadline.&gt;&gt; Not later than 2 
years after the date of enactment of this subsection, the Commission 
shall update the plan under subsection (a).

    ``(2) In updating the plan under paragraph (1), the Commission shall 
take into account the findings and recommendations included in the 
Blackstone Sustainability Study conducted by the National Park Service 
Conservation Study Institute.
    ``(3) The update shall include--
            ``(A) performance goals; and
            ``(B) an analysis of--
                    ``(i) options for preserving, enhancing, and 
                interpreting the resources of the Corridor;
                    ``(ii) the partnerships that sustain those 
                resources; and
                    ``(iii) the funding program for the Corridor.

[[Page 120 STAT. 1858]]

    ``(4)(A) Except as provided in subparagraph (B), the Secretary shall 
approve or disapprove any changes to the plan proposed in the update in 
accordance with subsection (b).
    ``(B) Minor revisions to the plan shall not be subject to the 
approval of the Secretary.''.
    (d) Extension of Commission.--Public Law 99-647 (16 U.S.C. 461 note) 
is amended by striking section 7 and inserting the following:

``SEC. 7. TERMINATION OF COMMISSION.

    ``The Commission shall terminate on the date that is 5 years after 
the date of enactment of the John H. Chafee Blackstone River Valley 
National Heritage Corridor Reauthorization Act of 2006.''.
    (e) Special Resource Study.--Section 8 of Public Law 99-647 (16 
U.S.C. 461 note) is amended by adding at the end the following:
    ``(d) Special Resource Study.--
            ``(1) In general.--The Secretary shall conduct a special 
        resource study of sites and associated landscape features within 
        the boundaries of the Corridor that contribute to the 
        understanding of the Corridor as the birthplace of the 
        industrial revolution in the United States.
            ``(2) Evaluation.-- &lt;&lt;NOTE: Deadline.&gt;&gt; Not later than 3 
        years after the date on which funds are made available to carry 
        out this subsection, the Secretary shall complete the study 
        under paragraph (1) to evaluate the possibility of--
                    ``(A) designating 1 or more site or landscape 
                feature as a unit of the National Park System; and
                    ``(B) coordinating and complementing actions by the 
                Commission, local governments, and State and Federal 
                agencies, in the preservation and interpretation of 
                significant resources within the Corridor.
            ``(3) Coordination.--The Secretary shall coordinate the 
        Study with the Commission.
            ``(4) Report.--Not later than 30 days after the date on 
        which the study under paragraph (1) is completed, the Secretary 
        shall submit to the Committee on Resources of the House of 
        Representatives and the Committee on Energy and Natural 
        Resources of the Senate a report that describes--
                    ``(A) the findings of the study; and
                    ``(B) the conclusions and recommendations of the 
                Secretary.''.

    (f) Authorization of Appropriations.--Section 10 of Public Law 99-
647 (16 U.S.C. 461 note) is amended--
            (1) in subsection (a), by striking ``$650,000'' and 
        inserting ``$1,000,000''; and
            (2) by striking subsection (b) and inserting the following:

    ``(b) Development Funds.--There is authorized to be appropriated to 
carry out section 8(c) not more than $10,000,000 for the period of 
fiscal years 2006 through 2016, to remain available until expended.
    ``(c) Special Resource Study.--There are authorized to be 
appropriated such sums as are necessary to carry out section 8(d).''.

[[Page 120 STAT. 1859]]

SEC. 703. NEW JERSEY COASTAL HERITAGE TRAIL ROUTE.

    (a) Authorization of Appropriations.--Public Law 100-515 (16 U.S.C. 
1244 note) is amended by striking section 6 and inserting the following:

``SEC. 6. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.

    ``(a) In General.--There are authorized to be appropriated to the 
Secretary such sums as are necessary to carry out this Act.
    ``(b) Use of Funds.--
            ``(1) In general.--Amounts made available under subsection 
        (a) shall be used only for--
                    ``(A) technical assistance; and
                    ``(B) the design and fabrication of interpretative 
                materials, devices, and signs.
            ``(2) Limitations.--No funds made available under subsection 
        (a) shall be used for--
                    ``(A) operation, repair, or construction costs, 
                except for the costs of constructing interpretative 
                exhibits; or
                    ``(B) operation, maintenance, or repair costs for 
                any road or related structure.
            ``(3) Cost-sharing requirement.--
                    ``(A) Federal share.--The Federal share of any 
                project carried out with amounts made available under 
                subsection (a)--
                          ``(i) may not exceed 50 percent of the total 
                      project costs; and
                          ``(ii) shall be provided on a matching basis.
                    ``(B) Form of non-federal share.--The non-Federal 
                share of carrying out a project with amounts made 
                available under subsection (a) may be in the form of 
                cash, materials, or in-kind services, the value of which 
                shall be determined by the Secretary.

    ``(c) Termination of Authority.--The authorities provided to the 
Secretary under this Act shall terminate on September 30, 2007.''.
    (b) Strategic Plan.--
            (1) In general.-- &lt;&lt;NOTE: Deadline.&gt;&gt; Not later than 3 years 
        after the date on which funds are made available, the Secretary 
        of the Interior shall prepare a strategic plan for the New 
        Jersey Coastal Heritage Trail Route.
            (2) Contents.--The strategic plan shall describe--
                    (A) opportunities to increase participation by 
                national and local private and public interests in the 
                planning, development, and administration of the New 
                Jersey Coastal Heritage Trail Route; and
                    (B) organizational options for sustaining the New 
                Jersey Coastal Heritage Trail Route.

[[Page 120 STAT. 1860]]

  TITLE VIII-- &lt;&lt;NOTE: California Reclamation Groundwater Remediation 
Initiative.&gt;&gt; CALIFORNIA RECLAMATION GROUNDWATER REMEDIATION INITIATIVE

SEC. 801. SHORT TITLE.

    This title may be cited as the ``California Reclamation Groundwater 
Remediation Initiative''.

SEC. 802. DEFINITIONS.

    For the purposes of this title:
            (1) Groundwater remediation.--The term ``groundwater 
        remediation'' means actions that are necessary to prevent, 
        minimize, or mitigate damage to groundwater.
            (2) Local water authority.--The term ``local water 
        authority'' means the Santa Clara Valley Water District or a 
        public water district, public water utility, public water 
        planning agency, municipality, or Indian tribe located within 
        the Santa Clara Valley; and a public water district, public 
        water utility, public water planning agency, municipality, or 
        Indian tribe located within the natural watershed of the Santa 
        Ana river in the State of California.
            (3) Remediation fund.--The term ``Remediation Fund'' means 
        the California Basins Groundwater Remediation Fund established 
        pursuant to section 803(a).
            (4) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary 
        of the Interior.

SEC. 803. CALIFORNIA BASINS REMEDIATION.

    (a) California Basins Remediation.--
            (1) Establishment of remediation fund.--There shall be 
        established within the Treasury of the United States an interest 
        bearing account to be known as the California Basins Groundwater 
        Remediation Fund.
            (2) Administration of remediation fund.--The Remediation 
        Fund shall be administered by the Secretary of the Interior, 
        acting through the Bureau of Reclamation. The Secretary shall 
        administer the Remediation Fund in cooperation with the local 
        water authority.
            (3) Purposes of remediation fund.--
                    (A) In general.--Subject to subparagraph (B), the 
                amounts in the Remediation Fund, including interest 
                accrued, shall be used by the Secretary to provide 
                grants to the local water authority to reimburse the 
                local water authority for the Federal share of the costs 
                associated with designing and constructing groundwater 
                remediation projects to be administered by the local 
                water authority.
                    (B) Cost-sharing limitation.--
                          (i) In general.--The Secretary may not 
                      obligate any funds appropriated to the Remediation 
                      Fund in a fiscal year until the Secretary has 
                      deposited into the Remediation Fund an amount 
                      provided by non-Federal interests sufficient to 
                      ensure that at least 35 percent of any funds 
                      obligated by the Secretary for a project are from 
                      funds provided to the Secretary for that project 
                      by the non-Federal interests.

[[Page 120 STAT. 1861]]

                          (ii) Non-federal responsibility.--Each local 
                      water authority shall be responsible for providing 
                      the non-Federal amount required by clause (i) for 
                      projects under that local water authority. The 
                      State of California, local government agencies, 
                      and private entities may provide all or any 
                      portion of the non-Federal amount.
                          (iii) Credits toward non-federal share.--For 
                      purposes of clause (ii), the Secretary shall 
                      credit the appropriate local water authority with 
                      the value of all prior expenditures by non-Federal 
                      interests made after January 1, 2000, that are 
                      compatible with the purposes of this section, 
                      including--
                                    (I) all expenditures made by non-
                                Federal interests to design and 
                                construct groundwater remediation 
                                projects, including expenditures 
                                associated with environmental analyses 
                                and public involvement activities that 
                                were required to implement the 
                                groundwater remediation projects in 
                                compliance with applicable Federal and 
                                State laws; and
                                    (II) all expenditures made by non-
                                Federal interests to acquire lands, 
                                easements, rights-of-way, relocations, 
                                disposal areas, and water rights that 
                                were required to implement a groundwater 
                                remediation project.

    (b) Compliance With Applicable Law.--In carrying out the activities 
described in this section, the Secretary shall comply with any 
applicable Federal and State laws.
    (c) Relationship to Other Activities.--Nothing in this section shall 
be construed to affect other Federal or State authorities that are being 
used or may be used to facilitate remediation and protection of any 
groundwater subbasin eligible for funding pursuant to this title. In 
carrying out the activities described in this section, the Secretary 
shall integrate such activities with ongoing Federal and State projects 
and activities. None of the funds made available for such activities 
pursuant to this section shall be counted against any Federal 
authorization ceiling established for any previously authorized Federal 
projects or activities.
    (d) Authorization of Appropriations.--There is authorized to be 
appropriated to the Remediation Fund $25,000,000. Subject to the 
limitations in section 804, such funds shall remain available until 
expended.

SEC. 804. SUNSET OF AUTHORITY.

    This title--
            (1) &lt;&lt;NOTE: Effective date.&gt;&gt; shall take effect on the date 
        of the enactment of this Act; and
            (2) is repealed effective as of the date that is 10 years 
        after the date of the enactment of this Act.

[[Page 120 STAT. 1862]]

                  TITLE IX--NATIONAL COAL HERITAGE AREA

SEC. 901. NATIONAL COAL HERITAGE AREA AMENDMENTS.

    Title I of Division II of the Omnibus Parks and Public Lands 
Management Act of 1996 is amended as follows:
            (1) In section 103(b)-- &lt;&lt;NOTE: 16 USC 461 note.&gt;&gt; 
                    (A) by striking ``comprised of the counties'' and 
                inserting ``shall be comprised of the following:
            ``(1) The counties; and''.
                    (B) by inserting after paragraph (1) (as so 
                designated by paragraph (1) of this subsection) the 
                following new paragraphs:
            ``(2) Lincoln County, West Virginia.
            ``(3) Paint Creek and Cabin Creek within Kanawha County, 
        West Virginia.''.
            (2) In section 104, by &lt;&lt;NOTE: 16 USC 461 note.&gt;&gt;  striking 
        ``Governor'' and all that follows through ``organizations'' and 
        inserting ``National Coal Heritage Area Authority, a public 
        corporation and government instrumentality established by the 
        State of West Virginia, pursuant to which the Secretary shall 
        assist the National Coal Heritage Area Authority''.

    Approved October 12, 2006.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY--S. 203:
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

SENATE REPORTS: No. 109-4 (Comm. on Energy and Natural Resources).
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD:
                                                        Vol. 151 (2005):
                                    July 26, considered and passed 
                                        Senate.
                                                        Vol. 152 (2006):
                                    July 24, considered and passed 
                                        House, amended.
                                    Sept. 29, Senate concurred in House 
                                        amendment.
WEEKLY COMPILATION OF PRESIDENTIAL DOCUMENTS, Vol. 42 (2006):
            Oct. 13, Presidential statement.

                                  &lt;all&gt;
</pre></body></html>
