<html><body><pre>
[Congressional Bills 116th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[S. 2668 Introduced in Senate (IS)]

&lt;DOC&gt;






116th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                S. 2668

To establish a program for research, development, and demonstration of 
           solar energy technologies, and for other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                   IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

                            October 22, 2019

  Ms. Sinema introduced the following bill; which was read twice and 
       referred to the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
To establish a program for research, development, and demonstration of 
           solar energy technologies, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Solar Energy Research and 
Development Act of 2019''.

SEC. 2. DEFINITIONS.

    In this Act:
            (1) Economically distressed area.--The term ``economically 
        distressed area'' means an area described in section 301(a) of 
        the Public Works and Economic Development Act of 1965 (42 
        U.S.C. 3161(a)).
            (2) Eligible entity.--The term ``eligible entity'' means--
                    (A) an institution of higher education;
                    (B) a National Laboratory;
                    (C) a Federal research agency;
                    (D) a State research agency;
                    (E) a nonprofit research organization;
                    (F) an industrial entity; and
                    (G) a consortium of 2 or more entities described in 
                subparagraphs (A) through (F).
            (3) Indian tribe.--The term ``Indian tribe'' has the 
        meaning given the term in section 4 of the Native American 
        Housing Assistance and Self-Determination Act of 1996 (25 
        U.S.C. 4103).
            (4) Institution of higher education.--The term 
        ``institution of higher education'' has the meaning given the 
        term in section 101 of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (20 
        U.S.C. 1001).
            (5) National laboratory.--The term ``National Laboratory'' 
        has the meaning given the term in section 2 of the Energy 
        Policy Act of 2005 (42 U.S.C. 15801).
            (6) Photovoltaic device.--The term ``photovoltaic device'' 
        means--
                    (A) a device that converts light directly into 
                electricity through a solid-state, semiconductor 
                process;
                    (B) the photovoltaic cells of a device described in 
                subparagraph (A); and
                    (C) the electronic and electrical components of a 
                device described in subparagraph (A).
            (7) Program.--The term ``program'' means the program 
        established under section 3(a)(1).
            (8) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary 
        of Energy.

SEC. 3. SOLAR ENERGY TECHNOLOGY PROGRAM.

    (a) Program.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary shall establish a solar 
        energy technology program under which the Secretary shall--
                    (A) award grants on a competitive, merit-reviewed 
                basis to eligible entities to conduct research, 
                development, testing, and evaluation of solar energy 
                technologies; and
                    (B) carry out other activities in accordance with 
                this section.
            (2) Purposes.--The purposes of the program are the 
        following:
                    (A) To improve the energy efficiency, reliability, 
                resilience, security, and capacity of solar energy 
                generation.
                    (B) To optimize the design and adaptability of 
                solar energy systems to the broadest practical range of 
                geographic and atmospheric conditions.
                    (C) To reduce the cost of manufacturing, 
                installation, operation, and maintenance of solar 
                energy systems.
                    (D) To create and improve conversion of solar 
                energy to useful forms.
            (3) Targets.--In carrying out the program, the Secretary 
        shall address near-term (up to 2 years), mid-term (up to 7 
        years), and long-term (up to 15 years) challenges to the 
        advancement of solar energy systems.
            (4) Stewardship of national laboratory resources.--In 
        awarding grants under the program, the Secretary shall steward 
        relevant capabilities and programs of the National 
        Laboratories.
            (5) Technical assistance and workforce development.--In 
        carrying out the program, for purposes of supporting technical, 
        nonhardware, and information-based advances in solar energy 
        systems development and operations, the Secretary may--
                    (A) provide technical assistance and carry out 
                analysis activities with eligible entities, including 
                activities that support expanding access to solar 
                energy for low-income individuals and communities, 
                including in economically distressed areas; and
                    (B) carry out workforce development and training 
                activities, including to support the dissemination of 
                standards and best practices for enabling solar power 
                production.
            (6) Wildlife impact mitigation.--In carrying out the 
        program, the Secretary shall, to the maximum extent 
        practicable, support wildlife impact mitigation technologies 
        and strategies, including the use of distributed solar 
        technologies, to reduce the potential negative impacts of solar 
        energy systems on fish or wildlife, or plants (as those terms 
        are defined in section 3 of the Endangered Species Act of 1973 
        (16 U.S.C. 1532)).
            (7) Sustainable chemistry.--Each entity receiving a grant 
        under the program shall endeavor, in carrying out activities 
        under the grant, to incorporate, where appropriate, sustainable 
        and green chemistry and engineering principles, practices, and 
        methodologies.
    (b) Grant Subject Areas.--In addition to awarding the grants 
described in subsections (c) through (e), the Secretary shall award 
grants under the program to eligible entities to carry out research, 
development, testing, and evaluation in the following subject areas:
            (1) Photovoltaic devices and related electronic components, 
        including converters, sensors, energy monitors, communication 
        and control equipment, and protocols.
            (2) Concentrated solar power, including solar thermal and 
        concentrating solar photovoltaic technologies.
            (3) Low cost, high-quality solar energy systems.
            (4) Solar heating and cooling systems, including 
        distributed solar-powered air conditioning.
            (5) Low cost, thin-film solar technologies, including the 
        use of perovskite materials in solar cells.
            (6) Solar technology products that can be easily integrated 
        into new buildings, existing buildings, agricultural and 
        aquatic environments, and other infrastructure.
            (7) Solar technology that is resilient to extreme weather 
        events.
            (8) Solar technology products integrated into 
        transportation applications in coordination with vehicle 
        technologies research and development activities supported by 
        the Department of Energy.
            (9) Storage technologies that address the transience and 
        intermittency of solar energy resources, including batteries, 
        supercapacitors, and thermal storage.
            (10) Microgrids using solar technology.
            (11) Solar technologies enabling safe grid operating 
        conditions, such as fast-disconnect during an emergency.
            (12) Distributed solar energy technologies, such as rooftop 
        solar panels.
            (13) Technologies and designs that enable a broad range of 
        scales for solar power production.
            (14) Advanced solar manufacturing technologies and best 
        practices, including--
                    (A) materials and processes;
                    (B) development of industry standards;
                    (C) design and integration practices; and
                    (D) optimized packaging methods and new device 
                designs.
            (15) Advanced analytic and computing capabilities for 
        better modeling and simulations of solar energy systems.
            (16) Electrical grid integration, including--
                    (A) integration of solar technologies into smart 
                grid, transmission, and distribution;
                    (B) coordination of solar with other distributed 
                and large-scale energy resources;
                    (C) electrical power smoothing;
                    (D) microgrid integration;
                    (E) community solar;
                    (F) solar resource forecasting;
                    (G) regional and national electric system balancing 
                and long-distance transmission options, including 
                direct current and superconducting transmission and 
                long-term storage options;
                    (H) ways to address system operations over minutes, 
                hours, days, weeks, and seasons with respect to the 
                full range of project scales; and
                    (I) electric grid security, including cyber and 
                physical security.
            (17) Nonhardware and information-based advances in solar 
        energy system design, installation, and operation.
            (18) Solar energy technology relating to behind-the-meter 
        strategies, including with respect to electricity generation, 
        load, energy efficiency, controls, storage, and electric 
        vehicles.
            (19) Next generation demonstration facilities.
            (20) Any other subject area determined by the Secretary.
    (c) Solar Energy Technology Demonstration Grants.--
            (1) In general.--In carrying out the program, the Secretary 
        shall award multiyear grants to eligible entities to carry out 
        demonstration projects to advance the development of solar 
        energy technologies and systems production.
            (2) Priority.--In awarding grants under paragraph (1), the 
        Secretary shall give priority to projects that--
                    (A) are located in geographically diverse regions 
                of the United States;
                    (B) can be replicated in a variety of regions and 
                climates;
                    (C) demonstrate technologies that address 
                intermittency, variability, storage challenges, behind-
                the-meter operations, and independent operational 
                capability;
                    (D) coordinate solar technologies with other 
                distributed and large-scale energy resources;
                    (E) facilitate identification of optimum approaches 
                among competing solar energy technologies;
                    (F) include business commercialization plans that 
                have the potential for production of solar energy 
                equipment at high volumes;
                    (G) support the development of advanced 
                manufacturing technologies that have the potential to 
                improve United States competitiveness in the 
                international solar energy manufacturing sector;
                    (H) provide the greatest potential to reduce energy 
                costs for consumers and promote accessibility and 
                community implementation of demonstrated technologies;
                    (I) increase disclosure and transparency of 
                information to all market participants;
                    (J) promote overall electric infrastructure 
                reliability and resilience in the event of grid 
                functions being disrupted or damaged;
                    (K) support the development or demonstration of 
                projects in collaboration with Indian tribes and in 
                economically distressed areas; and
                    (L) satisfy any other priority that the Secretary 
                determines appropriate.
            (3) Use of funds.--To the extent that funding is not 
        otherwise available through other Federal programs or power 
        purchase agreements, grants awarded under paragraph (1) may be 
        used for--
                    (A) any necessary site engineering study;
                    (B) an economic assessment of site-specific 
                conditions;
                    (C) appropriate feasibility studies to determine 
                whether the demonstration project may be replicated;
                    (D) installation of equipment, service, and 
                support;
                    (E) operating the demonstration project for not 
                less than the minimum period required to fully assess 
                the results and objectives of the project, as 
                determined by a peer-reviewed process; and
                    (F) validation of technical, economic, and 
                environmental assumptions and documentation of lessons 
                learned.
            (4) Solicitation.--Not later than 90 days after the date of 
        enactment of this Act, and annually thereafter, the Secretary 
        shall conduct a national solicitation for applications for 
        grants described in paragraph (1).
            (5) Organic photovoltaic cell technologies.--At least 1 
        grant awarded under paragraph (1) during fiscal year 2020 shall 
        be for a project to demonstrate organic photovoltaic cell 
        technologies.
    (d) Next Generation Solar Energy Manufacturing Initiative.--
            (1) Grants.--In carrying out the program, the Secretary 
        shall award multiyear grants to eligible entities for research, 
        development, and demonstration projects to advance new solar 
        energy manufacturing technologies and techniques, including to 
        manufacture solar cells, hardware, and enabling devices.
            (2) Priority.--In awarding grants under paragraph (1), to 
        the extent practicable, the Secretary shall--
                    (A) follow the recommendations in the report 
                described in paragraph (3)(B)(ii); and
                    (B) give priority to solar energy manufacturing 
                projects that--
                            (i) reduce capital expenditures or provide 
                        lower-cost manufacturing options;
                            (ii) eliminate manufacturing process steps;
                            (iii) reduce energy, water, and material 
                        inputs;
                            (iv) establish alternative supply chains 
                        for materials and components;
                            (v) are located on land owned by Indian 
                        tribes;
                            (vi) are located on land in economically 
                        distressed areas; and
                            (vii) take advantage of rapid prototyping, 
                        small batch manufacturing, and roll-to-roll 
                        processing.
            (3) Strategic vision study.--
                    (A) In general.--The Secretary shall conduct a 
                study on the viable market opportunities available for 
                solar energy technology manufacturing in the United 
                States, including solar cells, hardware, and enabling 
                technologies.
                    (B) Report.--Not later than September 1, 2020, the 
                Secretary shall submit to the Committee on Energy and 
                Natural Resources of the Senate, the Committee on 
                Science, Space, and Technology of the House of 
                Representatives, and any other relevant Committee of 
                Congress a report containing the results of the study 
                under subparagraph (A), including--
                            (i) a description of--
                                    (I) the ability of relevant 
                                businesses or other entities to 
                                competitively manufacture solar 
                                technology in the United States, 
                                including the manufacture of--
                                            (aa) new and advanced 
                                        materials, such as cells made 
                                        with new, cost-effective, high-
                                        efficiency materials;
                                            (bb) solar module equipment 
                                        and enabling technologies, 
                                        including smart inverters, 
                                        sensors, and tracking 
                                        equipment; and
                                            (cc) innovative solar 
                                        module designs and 
                                        applications, including designs 
                                        and applications that can 
                                        directly integrate with new and 
                                        existing buildings and other 
                                        infrastructure; and
                                    (II) opportunities and barriers in 
                                solar energy technology supply chains 
                                in the United States and 
                                internationally;
                            (ii) policy recommendations for enhancing 
                        solar energy technology manufacturing in the 
                        United States;
                            (iii) an aggressive 10-year target and 
                        plan, beginning in calendar year 2021, to 
                        enhance the competitiveness of solar energy 
                        technology manufacturing in the United States; 
                        and
                            (iv) needs for future research, 
                        development, and demonstration projects in 
                        solar manufacturing and related areas, as 
                        determined by the Secretary.
            (4) Evaluation.--Not later than 3 years after the date on 
        which the report under paragraph (3)(B) is submitted, and every 
        4 years thereafter, the Secretary shall conduct, and make 
        available to the public and the relevant committees of 
        Congress, an independent review of the progress of the grants 
        awarded under paragraph (1) in meeting the recommendations and 
        targets included in the report.
    (e) Photovoltaic Device Recycling Research, Development, and 
Demonstration Grants.--
            (1) In general.--In carrying out the program, the Secretary 
        shall award multiyear grants to eligible entities for research, 
        development, and demonstration projects to create innovative 
        and practical approaches to increase the reuse and recycling of 
        photovoltaic devices, including by addressing--
                    (A) technology to increase the efficiency of 
                photovoltaic device recycling and maximize the recovery 
                of valuable raw materials for use in new products while 
                minimizing the lifecycle environmental impacts, such as 
                greenhouse gas emissions and water usage;
                    (B) expanded uses for materials from recycled 
                photovoltaic devices;
                    (C) the development and demonstration of 
                environmentally responsible alternatives to the use of 
                hazardous materials in photovoltaic devices and the 
                production of those devices;
                    (D) the development of methods to separate and 
                remove hazardous materials from photovoltaic devices 
                and to recycle or dispose of those materials in a safe 
                manner;
                    (E) product design and construction to facilitate 
                disassembly and recycling of photovoltaic devices;
                    (F) tools and methods to aid in assessing the 
                environmental impacts of the production of photovoltaic 
                devices and photovoltaic device recycling and disposal;
                    (G) product design and construction and other tools 
                and techniques to extend the lifecycle of photovoltaic 
                devices, including methods to promote the safe reuse of 
                those devices;
                    (H) strategies to increase consumer acceptance and 
                practice of recycling of photovoltaic devices;
                    (I) the development or demonstration of projects in 
                collaboration with Indian tribes and in economically 
                distressed areas; and
                    (J) processes to reduce the costs and environmental 
                impact of disposal of toxic materials used in 
                photovoltaic devices.
            (2) Applications.--An eligible entity seeking a grant under 
        paragraph (1) shall submit to the Secretary an application at 
        such time, in such manner, and containing such information as 
        the Secretary may require, including a description of--
                    (A) the proposed project and the contributions of 
                each participating entity;
                    (B) the applicability of the project to increasing 
                the reuse and recycling of photovoltaic devices with 
                the least environmental impacts as measured by 
                lifecycle analyses;
                    (C) the potential for incorporating the research 
                results into industry practice; and
                    (D) the manner in which the project will promote 
                collaboration among scientists and engineers from 
                different disciplines, such as the electrical 
                engineering, materials science, and social science 
                disciplines.
            (3) Dissemination of results.--The Secretary shall publish 
        the results of the projects carried out through grants awarded 
        under paragraph (1) through--
                    (A) best practices or training materials relating 
                to those grants, for use in the photovoltaics 
                manufacturing, design, installation, refurbishing, or 
                recycling industries;
                    (B) coordination with information dissemination 
                programs relating to general recycling of electronic 
                devices; and
                    (C) educational materials for the public, produced 
                in conjunction with State and local governments or 
                nonprofit organizations, on the problems and solutions 
                relating to the reuse and recycling of photovoltaic 
                devices.
    (f) Photovoltaic Materials Physical Property Database.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than September 1, 2021, the 
        Secretary shall establish a comprehensive physical property 
        database of materials for use in photovoltaic devices, which 
        shall include--
                    (A) identification of materials used in 
                photovoltaic devices;
                    (B) the quantity of each commercially available 
                material identified under subparagraph (A) and the 
                country of origin of that material;
                    (C) the quantity of materials used in photovoltaic 
                devices projected to be available through mining or 
                recycling of photovoltaic and other electronic devices; 
                and
                    (D) a list of other significant uses for each 
                material identified under subparagraph (A).
            (2) Priorities.--Not later than September 1, 2020, the 
        Secretary, in collaboration with private industry, shall 
        develop a plan to establish priorities and requirements for the 
        database described in paragraph (1), including the protection 
        of proprietary information, trade secrets, and other 
        confidential business information.
            (3) Coordination.--The Secretary shall coordinate with the 
        Director of the National Institute of Standards and Technology, 
        the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency, and 
        the Secretary of the Interior to facilitate the incorporation 
        of the database under paragraph (1) with any existing database 
        for materials involved in electronic manufacturing and 
        recycling.
    (g) Authorization of Appropriations.--There are authorized to be 
appropriated to the Secretary to carry out the program such sums as are 
necessary for each of fiscal years 2020 through 2024.

SEC. 4. CONFORMING AMENDMENTS.

    (a) The Solar Energy Research, Development, and Demonstration Act 
of 1974 (42 U.S.C. 5551 et seq.) is repealed.
    (b) Section 6(b)(3) of the Federal Nonnuclear Energy Research and 
Development Act of 1974 (42 U.S.C. 5905(b)(3)) is amended--
            (1) by striking subparagraph (L); and
            (2) by redesignating subparagraphs (M) through (S) as 
        subparagraphs (L) through (R), respectively.
    (c) The Solar Photovoltaic Energy Research, Development, and 
Demonstration Act of 1978 (42 U.S.C. 5581 et seq.) is repealed.
    (d) Section 4(a) of the Renewable Energy and Energy Efficiency 
Technology Competitiveness Act of 1989 (42 U.S.C. 12003(a)) is 
amended--
            (1) in the matter preceding paragraph (1), by striking 
        ``photovoltaics, and solar thermal energy'' and inserting 
        ``alcohol from biomass, and other technologies'';
            (2) by striking paragraphs (2) and (3); and
            (3) by redesignating paragraphs (4) and (5) as paragraphs 
        (2) and (3), respectively.
    (e) Section 931 of the Energy Policy Act of 2005 (42 U.S.C. 16231) 
is amended--
            (1) in subsection (a)(2)--
                    (A) by striking subparagraph (A); and
                    (B) by redesignating subparagraphs (B) through (E) 
                as subparagraphs (A) through (D), respectively;
            (2) by striking subsection (d); and
            (3) by redesignating subsections (e) through (g) as 
        subsections (d) through (f), respectively.
    (f) Sections 606 and 607 of the Energy Independence and Security 
Act of 2007 (42 U.S.C. 17174, 17175) are repealed.

SEC. 5. SAVINGS PROVISION.

    The repeal of the Solar Energy Research, Development, and 
Demonstration Act of 1974 (42 U.S.C. 5551 et seq.) under section 4(a) 
shall not affect the authority of the Secretary to conduct research and 
development on solar energy.
                                 &lt;all&gt;
</pre></body></html>
