<html><body><pre>
[Congressional Bills 111th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H.R. 6426 Introduced in House (IH)]

111th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                H. R. 6426

 To authorize the Secretary of the Interior to carry out programs and 
   activities for connecting children and families with the outdoors.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                           November 18, 2010

   Mr. Kind introduced the following bill; which was referred to the 
  Committee on Natural Resources, and in addition to the Committee on 
Energy and Commerce, for a period to be subsequently determined by the 
  Speaker, in each case for consideration of such provisions as fall 
           within the jurisdiction of the committee concerned

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
 To authorize the Secretary of the Interior to carry out programs and 
   activities for connecting children and families with the outdoors.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE; TABLE OF CONTENTS.

    (a) Short Title.--This Act may be cited as the ``Moving Outdoors in 
Nature Act of 2010''.
    (b) Table of Contents.--The table of contents of this Act is as 
follows:

Sec. 1. Short title; table of contents.
Sec. 2. Findings.
Sec. 3. Grants for development or implementation of Moving Outdoors in 
                            Nature State Strategies.
Sec. 4. National strategy for connecting children, youth, and families 
                            with the outdoors.
Sec. 5. National evaluation of health impacts.
Sec. 6. Technical assistance and best practices.
Sec. 7. Definitions.
Sec. 8. Authorization of appropriations.

SEC. 2. FINDINGS.

    Congress finds the following:
            (1) Children today are spending less time outdoors than any 
        generation in human history, as evidenced by studies that show 
        children enjoy half as much time outdoors today as they did 
        just 20 years ago and children spend more than 7\1/2\ hours 
        every day in front of electronic media.
            (2) Experiencing our Nation's natural splendor contributes 
        to healthier lives for all Americans and a deeper appreciation 
        for the outdoors, and those who take advantage of the 
        opportunities afforded them in the outdoors generally live 
        longer, healthier, fuller lives than those who do not.
            (3) Hunters and anglers play a critical role in 
        reconnecting young people with nature, protecting our natural 
        resources, and fostering a lifelong understanding of the value 
        of conserving the natural world. As children become more 
        disconnected from the natural world, the hunting and angling 
        conservation legacy of America is at risk.
            (4) Research demonstrates that hunters who become engaged 
        in hunting as children are among the most active and interested 
        hunters as adults. The vast majority of hunters report they 
        were introduced to hunting between the ages of 10 and 12, and 
        the overwhelming majority of children are introduced to hunting 
        by an adult.
            (5) The health of our children is at risk as evidenced by 
        the growing obesity crisis where, over the last 20 years, the 
        childhood obesity rate has more than doubled and the adolescent 
        obesity rate has tripled.
            (6) Spending time outdoors in nature is beneficial to our 
        children's physical and mental health and has been proven to 
        decrease symptoms of attention deficit and hyperactivity 
        disorder (ADHD), improve motor skills, result in a better 
        sleep, reduce stress, increase creativity, improve mood, and 
        reduce children's risk of developing myopia.
            (7) Kids who play outdoors are generally more physically 
        fit than those who spend the majority of their time inside, and 
        children who play outside in natural areas have a statistically 
        significant improvement in motor fitness with better 
        coordination, balance, and agility.
            (8) The richness and novelty of being outdoors stimulates 
        brain development, and research indicates that direct, ongoing 
        experience of nature in relatively familiar settings remains a 
        vital source for children's physical, emotional, and 
        intellectual development.
            (9) Research indicates that spending time outdoors reduces 
        the severity of symptoms of children with attention deficit and 
        hyperactivity disorder, and even short walks in urban parks 
        increase concentration and lessen other attention deficit and 
        hyperactivity disorder-related symptoms.
            (10) Children who spend time playing outside are more 
        likely to take risks, seek out adventure, develop self-
        confidence, and respect the value of nature, and green spaces 
        outside the home can increase concentration, inhibition of 
        initial impulses, and self-discipline.
            (11) Time spent in green spaces, including parks, play 
        areas, and gardens, has been shown to reduce stress and mental 
        fatigue, and in one study children who were exposed to greener 
        environments in a public housing area demonstrated less 
        aggression and violence and less mental stress.
            (12) Simply viewing nature reduces physiological stress 
        response, increases levels of interest and attention, and 
        decreases feelings of fear, anger, and aggression.
            (13) A direct childhood experience with nature before the 
        age of 11 promotes a long-term connection to nature, a 
        connection that is currently dwindling as children spend half 
        as much time outside as they did 20 years ago.
            (14) Resource stewardship is more challenging without a 
        strong sense of connection to the natural world, and as 
        visitation to public lands has declined or remained flat in 
        recent years and children spend less time outdoors on private 
        lands as well, that connection is being lost.
            (15) It takes many dedicated men and women to work to 
        preserve, protect, enhance, and restore America's natural 
        resources, and with an aging workforce in the natural resource 
        professions, it is critical for the next generation to have an 
        appreciation for nature and be ready to take over these 
        responsibilities.
            (16) Over the past several years, urbanization, changing 
        land use patterns, increasing road traffic, and inadequate 
        solutions to addressing these challenges in the built 
        environment have combined to make it more difficult for many 
        Americans to walk or bike to schools, parks, and play areas or 
        experience the natural environment in general.
            (17) Natural play areas, greenways, accessible trails, 
        backyard wildlife habitats, and other green features of the 
        built environment provide children the opportunity to 
        experience nature in their communities and close to home.
            (18) Conservation education and outdoor recreation 
        experiences like camping, hiking, boating, hunting, fishing, 
        archery, recreational shooting, wildlife watching, and others 
        are critical to engaging young people in the outdoors.
            (19) Parks and recreation, youth-serving, conservation, 
        health, education, and built-environment organizations, 
        facilities, and personnel provide critical resources and 
        infrastructure for connecting children and families with 
        nature.
            (20) Research has shown that military children and families 
        are facing increased stress and mental strain and challenges 
        due to multiple, extended deployments. Military family service 
        organizations have developed programs that connect military 
        children and families with positive, meaningful outdoor 
        experiences benefiting mental and physical health, but they 
        lack sufficient resources to meet increasing demand.
            (21) States nationwide and their community-based partners 
        have some notable programs that connect children and families 
        with nature; however, most States lack sufficient resources and 
        a comprehensive strategy that effectively engages State 
        agencies across multiple fields.
            (22) States need to engage in a cross-sector agency and 
        nonprofit approach that involves public health and wellness, 
        parks and recreation, transportation and city planning, and 
        others focused on connecting children and families with the 
        outdoors to increase coordination and effective implementation 
        of the policy tools and programs that a State can bring to bear 
        to provide healthy outdoor opportunities for children and 
        families.

SEC. 3. GRANTS FOR DEVELOPMENT OR IMPLEMENTATION OF MOVING OUTDOORS IN 
              NATURE STATE STRATEGIES.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary may award competitive grants or 
cooperative agreements to eligible entities to develop and implement a 
5-year State strategy, to be known as a Moving Outdoors in Nature State 
Strategy, for connecting children and families with the outdoors.
    (b) Submission and Approval of Strategies.--
            (1) Applications.--An application for a grant under 
        subsection (a) shall--
                    (A) be submitted not later than 120 days after the 
                Secretary publishes guidelines under subsection (f)(1); 
                and
                    (B) include a Moving Outdoors in Nature State 
                Strategy meeting the requirements of subsection (c) or 
                a proposal for development and submission of such a 
                strategy.
            (2) Approval of strategy; peer review.--Not later than 90 
        days after submission of a Moving Outdoors in Nature State 
        Strategy, the Secretary shall approve or recommend changes to 
        the strategy. The Secretary shall carry out the preceding 
        sentence through a peer review process that includes 
        participation from Federal, State, and local government and 
        from nongovernmental entities.
            (3) Strategy update.--An eligible entity receiving funds 
        under this section shall update its Moving Outdoors in Nature 
        State Strategy not less than every 5 years to reflect any 
        changes and modifications.
    (c) Comprehensive Strategy Requirements.--The Secretary may approve 
a Moving Outdoors in Nature State Strategy under subsection (b)(2) only 
if the strategy includes the following:
            (1) A description of how the eligible entity will connect 
        children, youth, and families to the outdoors through State and 
        local--
                    (A) public health systems;
                    (B) public parks and recreation systems;
                    (C) public transportation and city planning 
                systems; and
                    (D) other public systems that connect children, 
                youth, and families to the outdoors.
            (2) A description of how the eligible entity will connect 
        existing governmental systems to networks of nongovernmental 
        partner organizations serving children, youth, and families.
            (3) A description of how State agencies, such as State 
        departments of health, natural resources, environmental 
        quality, fish and wildlife, national guard, and transportation, 
        will collaborate with each other and nongovernmental 
        organizations and local agencies to implement the strategy.
            (4) A description of how funding will be spent through 
        local planning and implementation grants under subsection (d).
            (5) A description of how the eligible entity will evaluate 
        the effectiveness of, and measure the impact of, the strategy.
            (6) A description of how the eligible entity will provide 
        opportunities for public involvement in developing and 
        implementing the strategy through a public comment period, 
        public hearings, or other means.
    (d) Local Planning and Implementation.--
            (1) In general.--A Moving Outdoors in Nature State Strategy 
        shall provide for--
                    (A) local planning; and
                    (B) subgrants by the grant recipient under 
                subsection (a) to local entities to implement the 
                strategy through one or more of the activities 
                described in paragraph (2).
            (2) Program activities.--The activities described in this 
        paragraph are the following:
                    (A) Outdoor recreation programs and activities that 
                engage children, youth, and families in healthy, active 
                time outdoors through camping, hiking, wildlife 
                watching, and other recreational activities that teach 
                skills for lifelong participation in outdoor 
                activities.
                    (B) Youth mentoring and outdoor recreation programs 
                and activities that engage participants in hunting, 
                fishing, recreational shooting, and archery.
                    (C) Public health initiatives to educate parents 
                and caregivers about the health benefits of active time 
                outdoors to fight obesity and increase the quality of 
                life for children, youth, and families.
                    (D) Creation of natural play areas within 
                communities, as defined by nationally recognized 
                guidelines, to provide opportunities for safe outdoor 
                play in natural environments at daycare and afterschool 
                childcare sites, schools, parks, recreation centers, 
                camps, libraries, military installations, and other 
                areas.
                    (E) Development of trails and greenways to safely 
                connect parks and outdoor recreation areas with 
                military installations, daycare and afterschool 
                childcare sites, schools, and communities through trail 
                systems that encourage walking, biking, and increased 
                time outdoors by children, youth, and families.
                    (F) Creation of outdoor learning environments such 
                as schoolyard, community, or backyard wildlife habitats 
                or gardens.
                    (G) Environmental sustainability and conservation 
                education and interpretation programs and activities 
                that engage children, youth, and families in learning 
                and physical activity in the outdoors.
                    (H) Service learning and volunteer opportunities to 
                help restore natural areas, maintain recreational 
                assets, and engage children, youth, and families in the 
                outdoors.
                    (I) Promotional activities that promote the 
                benefits of time spent outdoors and invite children, 
                youth, and families to enjoy the outdoors by visiting 
                nearby public and private lands.
                    (J) Initiatives that engage health professionals, 
                pediatricians, educators, daycare instructors, 
                afterschool program providers, camp directors, 
                community planners, local planning commissions, 
                homeowners associations, environmental professionals, 
                military, law enforcement, and business leaders in 
                identifying innovative solutions to connecting 
                children, youth, and families with nature.
    (e) Priority.--In making grants under subsection (a) and subgrants 
under subsection (d)(1)(B), the Secretary and the recipient of a grant 
under this section shall give preference to entities that serve 
individuals who have limited opportunities to experience nature, 
including those who are socioeconomically disadvantaged or have a 
disability.
    (f) Guidelines.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, and after notice and opportunity for public 
comment, the Secretary shall publish in the Federal Register guidelines 
on the implementation of this Act, including guidelines for--
            (1) developing and submitting strategies under subsection 
        (b); and
            (2) technical assistance and dissemination of best 
        practices under section 6.
    (g) Reporting.--Not later than 2 years after the Secretary approves 
the Moving Outdoors in Nature State Strategy of an eligible entity 
receiving funds under this section, and every year thereafter, the 
entity shall submit to the Secretary a report on the implementation of 
the strategy based on the entity's evaluation and assessment of meeting 
the goals specified in the strategy.
    (h) Allocation of Funds.--An eligible entity receiving a grant 
under subsection (a) for a fiscal year--
            (1) may use not more than 5 percent of the grant funds for 
        administrative expenses; and
            (2) shall use at least 95 percent of the grant funds for 
        local planning and subgrants to local entities under subsection 
        (d).

SEC. 4. NATIONAL STRATEGY FOR CONNECTING CHILDREN, YOUTH, AND FAMILIES 
              WITH THE OUTDOORS.

    (a) In General.--Not later than September 30, 2011, the President 
of the United States, in cooperation with Federal departments and 
agencies, shall develop and issue a national strategy for connecting 
children, youth, and families with the outdoors. Such strategy shall 
include, but not be limited to--
            (1) identification of barriers to children, youth, and 
        families spending healthy time outdoors and specific policy 
        solutions to address those barriers;
            (2) identification of opportunities for partnerships with 
        States, cities, counties, municipalities, entities of local 
        government, park and recreation departments or districts, 
        school districts, institutions of higher education, and 
        nonprofit organizations to connect children, youth, and 
        families with the outdoors;
            (3) coordination of efforts among Federal departments and 
        agencies to address the impacts of children and families 
        spending less time outdoors on--
                    (A) public health, including childhood obesity and 
                attention deficit disorders;
                    (B) the future of conservation in the United 
                States; and
                    (C) the economy;
            (4) identification of ongoing research needs to document 
        the health, conservation, economic, and other outcomes of 
        implementing the national and State strategies;
            (5) coordination with State Moving Outdoors in Nature 
        Strategies; and
            (6) an action plan for implementing the strategy at the 
        Federal level.
    (b) Strategy Development.--
            (1) Participants.--In developing the national strategy in 
        subsection (a), the President shall engage--
                    (A) representatives of Federal, State, and local 
                government;
                    (B) business, industry, and military leaders;
                    (C) representatives of nonprofit organizations;
                    (D) educators;
                    (E) medical professionals;
                    (F) representatives of recipients of grants or 
                subgrants under section 3; and
                    (G) such other persons as the President determines 
                appropriate.
            (2) Public participation.--Throughout the process of 
        developing the national strategy in subsection (a), the 
        President shall provide for public participation that includes, 
        but not be limited to--
                    (A) a national summit of participants as defined in 
                subsection (b)(1) with demonstrated expertise in 
                connecting children and families with the outdoors;
                    (B) listening sessions across the country; and
                    (C) opportunities for the public to submit ideas, 
                recommendations, and comments through various written 
                and electronic methods.
    (c) Updating the National Strategy.--The President shall update the 
national strategy not less than 5 years, and every 5 years thereafter, 
after the date the first national strategy is issued pursuant to 
subsection (a). In updating the strategy, the President shall, among 
other things, incorporate results of the evaluation under section 5.

SEC. 5. NATIONAL EVALUATION OF HEALTH IMPACTS.

    The Secretary shall enter into an agreement with the Secretary of 
Health and Human Services and the Director of the Centers for Disease 
Control and Prevention for--
            (1) the development of recommendations for appropriate 
        evaluation measures and criteria for developing a study of 
        national significance on the health impacts of the programs 
        under this Act; and
            (2) the administration of such a study.

SEC. 6. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AND BEST PRACTICES.

    The Secretary shall--
            (1) provide technical assistance to grantees under section 
        3 through agreements with national organizations with a proven 
        track record of connecting children to the outdoors; and
            (2) disseminate best practices that emerge from strategies 
        funded under this Act.

SEC. 7. DEFINITIONS.

    In this Act:
            (1) The term ``eligible entity'' means--
                    (A) a State; or
                    (B) a consortium of--
                            (i) a State, city, county, municipality, 
                        entity of local government, park and recreation 
                        department or district, school district, 
                        institution of higher education, or nonprofit 
                        organization; and
                            (ii) any combination of entities specified 
                        in clause (i).
            (2) The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary of the 
        Interior.
            (3) The term ``State'' means any of the several States, the 
        District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the 
        United States Virgin Islands, Guam, American Samoa, the 
        Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, any other 
        territory or possession of the United States, or any Indian 
        tribe.

SEC. 8. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.

    (a) In General.--There are authorized to be appropriated to the 
Secretary to carry out this Act--
            (1) $15,000,000 for fiscal year 2011;
            (2) $50,000,000 for fiscal year 2012;
            (3) $100,000,000 for fiscal year 2013; and
            (4) such sums as may be necessary for subsequent fiscal 
        years.
    (b) Limitation.--Of the amounts made available to carry out this 
Act for a fiscal year, not more than 5 percent may be made available 
for carrying out section 6.
    (c) Supplement, Not Supplant.--Funds made available under this Act 
shall be used to supplement, and not supplant, any other Federal, 
State, or local funds available for activities that connect children, 
youth, and families to the outdoors.
                                 &lt;all&gt;
</pre></body></html>
