<html><body><pre>
[Congressional Bills 110th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[S. 2326 Introduced in Senate (IS)]







110th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                S. 2326

     To improve the safety of motorcoaches, and for other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                   IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

                            November 8, 2007

  Mr. Brown (for himself and Mrs. Hutchison) introduced the following 
 bill; which was read twice and referred to the Committee on Commerce, 
                      Science, and Transportation

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
     To improve the safety of motorcoaches, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE; TABLE OF CONTENTS.

    (a) Short Title.--This Act may be cited as the ``Motorcoach 
Enhanced Safety Act of 2007''.
    (b) Table of Contents.--The table of contents for this Act is as 
follows:

Sec. 1. Short title; table of contents.
Sec. 2. Definitions.
Sec. 3. Regulations for improved occupant protection and motorcoach 
                            crash avoidance.
Sec. 4. Study and report on improved bus crashworthiness and crash 
                            avoidance.
Sec. 5. Improved oversight of providers of motorcoach services and of 
                            other motor carriers of passengers.
Sec. 6. Motorcoach driver training.
Sec. 7. Improved commercial driver's license testing.
Sec. 8. Improved physical fitness oversight and commercial driver 
                            medical certificates.
Sec. 9. Safety enforcement technology to reduce driver fatigue.
Sec. 10. Commercial motor vehicle safety inspection programs.
Sec. 11. Regulations.

SEC. 2. DEFINITIONS.

    In this Act:
            (1) Advanced glazing.--The term ``advanced glazing'' means 
        glazing installed in a portal on the side or the roof of a 
        motorcoach that is designed to be highly resistant to partial 
        or complete occupant ejection in all types of motor vehicle 
        crashes.
            (2) Bus.--The term ``bus'' has the meaning given such term 
        in section 571.3(b) of title 49, Code of Federal Regulations 
        (as in effect on the day before the date of the enactment of 
        this Act).
            (3) Commercial motor vehicle.--The term ``commercial motor 
        vehicle'' has the meaning given such term in section 31132(1) 
        of title 49, United States Code.
            (4) Manufacturer.--The term ``manufacturer'' has the 
        meaning given such term in section 30102(a) of title 49, United 
        States Code.
            (5) Motor carrier.--The term ``motor carrier'' has the 
        meaning given such term in section 13102(14) of title 49, 
        United States Code.
            (6) Motorcoach.--The term ``motorcoach'' has the meaning 
        given the term ``over-the-road bus'' in section 3038(a)(3) of 
        the Transportation Equity Act for the 21st Century (Public Law 
        105-178; 49 U.S.C. 5310 note), but does not include the 
        following:
                    (A) Buses used in public transportation provided by 
                a State or local government.
                    (B) School buses, including multifunction school 
                activity buses.
            (7) Motorcoach manufacturer.--The term ``motorcoach 
        manufacturer'' means a manufacturer that manufactures, 
        assembles, or imports motorcoaches for resale in the United 
        States.
            (8) Motorcoach services.--The term ``motorcoach services'' 
        means passenger transportation by motorcoach for compensation.
            (9) Multifunction school activity buses.--The term 
        ``multifunction school activity buses'' has the meaning given 
        such term in section 571.3(b) of title 49, Code of Federal 
        Regulations (as in effect on the day before the date of the 
        enactment of this Act).
            (10) Portal.--The term ``portal'' means any opening on the 
        front, sides, rear, or roof of a motorcoach that could, in the 
        event of a crash involving the motorcoach, permit the partial 
        or complete ejection of any occupant from the motorcoach, 
        including a young child.
            (11) Provider of motorcoach services.--The term ``provider 
        of motorcoach services'' means a motor carrier that provides 
        passenger transportation services with a motorcoach for 
        compensation, including per-trip compensation and contracted or 
        chartered compensation.
            (12) Public transportation.--The term ``public 
        transportation'' has the meaning given such term in section 
        5302(a)(10) of title 49, United States Code.
            (13) Safety belt.--The term ``safety belt'' has the meaning 
        given such term in section 153(i)(4)(B) of title 23, United 
        States Code.
            (14) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary 
        of Transportation.

SEC. 3. REGULATIONS FOR IMPROVED OCCUPANT PROTECTION AND MOTORCOACH 
              CRASH AVOIDANCE.

    (a) Regulations Required 1 Year After the Date of the Enactment of 
This Act.--Not later than 1 year after the date of the enactment of 
this Act, the Secretary shall prescribe regulations as follows:
            (1) Safety belts.--The Secretary shall require safety belts 
        be installed in motorcoaches at each designated seating 
        position.
            (2) Anti-ejection safety countermeasures.--The Secretary 
        shall require motorcoaches have advanced glazing installed in 
        each motorcoach portal to prevent partial or complete ejection 
        of passengers of motorcoaches, including such passengers that 
        are children.
            (3) Firefighting equipment.--The Secretary shall require 
        installation in motorcoaches of improved firefighting equipment 
        for the purpose of effectively suppressing fires in 
        motorcoaches to prevent passenger deaths and injuries.
    (b) Regulations Required 2 Years After the Date of the Enactment of 
This Act.--Not later than 2 years after the date of the enactment of 
this Act, the Secretary shall prescribe regulations as follows:
            (1) Compartmentalization safety countermeasures.--The 
        Secretary shall require enhanced compartmentalization safety 
        countermeasures for motorcoaches, including enhanced seating 
        designs, to reduce substantially the risk of passengers being 
        thrown from their seats and colliding with other passengers, 
        interior surfaces, or components in the event of a crash 
        involving a motorcoach.
            (2) Interior impact protection.--The Secretary shall 
        establish enhanced occupant impact protection standards for 
        motorcoach interiors to reduce substantially serious injuries 
        for all passengers of motorcoaches.
            (3) Reduced rollover crashes.--The Secretary shall require 
        motorcoaches be equipped with stability enhancing technologies, 
        such as electronic stability control, roll stability control, 
        and torque vectoring, to reduce substantially the number and 
        frequency of rollover crashes among motorcoaches.
            (4) Roof strength and crush resistance.--The Secretary 
        shall establish improved roof standards for motorcoaches that 
        substantially improve the resistance of motorcoach roofs to 
        deformation and intrusion to prevent serious occupant injury in 
        rollover crashes involving motorcoaches.
            (5) Enhanced conspicuity.--The Secretary shall require 
        enhanced conspicuity of motorcoaches to enable other motor 
        vehicle operators, cyclists, and pedestrians to better detect 
        motorcoaches in order to reduce the risk of collisions 
        involving motorcoaches.
            (6) Smoke suppression.--The Secretary shall amend Federal 
        motor vehicle safety standard number 302 (49 CFR 571.302; 
        relating to flammability of interior materials) to require 
        realistic tests to improve the resistance of motorcoach 
        interiors and components to burning, prevent inhalation by 
        passengers of toxic smoke and vapors, and permit sufficient 
        time for the safe evacuation of passengers from the motorcoach.
            (7) Resistance to fuel system fires.--The Secretary shall 
        amend Federal motor vehicle safety standard number 301 (49 CFR 
        571.301; relating to fuel system integrity) to require that 
        motorcoaches have improved fuel systems in order to suppress 
        fuel-fed fires and substantially reduce occupant deaths and 
        injuries from fuel fires.
            (8) Passenger evacuation.--The Secretary shall require 
        motorcoaches be equipped with the following:
                    (A) Improved emergency evacuation designs.--
                Improved emergency exit window, door, and roof hatch 
                designs to expedite access and use by passengers of 
                motorcoaches to ensure rapid evacuation from a 
                motorcoach under all emergency circumstances, including 
                crashes and fires.
                    (B) Emergency interior lighting.--Emergency 
                interior lighting systems, including luminescent or 
                retroreflectorized delineation of evacuation paths and 
                exits, that are triggered by a crash or other emergency 
                incidents to accomplish more rapid and effective 
                evacuation of passengers.
    (c) Regulations Required 3 Years After the Date of the Enactment of 
This Act.--Not later than 3 years after the date of the enactment of 
this Act, the Secretary shall prescribe regulations as follows:
            (1) Adaptive cruise control.--Require motorcoaches be 
        equipped with adaptive cruise control for maintaining safe 
        trailing distances when underway and a collision warning system 
        that provides sufficient advance notice to the operator of a 
        motorcoach of any imminent impact.
            (2) Automatic fire suppression.--Require motorcoaches be 
        equipped with highly effective fire suppression systems that 
        automatically respond to and suppress all fires in such 
        motorcoaches.
    (d) Application of Regulations.--
            (1) Prospective application.--Except as provided in 
        paragraph (2), a regulation prescribed in accordance with 
        subsection (a), (b), or (c) shall apply to all motorcoaches 
        that are manufactured on or after the effective date of such 
        regulation.
            (2) Retrofit safety requirements for in-service 
        motorcoaches.--
                    (A) In general.--(i) Except as provided in 
                subparagraph (B), a regulation prescribed in accordance 
                with subsection (a)(1) shall apply to all motorcoaches 
                used for motorcoach services on or after the effective 
                date of such regulation.
                    (ii) Except as provided in subparagraph (B), a 
                regulation prescribed in accordance with subsection 
                (a)(3) shall apply to all motorcoaches used for 
                motorcoach services on or after the effective date of 
                such regulation.
                    (iii) Except as provided in subparagraph (B), a 
                regulation prescribed in accordance with subsection 
                (b)(5) shall apply to all motorcoaches used for 
                motorcoach services on or after the effective date of 
                such regulation.
                    (B) Exception.--In the case of a motorcoach that 
                was used for motorcoach services before the effective 
                date of a regulation described in subparagraph (A), 
                such regulation shall not apply to such motorcoach 
                until--
                            (i) 2 years after the effective date of 
                        such regulation; or
                            (ii) if the Secretary determines that the 
                        application date described in clause (i) would 
                        cause undue hardship, 5 years after the 
                        effective date of such regulation.

SEC. 4. STUDY AND REPORT ON IMPROVED BUS CRASHWORTHINESS AND CRASH 
              AVOIDANCE.

    (a) Study.--Not later than September 30, 2008, the Secretary shall 
complete a study of the following, with respect to buses that are more 
than 10,000 pounds gross vehicle weigh rating (GVWR):
            (1) Bus safety design improvements and countermeasures for 
        improving bus crashworthiness to achieve substantial 
        improvements in occupant protection in all types of crashes, 
        including the following:
                    (A) Active and passive restraint systems.
                    (B) Enhanced passenger compartmentalization.
                    (C) Upper and lower interior occupant impact 
                protection.
                    (D) Improved resistance to roof failures leading to 
                deformation and intrusion that result in occupant 
                injury.
                    (E) Improved resistance to occupant partial and 
                complete ejection.
                    (F) Improved crash compatibility with other types 
                and weights of motor vehicles in order to reduce both 
                the number and severity of crashes and the number and 
                severity of occupant injuries both in buses and in the 
                other vehicles.
            (2) Crash avoidance improvements to reduce the number and 
        severity of bus crashes, including the following:
                    (A) Collision warning systems.
                    (B) Improved braking capabilities.
                    (C) Enhanced bus conspicuity.
                    (D) Increased resistance to loss-of-control 
                crashes.
                    (E) Improved resistance to rollover crashes.
            (3) Bus fire protection and passenger evacuation 
        improvements, including the following:
                    (A) Effective emergency exit design.
                    (B) Effective emergency evacuation of passengers.
                    (C) Effective manual and automated fire suppression 
                systems.
                    (D) Increased vehicle resistance to fire 
                propagation, including both exterior and interior 
                resistance to burning.
                    (E) Suppression of toxic smoke and vapors in bus 
                fires.
                    (F) Resistance to bus fuel system fires.
                    (G) Training of bus operators in the use of 
                firefighting equipment and the safe evacuation of 
                passengers.
            (4) Such other occupant protection safety countermeasures 
        as the Secretary considers appropriate.
    (b) Report.--Not later than September 30, 2008, the Secretary shall 
submit to the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the 
Senate and the Committee on Energy and Commerce of the House of 
Representatives a report setting forth the findings of the Secretary 
with respect to the study required by subsection (a) and 
recommendations for legislative and regulatory changes.

SEC. 5. IMPROVED OVERSIGHT OF PROVIDERS OF MOTORCOACH SERVICES AND OF 
              OTHER MOTOR CARRIERS OF PASSENGERS.

    (a) In General.--Section 31144 of title 49, United States Code, is 
amended by adding at the end the following:
    ``(h) Periodic Safety Reviews of Providers of Motorcoach 
Services.--
            ``(1) Safety review.--Not later than 3 years after the date 
        of the enactment of this subsection, the Secretary shall 
        require, by regulation, each provider of motorcoach services 
        registered with the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration 
        on or after the date of the enactment of this subsection to 
        undergo a periodic safety review.
            ``(2) Elements of review.--In the regulations prescribed 
        pursuant to paragraph (1), the Secretary shall establish the 
        elements of the periodic safety review, including basic safety 
        management controls.
            ``(3) Safety fitness ratings.--As part of the safety review 
        required by this subsection, the Secretary shall assign a 
        safety fitness rating to each provider of motorcoach services 
        and shall reassess such rating not less frequently than every 3 
        years.
            ``(4) Motorcoach services defined.--In this subsection, the 
        term `provider of motorcoach services' has the meaning provided 
        such term in section 2 of the Motorcoach Enhanced Safety Act of 
        2007.''
    (b) Revision of Safety Audit System.--Not later than September 30, 
2008, the Secretary shall revise the safety fitness audit system of the 
Department of Transportation established pursuant to section 31144 of 
title 49, United States Code, to conform with safety recommendation H-
99-6 of the National Transportation Safety Board issued February 26, 
1999.

SEC. 6. MOTORCOACH DRIVER TRAINING.

    (a) Establishment of Training Curriculum.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 2 years after the date of 
        the enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall establish, by 
        regulation, a training curriculum for drivers of motorcoaches 
        to be adopted by public and private schools and motor carriers 
        that provide training for drivers of motorcoaches.
            (2) Curriculum requirements.--The training curriculum 
        required by paragraph (1) shall include the following:
                    (A) Classroom and behind-the-wheel instruction that 
                is adequate for all new drivers of motorcoaches to 
                operate safely motorcoaches and respond effectively to 
                emergency situations.
                    (B) Instruction in advanced knowledge and skills 
                that are necessary to operate motorcoaches safely, 
                including the knowledge and skills necessary--
                            (i) to suppress motorcoach fires; and
                            (ii) to evacuate passengers from 
                        motorcoaches safely.
    (b) Training Required.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary shall require each 
        motorcoach driver seeking a commercial driver's license (CDL) 
        passenger endorsement to undergo a training program that 
        includes the training curriculum established pursuant to 
        subsection (a) before taking a test for a commercial driver's 
        license passenger endorsement.
            (2) Certificate of completion required.--The Secretary 
        shall require that each driver seeking to take the test for the 
        commercial driver's license passenger endorsement shall present 
        a certificate to a State licensing authority certifying that 
        the driver has--
                    (A) successfully completed a motorcoach driver 
                training course that includes the curriculum 
                established in accordance with subsection (a); and
                    (B) received a passing grade for an examination at 
                the culmination of such training course.
    (c) Report on Feasibility of Establishing a System of Certification 
of Training Programs.--Not later than September 30, 2008, the Secretary 
shall submit to the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation 
of the Senate and the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure of 
the House of Representatives a report on the feasibility of 
establishing a system of certification of public and private schools 
and of motor carriers that provide motorcoach driver training in 
accordance with the curriculum established by the Secretary pursuant to 
subsection (a).

SEC. 7. IMPROVED COMMERCIAL DRIVER'S LICENSE TESTING.

    (a) Increased Stringency of Examination for Commercial Driver's 
License Passenger-Carrying Endorsement.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary shall prescribe standards 
        that improve the quality and stringency of the examination for 
        the commercial driver's license passenger-carrying endorsement. 
        Such standards shall require--
                    (A) a more stringent knowledge test than the test 
                in effect on the day before the date of the enactment 
                of this Act; and
                    (B) a more stringent examination of the driving 
                skills necessary to operate safely a commercial motor 
                vehicle with passengers than the examination of such 
                skills in effect on the day before the date of the 
                enactment of this Act.
            (2) Cooperation.--In prescribing the standards required by 
        paragraph (1), the Secretary shall cooperate with the American 
        Association of Motor Vehicle Administrators.
    (b) Modification of Requirements for Commercial Driver's License 
Passenger-Carrying Endorsement.--The Secretary shall establish by 
regulation a requirement that a driver shall have a commercial driver's 
license passenger-carrying endorsement in order to operate a commercial 
motor vehicle and transport not less than 9 and not more than 15 
passengers (including a driver) in interstate commerce for 
compensation.

SEC. 8. IMPROVED PHYSICAL FITNESS OVERSIGHT AND COMMERCIAL DRIVER 
              MEDICAL CERTIFICATES.

    (a) Require Passage of Rigorous Examination To Be Listed in 
National Registry of Medical Examiners.--Section 31149(c)(1)(D) of 
title 49, United States Code, is amended to read as follows:
                    ``(D) develop, as appropriate, specific courses and 
                materials for medical examiners who wish to be listed 
                in the national registry established under this section 
                and develop a rigorous examination for which a passing 
                grade must be achieved to be listed in such national 
                registry;''.
    (b) Integration of Federal Medical Qualification Certificate and 
Commercial Driver's License.--Not later than 2 years after the date of 
the enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall prescribe the 
regulations required by section 215 of the Motor Carrier Safety 
Improvement Act of 1999 (49 U.S.C. 31305 note).
    (c) Medical Examination Form Comparisons.--Not later than 2 years 
after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall 
require by regulation that--
            (1) each time a medical examiner performs a medical 
        examination to certify an applicant for a commercial driver's 
        license under section 391.43 of title 49, Code of Federal 
        Regulations, such medical examiner shall submit to the 
        appropriate State licensing agency the form for such 
        examination required by section 391.43(f) of such title (as in 
        effect on the day before the date of the enactment of this 
        Act); and
            (2) as a condition of approval of a State plan under 
        section 31102(d) of title 49, United States Code (as added by 
        section 10(b)), State licensing authorities compare the forms 
        they receive pursuant to paragraph (1) with the medical 
        examiner's certificate required by section 391.43(g) of title 
        49, Code of Federal Regulations (as in effect on the day before 
        the date of the enactment of this Act) to determine the 
        accuracy and validity of the information contained in such 
        forms and certificates.
    (d) Additional Oversight of Licensing Authorities.--
            (1) In general.--Section 31149(c)(1) of title 49, United 
        States Code, is amended--
                    (A) in subparagraph (E), by striking ``basis; and'' 
                and inserting ``basis;'';
                    (B) in subparagraph (F), by striking the period at 
                the end and inserting ``; and''; and
                    (C) by adding at the end the following:
                    ``(G) each year, review the licensing authorities 
                of 10 States to assess the accuracy and validity of 
                physical examination reports and medical certificates 
                submitted by certified medical examiners to such State 
                licensing agencies.''.
            (2) Internal oversight policy.--
                    (A) In general.--Not later than 2 years after the 
                date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall 
                establish an oversight policy and process within the 
                Department of Transportation for purposes of carrying 
                out the requirement of subparagraph (G) of such section 
                31149(c)(1), as added by paragraph (1).
                    (B) Effective date.--The requirement of 
                subparagraph (G) of section 31149(c)(1) of title 49, 
                United States Code, shall take effect on the date that 
                the oversight policies and processes are established 
                pursuant to subparagraph (A).
    (e) Deadline for Establishment of National Registry of Medical 
Examiners.--Not later than 1 year after the date of the enactment of 
this Act, the Secretary shall establish the national registry of 
medical examiners required by section 31149(d)(1) of title 49, United 
States Code.
    (f) Additional Function of Medical Review Board.--Section 
31149(a)(1) of title 49, United States Code, is amended to read as 
follows:
            ``(1) Establishment and function.--The Secretary of 
        Transportation shall establish a Medical Review Board with the 
        following functions:
                    ``(A) Providing the Federal Motor Carrier Safety 
                Administration with medical advice and recommendations 
                on medical standards and guidelines for the following:
                            ``(i) The physical qualifications of 
                        operators of commercial motor vehicles.
                            ``(ii) Medical examiner education.
                            ``(iii) Medical research.
                    ``(B) Providing the Secretary with advice and 
                recommendations concerning the criteria to be used for 
                evaluating medical examiners for admission to the 
                national registry established under this section.''.

SEC. 9. SAFETY ENFORCEMENT TECHNOLOGY TO REDUCE DRIVER FATIGUE.

    (a) In General.--Not later than 1 year after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall prescribe regulations 
requiring that all commercial motor vehicles used by a motor carrier in 
interstate commerce be equipped with electronic on-board recorders 
linked with vehicle engine functions and electronic control modules 
that accurately record commercial driver hours of service and provide 
real-time tracking of driver and vehicle location.
    (b) Applicability.--The regulations prescribed under subsection (a) 
shall apply to all commercial motor vehicles used by motor carriers in 
interstate commerce beginning on the date that is 3 years after the 
date of the enactment of this Act.

SEC. 10. COMMERCIAL MOTOR VEHICLE SAFETY INSPECTION PROGRAMS.

    (a) In General.--Section 31142 of title 49, United States Code, is 
amended by striking subsections (a) and (b) and inserting the 
following:
    ``(a) Annual Safety Inspection Program.--
            ``(1) Program required.--In order to receive a grant 
        pursuant to section 31102 of this title, a State shall carry 
        out an annual safety inspection program for commercial motor 
        vehicles, including motor carriers transporting not less than 9 
        and not more than 15 passengers (including a driver), that 
        receives approval from the Secretary pursuant to paragraph (3).
            ``(2) Inspection of safety equipment.--A commercial motor 
        vehicle inspected under a program established pursuant to 
        paragraph (1) is required to pass an inspection of all safety 
        equipment required under the regulations prescribed under 
        section 31136 of this title.
            ``(3) Periodic review of state safety inspection 
        programs.--Not less frequently than once every 3 years, the 
        Secretary shall review and approve or disapprove each safety 
        inspection program established pursuant to paragraph (1).
    ``(b) Regulations for Inspection of Vehicles and Record 
Retention.--
            ``(1) In general.--The Secretary shall prescribe 
        regulations on Government standards for--
                    ``(A) inspection of commercial motor vehicles under 
                programs established pursuant to subsection (a); and
                    ``(B) retention by employers of records of such an 
                inspection.
            ``(2) Authority.--Regulations prescribed under this 
        subsection are treated as regulations prescribed under section 
        31136 of this title.''.
    (b) Condition on State Grants.--Section 31102(d) of such title is 
amended to read as follows:
    ``(d) Continuous Evaluation of Plans.--
            ``(1) In general.--On the basis of reports submitted by a 
        State motor vehicle safety agency of a State with a plan 
        approved under this section and the Secretary's own 
        investigations, the Secretary shall make a continuing 
        evaluation of the way the State is carrying out the plan. If 
        the Secretary finds, after notice and opportunity for comment, 
        the State plan previously approved is not being followed or has 
        become inadequate to ensure enforcement of the regulations, 
        standards, or orders, the Secretary shall withdraw approval of 
        the plan and notify the State.
            ``(2) Approval of annual commercial motor vehicle 
        inspection programs.--If, under paragraph (3) of section 
        31142(a) of this title, the Secretary disapproves of an annual 
        safety inspection program of a State established pursuant to 
        paragraph (1) of such section 31142(a), the Secretary shall 
        withdraw approval of the plan of such State and notify the 
        State.
            ``(3) Effective date of plan disapproval.--A State plan 
        stops being effective under this subsection when notice is 
        received by the State under this subsection.
            ``(4) Judicial review.--A State adversely affected by a 
        withdrawal of approval under this subsection may seek judicial 
        review under chapter 7 of title 5.
            ``(5) Retention of jurisdiction.--Notwithstanding a 
        withdrawal of approval under this subsection, the State may 
        retain jurisdiction in administrative or judicial proceedings 
        begun before the withdrawal if the issues involved are not 
        related directly to the reasons for the withdrawal.''.
    (c) Effective Date.--The amendments made by this section shall take 
effect 1 year after the date of the enactment of this Act.

SEC. 11. REGULATIONS.

    Any standard or regulation prescribed or modified pursuant to this 
Act shall be done in accordance with section 553 of title 5, United 
States Code.
                                 &lt;all&gt;
</pre></body></html>
