<html><body><pre>
[Congressional Bills 110th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H.R. 2398 Introduced in House (IH)]







110th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                H. R. 2398

      To reauthorize and provide additional funding for essential 
 agricultural research, extension, education, and related programs, to 
   establish the National Institutes for Food and Agriculture as an 
independent agency reporting to and coordinating with the Secretary of 
                  Agriculture, and for other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                              May 21, 2007

  Mr. Barrow (for himself, Mr. Bishop of Georgia, Mr. Space, and Mr. 
Scott of Georgia) introduced the following bill; which was referred to 
                      the Committee on Agriculture

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
      To reauthorize and provide additional funding for essential 
 agricultural research, extension, education, and related programs, to 
   establish the National Institutes for Food and Agriculture as an 
independent agency reporting to and coordinating with the Secretary of 
                  Agriculture, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE; TABLE OF CONTENTS.

    (a) Short Title.--This Act may be cited as the ``Creating Research 
Extension and Teaching Excellence for the 21st Century Act of 2007'' or 
the ``CREATE-21 Act of 2007''.
    (b) Table of Contents.--The table of contents of this Act is as 
follows:

Sec. 1. Short title; table of contents.
Sec. 2. Purposes.
Sec. 3. Definitions.
         TITLE I--NATIONAL INSTITUTES FOR FOOD AND AGRICULTURE

Sec. 101. Establishment of National Institutes for Food and 
                            Agriculture.
Sec. 102. Offices; administration.
Sec. 103. Organization of National Institutes for Food and Agriculture.
Sec. 104. Funding.
Sec. 105. Enhanced funding.
Sec. 106. Single budget submission.
Sec. 107. Capacity building grants for ASCARR Institutions.
                        TITLE II--MODIFICATIONS

Sec. 201. Merit Review of Extension and Educational Grants.
Sec. 202. Repeal plan of work requirements.
Sec. 203. Indirect costs.
                         TITLE III--EXTENSIONS

  Subtitle A--National Agricultural Research, Extension, and Teaching 
                           Policy Act of 1977

Sec. 301. Grants and fellowships for food and agricultural sciences 
                            education.
Sec. 302. Grants for research on production and marketing of alcohols 
                            and industrial hydrocarbons from 
                            agricultural commodities and forest 
                            products.
Sec. 303. Policy research centers.
Sec. 304. Human nutrition intervention and health promotion research 
                            program.
Sec. 305. Pilot research program to combine medical and agricultural 
                            research.
Sec. 306. Nutrition education program.
Sec. 307. Continuing animal health and disease research programs.
Sec. 308. Appropriations for research on national or regional problems.
Sec. 309. Grants to upgrade agricultural and food sciences facilities 
                            at 1890 land-grant colleges, including 
                            Tuskegee University.
Sec. 310. National research and training virtual centers.
Sec. 311. Matching funds requirement for research and extension 
                            activities of 1890 Institutions.
Sec. 312. Hispanic-serving institutions.
Sec. 313. Competitive grants for international agricultural science and 
                            education programs.
Sec. 314. Research equipment grants.
Sec. 315. University research.
Sec. 316. Extension Service.
Sec. 317. Supplemental and alternative crops.
Sec. 318. Aquaculture research facilities.
Sec. 319. Rangeland research.
Sec. 320. Special authorization for biosecurity planning and response.
Sec. 321. Resident instruction and distance education grants program 
                            for insular area institutions of higher 
                            education.
   Subtitle B--Food, Agriculture, Conservation, and Trade Act of 1990

Sec. 331. National genetics resources program.
Sec. 332. High-priority research and extension initiatives.
Sec. 333. Nutrient management research and extension initiative.
Sec. 334. Organic agriculture research and extension initiative.
Sec. 335. Agricultural telecommunications program.
Sec. 336. Assistive technology program for farmers with disabilities.
Sec. 337. National Rural Information Center Clearinghouse.
Subtitle C--Agricultural Research, Extension, and Education Reform Act 
                                of 1998

Sec. 341. Partnerships for high-value agricultural product quality 
                            research.
Sec. 342. Precision agriculture.
Sec. 343. Biobased products.
Sec. 344. Thomas Jefferson Initiative for crop diversification.
Sec. 345. Integrated research, education, and extension competitive 
                            grants program.
Sec. 346. Support for research regarding diseases of wheat, triticale, 
                            and barley caused by Fusarium graminearum 
                            or by Tilletia indica.
Sec. 347. Bovine Johne's disease control program.
Sec. 348. Grants for youth organizations.
Sec. 349. Agricultural biotechnology research and development for 
                            developing countries.
Sec. 350. Office of Pest Management Policy.
                         Subtitle D--Other Laws

Sec. 371. Critical Agricultural Materials Act.
Sec. 372. Equity in Educational Land-Grant Status Act of 1994.
Sec. 373. Agricultural Experiment Station Research Facilities Act.
Sec. 374. National Agricultural Research, Extension, and Teaching 
                            Policy Act Amendments of 1985.
Sec. 375. Competitive, Special, and Facilities Research Grant Act 
                            (National Research Initiative).
Sec. 376. Beginning farmer and rancher development program.
Sec. 377. Agricultural Risk Protection Act of 2000 (Carbon Cycle 
                            Research).
Sec. 378. Renewable Resources Extension Act of 1978.
Sec. 379. National Aquaculture Act of 1980.
                         TITLE IV--ENHANCEMENTS

                   Subtitle A--Research and Extension

Sec. 401. Compliance with multistate and integration requirements.
Sec. 402. Expansion of food and agricultural sciences awards.
Sec. 403. Sustainable human development initiative.
                         Subtitle B--Nutrition

Sec. 411. Expanded food and nutrition education program.
Sec. 412. University of the district of columbia eligibility for the 
                            expanded food and nutrition program.
Sec. 413. Food stamp nutrition education reimbursement for 1890 
                            institutions.
Sec. 414. Reauthorization of the national nutrition monitoring and 
                            related research act of 1990.
                      Subtitle C--1890 Initiatives

Sec. 421. Research and education under the national agricultural 
                            research, extension, and teaching policy 
                            act of 1977.
Sec. 422. Extension formula programs under the national agricultural 
                            research, extension, and teaching policy 
                            act of 1977.
Sec. 423. Children, youth, and families education and research network 
                            (CYFERnet) program.
Sec. 424. Animal health and disease research program.
Sec. 425. Mcintire-Stennis cooperative forestry act.
Sec. 426. Outreach and assistance for socially disadvantaged farmers 
                            and ranchers.
Sec. 427. Grants to 1890 schools to expand extension capacity.
Sec. 428. National center for the study of socialy disadvantaged 
                            farmers.
                          Subtitle D--Forestry

Sec. 431. Mcintire-Stennis cooperative forestry research program.
                     Subtitle E--Rural Development

Sec. 441. Extension of agricultural telecommunications program to rural 
                            development.
Sec. 442. Authorization of rural development research under the 
                            initiative for future agriculture and food 
                            systems.
Sec. 443. Priority initiatives: land use management.
Sec. 444. Priority initiatives: water and air quality.
Sec. 445. Priority initiatives: agrotourism.
Sec. 446. Organic agriculture research and extension initiative.
Sec. 447. Biosecurity.
Sec. 448. Beginning farmers and ranchers.
Sec. 449. Resident instruction and distant education.
Sec. 450. Tribal college and university essential community facilities.
Sec. 451. Value-added agricultural product market development.
Sec. 452. Innovation center demonstration projects.
Sec. 453. Rural entrepreneurship development program.
Sec. 454. Amendments to the consolidated farm and rural development act 
                            relating to 2002 farm bill programs.
                    Subtitle F--International Trade

Sec. 461. FAS/extension service internships.
Sec. 462. FAS internships; university-assisted funding.
Sec. 463. Borlaug international agricultural science and technology 
                            fellowship program.
                           Subtitle G--Energy

Sec. 471. Procurement of biobased products.
Sec. 472. Bioenergy development grants.
Sec. 473. Biodiesel fuel education and development grants.
Sec. 474. Energy audit and renewable energy development program.
Sec. 475. Renewable energy systems and energy efficiency improvements.
Sec. 476. Biomass research and development.
Sec. 477. Cooperative research and extension projects; carbon cycle 
                            research.
                        Subtitle H--Conservation

Sec. 478. Environmental quality incentives.
Sec. 479. Conservation technical assistance and education by extension 
                            service.
Sec. 480. Asssessment and reform of conservation programs.

SEC. 2. PURPOSES.

    The purposes of this Act are--
            (1) to integrate and organize the administration of the 
        extramural agricultural research, extension, education, and 
        related programs administered by the Secretary of Agriculture 
        to respond to 21st century challenges and continue to meet the 
        needs of society from a local, tribal, State, national, and 
        international perspective;
            (2) to minimize duplication, and maximize coordination and 
        integration, among the programs at all levels through a 
        solution-based approach;
            (3) to enhance the capacity of all participating 
        institutions to more effectively carry out the programs, with 
        special emphasis given to 1890 Institutions, 1994 Institutions, 
        Insular Area Institutions, ASCARR Institutions, and Small 1862 
        Land-Grant Institutions;
            (4) to provide for a more balanced portfolio of available 
        resources and funding between capacity programs and competitive 
        programs through the enhanced growth of competitive funds;
            (5) to position the agricultural research, extension, 
        education, and related programs system to increase the 
        contribution of the system to society through the expansion of 
        the portfolio of the system; and
            (6) to provide funding to achieve the purposes of this Act 
        and other purposes by enhancing by 100 percent the authorized 
        funding for extramural agricultural research, extension, 
        education, and related programs over 5 fiscal years.

SEC. 3. DEFINITIONS.

    In this Act:
            (1) 1862 institution.--The term ``1862 Institution'' means 
        a college or university eligible to receive funds under the Act 
        of July 2, 1862 (7 U.S.C. 301 et seq.).
            (2) 1890 institution.--The term ``1890 Institution'' means 
        a college or university eligible to receive funds under the Act 
        of August 30, 1890 (7 U.S.C. 321 et seq.), including Tuskegee 
        University.
            (3) 1994 institution.--The term ``1994 Institution'' means 
        one of the 1994 Institutions (as defined in section 532 of the 
        Equity in Educational Land-Grant Status Act of 1994 (Public Law 
        103-382; 7 U.S.C. 301 note)).
            (4) ASCARR institution.--
                    (A) In general.--The term ``ASCARR Institution'' 
                means a public college or university offering a 
                baccalaureate or higher degree in the study of 
                agriculture.
                    (B) Exclusions.--The term ``ASCARR Institution'' 
                does not include an institution eligible to receive 
                funds under--
                            (i) the Act of July 2, 1862 (commonly known 
                        as the ``First Morrill Act'') (7 U.S.C. 301 et 
                        seq.);
                            (ii) the Act of August 30, 1890 (commonly 
                        known as the ``Second Morrill Act'') (7 U.S.C. 
                        321 et seq.); or
                            (iii) the Equity in Educational Land-Grant 
                        Status Act of 1994 (Public Law 103-382; 7 
                        U.S.C. 301 note).
            (5) Capacity program.--The term ``capacity program'' means 
        each of the following agricultural research, extension, 
        education, and related programs for which the Secretary has 
        administrative or other authority as of the day before the date 
        of enactment of this Act:
                    (A) Each program established under the Act of July 
                2, 1862 (commonly known as the ``First Morrill Act'') 
                (7 U.S.C. 301 et seq.).
                    (B) Each program providing funding to any of the 
                1994 Institutions under sections 533, 534(a), and 535 
                of the Equity in Educational Land-Grant Status Act of 
                1994 (Public Law 103-382; 7 U.S.C. 301 note) (commonly 
                known as ``financial assistance, technical assistance, 
                and endowments to tribal colleges and Navajo Community 
                College'').
                    (C) The program established under section 536 of 
                the Equity in Educational Land-Grant Status Act of 1994 
                (Public Law 103-382; 7 U.S.C. 301 note) providing 
                research grants for 1994 institutions.
                    (D) Each program established under subsections (b), 
                (c), and (d) of section 3 of the Smith-Lever Act (7 
                U.S.C. 343).
                    (E) Each program established under the Hatch Act of 
                1887 (7 U.S.C. 361a et seq.).
                    (F) Each grant program established under section 
                2501 of the Food, Agriculture, Conservation, and Trade 
                Act of 1990 (7 U.S.C. 2279) providing outreach and 
                assistance for socially disadvantaged farmers and 
                ranchers.
                    (G) Each program established under section 
                1417(b)(4) of the National Agricultural Research, 
                Extension, and Teaching Policy Act of 1977 (7 U.S.C. 
                3152(b)(4)), including grant programs under that 
                section (commonly known as the ``1890 Institution 
                Teaching and Research Capacity Building Grants 
                Program'').
                    (H) The animal health and disease research program 
                established under subtitle E of the National 
                Agricultural Research, Extension, and Teaching Policy 
                Act of 1977 (7 U.S.C. 3191 et seq.).
                    (I) Each extension program available to 1890 
                Institutions established under sections 1444 and 1464 
                of the National Agricultural Research, Extension, and 
                Teaching Policy Act of 1977 (7 U.S.C. 3221, 3312).
                    (J) The program established under section 1445 of 
                the National Agricultural Research, Extension, and 
                Teaching Policy Act of 1977 (7 U.S.C. 3222) (commonly 
                known as the ``Evans-Allen Program'').
                    (K) The program providing grants to upgrade 
                agricultural and food sciences facilities at 1890 
                Institutions established under section 1447 of the 
                National Agricultural Research, Extension, and Teaching 
                Policy Act of 1977 (7 U.S.C. 3222b).
                    (L) The program providing distance education grants 
                for insular areas established under section 1490 of the 
                National Agricultural Research, Extension, and Teaching 
                Policy Act of 1977 (7 U.S.C. 3362).
                    (M) The program providing resident instruction 
                grants for insular areas established under section 1491 
                of the National Agricultural Research, Extension, and 
                Teaching Policy Act of 1977 (7 U.S.C. 3363).
                    (N) Each program available to 1890 Institutions 
                established under section 406 of the Agricultural 
                Research, Extension, and Education Reform Act of 1998 
                (7 U.S.C. 7626).
                    (O) The program providing competitive extension 
                grants to eligible 1994 Institutions under section 1464 
                of National Agricultural Research, Extension, and 
                Teaching Policy Act of 1977 (7 U.S.C. 3312) and the 
                Equity in Educational Land-Grant Status Act of 1994 
                (Public Law 103-382; 7 U.S.C. 301 note) established 
                under section 406 of the Agricultural Research, 
                Extension, and Education Reform Act of 1998 (7 U.S.C. 
                7626).
                    (P) Each research and development and related 
                program established under Public Law 87-788 (commonly 
                known as the ``McIntire-Stennis Cooperative Forestry 
                Act'') (16 U.S.C. 582a et seq.).
                    (Q) Each program established under the Renewable 
                Resources Extension Act of 1978 (16 U.S.C. 1671 et 
                seq.).
                    (R) Each grant program for ASCARR Institutions 
                established under section 202.
            (6) Capacity program critical base funding.--The term 
        ``capacity program critical base funding'' means the aggregate 
        amount of Federal funds made available for all or individual 
        capacity programs for fiscal year 2007, as appropriate.
            (7) Competitive program.--The term ``competitive program'' 
        means each of the following agricultural research, extension, 
        education, and related programs for which the Secretary has 
        administrative or other authority as of the day before the date 
        of enactment of this Act:
                    (A) The competitive grant program established under 
                section 2 of the Competitive, Special, and Facilities 
                Research Grant Act (7 U.S.C. 450i), commonly known as 
                the ``National Research Initiative Competitive Grants 
                Program''.
                    (B) The program providing grants and related 
                assistance established under section 1417(b)(5) of the 
                National Agricultural Research, Extension, and Teaching 
                Policy Act of 1977 (7 U.S.C. 3152(b)(5)) commonly known 
                as the ``Higher Education Multicultural Scholars 
                Program''.
                    (C) The Food and Agricultural Sciences grant 
                program established under section 1417 of the National 
                Agricultural Research, Extension, and Teaching Policy 
                Act of 1977 (7 U.S.C. 3152), commonly known as the 
                ``Food and Agricultural Sciences National Needs 
                Graduate Fellowship Grants Program''.
                    (D) The program providing grants under section 
                1417(j) of the National Agricultural Research, 
                Extension, and Teaching Policy Act of 1977 (7 U.S.C. 
                3152(j)), commonly known as ``Institution Challenge 
                Grants''.
                    (E) The program providing grants for Hispanic-
                serving institutions established under section 1455 of 
                the National Agricultural Research, Extension, and 
                Teaching Policy Act of 1977 (7 U.S.C. 3241).
                    (F) The Initiative for Future Agriculture and Food 
                Systems established under section 401 of the 
                Agricultural Research, Extension, and Education Reform 
                Act of 1998 (7 U.S.C. 7621) or any substantially 
                similar program or authority.
                    (G) The integrated research, education, and 
                extension competitive grants program established under 
                section 406 of the Agricultural Research, Extension, 
                and Education Reform Act of 1998 (7 U.S.C. 7626).
            (8) Competitive program critical base funding.--The term 
        ``competitive program critical base funding'' means the 
        aggregate amount of Federal funds made available for all or 
        individual competitive programs for fiscal year 2007, as 
        appropriate.
            (9) Council.--The term ``Council'' means The National 
        Agriculture, Research, Extension, Education, and Economics 
        Advisory Board.
            (10) Department.--The term ``Department'' means the 
        Department of Agriculture.
            (11) Director.--The term ``Director'' means the Director of 
        the National Institutes for Food and Agriculture.
            (12) Extramural activity.--The term ``extramural activity'' 
        includes each program and related activity administered or 
        otherwise carried out by the entities or under an authority 
        described in paragraph (5).
            (13) Fundamental research.--The term ``fundamental 
        research'' means research that, as determined by the Director--
                    (A) advances the frontiers of knowledge so as to 
                lead to practical results or to further scientific 
                discovery; and
                    (B) has an effect on--
                            (i) agriculture, food, forestry, human 
                        health, or another purpose of this Act;
                            (ii) a priority area of the National 
                        Institutes for Food and Agriculture; or
                            (iii) another goal or purpose of a National 
                        Institutes for Food and Agriculture program.
            (14) Insular area institution.--The term ``Insular Area 
        Institution'' has the meaning given the term ``eligible 
        institution'' in section 1489 of the National Agricultural 
        Research, Extension, and Teaching Policy Act of 1977 (7 U.S.C. 
        3361).
            (15) National institutes for food and agriculture.--The 
        term ``National Institutes for Food and Agriculture'' means the 
        National Institutes for Food and Agriculture established under 
        section 101.
            (16) National institutes for food and agriculture 
        program.--The term ``National Institutes for Food and 
        Agriculture program'' includes each capacity program, 
        competitive program, and any other program, authority, power, 
        or activity of the National Institutes for Food and 
        Agriculture, including those described in section 101.
            (17) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary 
        of Agriculture.
            (18) Small 1862 land-grant institutions.--The term ``Small 
        1862 Land-Grant Institution'' means each 1862 institution that 
        received, for the 3 fiscal years immediately preceding the 
        applicable fiscal year (based on a 3-year rolling average), 
        less than 1 percent of--
                    (A) in the case of a fiscal year beginning before 
                the date of the enactment of this Act and the 
                implementation of the National Institutes for Food and 
                Agriculture programs (as determined by the Director), 
                the funds received by each such institution from among 
                available programs of the Cooperative State Research, 
                Education, and Extension Service; and
                    (B) in the case of a fiscal year beginning after 
                the date of the enactment of this Act and the 
                implementation of the National Institutes for Food and 
                Agriculture programs (as determined by the Director), 
                the funds received by each such institution from among 
                available National Institutes for Food and Agriculture 
                programs, other than funds reserved or distributed 
                under paragraph (2)(B)(ii)(I), (2)(C)(ii)(I), or 
                (3)(A)(ii) of section 105(c).
            (19) State.--The term ``State'' means--
                    (A) each of the several States of the United 
                States;
                    (B) the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico;
                    (C) Guam;
                    (D) American Samoa;
                    (E) the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana 
                Islands;
                    (F) the Federated States of Micronesia;
                    (G) the Republic of the Marshall Islands; and
                    (H) the United States Virgin Islands.
            (20) United states.--The term ``United States'', when used 
        in a geographical sense, means all of the States.

         TITLE I--NATIONAL INSTITUTES FOR FOOD AND AGRICULTURE

SEC. 101. ESTABLISHMENT OF NATIONAL INSTITUTES FOR FOOD AND 
              AGRICULTURE.

    (a) Establishment.--
            (1) In general.--There is established within the Department 
        an agency to be known as the ``National Institutes for Food and 
        Agriculture''.
            (2) Members.--The National Institutes for Food and 
        Agriculture shall consist of--
                    (A) the Director;
                    (B) the Council;
                    (C) the individual institutes established under 
                section 103; and
                    (D) the staff and employees of National Institutes 
                for Food and Agriculture.
    (b) Authorities.--
            (1) Transfer of authorities.--There are transferred to 
        National Institutes for Food and Agriculture the authorities 
        (including all budget authorities and personnel), duties, 
        obligations, and related legal and administrative functions 
        prescribed by law or otherwise granted to the Secretary, the 
        Department, or any other agency or official of the Department 
        under--
                    (A) the capacity programs;
                    (B) the competitive programs;
                    (C) the research, education, economic, cooperative 
                State research programs, cooperative extension and 
                education programs, international programs, and other 
                functions and authorities delegated by the Secretary 
                to--
                            (i) the Under Secretary of Agriculture for 
                        Research, Education, and Economics (including 
                        under section 251 of the Federal Crop Insurance 
                        Reform and Department of Agriculture 
                        Reorganization Act of 1994 (7 U.S.C. 6971)); 
                        and
                            (ii) the Administrator of the Cooperative 
                        State Research, Education, and extension 
                        Service pursuant to section 2.66 of title 7, 
                        Code of Federal Regulations (or successor 
                        regulations); and
                    (D) any and all other authorities administered by--
                            (i) the Under Secretary of Agriculture for 
                        Research, Education, and Economics; and
                            (ii) the Administrator of the Cooperative 
                        State Research, Education, and Extension 
                        Service.
            (2) Consolidation of authorities.--To carry out this Act, 
        in accordance with the transfer and continuation of the 
        authorities, budgetary functions, and personnel resources under 
        this subsection, the administrative entity within the 
        Department known as the Cooperative State Research, Education, 
        and Extension Services, shall terminate on the earlier of--
                    (A) October 1, 2008; or
                    (B) such earlier date as the Director determines to 
                be appropriate.
            (3) Reservation.--Notwithstanding any other provision of 
        this Act, any and all administrative authority over the 
        functions and activities of the National Agricultural 
        Statistics Service, consistent with those authorities, 
        functions, and activities as in effect on the day before the 
        date of enactment of this Act, shall remain under the authority 
        of the Secretary.
    (c) Powers.--The Director may--
            (1) promulgate such regulations as the Director determines 
        to be necessary to govern the operations, organization, and 
        personnel of the National Institutes for Food and Agriculture;
            (2) make such expenditures as are necessary to carry out 
        this Act;
            (3) enter into contracts or other arrangements, or 
        modifications of contracts or other arrangements--
                    (A) to provide for the carrying out, by 
                organizations or individuals in the United States 
                (including agencies of the Department and other 
                Government agencies) of such National Institutes for 
                Food and Agriculture programs as the Director 
                determines to be necessary to carry out this Act; and
                    (B) at the request of the President or the 
                Secretary, for the carrying out of such specific 
                National Institutes for Food and Agriculture program-
                related activities as are in the national interest or 
                are otherwise of critical importance, as determined by 
                the President or the Secretary, with the concurrence of 
                the Director;
            (4) make advance, progress, and other payments relating to 
        National Institutes for Food and Agriculture programs without 
        regard to the subsections (a) and (b) of section 3324 of title 
        31, United States Code;
            (5) acquire by purchase, lease, loan, gift, or 
        condemnation, and hold and dispose of by grant, sale, lease, or 
        loan, real and personal property of all kinds necessary for, or 
        resulting from, the exercise of authority under this Act;
            (6) receive and use donated funds, if the funds are donated 
        without restriction other than that the funds be used in 
        furtherance of National Institutes for Food and Agriculture 
        programs or one or more of the purposes of this Act;
            (7) publish or arrange for the publication of information 
        so as to further the full dissemination of information of value 
        consistent with the purposes of this Act and the national 
        interest, without regard to section 501 of title 44, United 
        States Code;
            (8) accept and use the services of voluntary and 
        uncompensated personnel, and provide such transportation and 
        subsistence as are authorized by section 5703 of title 5, 
        United States Code, for persons serving without compensation;
            (9) prescribe, with the approval of the Comptroller General 
        of the United States, the extent to which vouchers for funds 
        expended under contracts for authorized activities shall be 
        subject to itemization or substantiation prior to payment, 
        without regard to the limitations of other laws relating to the 
        expenditure and accounting of public funds; and
            (10) arrange with and reimburse the Secretary and the heads 
        of other Federal agencies for the performance of any activity 
        that the National Institutes for Food and Agriculture is 
        authorized to conduct.
    (d) Consultation.--The Director shall consult with the Secretary on 
an ongoing basis to ensure that the national interest is being served 
by the administration of the National Institutes for Food and 
Agriculture, National Institutes for Food and Agriculture programs, and 
other authorities provided under this Act.
    (e) Reporting.--Not later than December 31, 2007, and biennially 
thereafter, the Director shall submit to the Secretary, the Committee 
on Agriculture of the House of Representatives, the Committee on 
Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry of the Senate, the Committee on 
Appropriations of the House of Representatives, and the Committee on 
Appropriations of the Senate a comprehensive report that describes the 
National Institutes for Food and Agriculture programs and related 
activities funded, initially implemented, and otherwise carried out by 
the National Institutes for Food and Agriculture during the period 
covered by the report.

SEC. 102. OFFICES; ADMINISTRATION.

    (a) Location.--The National Institutes for Food and Agriculture 
shall be located in Washington, DC.
    (b) Director.--
            (1) Appointment.--
                    (A) In general.--The Director shall be--
                            (i) a distinguished expert in one or more 
                        National Institutes for Food and Agriculture 
                        programs (or issues addressed by or fields 
                        relating to those programs); and
                            (ii) appointed by the President, by and 
                        with the advice and consent of the Senate.
                    (B) Recommendations.--Before any person is 
                appointed as Director, the President shall afford the 
                Council an opportunity to make recommendations to the 
                President with respect to the appointment.
                    (C) Rate of pay.--The Director shall receive basic 
                pay at the rate provided for level IV of the Executive 
                Schedule under section 5513 of title 5, United States 
                Code.
            (2) Term.--The Director shall serve for a single, 6-year 
        term.
            (3) Authority.--Except as may be otherwise provided in this 
        Act--
                    (A) the Director shall--
                            (i) exercise all of the authority granted 
                        to the National Institutes for Food and 
                        Agriculture by this Act;
                            (ii) in consultation with the Council, 
                        formulate programs in accordance with policies 
                        adopted by the National Institutes for Food and 
                        Agriculture;
                            (iii) establish committees and offices 
                        within the National Institutes for Food and 
                        Agriculture, as appropriate;
                            (iv) establish procedures for the provision 
                        and administration of capacity program funding 
                        and competitive program grants by the National 
                        Institutes for Food and Agriculture in 
                        accordance with this Act and other applicable 
                        law;
                            (v) establish procedures for the peer or 
                        merit review of National Institutes for Food 
                        and Agriculture program activities in 
                        accordance with this Act and other applicable 
                        law, as appropriate;
                            (vi) assess the personnel needs of 
                        research, education, extension, and other 
                        fields in the areas supported by National 
                        Institutes for Food and Agriculture programs; 
                        and
                            (vii) cooperate with the Council to plan 
                        programs that assist in meeting the future 
                        personnel needs of disciplines and activities 
                        in the areas supported by National Institutes 
                        for Food and Agriculture programs, including 
                        portable fellowship and training programs, as 
                        applicable; and
                    (B) all actions taken by the Director pursuant to 
                this Act shall be final and binding upon the National 
                Institutes for Food and Agriculture.
            (4) Delegation and redelegation of functions.--The Director 
        may, from time to time, establish such procedures as the 
        Director determines to be appropriate to authorize the 
        performance by any other officer, agency, or employee of the 
        National Institutes for Food and Agriculture of any of the 
        functions of the Director under this Act.
            (5) Formulation of programs.--The formulation of programs 
        in accordance with the policies of the National Institutes for 
        Food and Agriculture shall be carried out by the Director, in 
        consultation with the Council.
            (6) Authority to grant and contract.--The Director may make 
        grants and enter into contracts and other arrangements pursuant 
        to this Act and other applicable law.
            (7) Status; power to vote and hold office.--
                    (A) In general.--The Director shall--
                            (i) serve as a voting ex officio member of 
                        the Council; and
                            (ii) except with respect to compensation 
                        and tenure, serve in a manner commensurate with 
                        the other members of the Council.
                    (B) Election.--The Director shall be eligible for 
                election by the Council as Chairperson or Vice 
                Chairperson of the Council.
    (c) Staff Appointment.--The Director shall, in accordance with such 
policies as the Council may from time to time establish, recruit, hire, 
prescribe, appoint, and fix the compensation of such personnel as are 
necessary to carry out this Act, including the appointment, for a 
limited term or on a temporary basis, of appropriate--
            (1) scientific and other expert and accomplished staff; and
            (2) other technical and professional personnel on leave of 
        absence from academic, industrial, or research institutions.
    (d) Rotating Credentialed Staff.--
            (1) In general.--The Director shall be assisted by an 
        appropriately-credentialed staff of experts in--
                    (A) National Institutes for Food and Agriculture 
                programs; and
                    (B) issues addressed by, and fields relating to, 
                those programs.
            (2) Requirements.--Credentialed staff members described in 
        paragraph (1) shall be--
                    (A) recruited from the community of National 
                Institutes for Food and Agriculture programs or related 
                fields; and
                    (B) appointed by the Director to serve on the basis 
                of 4-year rotating appointments.
    (e) Temporary Staff.--Staff hired by the Director under this 
section may include researchers, scientists, and other credentialed, 
technical, or professional personnel hired for limited terms, or on 
temporary bases, including individuals on leave of absence from 
academic, industry, research, science, or other institutions.
    (f) Volunteers.--
            (1) In general.--The Director may accept the services of 
        voluntary, uncompensated personnel, on appropriate terms and 
        conditions and in accordance with other applicable law.
            (2) Freedom from liability.--Voluntary personnel described 
        in paragraph (1) shall be held free from liability in 
        accordance with the Volunteer Protection Act of 1997 (42 U.S.C. 
        14501 et seq.).
    (g) Transfer of Funds From Other Government Departments or 
Agencies.--
            (1) In general.--Funds available to the Department, or any 
        other department or agency of the Federal Government for 
        activities that are analogous to, or could contribute to the 
        purposes or goals of, National Institutes for Food and 
        Agriculture programs, other relevant research, extension, or 
        education programs, or related or other relevant activities, 
        shall be available for transfer, in whole or in part, to the 
        National Institutes for Food and Agriculture, with the approval 
        of the Secretary or the head of the other appropriate 
        department or agency transferring the funds, for such use as is 
        consistent with the purposes for which the funds were initially 
        made available.
            (2) Use of funds.--Funds transferred under paragraph (1) 
        shall be expendable by the National Institutes for Food and 
        Agriculture for the purposes for which the transfer was made.
    (h) The Council.--
            (1) Duties.--
                    (A) In general.--The Council shall assist the 
                Director in--
                            (i) establishing priorities of the National 
                        Institutes for Food and Agriculture; and
                            (ii) reviewing, judging, and maintaining 
                        the relevance of National Institutes for Food 
                        and Agriculture programs.
                    (B) Oversight review.--To ensure that the purposes 
                of this Act and the needs of the United States are 
                being met, the Council shall conduct an annual 
                oversight review of--
                            (i) the administration of the National 
                        Institutes for Food and Agriculture;
                            (ii) activities funded through the capacity 
                        programs;
                            (iii) proposals and other activities funded 
                        through the competitive programs; and
                            (iv) other activities of the National 
                        Institutes for Food and Agriculture.
            (2) Meetings.--
                    (A) In general.--The Council shall hold periodic 
                meetings to provide an interface between the Council 
                and stakeholders, and to ensure that the National 
                Institutes for Food and Agriculture is linking national 
                goals with realistic opportunities.
                    (B) Frequency.--Meetings described in subparagraph 
                (A) shall be held at the call of the Director, or at 
                the joint call of the Director and the Secretary, but 
                not less often than twice annually.
            (3) Limitation.--The expenses of the Council paid by the 
        Director under subparagraph (A) shall not be counted toward any 
        general limitation on the expenses of advisory committees, 
        panels, commissions, or task forces of the Department contained 
        in any Act making appropriations for the Department, whether 
        enacted before, on, or after the date of enactment of this Act, 
        unless the Act of appropriation specifically--
                    (A) refers to this paragraph; and
                    (B) includes the Council within the general 
                limitation.

SEC. 103. ORGANIZATION OF NATIONAL INSTITUTES FOR FOOD AND AGRICULTURE.

    (a) Organization.--
            (1) In general.--The Director shall organize the National 
        Institutes for Food and Agriculture into 6 institutes (referred 
        to in this section as ``individual institutes'') to administer 
        the programs and activities of the National Institutes for Food 
        and Agriculture in an integrated, multidisciplinary, 
        interdisciplinary, transdisciplinary, interagency, and inter-
        institutional manner, to the maximum extent practicable.
            (2) Institutes.--The individual institutes shall be the 
        following:
                    (A) The Institute for Economic Opportunities in 
                Agriculture and Natural Resources.
                    (B) The Institute for Nutrition and Health.
                    (C) The Institute for Rural and Urban Community 
                Development.
                    (D) The Institute for Natural Resources and 
                Environment.
                    (E) The Institute for Food Safety and Agricultural 
                Security.
                    (F) The Institute for Families, Youth, and 
                Communities.
            (3) Administration.--
                    (A) In general.--The Director, in conjunction with 
                the head of each individual institute, shall carry out 
                National Institutes for Food and Agriculture programs 
                with the goal of focusing those programs, and the 
                participants, grantees, and other stakeholders of those 
                programs on--
                            (i) understanding important problem areas 
                        and opportunities relating to a program;
                            (ii) discovering and implementing solutions 
                        to address those problem areas; and
                            (iii) exploring other opportunities 
                        provided under the programs.
                    (B) Stakeholder input.--The Director, in 
                consultation with the Secretary, the Council, and the 
                head of each individual institute, shall solicit input 
                from appropriate participants, grantees, and other 
                stakeholders of the programs and activities of the 
                National Institutes for Food and Agriculture relating 
                to the problem areas, opportunity areas, solution 
                areas, and Institute programs and related activities 
                carried out by the National Institutes for Food and 
                Agriculture.
            (4) Modification of organization.--Beginning on October 1 
        of the fifth full fiscal year beginning after the date of 
        enactment of this Act, the Director, in consultation with the 
        Secretary and the Council, may include in a report required 
        under section 101(e) any recommendation of the Director with 
        respect to the organization of the National Institutes for Food 
        and Agriculture or the individual institutes, as the Director 
        determines to be in the best interest of the United States.
    (b) Program Integration and Coordination.--
            (1) In general.--In accordance with applicable law 
        (including regulations), the Director, in coordination with the 
        head of each individual institute and taking into consideration 
        the advice of the Council, shall ensure, to the maximum extent 
        practicable, that National Institutes for Food and Agriculture 
        programs are administered, funded, and carried out--
                    (A) in an integrated, multidisciplinary, 
                interdisciplinary, transdisciplinary, interagency, and 
                inter-institutional manner that ensures--
                            (i) the most efficient collaborative use of 
                        resources; and
                            (ii) the focus of all resources and 
                        activities on strategic, priority, problem, 
                        opportunity, and solution areas identified by 
                        the Director and the head of each applicable 
                        individual institute, taking into consideration 
                        the advice of the Council;
                    (B) among applicable participants, grantees, and 
                stakeholders, in a coordinated manner that encourages 
                and ensures--
                            (i) the most efficient collaborative 
                        application of resources; and
                            (ii) the focus of all resources and 
                        activities on strategic, priority, problem, 
                        opportunity, and solution areas on a local, 
                        State, Indian tribal, regional, national, and 
                        international basis, as the Director and the 
                        head of each applicable individual institute, 
                        taking into consideration the advice of the 
                        Council, determine to be appropriate.
            (2) Scope.--The Director, in consultation with the 
        Secretary and the Council, shall ensure, through the 
        integration and coordination under paragraph (1), that 
        opportunities are maximized with respect to--
                    (A) the use of appropriate authorities, agencies, 
                institutions, disciplines, and activities of the 
                National Institutes for Food and Agriculture; and
                    (B) the inclusion of appropriate participants and 
                other stakeholders in those activities, including 
                extramural, government, university, extension, 
                international, and other appropriate stakeholders, as 
                determined by the Director.
    (c) Matching and Leveraging of Scarce Budget Resources.--The 
National Institutes for Food and Agriculture and the Director shall 
provide for the matching and leveraging of National Institutes for Food 
and Agriculture resources by extramural activity program participants 
and recipients--
            (1) in accordance with applicable law governing the 
        applicable capacity program, competitive program, or other 
        authority or activity; or
            (2) if not otherwise provided for by law, as the Director, 
        in consultation with the Council, determines to be appropriate, 
        taking into consideration--
                    (A) the ability of the participating or recipient 
                institutions or entities to provide matching funds; and
                    (B) the treatment of the institutions or entities 
                with respect to matching fund and similar requirements 
                under other authorities.
    (d) Funding Administration.--
            (1) Capacity programs.--In accordance with other applicable 
        law, in providing program funding to a particular institution 
        or entity, the Director shall develop, in consultation with the 
        Council, and implement, a streamlined plan of work or 
        administrative model designed to simplify, to the maximum 
        extent practicable, the administration, funding, and oversight 
        of capacity programs.
            (2) Competitive programs.--In accordance with other 
        applicable law, in making determinations regarding whether to 
        provide program funding to a particular institution, entity, or 
        applicant (as applicable), the Director shall, whenever 
        practicable, implement an administrative model designed to 
        streamline and simplify, to the maximum extent practicable, the 
        application (as applicable), administration, funding, and 
        oversight process.

SEC. 104. FUNDING.

    (a) Preservation of Critical Base Funding.--Notwithstanding any 
other provision of law, funds provided to National Institutes for Food 
and Agriculture programs shall be allocated and distributed in 
accordance with subsection (b).
    (b) Distribution of Funds.--
            (1) Priority for critical base funds.--In distributing 
        funds to carry out capacity programs and competitive programs 
        during a fiscal year, the Director shall--
                    (A) first, use funds made available in an amount 
                less than or equal to the capacity program critical 
                base funding level only to carry out capacity programs, 
                in accordance with paragraph (2); and
                    (B) after funds equal to the capacity program 
                critical base funding level have been allocated for 
                capacity programs for the fiscal year, use any funds 
                made available only to carry out competitive programs, 
                until funds are allocated in an amount equal to the 
                competitive program critical base funding level.
            (2) Proportional funding of capacity programs.--The 
        Director shall apportion funds distributed under paragraph 
        (1)(A) in accordance with the proportion that--
                    (A) the amount received by each applicable capacity 
                program for fiscal year 2007; bears to
                    (B) the total amount made available for all 
                capacity programs for fiscal year 2007.
            (3) Other than critical base funds.--In distributing funds 
        to carry out capacity programs and competitive programs during 
        a fiscal year, the Director shall use in accordance with 
        section 105(c)--
                    (A) amounts made available in excess of the sum of 
                the capacity program critical base funding level and 
                the competitive program critical base funding level; 
                and
                    (B) amounts made available pursuant to section 
                105(a).

SEC. 105. ENHANCED FUNDING.

    (a) Continuation of Mandatory Funding.--
            (1) In general.--Beginning on October 1, 2007, and each 
        October 1 thereafter, the Secretary shall transfer to the 
        Director $200,000,000 of funds of the Commodity Credit 
        Corporation to carry out this Act.
            (2) Budgetary offset.--Section 401(b)(3) of the 
        Agricultural Research, Extension, and Education Reform Act of 
        1998 (7 U.S.C. 7621(b)(3)) is amended--
                    (A) in subparagraph (B), by adding ``and'' at the 
                end;
                    (B) in subparagraph (C), by striking ``; and'' at 
                the end and inserting a period; and
                    (C) by striking subparagraph (D).
    (b) Increasing Currently Authorized Funding.--Notwithstanding any 
other provision of law, except as otherwise provided in this section, 
there are authorized to be appropriated to the Director to carry out 
programs of the National Institutes for Food and Agriculture under this 
Act amounts equal to a level of the authorized funding for each such 
program as in effect on the day before the date of enactment of this 
Act, to be phased in as follows:
            (1) For fiscal year 2008, 120 percent of the level.
            (2) For fiscal year 2009, 140 percent of the level.
            (3) For fiscal year 2010, 160 percent of the level.
            (4) For fiscal year 2011, 180 percent of the level.
            (5) For fiscal year 2012 and thereafter, 200 percent of the 
        level.
    (c) Distribution of Enhanced Funding.--
            (1) In general.--Any funds made available for a fiscal year 
        for the National Institutes for Food and Agriculture shall be 
        distributed in accordance with this subsection, if the funds 
        are provided--
                    (A) under subsection (a)(1); or
                    (B) under any other authority under this or any 
                other Act in excess of an amount equal to the sum of 
                the capacity program critical base funding level and 
                the competitive program critical base funding level.
            (2) Enhanced competitive program funding.--
                    (A) In general.--The Director shall use 70 percent 
                of amounts described in paragraph (1) to carry out 
                competitive programs, of which--
                            (i) 55 percent shall be used to carry out 
                        fundamental research activities in accordance 
                        with subparagraph (B); and
                            (ii) 45 percent shall be used to carry out 
                        competitive research activities other than 
                        fundamental research activities in accordance 
                        with subparagraph (C), including--
                                    (I) integrated programs and related 
                                activities;
                                    (II) applied research and related 
                                activities;
                                    (III) translational research and 
                                related activities;
                                    (IV) activities substantially 
                                similar to activities carried out 
                                pursuant to the Initiative for Future 
                                Agriculture and Food Systems under 
                                section 401 of the Agricultural 
                                Research, Extension, and Education 
                                Reform Act of 1998 (7 U.S.C. 7621), as 
                                in effect on the day before the date of 
                                enactment of this Act; and
                                    (V) education and extension 
                                programs and activities (including 
                                grants for outreach, research, or 
                                education).
                    (B) Fundamental research activities.--
                            (i) Open fundamental research pool.--The 
                        Director shall allocate not less than 80 
                        percent of amounts described in subparagraph 
                        (A)(i) to eligible applicants on a competitive 
                        basis, including applicants representing--
                                    (I) colleges, universities, and 
                                other institutions of higher education; 
                                and
                                    (II) other individuals and entities 
                                eligible to receive funding under the 
                                National Research Initiative.
                            (ii) Reservation and reversion.--
                                    (I) In general.--The Director shall 
                                reserve 20 percent of amounts described 
                                in subparagraph (A)(i) for allocation 
                                to 1890 Institutions, 1994 
                                Institutions, Insular Area 
                                Institutions, and Small 1862 Land-Grant 
                                Institutions on a competitive basis, 
                                subject to--
                                            (aa) applicable peer and 
                                        merit review requirements of 
                                        Federal law (including 
                                        regulations); and
                                            (bb) such other peer and 
                                        merit review requirements as 
                                        the Director determines to be 
                                        appropriate.
                                    (II) Reversion of unused reserved 
                                funds.--Any amounts reserved under 
                                subclause (I) that are not allocated to 
                                institutions under that subclause by 
                                the end of the 2-year period following 
                                October 1 of the fiscal year for which 
                                the amounts are first made available 
                                shall be allocated to open fundamental 
                                research pool applicants on a 
                                competitive basis in accordance with 
                                clause (i).
                    (C) Other research activities.--
                            (i) Open integrated research pool.--The 
                        Director shall allocate not less than 80 
                        percent of amounts described in subparagraph 
                        (A)(ii) to eligible applicants on a competitive 
                        basis, including applicants representing--
                                    (I) colleges, universities, and 
                                other institutions of higher education; 
                                and
                                    (II) other individuals and entities 
                                eligible to receive funding under the 
                                National Research Initiative.
                            (ii) Reservation and reversion.--
                                    (I) In general.--The Director shall 
                                reserve 20 percent of amounts described 
                                in subparagraph (A)(ii) for allocation 
                                to 1890 Institutions, 1994 
                                Institutions, Insular Area 
                                Institutions, and Small 1862 Land-Grant 
                                Institutions on a competitive basis, 
                                subject to--
                                            (aa) applicable peer and 
                                        merit review requirements of 
                                        Federal law (including 
                                        regulations); and
                                            (bb) such other peer and 
                                        merit review requirements as 
                                        the Director determines to be 
                                        appropriate.
                                    (II) Reversion of unused reserved 
                                funds.--Any amounts reserved under 
                                subclause (I) that are not allocated to 
                                institutions under that subclause by 
                                the end of the 2-year period following 
                                October 1 of the fiscal year for which 
                                the amounts are first made available 
                                shall be allocated to open integrated 
                                research pool applicants on a 
                                competitive basis in accordance with 
                                clause (i).
                    (D) Education and extension integration.--The 
                Director shall integrate into competitive programs of 
                the National Institutes for Food and Agriculture 
                national and global educational and extension 
                initiatives, to the maximum extent practicable.
                    (E) Indirect costs.--
                            (i) In general.--Except as provided in 
                        clause (ii), the Director shall provide for the 
                        payment of allowable indirect costs associated 
                        with competitive programs of the National 
                        Institutes for Food and Agriculture in 
                        accordance with section 1462 of the National 
                        Agricultural Research, Extension, and Teaching 
                        Policy Act of 1977 (7 U.S.C. 3310).
                            (ii) Exception.--For each of fiscal years 
                        2008 through 2012, the Director shall ensure 
                        that allowable indirect costs, associated with 
                        competitive programs of the National Institutes 
                        for Food and Agriculture that are funded under 
                        section 104(b)(1)(B), shall not be paid at a 
                        rate that exceeds the levels generally provided 
                        for those competitive programs for fiscal year 
                        2007.
            (3) Enhanced capacity program funding.--The Director shall 
        use 30 percent of amounts described in paragraph (1) to carry 
        out capacity programs, of which--
                    (A) for each of fiscal years 2008 through 2012--
                            (i) 77.5 percent shall be allocated to 
                        capacity programs in accordance with the 
                        proportion that--
                                    (I) the amount received by the 
                                applicable capacity program during 
                                fiscal year 2007; bears to
                                    (II) the total amount made 
                                available for all capacity programs for 
                                fiscal year 2007; and
                            (ii) 17.5 percent shall be allocated to 
                        1890 Institutions, 1994 Institutions, Insular 
                        Area Institutions, Small 1862 Land-Grant 
                        Institutions, and ASCARR Institutions for 
                        institutional enhancement capacity programs, of 
                        which--
                                    (I) 36 percent shall be for 1890 
                                Institutions;
                                    (II) 26 percent shall be for 1994 
                                Institutions, except that an amount 
                                from that 26 percent shall be allocated 
                                to Insular Area Institutions in 
                                accordance with the proportion that--
                                            (aa) the amount received by 
                                        the applicable Institution 
                                        during fiscal year 2007; bears 
                                        to
                                            (bb) the total amount made 
                                        available for all 1890 
                                        Institutions, 1994 
                                        Institutions, Insular Area 
                                        Institutions, Small 1862 Land-
                                        Grant Institutions, and ASCARR 
                                        Institutions for fiscal year 
                                        2007;
                                    (III) 26 percent shall be for Small 
                                1862 Land-Grant Institutions; and
                                    (IV) 12 percent shall be for ASCARR 
                                Institutions; and
                    (B) 5 percent shall be deposited into the 
                enhancement fund of the National Institutes for Food 
                and Agriculture to fund capacity investments that are 
                consistent with capacity programs of the National 
                Institutes for Food and Agriculture, as determined by 
                the Director, in consultation with the Secretary and 
                the Council.

SEC. 106. SINGLE BUDGET SUBMISSION.

    The President shall submit to Congress, together with the annual 
budget submission of the President, a single combined budget line item 
reflecting the total amount requested by the President for funding for 
the National Institutes for Food and Agriculture, including funding for 
capacity programs, competitive programs, and other applicable National 
Institutes for Food and Agriculture programs.

SEC. 107. CAPACITY BUILDING GRANTS FOR ASCARR INSTITUTIONS.

    (a) Grant Program.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary or the Director, as 
        appropriate, shall make grants to ASCARR Institutions to assist 
        the ASCARR Institutions in maintaining and expanding the 
        capacity of the ASCARR Institutions to conduct education, 
        research, and outreach activities relating to--
                    (A) agriculture;
                    (B) renewable resources; and
                    (C) other similar disciplines.
            (2) Requirements.--The Secretary or the Director, as 
        appropriate, shall make grants under this section--
                    (A)(i) through a competitive application process 
                under which appropriate officials of ASCARR 
                Institutions may submit applications in such form and 
                manner as the Secretary or the Director, as 
                appropriate, may prescribe; or
                    (ii) through a noncompetitive application process; 
                and
                    (B) in such manner as to ensure geographic 
                diversity with respect to the ASCARR Institutions that 
                are the subjects of the grants.
            (3) Use of funds.--An ASCARR Institution that receives a 
        grant under subsection (a)(1) may use the funds made available 
        through the grant to maintain and expand the capacity of the 
        ASCARR Institution--
                    (A) to successfully compete for funds from Federal 
                grants and other sources to carry out educational, 
                research, and outreach activities that address priority 
                concerns of national, regional, State, and local 
                interest;
                    (B) to disseminate information relating to priority 
                concerns to--
                            (i) interested members of the agriculture, 
                        renewable resources, and related stakeholder 
                        communities;
                            (ii) the public; and
                            (iii) any other interested entity;
                    (C) to encourage members of the agriculture, 
                renewable resources, and related stakeholder 
                communities to participate in priority education, 
                research, and outreach activities by providing matching 
                funding to leverage grant funds; and
                    (D) through--
                            (i) the purchase or other acquisition of 
                        equipment and other infrastructure (not 
                        including the construction of new buildings);
                            (ii) the renovation of facilities;
                            (iii) the professional growth and 
                        development of the faculty of the ASCARR 
                        Institution; and
                            (iv) the development of human capital 
                        (including through the use of graduate 
                        assistantships).
    (b) Authorization of Appropriations.--There are authorized to be 
appropriated to carry out this section--
            (1) $5,000,000 for fiscal year 2008;
            (2) $8,000,000 for fiscal year 2009;
            (3) $10,000,000 for fiscal year 2010;
            (4) $13,000,000 for fiscal year 2011;
            (5) $17,000,000 for fiscal year 2012; and
            (6) such sums as are necessary for fiscal year 2013 and 
        each fiscal year thereafter.

                        TITLE II--MODIFICATIONS

SEC. 201. MERIT REVIEW OF EXTENSION AND EDUCATIONAL GRANTS.

    Section 103 of the Agricultural Research, Extension, and Education 
Reform Act of 1998 (7 U.S.C. 7613) is amended in subsection (a), by 
striking paragraph (2) and inserting the following:
            ``(2) Merit review of extension and education grants.--The 
        Secretary shall establish procedures that provide for merit 
        review of each agricultural extension or education grant 
        administered, on a competitive basis, by the National 
        Institutes for Food and Agriculture.''.

SEC. 202. REPEAL PLAN OF WORK REQUIREMENTS.

    (a) Extension at 1890 Land-Grant Colleges.--Section 1444(d) of the 
National Agricultural Research, Extension, and Teaching Policy Act of 
1977 (7 U.S.C. 3221(d)) is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (1), by striking the second sentence; and
            (2) by striking paragraphs (3) through (5).
    (b) Research at 1890 Land-Grant Colleges.--Section 1445 of the 
National Agricultural Research, Extension, and Teaching Policy Act of 
1977 (7 U.S.C. 3222) is amended--
            (1) by striking subsection (a) and inserting the following:
    ``(a) Authorization of Appropriations.--There are authorized to be 
appropriated annually such sums as Congress may determine necessary to 
support continuing agricultural research at colleges eligible to 
receive funds under the Act of August 30, 1890 (26 Stat. 417-419, as 
amended; 7 U.S.C. 321-326 and 328), including Tuskegee University 
(hereinafter referred to in this section as `eligible 
institutions').''; and
            (2) by striking subsection (c) and inserting the following:
    ``(c) Program.--The director of the State agricultural experiment 
station in each State in which an eligible institution is located, and 
the research director specified in subsection (d) in each of the 
eligible institutions in that State, shall jointly develop, by mutual 
agreement, a comprehensive program of agricultural research in the 
State, to be submitted for approval by the Secretary not later than 1 
year after the date of enactment of this title.''.
    (c) Hatch Act of 1887.--
            (1) Conforming amendments.--Section 3 of the Hatch Act of 
        1887 (7 U.S.C. 361c) is amended--
                    (A) by striking subsection (h) and inserting the 
                following:
    ``(h) Peer Review and Plan of Work.--Research carried out under 
subsection (c)(3) shall be subject to scientific peer review. The 
review of a project conducted under this paragraph shall be considered 
to satisfy the merit review requirements of section 103(e) of the 
Agricultural Research, Extension, and Education Reform Act of 1998.''; 
and
                    (B) in subsection (i)(2), by striking subparagraph 
                (D).
            (2) Repeal.--Section 7 of the Hatch Act of 1887 (7 U.S.C. 
        361g) is amended by striking subsections (d) through (g).
    (d) Smith-Lever Act.--
            (1) Conforming amendment.--Section 3(h)(2) of the Smith-
        Lever Act (7 U.S.C. 343(h)(2)) is amended by striking 
        subparagraph (D).
            (2) Repeal.--Section 4 of the Smith-Lever Act (7 U.S.C. 
        344) is amended by striking subsections (c) through (e).

SEC. 203. INDIRECT COSTS.

    Section 1462 of the National Agricultural Research, Extension, and 
Teaching Policy Act of 1977 (7 U.S.C. 3310) is amended by striking 
subsection (a) and inserting the following:
    ``(a) In General.--Except as otherwise provided in law, and in 
accordance with the requirements under section 105(c)(1)(E) of the 
CREATE-21 Act of 2007, indirect costs charged against a competitive 
agricultural research, education, or extension grant awarded under this 
Act, the CREATE-21 Act of 2007, or any other Act pursuant to authority 
delegated to the Director of the National Institutes for Food and 
Agriculture shall not exceed the negotiated indirect rate of cost 
established for an institution by the appropriate Federal audit agency 
for the institution.''.

                         TITLE III--EXTENSIONS

  Subtitle A--National Agricultural Research, Extension, and Teaching 
                           Policy Act of 1977

SEC. 301. GRANTS AND FELLOWSHIPS FOR FOOD AND AGRICULTURAL SCIENCES 
              EDUCATION.

    Section 1417(l) of the National Agricultural Research, Extension, 
and Teaching Policy Act of 1977 (7 U.S.C. 3152(l)) is amended by 
striking ``2007'' and inserting ``2012''.

SEC. 302. GRANTS FOR RESEARCH ON PRODUCTION AND MARKETING OF ALCOHOLS 
              AND INDUSTRIAL HYDROCARBONS FROM AGRICULTURAL COMMODITIES 
              AND FOREST PRODUCTS.

    Section 1419(d) of the National Agricultural Research, Extension, 
and Teaching Policy Act of 1977 (7 U.S.C. 3154(d)) is amended by 
striking ``2007'' and inserting ``2012''.

SEC. 303. POLICY RESEARCH CENTERS.

    Section 1419A(d) of the National Agricultural Research, Extension, 
and Teaching Policy Act of 1977 (7 U.S.C. 3155(d)) is amended by 
striking ``2007'' and inserting ``2012''.

SEC. 304. HUMAN NUTRITION INTERVENTION AND HEALTH PROMOTION RESEARCH 
              PROGRAM.

    Section 1424(d) of the National Agricultural Research, Extension, 
and Teaching Policy Act of 1977 (7 U.S.C. 3174(d)) is amended by 
striking ``2007'' and inserting ``2012''.

SEC. 305. PILOT RESEARCH PROGRAM TO COMBINE MEDICAL AND AGRICULTURAL 
              RESEARCH.

    Section 1424A(d) of the National Agricultural Research, Extension, 
and Teaching Policy Act of 1977 (7 U.S.C. 3174a(d)) is amended by 
striking ``2007'' and inserting ``2012''.

SEC. 306. NUTRITION EDUCATION PROGRAM.

    Section 1425(c)(3) of the National Agricultural Research, 
Extension, and Teaching Policy Act of 1977 (7 U.S.C. 3175(c)(3)) is 
amended by striking ``2007'' and inserting ``2012''.

SEC. 307. CONTINUING ANIMAL HEALTH AND DISEASE RESEARCH PROGRAMS.

    Section 1433(a) of the National Agricultural Research, Extension, 
and Teaching Policy Act of 1977 (7 U.S.C. 3195(a)) is amended in the 
first sentence by striking ``2007'' and inserting ``2012''.

SEC. 308. APPROPRIATIONS FOR RESEARCH ON NATIONAL OR REGIONAL PROBLEMS.

    Section 1434(a) of the National Agricultural Research, Extension, 
and Teaching Policy Act of 1977 (7 U.S.C. 3196(a)) is amended by 
striking ``2007'' and inserting ``2012''.

SEC. 309. GRANTS TO UPGRADE AGRICULTURAL AND FOOD SCIENCES FACILITIES 
              AT 1890 LAND-GRANT COLLEGES, INCLUDING TUSKEGEE 
              UNIVERSITY.

    Section 1447(b) of the National Agricultural Research, Extension, 
and Teaching Policy Act of 1977 (7 U.S.C. 3222b(b)) is amended by 
striking ``2007'' and inserting ``2012''.

SEC. 310. NATIONAL RESEARCH AND TRAINING VIRTUAL CENTERS.

    Section 1448 of the National Agricultural Research, Extension, and 
Teaching Policy Act of 1977 (7 U.S.C. 3222c) is amended by striking 
``2007'' each place it appears in subsections (a)(1) and (f) and 
inserting ``2012''.

SEC. 311. MATCHING FUNDS REQUIREMENT FOR RESEARCH AND EXTENSION 
              ACTIVITIES OF 1890 INSTITUTIONS.

    Section 1449(c) of the National Agricultural Research, Extension, 
and Teaching Policy Act of 1977 (7 U.S.C. 3222d(c)) is amended in the 
first sentence by striking ``for each of fiscal years 2003 through 
2007,''.

SEC. 312. HISPANIC-SERVING INSTITUTIONS.

    Section 1455(c) of the National Agricultural Research, Extension, 
and Teaching Policy Act of 1977 (7 U.S.C. 3241(c)) is amended by 
striking ``2007'' and inserting ``2012''.

SEC. 313. COMPETITIVE GRANTS FOR INTERNATIONAL AGRICULTURAL SCIENCE AND 
              EDUCATION PROGRAMS.

    Section 1459A(c) of the National Agricultural Research, Extension, 
and Teaching Policy Act of 1977 (7 U.S.C. 3292b(c)) is amended by 
striking ``2007'' and inserting ``2012''.

SEC. 314. RESEARCH EQUIPMENT GRANTS.

    Section 1462A(e) of the National Agricultural Research, Extension, 
and Teaching Policy Act of 1977 (7 U.S.C. 3310a(e)) is amended by 
striking ``2007'' and inserting ``2012''.

SEC. 315. UNIVERSITY RESEARCH.

    Section 1463 of the National Agricultural Research, Extension, and 
Teaching Policy Act of 1977 (7 U.S.C. 3311) is amended by striking 
``2007'' each place it appears in subsections (a) and (b) and inserting 
``2012''.

SEC. 316. EXTENSION SERVICE.

    Section 1464 of the National Agricultural Research, Extension, and 
Teaching Policy Act of 1977 (7 U.S.C. 3312) is amended by striking 
``2007'' and inserting ``2012''.

SEC. 317. SUPPLEMENTAL AND ALTERNATIVE CROPS.

    Section 1473D(a) of the National Agricultural Research, Extension, 
and Teaching Policy Act of 1977 (7 U.S.C. 3319d(a)) is amended by 
striking ``2007'' and inserting ``2012''.

SEC. 318. AQUACULTURE RESEARCH FACILITIES.

    Section 1477 of the National Agricultural Research, Extension, and 
Teaching Policy Act of 1977 (7 U.S.C. 3324) is amended by striking 
``2007'' and inserting ``2012''.

SEC. 319. RANGELAND RESEARCH.

    Section 1483(a) of the National Agricultural Research, Extension, 
and Teaching Policy Act of 1977 (7 U.S.C. 3336(a)) is amended by 
striking ``2007'' and inserting ``2012''.

SEC. 320. SPECIAL AUTHORIZATION FOR BIOSECURITY PLANNING AND RESPONSE.

    Section 1484(a) of the National Agricultural Research, Extension, 
and Teaching Policy Act of 1977 (7 U.S.C. 3351(a)) is amended by 
striking ``2007'' and inserting ``2012''.

SEC. 321. RESIDENT INSTRUCTION AND DISTANCE EDUCATION GRANTS PROGRAM 
              FOR INSULAR AREA INSTITUTIONS OF HIGHER EDUCATION.

    (a) Distance Education Grants for Insular Areas.--Section 1490(f) 
of the National Agricultural Research, Extension, and Teaching Policy 
Act of 1977 (7 U.S.C. 3362(f)) is amended by striking ``2007'' and 
inserting ``2012''.
    (b) Resident Instruction Grants for Insular Areas.--Section 1491 of 
the National Agricultural Research, Extension, and Teaching Policy Act 
of 1977 (7 U.S.C. 3363) is amended--
            (1) by redesignating subsection (e) as subsection (c); and
            (2) in subsection (c) (as so redesignated), by striking 
        ``2007'' and inserting ``2012''.

   Subtitle B--Food, Agriculture, Conservation, and Trade Act of 1990

SEC. 331. NATIONAL GENETICS RESOURCES PROGRAM.

    Section 1635(b) of the Food, Agriculture, Conservation, and Trade 
Act of 1990 (7 U.S.C. 5844(b)) is amended by striking ``2007'' and 
inserting ``2012''.

SEC. 332. HIGH-PRIORITY RESEARCH AND EXTENSION INITIATIVES.

    Section 1672(h) of the Food, Agriculture, Conservation, and Trade 
Act of 1990 (7 U.S.C. 5925(h)) is amended by striking ``2007'' and 
inserting ``2012''.

SEC. 333. NUTRIENT MANAGEMENT RESEARCH AND EXTENSION INITIATIVE.

    Section 1672A of the Food, Agriculture, Conservation, and Trade Act 
of 1990 (7 U.S.C. 5925a) is amended--
            (1) by redesignating subsection (g) as subsection (f); and
            (2) in subsection (f) (as so redesignated), by striking 
        ``2007'' and inserting ``2012''.

SEC. 334. ORGANIC AGRICULTURE RESEARCH AND EXTENSION INITIATIVE.

    Section 1672B(e) of the Food, Agriculture, Conservation, and Trade 
Act of 1990 (7 U.S.C. 5925b(e)) is amended by striking ``2007'' and 
inserting ``2012''.

SEC. 335. AGRICULTURAL TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROGRAM.

    Section 1673(h) of the Food, Agriculture, Conservation, and Trade 
Act of 1990 (7 U.S.C. 5926(h)) is amended by striking ``2007'' and 
inserting ``2012''.

SEC. 336. ASSISTIVE TECHNOLOGY PROGRAM FOR FARMERS WITH DISABILITIES.

    Section 1680(c)(1) of the Food, Agriculture, Conservation, and 
Trade Act of 1990 (7 U.S.C. 5933(c)(1)) is amended by striking ``2007'' 
and inserting ``2012''.

SEC. 337. NATIONAL RURAL INFORMATION CENTER CLEARINGHOUSE.

    Section 2381(e) of the Food, Agriculture, Conservation, and Trade 
Act of 1990 (7 U.S.C. 3125b(e)) is amended by striking ``2007'' and 
inserting ``2012''.

Subtitle C--Agricultural Research, Extension, and Education Reform Act 
                                of 1998

SEC. 341. PARTNERSHIPS FOR HIGH-VALUE AGRICULTURAL PRODUCT QUALITY 
              RESEARCH.

    Section 402(g) of the Agricultural Research, Extension, and 
Education Reform Act of 1998 (7 U.S.C. 7622(g)) is amended by striking 
``2007'' and inserting ``2012''.

SEC. 342. PRECISION AGRICULTURE.

    Section 403(i)(1) of the Agricultural Research, Extension, and 
Education Reform Act of 1998 (7 U.S.C. 7623(i)(1)) is amended by 
striking ``2007'' and inserting ``2012''.

SEC. 343. BIOBASED PRODUCTS.

    (a) Pilot Project.--Section 404(e)(2) of the Agricultural Research, 
Extension, and Education Reform Act of 1998 (7 U.S.C. 7624(e)(2)) is 
amended by striking ``2007'' and inserting ``2012''.
    (b) Authorization of Appropriations.--Section 404(h) of the 
Agricultural Research, Extension, and Education Reform Act of 1998 (7 
U.S.C. 7624(h)) is amended by striking ``2007'' and inserting ``2012''.

SEC. 344. THOMAS JEFFERSON INITIATIVE FOR CROP DIVERSIFICATION.

    Section 405(h) of the Agricultural Research, Extension, and 
Education Reform Act of 1998 (7 U.S.C. 7625(h)) is amended by striking 
``2007'' and inserting ``2012''.

SEC. 345. INTEGRATED RESEARCH, EDUCATION, AND EXTENSION COMPETITIVE 
              GRANTS PROGRAM.

    Section 406(f) of the Agricultural Research, Extension, and 
Education Reform Act of 1998 (7 U.S.C. 7626(f)) is amended by striking 
``2007'' and inserting ``2012''.

SEC. 346. SUPPORT FOR RESEARCH REGARDING DISEASES OF WHEAT, TRITICALE, 
              AND BARLEY CAUSED BY FUSARIUM GRAMINEARUM OR BY TILLETIA 
              INDICA.

    Section 408(e) of the Agricultural Research, Extension, and 
Education Reform Act of 1998 (7 U.S.C. 7628(e)) is amended by striking 
``2007'' and inserting ``2012''.

SEC. 347. BOVINE JOHNE'S DISEASE CONTROL PROGRAM.

    Section 409(b) of the Agricultural Research, Extension, and 
Education Reform Act of 1998 (7 U.S.C. 7629(b)) is amended by striking 
``2007'' and inserting ``2012''.

SEC. 348. GRANTS FOR YOUTH ORGANIZATIONS.

    Section 410(c) of the Agricultural Research, Extension, and 
Education Reform Act of 1998 (7 U.S.C. 7630(c)) is amended by striking 
``2007'' and inserting ``2012''.

SEC. 349. AGRICULTURAL BIOTECHNOLOGY RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT FOR 
              DEVELOPING COUNTRIES.

    Section 411(c) of the Agricultural Research, Extension, and 
Education Reform Act of 1998 (7 U.S.C. 7631(c)) is amended by striking 
``2007'' and inserting ``2012''.

SEC. 350. OFFICE OF PEST MANAGEMENT POLICY.

    Section 614(f) of the Agricultural Research, Extension, and 
Education Reform Act of 1998 (7 U.S.C. 7653(f)) is amended by striking 
``2007'' and inserting ``2012''.

                         Subtitle D--Other Laws

SEC. 371. CRITICAL AGRICULTURAL MATERIALS ACT.

    Section 16(a) of the Critical Agricultural Materials Act (7 U.S.C. 
178n(a)) is amended by striking ``2007'' and inserting ``2012''.

SEC. 372. EQUITY IN EDUCATIONAL LAND-GRANT STATUS ACT OF 1994.

    (a) Endowment for 1994 Institutions.--Section 533(b) of the Equity 
in Educational Land-Grant Status Act of 1994 (7 U.S.C. 301 note; Public 
Law 103-382) is amended in the first sentence by striking ``2007'' and 
inserting ``2012''.
    (b) Institutional Capacity Building Grants.--Section 535 of the 
Equity in Educational Land-Grant Status Act of 1994 (7 U.S.C. 301 note; 
Public Law 103-382) is amended by striking ``2007'' each place it 
appears and inserting ``2012''.
    (c) Research Grants.--Section 536(c) of the Equity in Educational 
Land-Grant Status Act of 1994 (7 U.S.C. 301 note; Public Law 103-382) 
is amended in the first sentence by striking ``2007'' and inserting 
``2012''.

SEC. 373. AGRICULTURAL EXPERIMENT STATION RESEARCH FACILITIES ACT.

    Section 6(a) of the Research Facilities Act (7 U.S.C. 390d(a)) is 
amended by striking ``2007'' and inserting ``2012''.

SEC. 374. NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH, EXTENSION, AND TEACHING 
              POLICY ACT AMENDMENTS OF 1985.

    Section 1431 of the National Agricultural Research, Extension, and 
Teaching Policy Act Amendments of 1985 (Public Law 99-198; 99 Stat. 
1556; 116 Stat. 436) is amended by striking ``2007'' and inserting 
``2012''.

SEC. 375. COMPETITIVE, SPECIAL, AND FACILITIES RESEARCH GRANT ACT 
              (NATIONAL RESEARCH INITIATIVE).

    Section 2(b)(10) of the Competitive, Special, and Facilities 
Research Grant Act (7 U.S.C. 450i(b)(10)) is amended by striking 
``2007'' and inserting ``2012''.

SEC. 376. BEGINNING FARMER AND RANCHER DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM.

    Section 7405(h) of the Farm Security and Rural Investment Act of 
2002 (7 U.S.C. 3319f(h)) is amended by striking ``2007'' and inserting 
``2012''.

SEC. 377. AGRICULTURAL RISK PROTECTION ACT OF 2000 (CARBON CYCLE 
              RESEARCH).

    Section 221(g) of the Agricultural Risk Protection Act of 2000 (7 
U.S.C. 6711(g)) is amended by striking ``2007'' and inserting ``2012''.

SEC. 378. RENEWABLE RESOURCES EXTENSION ACT OF 1978.

    (a) Authorization of Appropriations.--Section 6 of the Renewable 
Resources Extension Act of 1978 (16 U.S.C. 1675) is amended by striking 
``2007'' and inserting ``2012''.
    (b) Termination Date.--Section 8 of the Renewable Resources 
Extension Act of 1978 (16 U.S.C. 1671 note; Public Law 95-306) is 
amended by striking ``2007'' and inserting ``2012''.

SEC. 379. NATIONAL AQUACULTURE ACT OF 1980.

    Section 10 of the National Aquaculture Act of 1980 (16 U.S.C. 2809) 
is amended by striking ``2007'' each place it appears and inserting 
``2012''.

                         TITLE IV--ENHANCEMENTS

                   Subtitle A--Research and Extension

SEC. 401. COMPLIANCE WITH MULTISTATE AND INTEGRATION REQUIREMENTS.

    (a) Funds Expended on Multistate Cooperative Extension 
Activities.--Section 3 of the Smith-Lever Act (7 U.S.C. 343) is amended 
by striking subsection (h) and inserting the following:
    ``(h) Multistate Cooperative Extension Activities.--
            ``(1) Definition of multistate activity.--In this 
        subsection, the term `multistate activity' means a cooperative 
        extension activity in which 2 or more States cooperate to 
        resolve problems that concern more than 1 State.
            ``(2) Requirement.--
                    ``(A) In general.--To receive funding under 
                subsections (b) and (c) for a fiscal year, a State must 
                have expended on multistate activities, in the 
                preceding fiscal year, an amount equivalent to not less 
                than 25 percent of the funds paid to the State under 
                subsections (b) and (c) for the preceding fiscal year.
                    ``(B) Determination of amount.--In determining 
                compliance with subparagraph (A), the Secretary shall 
                include all cooperative extension funds expended by the 
                State in the preceding fiscal year, including Federal, 
                State, and local funds.
            ``(3) Reduction of percentage.--The Secretary may reduce 
        the minimum percentage required to be expended for multistate 
        activities under paragraph (2) by a State in a case of 
        hardship, unfeasibility, or other similar circumstances beyond 
        the control of the State, as determined by the Secretary.
            ``(4) Applicability.--This subsection does not apply to 
        funds provided--
                    ``(A) to a 1994 Institution (as defined in section 
                532 of the Equity in Educational Land-Grant Status Act 
                of 1994 (7 U.S.C. 301 note; Public Law 103-382)); or
                    ``(B) to the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the 
                Virgin Islands, or Guam.''.
    (b) Funds Expended on Integrated Research and Extension 
Activities.--Section 3 of the Hatch Act of 1887 (7 U.S.C. 361c) is 
amended by striking subsection (i) and inserting the following:
    ``(i) Integrated Research and Extension Activities.--
            ``(1) In general.--
                    ``(A) Requirement.--To receive funding under this 
                Act and subsections (b) and (c) of section 3 of the 
                Smith-Lever Act (7 U.S.C. 343) for a fiscal year, a 
                State must have expended on activities that integrate 
                cooperative research and extension (referred to in this 
                section as `integrated activities'), in the preceding 
                fiscal year, an amount equivalent to not less than 25 
                percent of the funds paid to the State under this 
                section and subsections (b) and (c) of section 3 of the 
                Smith-Lever Act (7 U.S.C. 343) for the preceding fiscal 
                year.
                    ``(B) Determination of amount.--In determining 
                compliance with subparagraph (A), the Secretary shall 
                include all cooperative research and extension funds 
                expended by the State in the prior fiscal year, 
                including Federal, State, and local funds.
            ``(2) Reduction of percentage.--The Secretary may reduce 
        the minimum percentage required to be expended for integrated 
        activities under paragraph (1) by a State in a case of 
        hardship, unfeasibility, or other similar circumstances beyond 
        the control of the State, as determined by the Secretary.
            ``(3) Applicability.--This subsection does not apply to 
        funds provided
                    ``(A) to a 1994 Institution (as defined in section 
                532 of the Equity in Educational Land-Grant Status Act 
                of 1994 (7 U.S.C. 301 note; Public Law 103-382)); or
                    ``(B) to the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the 
                Virgin Islands, or Guam.
            ``(4) Relationship to other requirements.--Funds described 
        in paragraph (1)(B) that a State uses to calculate the required 
        amount of expenditures for integrated activities under 
        paragraph (1)(A) may also be used in the same fiscal year to 
        calculate the amount of expenditures for multistate activities 
        required under subsection (c)(3) of this section and section 
        3(h) of the Smith-Lever Act (7 U.S.C. 343(h)).''.

SEC. 402. EXPANSION OF FOOD AND AGRICULTURAL SCIENCES AWARDS.

    Section 1417(i) of the National Agricultural Research, Extension, 
and Teaching Policy Act of 1977 (7 U.S.C. 3152(i)) is amended--
            (1) in the subsection heading by striking ``Teaching 
        Awards'' and inserting ``Teaching, Extension, and Research 
        Awards''; and
            (2) by striking paragraph (1) and inserting the following:
            ``(1) Establishment.--The Secretary shall establish a 
        National Food and Agricultural Sciences Teaching, Extension, 
        and Research Awards program to recognize and promote excellence 
        in teaching, extension, and research in the food and 
        agricultural sciences at a college or university. The Secretary 
        shall make at least one cash award in each fiscal year to a 
        nominee selected by the Secretary for excellence in each of the 
        areas of teaching, extension, and research of food and 
        agricultural science at a college or university.''.

SEC. 403. SUSTAINABLE HUMAN DEVELOPMENT INITIATIVE.

    Subtitle C of title XIV of the National Agriculture Research, 
Extension, and Teaching Policy Act of 1977 (7 U.S.C. 3121 et seq.) is 
amended by adding at the end the following:

``SEC. 1413C. SUSTAINABLE HUMAN DEVELOPMENT INITIATIVE.

    ``(a) In General.--The Secretary, through the Cooperative State 
Research, Education, and Extension Service or any successor 
organization, shall establish and carry out a sustainable human 
development initiative using an interdisciplinary approach to 
demonstrate the importance of--
            ``(1) enhancing and sustaining human capital and resources 
        along with economic growth in both developing and advanced 
        economies;
            ``(2) improving health and nutrition and supporting the 
        stability and well-being of women, children, and families 
        throughout the world;
            ``(3) protecting the environment while carrying out 
        necessary development activities; and
            ``(4) achieving and maintaining social justice along with 
        economic and social opportunity.
    ``(b) Partnerships.--In carrying out this section, the Secretary 
shall enter into partnerships with colleges and universities and with 
such other public and private entities as the Secretary deems 
appropriate to assemble individuals with appropriate levels of training 
and experience in disciplines that can further the initiative.
    ``(c) Integration Into Activities.--The Secretary shall endeavor to 
integrate the principles of sustainable human development into the 
research, extension, teaching, and related activities carried out under 
this Act and such related authorities as the Secretary determines 
appropriate.''.

                         Subtitle B--Nutrition

SEC. 411. EXPANDED FOOD AND NUTRITION EDUCATION PROGRAM.

    (a) Funding to 1862, 1890, and Insular Area Institutions.--Section 
1425(c)(2)(B) of the National Agriculture Research, Extension, and 
Teaching Policy Act of 1977 (7 U.S.C. 3175(c)(2)(B)) is amended
            (1) in the prefatory material by striking ``among the 
        States'';
            (2) by striking clause (i) and inserting the following:
                            ``(i) $100,000 shall be distributed to each 
                        of the land grant colleges and universities;'';
            (3) by redesignating clause (ii) as clause (iii);
            (4) by inserting after clause (i) the following:
    ``(ii) subject to subsection (d), of the remainder, 10 percent in 
fiscal year 2008, 11 percent in fiscal year 2009, 12 percent in fiscal 
year 2010, 13 percent in fiscal year 2011, 14 percent in fiscal year 
2012, and 15 percent in fiscal year 2013 and each fiscal year 
thereafter, shall be allocated to each 1890 Institution (as defined in 
section 2 of the Agricultural Research, Extension, and Education Reform 
Act of 1998) in an amount that bears the same ratio to the total amount 
to be allocated under this clause as the population of the State living 
at or below 125 percent of the income poverty guidelines prescribed by 
the Office of Management and Budget (adjusted pursuant to section 
673(2) of the Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1981 (42 U.S.C. 
9902)), bears to the total population of all the States that have 1890 
Institutions living at or below 125 percent of the income poverty 
guidelines, as determined by the last preceding decennial census at the 
time each such additional amount is first appropriated: Provided, That 
the total allocated under this clause shall not exceed (I) the amount 
of the funds appropriated for the conduct of the expanded food and 
nutrition education program for the fiscal year that are in excess of 
the amount appropriated for the conduct of the program for the fiscal 
year ending September 30, 2007, reduced by (II) any amounts expended 
pursuant to any adjustment under subsection (d); and''; and
            (5) By amending clause (iii), as redesignated--
                    (A) by striking ``allocated to each State'' and 
                inserting ``allocated to the institution eligible to 
                receive funds under the Act of July 2, 1862 (and 
                including the appropriate insular area institution) in 
                each State (and the University of the District of 
                Columbia, notwithstanding section 208(c) of Public Law 
                93-471)''; and
                    (B) by striking ``subparagraph.'' and inserting 
                ``subparagraph: Provided, That the total allocated 
                under this clause to the University of the District of 
                Columbia shall not exceed (I) the amount described in 
                the proviso to clause (ii), reduced further by (II) the 
                amount allocated under clause (ii).''.
    (b) Authorization.--Section 1425(c)(3) of the National Agriculture 
Research, Extension, and Teaching Policy Act of 1977 (7 U.S.C. 
3175(c)(3)) is amended by striking ``$83,000,000 for each of fiscal 
years 1996 though 2007'' and inserting ``$90,000,000 for each of fiscal 
years 2008 through 2014''.
    (c) Effective Date.--The amendments made by this section take 
effect on October 1, 2007.

SEC. 412. UNIVERSITY OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA ELIGIBILITY FOR THE 
              EXPANDED FOOD AND NUTRITION PROGRAM.

    Section 3 of the Smith-Lever Act (7 U.S.C. 343) is amended by 
adding at the end the following:
    ``(k) Eligibility.--The 1862 Land-Grant Institution in the District 
of Columbia, as defined under section 208 of the District of Columbia 
Public Postsecondary Education Reorganization Act of October 26, 1974 
(Public Law 93-471, 88 Stat. 1428), shall be eligible under this 
section to participate in the expanded food and nutrition education 
program established under section 1425 of the National Agriculture 
Research, Extension, and Teaching Policy Act of 1977 (7 U.S.C. 
3175).''.

SEC. 413. FOOD STAMP NUTRITION EDUCATION REIMBURSEMENT FOR 1890 
              INSTITUTIONS.

    Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the Secretary of 
Agriculture may reimburse a State participating in the Food Stamp 
Nutrition Education Program at the rate of 100 percent for allowable 
expenditures for nutrition education provided by an 1890 Institution 
(as defined in section 2 of the Agricultural Research, Extension, and 
Education Reform Act of 1998 (7 U.S.C. 7601(2)), if the Secretary 
determines that the 1890 Institution would otherwise be unable to 
provide the Nutrition Education.

SEC. 414. REAUTHORIZATION OF THE NATIONAL NUTRITION MONITORING AND 
              RELATED RESEARCH ACT OF 1990.

    (a) Coordinated Program.--Section 101(a) of the National Nutrition 
Monitoring and Related Research Act of 1990 (7 U.S.C. 5311(a)) is 
amended by striking ``ten-year''.
    (b) Implementation Period.--Section 104(a) of the National 
Nutrition Monitoring and Related Research Act of 1990 (7 U.S.C. 
5314(a)) is amended by striking ``shall be carried'' and all that 
follows through ``section 103(d)(2) and''.
    (c) Authorization.--Section 106 of the National Nutrition 
Monitoring and Related Research Act of 1990 (7 U.S.C. 5316) is amended
            (1) in subsection (b)(1), by striking ``authorize the 
        appropriation or''; and
            (2) by adding at the end the following:
    ``(c) Authorization.--There are authorized to be appropriated such 
sums as may be necessary to carry out this title for each of the 7 
fiscal years beginning with fiscal year 2008.''.

                      Subtitle C--1890 Initiatives

SEC. 421. RESEARCH AND EDUCATION UNDER THE NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL 
              RESEARCH, EXTENSION, AND TEACHING POLICY ACT OF 1977.

    (a) In General.--Section 1445(a)(2) of the National Agriculture 
Research, Extension, and Teaching Policy Act of 1977 (7 U.S.C. 
3222(a)(2)) is amended by striking ``25 percent'' and inserting ``30 
percent''.
    (b) Effective Date.--The amendment made by subsection (a) shall 
take effect on October 1, 2007.

SEC. 422. EXTENSION FORMULA PROGRAMS UNDER THE NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL 
              RESEARCH, EXTENSION, AND TEACHING POLICY ACT OF 1977.

    (a) In General.--Section 1444(a)(2) of the National Agriculture 
Research, Extension, and Teaching Policy Act of 1977 (7 U.S.C. 
3221(a)(2)) is amended by striking ``15 percent'' and inserting ``20 
percent''.
    (b) Effective Date.--The amendment made by subsection (a) shall 
take effect on October 1, 2007.

SEC. 423. CHILDREN, YOUTH, AND FAMILIES EDUCATION AND RESEARCH NETWORK 
              (CYFERNET) PROGRAM.

    In carrying out the Children, Youth, and Families Education and 
Research Network Program under section 3(d) of the Smith-Lever Act (7 
U.S.C. 343(d)), the Secretary shall include 1890 Institutions as 
eligible program applicants and participants. In this section, the term 
``1890 Institutions'' has the same meaning as in section 2 of the 
Agricultural Research, Extension, and Education Reform Act of 1998 (7 
U.S.C. 7601(2)).

SEC. 424. ANIMAL HEALTH AND DISEASE RESEARCH PROGRAM.

    Section 1434(b) of the National Agriculture Research, Extension, 
and Teaching Policy Act of 1977 (7 U.S.C. 3196(b)) is amended by 
inserting after ``universities'' the following: ``(including 1890 
Institutions (as defined in section 2 of the Agricultural Research, 
Extension, and Education Reform Act of 1998 (7 U.S.C. 7601(2))).''.

SEC. 425. MCINTIRE-STENNIS COOPERATIVE FORESTRY ACT.

    Section 2 of Public Law 87-788 (16 U.S.C. 582a-1) is amended--
            (1) by inserting ``and 1890 Institutions,'' before ``and 
        (b)''; and
            (2) by adding at the end the following: ``In states which 
        have both 1862 Institutions and the 1890 Institutions eligible 
        for and receiving funds under this Act, the institutions shall, 
        to the maximum extent practicable, develop complementary plans 
        for forestry research in the State. In this section, the terms 
        `1862 Institutions' and `1890 Institutions' have the same 
        meanings as in section 2 of the Agricultural Research, 
        Extension, and Education Reform Act of 1998 (7 U.S.C. 
        7601(2)).''.

SEC. 426. OUTREACH AND ASSISTANCE FOR SOCIALLY DISADVANTAGED FARMERS 
              AND RANCHERS.

    (a) Authorization.--Section 2501(a)(4)(A) of the Food, Agriculture, 
Conservation, and Trade Act of 1990 (7 U.S.C. 2279(a)(4)(A)) is amended 
by striking ``$25,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2002 through 2007'' 
and inserting ``$50,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2008 through 
2014''.
    (b) Duration of Agreements.--Section 2501(a)(3)(A) of the Food, 
Agriculture, Conservation, and Trade Act of 1990 (7 U.S.C. 
2279(a)(3)(A)) is amended by adding at the end the following: ``Any 
grant, contract, or other agreement under this subsection may be 
entered into for a period of between 1 and 5 years, except that, in 
order to enhance program continuity, an applicant may request a 
multiyear grant, contract, or agreement of at least 3 years in 
duration.''.

SEC. 427. GRANTS TO 1890 SCHOOLS TO EXPAND EXTENSION CAPACITY.

    Section 1417(b)(4) of the National Agricultural Research, 
Extension, and Teaching Policy Act of 1977 (7 U.S.C. 3152(b)(4)) is 
amended by striking ``teaching and research'' and inserting ``teaching, 
research, and extension''.

SEC. 428. NATIONAL CENTER FOR THE STUDY OF SOCIALY DISADVANTAGED 
              FARMERS.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary may make a competitive grant 
annually to a consortium of 1890 Institutions for the purpose of 
establishing and supporting a National Center for the Study of Socially 
Disadvantaged Farmers (referred to in this section as the ``Center'').
    (b) Purposes.--The purposes of the Center are--
            (1) to conduct research, analysis, and policy formulation, 
        and to disseminate information designed to improve the economic 
        viability of socially disadvantaged farmers in the United 
        States; and
            (2) to evaluate the effectiveness and impact of the 
        programs and services of the Department of Agriculture that 
        serve socially disadvantaged farmers and recommend policies 
        designed to improve the quality of those programs and services.
    (c) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary of 
        Agriculture.
            (2) The term ``1890 Institutions'' has the meaning given 
        that term in section 2 of the Agricultural Research, Extension, 
        and Education Reform Act of 1998 (7 U.S.C. 7601(2)).
            (3) The term ``socially disadvantaged farmer'' has the 
        meaning given that term in section 2501(e)(2) of the Food, 
        Agriculture, Conservation, and Trade Act of 1990 (7 U.S.C. 
        2279(e)(2)).
    (d) Authorization.--There are authorized to be appropriated to the 
Secretary for the grant program under this section not to exceed 
$2,000,000 for each of the fiscal years 2008 through 2014.

                          Subtitle D--Forestry

SEC. 431. MCINTIRE-STENNIS COOPERATIVE FORESTRY RESEARCH PROGRAM.

    Section 8201 of the Farm Security and Rural Investment Act of 2002 
(Public Law 107-171) is amended by inserting before the period at the 
end the following:
            ``, which distributes funds by formula for the purposes 
        of--(1) assisting the various States in carrying out a program 
        of State forestry and natural resources research at State 
        forestry schools and colleges; and
            ``(2) developing a trained pool of forest and natural 
        resources scientists capable of conducting needed forestry and 
        natural resources research.''.

                     Subtitle E--Rural Development

SEC. 441. EXTENSION OF AGRICULTURAL TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROGRAM TO RURAL 
              DEVELOPMENT.

    Section 1673 of the Food, Agriculture, Conservation, and Trade Act 
of 1990 (7 U.S.C. 5926) is amended--
            (1) by inserting ``and rural development'' after 
        ``agricultural'' in the heading;
            (2) in subsection (a)--
                    (A) by striking ``agricultural communications'' and 
                inserting ``agricultural and rural development 
                communications'';
                    (B) by inserting after ``and products'' the 
                following: ``, and to facilitate and enhance rural 
                development programs and activities''; and
                    (C) by striking ``agricultural research'' and 
                inserting ``agricultural and rural development 
                research'';
            (3) in subsection (b)(1), by striking ``and research'' and 
        inserting ``research, and rural development'';
            (4) in subsection (b)(3), by striking ``industries'' and 
        inserting ``industries, and rural development'';
            (5) in subsection (b)(4), by inserting ``and rural 
        development'' after ``agricultural'';
            (6) in subsection (c), by--
                    (A) striking paragraph (1); and
                    (B) redesignating paragraphs (2) through (7) as 
                paragraphs (1) through (6), respectively;
            (7) in subsection (d), by amending paragraph (1) to read as 
        follows:
            ``(1) The Secretary of Agriculture shall establish a 
        program, to be administered through the Higher Education 
        Program of the Cooperative State Research, Education, and 
        Extension Service (or its successor organization), under which 
        financial and technical assistance may be provided to eligible 
        institutions that participate in a network that distributes 
        programs consistent with the objectives described in subsection 
        (b) of this section.'';
            (8) in subsection (f)(1), by inserting ``rural 
        development,'' after ``research,''; and
            (9) in subsection (f)(2), by striking from ``applications'' 
        through ``Applications'', and inserting ``applications that''.

SEC. 442. AUTHORIZATION OF RURAL DEVELOPMENT RESEARCH UNDER THE 
              INITIATIVE FOR FUTURE AGRICULTURE AND FOOD SYSTEMS.

    Section 401 of the Agricultural Research, Extension, and Education 
Reform Act of 1998 (7 U.S.C. 7621) is amended in subsection (c)(1)(D) 
by inserting ``and rural development'' after ``development''.

SEC. 443. PRIORITY INITIATIVES: LAND USE MANAGEMENT.

    Section 1672(e)(28) of the Food, Agriculture, Conservation, and 
Trade Act of 1990 (7 U.S.C. 5925(e)(28)) is amended by inserting ``and 
the impact of land use management decisions on communities'' before the 
period.

SEC. 444. PRIORITY INITIATIVES: WATER AND AIR QUALITY.

    Section 1672(e)(29) of the Food, Agriculture, Conservation, and 
Trade Act of 1990 (7 U.S.C. 5925(e)(29)) is amended by inserting ``and 
for the purpose of better understanding community mechanisms that (A) 
help mitigate agricultural impacts on water and air quality, and (B) 
foster collaboration between communities and land managers in 
mitigating those impacts'' before the period.

SEC. 445. PRIORITY INITIATIVES: AGROTOURISM.

    Section 1672(e)(31) of the Food, Agriculture, Conservation, and 
Trade Act of 1990 (7 U.S.C. 5925(e)(31)) is amended by inserting ``and 
to understand the conditions under which agrotourism can thrive and 
have positive community impacts'' before the period.

SEC. 446. ORGANIC AGRICULTURE RESEARCH AND EXTENSION INITIATIVE.

    Section 1672B(a) of the Food, Agriculture, Conservation, and Trade 
Act of 1990 (7 U.S.C. 5925b) is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (5) by striking ``and'' after the 
        semicolon;
            (2) in paragraph (6) striking ``conditions.'' and inserting 
        ``conditions; and''; and
            (3) by adding at the end the following:
            ``(7) examining communities and structures that support 
        organic agricultural enterprises.''.

SEC. 447. BIOSECURITY.

    Section 1484(b) of the National Agriculture Research, Extension, 
and Teaching Policy Act of 1977 (7 U.S.C. 3351(b)) is amended by adding 
at the end the following:
            ``(5) To build community capacity to respond to biosecurity 
        hazards in a coordinated and effective way.''.

SEC. 448. BEGINNING FARMERS AND RANCHERS.

    Section 7405(c)(1) of the Farm Security and Rural Investment Act of 
2002 (7 U.S.C. 3319f(c)(1)) is amended--
            (1) by striking ``and'' at the end of subparagraph (Q);
            (2) by redesignating subparagraph (R) as subparagraph (S); 
        and
            (3) by inserting after subparagraph (Q) the following:
                    ``(R) the integration of beginning farmers and 
                ranchers in supportive community networks; and''.

SEC. 449. RESIDENT INSTRUCTION AND DISTANT EDUCATION.

    Section 7501(a) of the Farm Security and Rural Investment Act of 
2002 (7 U.S.C. 3361 note) is amended--
            (1) by striking ``and agricultural sciences'' and inserting 
        ``, agricultural, and rural social sciences''; and
            (2) by inserting ``rural social sciences,'' after 
        ``economics,''.

SEC. 450. TRIBAL COLLEGE AND UNIVERSITY ESSENTIAL COMMUNITY FACILITIES.

    (a) Federal Share.--Section 306(a)(25)(B) of the Consolidated Farm 
and Rural Development Act (7 U.S.C. 1926(a)(25)(B)) is amended to read 
as follows:
                    ``(B) Federal share.--The Secretary shall establish 
                the maximum percentage of the cost of the facility that 
                may be covered by a grant under this paragraph, except 
                that the Secretary may not require nonfederal financial 
                support in an amount that is greater than 5 percent of 
                the total cost.''.
    (b) Extension.--Section 306(a)(25)(C) of the Consolidated Farm and 
Rural Development Act (7 U.S.C. 1926(a)(25)(C)) is amended by striking 
``2007'' and inserting ``2014''.

SEC. 451. VALUE-ADDED AGRICULTURAL PRODUCT MARKET DEVELOPMENT.

    Section 6401(b)(4) of the Farm Security and Rural Investment Act of 
2002 (7 U.S.C. 1621 note) is amended--
            (1) By striking ``Funding.--Not'' and inserting 
        ``Funding.--''
                    ``(A) Initial funding.--Not''; and
            (2) after subparagraph (A) as so redesignated, inserting 
        the following:
                    ``(B) Subsequent funding.--In addition to any funds 
                otherwise made available, there are authorized to be 
                appropriated such sums as may be necessary to carry out 
                this section.''.

SEC. 452. INNOVATION CENTER DEMONSTRATION PROJECTS.

    Section 6402 of the Farm Security and Rural Investment Act of 2002 
(7 U.S.C. 1621 note) is amended by adding at the end the following:
    ``(j) Authorization.--In addition to any funds otherwise made 
available, there are authorized to be appropriated such sums as may be 
necessary to carry out this section.''.

SEC. 453. RURAL ENTREPRENEURSHIP DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM.

    (a) Research Projects Required.--The Secretary shall conduct 
research and education projects to obtain data, develop conclusions, 
demonstrate technologies, and facilitate multi-jurisdictional 
initiatives that promote the purposes of this section, including 
research and education projects that--
            (1) facilitate and increase investigation and education in 
        order to--
                    (A) provide the necessary education, training, and 
                technical assistance in high schools, community 
                colleges, colleges, universities and through non-formal 
                outreach education delivery systems to start up and 
                grow rural businesses;
                    (B) provide the necessary education, training, and 
                technical assistance in English as well as other 
                languages serving the needs of minority and immigrant 
                populations;
                    (C) improve access to a diverse range of capital 
                resources from microenterprise loans to venture 
                capital;
                    (D) determine the best methods to train 
                entrepreneurs in preparing business plans, 
                recordkeeping, compliance with tax rules, financial 
                management, and general business practices;
                    (E) promote entrepreneurship among rural youth, 
                minority populations, women, and low-income rural 
                residents; and
                    (F) create networks of entrepreneurial support and 
                enabling culture among the business community, 
                government at all levels, nonprofit organizations, 
                educational institutions, and other sectors; and
            (2) facilitate the conduct of projects in order to--
                    (A) study, to the extent practicable, the unique 
                entrepreneurial development systems that best align 
                with the unique needs and strengths of rural areas and 
                rural communities;
                    (B) study rural entrepreneurs and the education, 
                training, and technical assistance they employ;
                    (C) study rural entrepreneurial development 
                organizations with regard to the education, training, 
                and technical assistance they provide, and determine 
                what are the most promising strategies for building a 
                more integrated system of program delivery to rural 
                entrepreneurs;
                    (D) take advantage of the experience and expertise 
                of rural entrepreneurs and rural entrepreneurial 
                development organizations through their direct 
                participation and leadership in projects;
                    (E) transfer practical, reliable, and timely 
                information to rural entrepreneurs and rural 
                entrepreneurial development organizations concerning 
                entrepreneurial education, training, technical 
                assistance, and the development of local and regional 
                entrepreneurial systems in rural areas and rural 
                communities;
                    (F) promote partnerships among rural entrepreneurs, 
                nonprofit organizations, educational institutions at 
                all levels, and governmental institutions and agencies 
                at all levels; and
                    (G) provide assistance to local governments 
                regarding the important mix of policies and programs 
                that can help create and promote entrepreneurial-ready 
                communities in rural America.
    (b) Agreements.--The Secretary shall carry out this section through 
agreements entered into with land-grant colleges or universities 
(including their State Cooperative Extension Services, Agricultural 
Experiment Stations, and their Regional Rural Development Centers), 
other universities or colleges, community colleges and other 2-year 
institutions of higher education, elementary and secondary schools, the 
State cooperative extension services, nonprofit organizations, or 
Federal, State or local governmental entities. All agreements shall be 
awarded on a competitive basis according to criteria set forth by the 
Regional Administrative Councils established under subsection (f).
    (c) Selection, Priority, and Duration of Projects.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary shall select projects to be 
        carried out under this section on the basis of--
                    (A) the relevance of the project to the purposes of 
                this section;
                    (B) the appropriateness of the design of the 
                project;
                    (C) the likelihood of attaining the objectives of 
                the project; and
                    (D) the national or regional applicability of the 
                findings and outcomes of the proposed project.
            (2) Priority.--In carrying out projects under this section, 
        the Secretary shall give priority to projects that--
                    (A) closely coordinate research and education 
                activities (including outreach education efforts);
                    (B) will best disseminate the findings of the 
                project in a readily usable manner to rural 
                entrepreneurs and to rural community leaders;
                    (C) maximize the involvement and cooperation of 
                rural entrepreneurs;
                    (D) involve a multidisciplinary systems approach; 
                and
                    (E) involve cooperation between rural 
                entrepreneurs, nonprofit organizations, entrepreneurial 
                development organizations, educational institutions at 
                all levels, and government agencies at all levels.
            (3) Project duration.--The Secretary may approve projects 
        to be conducted under this section that have a duration of more 
        than one fiscal year.
    (d) Diversification of Research.--The Secretary shall conduct 
projects and studies under this section in areas that are broadly 
representative of the diversity of the rural areas of the Unites States 
and the diversity of rural entrepreneurship in the United States, 
including entrepreneurship involving youth, racial groups, 
microenterprises, and women, with a focus on either food and other 
agriculturally-based businesses (but not directly production 
agriculture), or non-agricultural business.
    (e) Program Administration.--The Secretary shall--
            (1) administer the programs and projects conducted under 
        subsection (a) through the Cooperative State Research Service 
        in close cooperation with the Extension Service, Agricultural 
        Research Service (or its successor agency), and other 
        appropriate agencies;
            (2) establish a minimum of four Regional Administrative 
        Councils in accordance with subsection (f); and
            (3) with the advice of the Regional Administrative 
        Councils, identify the applicable regional rural development 
        center as the regional host institution or organization 
        responsible for carrying out such programs or projects, or 
        identify another regional host institution where appropriate.
    (f) Regional Administrative Councils.--
            (1) Membership.--The membership of the Regional 
        Administrative Councils shall include representatives of--
                    (A) nonprofit organizations that are involved in 
                the direct services to rural entrepreneurs, small 
                businesses, and microenterprises, or that have 
                demonstrable experience in rural entrepreneurship;
                    (B) regional and state agencies involved in rural 
                economic development;
                    (C) State Cooperative Extension Services in the 
                region that are involved in providing direct services 
                to rural entrepreneurs, small businesses, and 
                microenterprises, or to rural communities that are 
                engaged in entrepreneurship development efforts;
                    (D) representatives from philanthropic 
                organizations with a strong interest in rural 
                entrepreneurship and rural development activities in 
                the region;
                    (E) self-employed rural entrepreneurs and owners of 
                rural small businesses with more than 5 and fewer than 
                50 employees;
                    (F) institutions of higher education with 
                demonstrable experience in rural entrepreneurship or 
                related activities;
                    (G) elementary and secondary educators with 
                demonstrable experience in rural entrepreneurship;
                    (H) the director or representative of the Regional 
                Rural Development Center located in the region;
                    (I) owners of rural businesses with 5 or fewer 
                employees;
                    (J) State cooperative extension services with 
                demonstrable experience in rural entrepreneurship;
                    (K) nonprofit organizations with demonstrable 
                experience in rural entrepreneurship;
                    (L) tribal governments; and
                    (M) other persons knowledgeable about rural 
                entrepreneurship and its impact on rural communities.
            (2) Responsibilities.--The Regional Administrative Councils 
        shall--
                    (A) promote the programs established under this 
                section at the regional level;
                    (B) establish goals and criteria for the selection 
                of projects authorized under this section within the 
                applicable region;
                    (C) appoint a technical committee to evaluate the 
                proposals for projects to be considered for selection 
                under this section;
                    (D) review the recommendations of the technical 
                committee, and coordinate its activities with the 
                regional host institution; and
                    (E) prepare and make available an annual report 
                concerning projects funded under this section, together 
                with an evaluation of the project activity.
            (3) Conflict of interest.--A member of the Regional 
        Administrative Council or a technical committee may not 
        participate in the discussion or recommendation of a proposed 
        project if the member has or had a professional or business 
        interest in, including the provision of consultancy services 
        to, the organization whose proposal is under review.
            (4) Authorization of appropriations.--There are authorized 
        to be appropriated to carry out this section $20,000,000 for 
        each of the fiscal years 2008 through 2014, to remain available 
        until expended.

SEC. 454. AMENDMENTS TO THE CONSOLIDATED FARM AND RURAL DEVELOPMENT ACT 
              RELATING TO 2002 FARM BILL PROGRAMS.

    (a) Rural Business Opportunity Grants.--Section 306(a)(11)(C) of 
the Consolidated Farm and Rural Development Act (7 U.S.C. 
1926(a)(11)(C)) is amended by adding at the end the following: ``In 
making grants under this paragraph, the Secretary shall use applied 
research, extension education, and demonstration project approaches to 
assure that appropriate levels of human capital investment are in place 
to use Federal and matching funds most effectively to provide the 
greatest actual impact on rural entrepreneurship and e-commerce.''.
    (b) Rural Business Enterprise Grants.--Section 310B(c) of the 
Consolidated Farm and Rural Development Act (7 U.S.C. 1932(c)) is 
amended by adding at the end the following:
            ``(4) Program approaches.--In making grants under this 
        subsection, the Secretary shall, to the maximum extent 
        practicable, use applied research, extension education, and 
        demonstration project approaches to assure that appropriate 
        levels of human capital investment are in place to use Federal 
        and matching funds most effectively to provide the greatest 
        actual impact on rural entrepreneurship and e-commerce.''.
    (c) Rural Cooperative Development Grants.--Section 310B(e) of the 
Consolidated Farm and Rural Development Act (7 U.S.C. 1932(e)) is 
amended--
            (1) by redesignating paragraph (9) as paragraph (10); and
            (2) by inserting after paragraph (8) the following:
            ``(9) Program approaches.--In making grants under this 
        subsection, the Secretary shall, to the maximum extent 
        practicable, use applied research, extension education, and 
        demonstration project approaches to assure that appropriate 
        levels of human capital investment are in place to use Federal 
        and matching funds most effectively to provide the greatest 
        actual impact on rural entrepreneurship and e-commerce.''.
    (d) Rural Telework.--Section 379 of the Consolidated Farm and Rural 
Development Act (7 U.S.C. 2008n) is amended--
            (1) by redesignating subsections (e) and (f) as subsections 
        (f) and (g), respectively; and
            (2) by inserting after subsection (d) the following:
    ``(e) Program Approaches.--In making grants under this section, the 
Secretary shall, to the maximum extent practicable, use applied 
research, extension education, and demonstration project approaches to 
assure that appropriate levels of human capital investment are in place 
to use Federal and matching funds most effectively to provide the 
greatest actual impact on rural entrepreneurship and e-commerce.''.
    (e) Rural Business Investment Program.--Section 384C of the 
Consolidated Farm and Rural Development Act (7 U.S.C. 2009cc-2) is 
amended--
            (1) By inserting ``(a) In General .--'' before ``In 
        accordance''; and
            (2) by adding at the end the following:
    ``(b) Program Approaches.--In carrying out this subtitle, the 
Secretary shall, to the maximum extent practicable, use applied 
research, extension education, and demonstration project approaches to 
assure that appropriate levels of human capital investment are in place 
to use Federal and matching funds most effectively to provide the 
greatest actual impact on rural entrepreneurship and e-commerce.''.
    (f) Multijurisdictional Regional Planning Organizations.--Section 
306(a)(23) of the Consolidated Farm and Rural Development Act (7 U.S.C. 
1926(a)(23)) is amended--
            (1) by redesignating subparagraphs (C), (D), and (E) as 
        subparagraphs (D), (E), and (F), respectively; and
            (2) by inserting after subparagraph (B) the following:
                    ``(C) Program approaches.--In making grants under 
                this paragraph for community development planning and 
                analysis, the Secretary shall, to the maximum extent 
                practicable, use applied research, extension 
                demonstration, and outreach education approaches to 
                assure the greatest regional impact.''.

                    Subtitle F--International Trade

SEC. 461. FAS/EXTENSION SERVICE INTERNSHIPS.

    Section 1458(a)(10) of the National Agricultural Research, 
Extension, and Teaching Policy Act of 1977 (7 U.S.C. 3291(a)(10)) is 
amended by striking ``establish'' and inserting ``maintain''.

SEC. 462. FAS INTERNSHIPS; UNIVERSITY-ASSISTED FUNDING.

    (a) Purpose.--The purpose of this section is to establish a new 
internship program to maintain and strengthen the competitiveness of 
the United States in international agricultural trade by authorizing 
the Foreign Agricultural Service to accept students who are enrolled in 
agriculture and related studies in colleges and universities in the 
United States to serve as interns for limited terms at FAS posts 
outside the United States.
    (b) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) College or university.--the term ``college or 
        university'' means an institution of higher education as 
        defined in section 102(a) of the Higher Education Act of 1965 
        (20 U.S.C. 1002(a)); and
            (2) FAS.--the term ``FAS'' means the Foreign Agricultural 
        Service of the Department of Agriculture.
    (c) Memoranda of Understanding.--
            (1) In general.--Each internship shall be planned and 
        administered in accordance with a memorandum of understanding 
        between the FAS officer-in-charge at the post and an 
        appropriate senior academic official of the college or 
        university where the intern is a student.
            (2) Contents.--In order to assure maximum benefit to the 
        FAS office, the intern, the college or university, the United 
        States Government, and the United States citizens served by the 
        FAS, the memorandum shall
                    (A) establish the procedures and terms that will be 
                followed in the relationship between the FAS and the 
                college or university over a multi-year period;
                    (B) assign specific goals for the internship, and 
                responsibility for the supervision of the intern and 
                for the evaluation of the intern's performance; and
                    (C) contain the assurances described in subsection 
                (e)(2) in a manner satisfactory to the FAS.
            (3) Supervision.--The responsibility for supervising and 
        evaluating the work of an intern may be shared, at the 
        discretion of the FAS officer-in-charge, with non-United States 
        citizens employed by the FAS, faculty from the cooperating 
        college or university, or other Federal Government personnel 
        outside the FAS.
            (4) Exchange of letters.--In the absence of a multi-year 
        memorandum of understanding, a single internship of a specific 
        student may be arranged through an exchange of letters between 
        the FAS officer-in-charge at post and the appropriate senior 
        academic official at the student's college or university, 
        specifying the terms of the internship.
            (5) Multiple agreements.--An FAS officer-in-charge may 
        accept interns under memoranda of understanding with more than 
        one college or university, and a college or university may have 
        entered into memoranda of understanding with more than one FAS 
        post. Groups of colleges or universities may jointly enter into 
        memoranda of understanding with one FAS post for the placement 
        of interns.
    (d) FAS Duties.--The officer-in-charge at the FAS post shall--
            (1) provide the intern with work supervision, work space, 
        support for security clearance, credentials, and other 
        requirements to perform the assigned tasks for the FAS;
            (2) assist an intern, when possible, in identifying local 
        housing and transportation that may be available at reduced or 
        no cost; and
            (3) prepare interns for their expected FAS responsibilities 
        based upon planning between the FAS posts and cooperating 
        universities.
    (e) University Duties.--The college or university shall--
            (1) select the intern, with the concurrence of the FAS; and
            (2) provide satisfactory assurances to the FAS officer-in-
        charge at the foreign post that the intern has or will be 
        provided sufficient financial resources to cover round-trip 
        international airfare to the post, medical insurance while at 
        the post, costs of food and lodging, local travel costs to and 
        from the post, and any applicable stipend, as agreed upon by 
        the FAS and the college or university.
    (f) Authorization of Appropriations.--There are authorized to be 
appropriated to carry out this section not to exceed $1,000,000 for 
each of the fiscal years 2008 through 2014. Not more than 10 percent of 
funds appropriated to carry out this section in any fiscal year may be 
used to pay administrative expenses of the FAS.

SEC. 463. BORLAUG INTERNATIONAL AGRICULTURAL SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY 
              FELLOWSHIP PROGRAM.

    (a) Establishment.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary of Agriculture shall 
        establish a fellowship program to be known as the ``Borlaug 
        International Agricultural Science and Technology Fellowship 
        Program,'' to provide fellowships for scientific training to 
        individuals from eligible countries (as described under 
        subsection (b)) who specialize in agricultural education, 
        research and extension for study in the United States.
            (2) Programs.--The Secretary shall carry out the program 
        established under paragraph (1) through 3 programs designed to 
        assist individual fellowship recipients as follows:
                    (A) A Graduate Studies Program in Agriculture to 
                assist individuals who participate in graduate 
                agricultural degree training at a United States 
                institution;
                    (B) An Individual Career Improvement Program to 
                assist agricultural scientists from developing 
                countries to upgrade skills and understanding in 
                agricultural science and technology; and
                    (C) The Borlaug Agricultural Policy Executive 
                Leadership Course to assist senior agricultural policy 
                makers from eligible countries with an initial focus on 
                sub-Saharan Africa and from the newly independent 
                states of the former Soviet Union.
    (b) Eligible Countries.--Countries described in this subsection 
shall be eligible to participate in the program established under this 
section:
            (1) Low-income country.--A country with low per capita 
        income that receives foreign aid assistance from the United 
        States to promote employment opportunities, increase income 
        levels and levels of living, particularly in the rural areas, 
        and to reduce rural poverty through increased agricultural 
        productivity.
            (2) Middle-income country.--A country that has developed 
        economically to the point where it no longer qualifies for 
        bilateral foreign aid assistance from the United States because 
        its per capita income level exceeds the eligibility 
        requirements of such assistance programs (hereafter referred to 
        in this section as a ``middle-income'' country).
            (3) Ongoing relationship.--A middle-income country that has 
        never qualified for bilateral foreign aid assistance from the 
        United States, but with respect to which an ongoing 
        relationship with the United States, including technical 
        assistance and training, would provide mutual benefits to such 
        country and the United States.
            (4) Type of government.--A country that is transforming its 
        system of government from a non-representative type to a 
        representative democracy and that is encouraging democratic 
        institution building, and the cultural values, institutions, 
        and organizations of democratic pluralism.
            (5) Independent states of the former soviet union.--A 
        country that is an independent state of the former Soviet Union 
        as defined in section 102(8) of the Agricultural Trade Act of 
        1978 (7 U.S.C. 5602 (8)), to the extent that the Secretary of 
        Agriculture determines that the United States and the country 
        could benefit from the eligibility and participation of the 
        country in the program established under this section.
    (c) Purpose of Fellowships.--Fellowships under this section shall 
promote food security and economic growth in eligible countries by 
educating a new generation of agricultural scientists, increasing 
scientific knowledge and collaborative research to improve agricultural 
productivity, and extending this knowledge to users and their 
intermediaries in the market place. Fellowships shall support--
            (1) training and collaborative research opportunities 
        through exchanges for entry-level international agricultural 
        research scientists, faculty and policymakers from eligible 
        countries;
            (2) collaborative research to improve agricultural 
        productivity;
            (3) the transfer of new science and agricultural 
        technologies to strengthen agricultural practice; and
            (4) the reduction of barriers to technology adoption.
    (d) Fellowship Recipients.--
            (1) Eligible candidates.--The Secretary may provide 
        fellowships under the program authorized by this section to 
        individuals from eligible countries who specialize in or have 
        experience in agricultural education, research, extension, or 
        related fields, including individuals from the public and 
        private sectors, and private agricultural producers.
            (2) Candidate identification.--The Secretary shall utilize 
        the expertise of United Statesland-grant and similar 
        universities, international organizations working in 
        agricultural research and outreach, and national agricultural 
        research organizations to help identify program candidates for 
        fellowships under this section from both the public and private 
        sectors of eligible countries.
    (e) Use of Fellowships.--Fellowships shall promote collaborative 
programs between agricultural professionals of eligible countries with 
those of the United States and the international agricultural research 
system and, as appropriate, with United States entities conducting 
research. They will be used to support fellowship recipients through 
the Graduate Studies Program in Agriculture established under 
subsection (a)(2)(A).
    (f) Program Implementation.--The Secretary shall provide for the 
management, coordination, evaluation and monitoring of the overall 
Borlaug International Agricultural Science and Technology Fellowship 
Program and for the individual programs described in subsection (a)(2), 
except that the Secretary may contract out to one or more collaborating 
universities the management of one or more of the fellowship programs.
    (g) Oversight Board.--The Secretary shall establish an oversight 
board to oversee activities of the Borlaug International Agricultural 
Science and Technology Fellowship Program. The board shall consist of--
            (1) two representatives from the Latin American region;
            (2) two representatives from the African region;
            (3) two representatives from the South Asian region;
            (4) two representatives from the East Asian region;
            (5) two representatives from United States land-grant 
        universities;
            (6) two representatives from development or donor 
        organizations;
            (7) two representatives from agricultural industries.
The board will advise the office in the Foreign Agricultural Service of 
the Department of Agriculture responsible for managing the program on 
program priorities and related matters, including annual priority 
regions and countries, annual priority topics for exchanges, and 
sources of complementary funding and other alternative funding.
    (h) Authorization of Appropriations.--There are authorized to be 
appropriated without fiscal year limitation such sums as may be 
necessary to carry out the program established under this section, 
except that the amount of such funds in any fiscal year shall not 
exceed--
            (1) for the Graduate Studies Program in Agriculture 
        established under subsection (a)(2)(A), $1,250,000;
            (2) for the Individual Career Improvement Program 
        established under subsection (a)(2)(B), $2,500,000; and
            (3) for the Borlaug Agricultural Policy Executive 
        Leadership Course established under subsection (a)(2)(C), 
        $1,250,000.
    (i) Complementary Funds.--If the Secretary of Agriculture 
determines that it is advisable in furtherance of the purposes of the 
program established under this section, the Secretary may accept money, 
funds, property, and services of every kind by gift, devise, bequest, 
grant, or otherwise, and may, in any manner, dispose of all such 
holdings and use the receipts generated from such disposition as 
general program funds under this section. All funds so designated for 
the program established under this section shall remain available until 
expended.

                           Subtitle G--Energy

SEC. 471. PROCUREMENT OF BIOBASED PRODUCTS.

    Section 9002 of the Farm Security and Rural Investment Act of 2002 
(7 U.S.C. 8102) is amended--
            (1) by redesignating subsection (k) as subsection (m);
            (2) by inserting after subsection (j) the following:
    ``(k) Regional Centers.--The Secretary shall establish regional 
centers to advise and assist producers of biobased products in 
accessing Federal agency markets for those products.
    ``(l) State Procurement Laws.--The Secretary may provide technical 
and other assistance
            ``(1) to develop a model State biobased product procurement 
        law; and
            ``(2) to encourage the adoption of such laws by the 
        States.''; and
            (3) in subsection (m), as redesignated, by striking 
        ``2007'' and inserting ``2014''.

SEC. 472. BIOENERGY DEVELOPMENT GRANTS.

    (a) Expansion of Program.--Section 9003(a) of the Farm Security and 
Rural Investment Act of 2002 (7 U.S.C. 8103(a)) is amended by inserting 
``biomaterials, and other sources of renewable energy,'' before ``so as 
to''.
    (b) Follow-Up Study; Reauthorization.--Section 9003 of the farm 
security and rural investment act of 2002 (7 U.S.C. 8103) is amended--
            (1) by redesignating subsection (h) as subsection (i);
            (2) by inserting after subsection (g) the following:
    ``(h) Follow-Up Study.--The Secretary shall carry out a study to 
determine--
            ``(1) which grants made under this section have resulted in 
        successful technologies or other outcomes; and
            ``(2) what reasons, if any, led to the successful 
        results.''; and
            (3) in subsection (i), as redesignated, by striking 
        ``2007'' and inserting ``2014''.

SEC. 473. BIODIESEL FUEL EDUCATION AND DEVELOPMENT GRANTS.

    (a) Expansion of Program.--Section 9004(a) of the Farm Security and 
Rural Investment Act of 2002 (7 U.S.C. 8104(a)) is amended
            (1) by striking ``eligible entities to educate'' and 
        inserting ``eligible entities''--
            ``(1) to educate''; and
            (2) by inserting before the period after ``fuel use'' the 
        following:
            ``(2) to assist in the development of new and emerging 
        technologies for the production of biodiesel fuels''.
    (b) Technical Amendment.--The heading of section 9004 of the Farm 
Security and Rural Investment Act of 2002 (7 U.S.C. 8104) is amended by 
inserting ``and development'' after ``education''.
    (c) Reauthorization.--Section 9004(d) of the Farm Security and 
Rural Investment Act of 2002 (7 U.S.C. 8104(d)) is amended by striking 
``2007'' and inserting ``2014''.

SEC. 474. ENERGY AUDIT AND RENEWABLE ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM.

    (a) Energy Use Practices.--Section 9005(a) of the Farm Security and 
Rural Investment Act of 2002 (7 U.S.C. 8105(a)) is amended--
            (1) by inserting ``(1) grants'' before ``The Secretary''; 
        and
            (2) by adding at the end the following:
            ``(2) Energy use practices.--The Secretary, in cooperation 
        with State agricultural offices, shall establish and carry out 
        a program to improve the energy use practices of farmers to 
        reduce the production cost of crops and livestock. The program 
        under this paragraph shall promote the increased use of all 
        sources of renewable energy, and may include the use of local 
        energy production for farm use as a means of reducing 
        production costs.''.
    (b) Reauthorization.--Section 9005(d) of the Farm Security and 
Rural Investment Act of 2002 (7 U.S.C. 8105(d)) is amended by striking 
``2007'' and inserting ``2014''.

SEC. 475. RENEWABLE ENERGY SYSTEMS AND ENERGY EFFICIENCY IMPROVEMENTS.

    Section 9006 of the Farm Security and Rural Investment Act of 2002 
(7 U.S.C. 8106) is amended by adding at the end the following:
    ``(g) Follow-Up Study.--The Secretary, directly or through one or 
more land grant colleges and universities, as defined in section 
9011(b), that are selected by the Secretary on a competitive basis, 
shall carry out a study to determine--
            ``(1) which types of grants made and which types of loans 
        made or guaranteed under this section have resulted in 
        successful outcomes; and
            ``(2) what reasons, if any, led to the successful 
        outcomes.''.

SEC. 476. BIOMASS RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT.

    (a) Enhanced Coordination.--Section 304 of the Biomass Research and 
Development Act of 2000 (7 U.S.C. 8603) is amended by adding at the end 
the following:
    ``(c) Enhanced Coordination.--The Secretary shall direct the point 
of contact of the Department of Agriculture to work to achieve better 
coordination between programs under this title and the Department of 
Energy's renewable energy programs.''.
    (b) Use of Research and Extension Centers.--Section 307 of the 
Biomass Research and Development Act of 2000 (7 U.S.C. 8606) is amended 
by adding at the end the following:
    ``(h) Use of Research and Extension Centers.--
            ``(1) In general.--The Secretary shall use the services and 
        facilities of research centers and Extension centers at land 
        grant colleges and universities, as defined in section 9011(b) 
        of the Farm Security and Rural Investment Act of 2002 (7 U.S.C. 
        8109(b)), to assist in carrying out this section.
            ``(2) Competitive selection.--The Secretary shall publish 
        and follow competitive criteria to be used for the selection of 
        research centers and Extension centers under this 
        subsection.''.
    (c) Funding.--Section 310(a)(2) of the Biomass Research and 
Development Act of 2000 (7 U.S.C. 8609(a)(2)) is amended by striking 
``2007'' and inserting ``2014''.
    (d) Authorization.--Section 310(b) of the Biomass Research and 
Development Act of 2000 (7 U.S.C. 8609(b)) is amended by striking 
``$200,000,000'' and inserting ``$300,000,000''.

SEC. 477. COOPERATIVE RESEARCH AND EXTENSION PROJECTS; CARBON CYCLE 
              RESEARCH.

    Section 221(e) of the Agricultural Risk Protection Act of 2000 (114 
Stat. 407) is amended--
            (1) by striking the heading and inserting ``Extension and 
        Research Funding''; and
            (2) in paragraph (3) by striking ``2007'' and inserting 
        ``2014''.

                        Subtitle H--Conservation

SEC. 478. ENVIRONMENTAL QUALITY INCENTIVES.

    (a) Coordinated Effort.--Section 1240 of the Food Security Act of 
1985 (16 U.S.C. 3839aa) is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (3), by inserting after ``assistance to 
        producers'' the following: ``by employing all applicable and 
        appropriate departmental resources, including research, 
        technical assistance, education, extension, and financial 
        agencies and organizations, in a coordinated effort''; and
            (2) in paragraph (4), by inserting after ``assisting 
        producers'' the following: ``by employing the coordinated 
        effort described in paragraph (3)''.
    (b) Coordinated Effort.--Section 1240B(a)(1) of the Food Security 
Act of 1985 (16 U.S.C. 3839aa-2(a)(1)) is amended by adding at the end 
the following: ``The Secretary shall work with the heads of all 
appropriate departmental agencies and organizations to develop a 
coordinated effort, using an integrated team approach, to provide 
farmers and ranchers state-of-the-art research, information, technical 
assistance, education, extension, and access to resources to implement 
eligible practices under this chapter.''.

SEC. 479. CONSERVATION TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AND EDUCATION BY EXTENSION 
              SERVICE.

    (a) In General.--Section 1242 of the Food Security Act of 1985 (16 
U.S.C. 3842) is amended by adding at the end the following new 
paragraph:
            ``(5) Cooperative extension service.--
                    ``(A) Technical service provider.--The Cooperative 
                Extension Service in each State, and the appropriate 
                officials and employees thereof, shall be eligible to 
                provide technical assistance to carry out programs 
                under this title, to become approved providers of 
                technical assistance, and to provide other necessary 
                educational activities and materials regarding the 
                programs under this title and appropriate related 
                matters to producers, eligible participants, and other 
                persons.
                    ``(B) Reimbursement.--The Secretary shall pay to 
                the Cooperative Extension Service in each State to 
                compensate for the conservation technical assistance 
                and related education provided under this paragraph. 
                Such payments for technical assistance and education 
                may be made from
                            ``(i) funds available for technical 
                        assistance under section 1241(b);
                            ``(ii) funds made available to the Natural 
                        Resource Conservation Service; and
                            ``(iii) such other funds that may be 
                        appropriated or otherwise made available to the 
                        Secretary for technical assistance or education 
                        regarding the programs in this title, or 
                        related or similar programs.''.
    (b) Conforming Amendment.--Section 1241(b) of the Food Security Act 
of 1985 (16 U.S.C. 3841) is amended by adding at the end thereof the 
following sentence:
    ``For the purposes of this section and section 1242, technical 
assistance shall include the necessary education regarding the programs 
under this title, and appropriate related matters, as provided under 
section 1242(5).''.

SEC. 480. ASSSESSMENT AND REFORM OF CONSERVATION PROGRAMS.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary of Agriculture (hereafter referred 
to as the ``Secretary'') shall develop a plan to coordinate land 
retirement, forestry, and agricultural working land conservation 
programs that are administered by the Secretary by integrating the 
activities of departmental agencies to achieve the goals of--
            (1) eliminating redundancy;
            (2) streamlining program delivery; and
            (3) improving services provided to agricultural producers, 
        including the provision of science-based technical assistance 
        through integrated interagency programs of research, education, 
        and extension.
    (b) Consultation.--The Secretary shall consult with the Under 
Secretaries in the Department of Agriculture to develop a plan of 
strategic research, education, and extension programs to ensure that 
the goals outlined by the programs described in subsection (a) can be 
achieved in an integrated and highly focused manner that includes 
determination of national priorities, cost sharing, and collaborative 
management. The Under Secretaries shall ensure that the Department's 
programmatic resources and partnerships available within their areas of 
responsibility are involved in the development and implementation of 
the strategic plan.
    (c) Report.--Not later than September 30, 2008, the Secretary shall 
submit to the Committee on Agriculture of the House of Representatives 
and the Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry of the 
Senate, a report that describes--
            (1) the plans developed under subsections (a) and (b); and
            (2) the means by which the Secretary intends to achieve the 
        goals described in subsections (a) and (b).
                                 &lt;all&gt;
</pre></body></html>
