<html><body><pre>
[Congressional Bills 107th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H.R. 2375 Introduced in House (IH)]







107th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                H. R. 2375

To promote the conservation and preservation of working farms, ranches, 
                          and private forests.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                             June 28, 2001

 Mr. Kind (for himself, Mr. Gilchrest, Mr. Boehlert, Mr. Dingell, Mrs. 
Johnson of Connecticut, Mr. Larsen of Washington, Mr. George Miller of 
  California, Mr. Petri, Mr. Thompson of California, Mr. Bonior, Mr. 
 Quinn, Mr. Hoyer, Mr. Walsh, Mr. Dicks, Mr. Ehlers, Mr. Oberstar, Mr. 
 Bass, Mr. Baird, Mr. Kolbe, Ms. Woolsey, Mrs. Tauscher, Mr. King, Mr. 
    Udall of Colorado, Mr. Gilman, Mr. McDermott, Mr. Hinchey, Mrs. 
   Roukema, Mr. McNulty, Mr. Borski, Mr. McHugh, Mr. Etheridge, Mrs. 
Morella, Mr. Farr of California, Mr. Pallone, Mr. Stupak, Mr. Delahunt, 
Mr. Olver, Mr. Greenwood, Mr. Kildee, Mr. Baldacci, Mr. Blumenauer, Mr. 
  Allen, Mr. Kucinich, Mr. Kennedy of Rhode Island, Mr. Langevin, Ms. 
    Baldwin, Mr. Barrett of Wisconsin, Mr. Moran of Virginia, Mrs. 
  Napolitano, Ms. McCollum, Mr. Smith of Washington, Mr. Inslee, Mr. 
     Lewis of Georgia, Mr. Holt, Mr. Wu, and Ms. Hooley of Oregon) 
 introduced the following bill; which was referred to the Committee on 
                              Agriculture

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
To promote the conservation and preservation of working farms, ranches, 
                          and private forests.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE; TABLE OF CONTENTS.

    (a) Short Title.--This Act may be cited as the ``Working Lands 
Stewardship Act of 2001''.
    (b) Table of Contents.--The table of contents of this Act is as 
follows:

Sec. 1. Short title; table of contents.
Sec. 2. Findings and purposes.
Sec. 3. Definitions.
         TITLE I--FARM, RANCH, AND RURAL COMMUNITY PRESERVATION

Sec. 101. Farmland protection program.
Sec. 102. Expansion of State marketing programs.
Sec. 103. Farmer-to-consumer marketing.
Sec. 104. Program to promote purchase of locally grown fruits and 
                            vegetables.
Sec. 105. Socially disadvantaged farmers.
          TITLE II--ENVIRONMENTAL STEWARDSHIP ON WORKING LANDS

Sec. 201. Environmental quality incentives program.
Sec. 202. Manure reuse loans and grants.
               TITLE II--PRESERVATION OF WILDLIFE HABITAT

Sec. 301. Wildlife habitat incentives program.
Sec. 302. Wetlands reserve program.
Sec. 303. Wetlands reserve enhancement program.
Sec. 304. Conservation reserve program.
Sec. 305. Conservation of private grazing lands.
Sec. 306. Grassland reserve program.
                       TITLE IV--ORGANIC FARMING

Sec. 401. Program to assist transition to organic farming.
                           TITLE V--FORESTRY

Sec. 501. Forest stewardship program.
Sec. 502. Urban and community forestry.
Sec. 503. Elimination of repetition in Federal cooperative forestry 
                            assistance programs.
                     TITLE VI--TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE

Sec. 601. Conservation technical assistance.
Sec. 602. Reimbursement for program administration and outreach.
Sec. 603. Technical assistance by others.
Sec. 604. Conservation practice standards.
            TITLE VII--MISCELLANEOUS CONSERVATION PROVISIONS

Sec. 701. Regional equity.
Sec. 702. Conservation program performance review and evaluation.
        TITLE VIII--CONSERVATION CORRIDOR DEMONSTRATION PROGRAM

Sec. 801. Demonstration program to promote and support ecosystem- and 
                            watershed-based conservation.
Sec. 802. Conservation plan.
Sec. 803. Funding requirements.

SEC. 2. FINDINGS AND PURPOSES.

    (a) Findings.--Congress finds the following:
            (1) In addition to producing food and fiber, American 
        farmers, ranchers, and private forest landowners can contribute 
        to cleaner water, wildlife habitat and open space.
            (2) Thousands of farmers, ranchers, and private forest 
        landowners who seek Federal financial and technical assistance 
        to further promote the conservation and related benefits of 
        food and fiber production are rejected each year due to 
        inadequate funding for these Federal financial and technical 
        assistance programs.
            (3) Increased conservation assistance will reduce long-term 
        water treatment and dredging costs, protect rare species, and 
        preserve open space.
            (4) A voluntary, incentive-based approach to conservation 
        will reward farmer stewardship, help producers comply with 
        regulations, and increase farm profitability.
            (5) Increasing the income to farmers, ranchers, and private 
        forest landowners is one of the most effective tools available 
        for reducing the loss of open space and maintaining the 
        nation's working landscapes.
    (b) Purposes.--The purposes of this Act are--
            (1) to contribute to farmer, rancher and private forester 
        profitability;
            (2) to develop new markets for agricultural and forestry 
        products;
            (3) to reward farmers, ranchers, and private forest 
        landowners when they contribute to clean water, fish and 
        wildlife habitat, and open space;
            (4) to meet farmer, rancher, and private forester demand 
        for Federal financial and technical assistance; and
            (5) to reduce long-term drinking water treatment and 
        dredging costs.

SEC. 3. DEFINITIONS.

    In this Act:
            (1) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary 
        of Agriculture.
            (2) Innovative manure management.--The term ``innovative 
        manure management'' means manure management technologies that--
                    (A) eliminate the discharge of animal waste to 
                surface and groundwaters through direct discharge, 
                seepage and runoff;
                    (B) substantially eliminate atmospheric emissions 
                of ammonia;
                    (C) substantially eliminate the emission of odor 
                that is detectable beyond the boundaries of the animal 
                operation;
                    (D) substantially eliminate the release of disease-
                transmitting vectors and airborne pathogens; or
                    (E) substantially eliminate nutrient heavy metal 
                contamination.

         TITLE I--FARM, RANCH, AND RURAL COMMUNITY PRESERVATION

SEC. 101. FARMLAND PROTECTION PROGRAM.

    (a) In General.--Section 388 of the Federal Agriculture Improvement 
and Reform Act of 1996 (Public Law 104-127; 16 U.S.C. 3830 note) is 
amended to read as follows:

``SEC. 388. FARMLAND PROTECTION PROGRAM.

    ``(a) Establishment and Purpose.--The Secretary of Agriculture 
shall carry out a farmland protection program for the purpose of 
protecting farm, ranch, and forest lands with prime, unique, or other 
productive uses by limiting the nonagricultural uses of the lands. 
Under the program, the Secretary may provide matching grants to 
eligible entities described in subsection (d) to facilitate their 
purchase of--
            ``(1) permanent conservation easements in such lands; or
            ``(2) conservation easements or other interests in such 
        lands when the lands are subject to a pending offer from a 
        State or local government.
    ``(b) Conservation Plan.--Any highly erodible land for which a 
conservation easement or other interest is purchased using funds made 
available under this section shall be subject to the requirements of a 
conservation plan that requires, at the option of the Secretary of 
Agriculture, the conversion of the cropland to less intensive uses.
    ``(c) Maximum Federal Share.--The Federal share of the cost of 
purchasing a conservation easement described in subsection (a)(1) may 
not exceed 50 percent of the total cost of purchasing the easement.
    ``(d) Eligible Entity Defined.--In this section, the term `eligible 
entity' means any of the following:
            ``(1) An agency of a State or local government.
            ``(2) A federally recognized Indian tribe.
            ``(3) Any organization that is organized for, and at all 
        times since its formation has been operated principally for, 
        one or more of the conservation purposes specified in clause 
        (i), (ii), or (iii) of section 170(h)(4)(A) of the Internal 
        Revenue Code of 1986 and--
                    ``(A) is described in section 501(c)(3) of the 
                Code;
                    ``(B) is exempt from taxation under section 501(a) 
                of the Code; and
                    ``(C) is described in paragraph (2) of section 
                509(a) of the Code, or paragraph (3) of such section, 
                but is controlled by an organization described in 
                paragraph (2) of such section.
    ``(e) Grant Factors.--Among the factors the Secretary shall use to 
make grants under this section, the Secretary shall consider the extent 
to which States are encouraging or adopting measures to protect 
farmland and ranchland from conversion to urban uses.
    ``(f) Title; Enforcement.--Any eligible entity may hold title to a 
conservation easement purchased using grant funds provided under 
subsection (a)(1) and enforce the conservation requirements of the 
easement.
    ``(g) State Certification.--As a condition of the receipt by an 
eligible entity of a grant under subsection (a)(1), the attorney 
general of the State in which the conservation easement is to be 
purchased using the grant funds shall certify that the conservation 
easement to be purchased is in a form that is sufficient, under the 
laws of the State, to achieve the purposes of the farmland protection 
program and the terms and conditions of the grant.
    ``(h) Funding.--
            ``(1) Use of commodity credit corporation funds.--The 
        Secretary shall use not more than $500,000,000 of the funds of 
        the Commodity Credit Corporation for each of the fiscal years 
        2003 through 2008 to carry out this section.
            ``(2) Limitation on technical assistance.--To provide 
        technical assistance to carry out this section, the Secretary 
        may not use more than 10 percent of the amount made available 
        for any fiscal year under paragraph (1).''.
    (b) Grants and Assistance To Enhance Farm Viability.--To complement 
the farmland protection program required by section 388 of the Federal 
Agriculture Improvement and Reform Act of 1996 (Public Law 104-127; 7 
U.S.C. 3830 note), the Secretary of Agriculture shall establish a 
$10,000,000 program, using funds of the Commodity Credit Corporation, 
to provide market development grants and technical assistance to farm 
and ranch operators in exchange for a 5-year or 10-year agreement to 
forgo development of the lands covered by the agreement.
            (1) Business plans.--The Secretary shall establish teams of 
        experts to assist a farm and ranch operator participating in 
        the program to develop a business plan for the operator's farm 
        or ranch.
            (2) Consultation.--To the maximum extent possible, the 
        Secretary shall consult with State or commonwealth agriculture 
        departments, including the Agriculture Commission for the State 
        of Massachusetts, in connection with the development and 
        implementation of the program in each respective State.

SEC. 102. EXPANSION OF STATE MARKETING PROGRAMS.

    (a) Federal-State Market Incentive Payments.--Section 204(b) (7 
USCA 1623) of the Agricultural Marketing Act of 1946 is amended by 
deleting ``such sums as he may deem appropriate'' with ``$10 million 
from the Commodity Credit Corporation for each of the fiscal years 2003 
through 2008.''
    (b) Market Development Grants.--Section 203(e)(1) of the 
Agricultural Marketing Act of 1946 (7 U.S.C. 1622(e)) is amended by 
adding at the end the following new sentence: ``The Secretary shall 
transfer to State departments of agriculture and other State marketing 
offices at least 10 percent of the funds appropriated for a fiscal year 
for this subsection to facilitate the development of local and regional 
markets for agricultural products, including direct farm-to-consumer 
markets.''.
    (c) Marketing Service and Research.--Section 204(b) of the 
Agricultural Marketing Act of 1946 (7 U.S.C. 1623(b)) is amended by 
striking ``authorized to make available from such funds such sums as he 
may deem appropriate for allotment'' and inserting ``directed to 
allocate at least 10 percent of annual appropriations under subsection 
(a)''.

SEC. 103. FARMER-TO-CONSUMER MARKETING.

    The Farmer-to-Consumer Direct Marketing Act of 1976 (7 U.S.C. 3001-
3006) is amended as follows:
    (a) Farmers Market Grants.--The Secretary shall establish a program 
to provide grants to develop farmers markets. There is hereby 
authorized to be appropriated from the Commodity Credit Corporation 
$10,000,000 for each of the fiscal years 2003 through 2008.
    (b) Technical Assistance.--Section 5(a) is amended by inserting the 
following:
            ``(4) providing technical assistance to urban and suburban 
        agricultural fairs.''.
    (c) Authorization of Appropriations.--Section 7(b) is amended by 
deleting ``$1,500,000'' and inserting ``$5,000,000''.
    (d) Farmer Market Development.--Section 3004(a)(3) is amended by 
inserting the following: ``The Secretary shall work with States 
Departments of Agriculture to develop programs to train managers of 
farmers markets, and shall create opportunities to share information 
among farmers market managers.''.
    (e) Direct Marketing Training.--Section 3004(a)(5) is amended by 
inserting the following:
            ``(5) The Secretary shall establish a program to train 
        cooperative extension service employees in the development of 
        direct marketing techniques, and shall work with producers to 
        develop farmers markets.''.

SEC. 104. PROGRAM TO PROMOTE PURCHASE OF LOCALLY GROWN FRUITS AND 
              VEGETABLES.

    (a) National Promotional Campaign.--The Secretary shall establish a 
national campaign to urge Federal and non-Federal consumers to buy 
locally-grown fruits and vegetables and value-added products made from 
locally-grown fruits and vegetables, to highlight the nutritional value 
of fresh, locally-grown produce, and to highlight the connection 
between local food production, consumer buying behavior, and loss of 
open space.
    (b) Federal Purchases.--The Secretary shall establish a memorandum 
of agreement with the Secretary of Defense and the Secretary of 
Education to ensure that at least 75 percent of the fruits and 
vegetables and value-added products made from fruits and vegetables 
acquired by public schools and military installations is locally grown.
    (c) Financial Support.--To promote the use of locally grown fruits 
and vegetables and value-added products made from locally grown fruits 
and vegetables in schools, the Secretary shall provide such sums as 
necessary for incorporating locally grown fruits and vegetables and 
value-added products thereof into school-provided meals.

SEC. 105. SOCIALLY DISADVANTAGED FARMERS.

    Section 2501(a)(3) of the Food, Agriculture, Conservation, and 
Trade Act of 1990 (7 U.S.C. 2279(a)(3)) is amended by striking 
``$10,000,000'' and inserting ``$25,000,000''.

          TITLE II--ENVIRONMENTAL STEWARDSHIP ON WORKING LANDS

SEC. 201. ENVIRONMENTAL QUALITY INCENTIVES PROGRAM.

    (a) Extension and Funding Increase.--Section 1241(b)(1) of the Food 
Security Act of 1985 (16 U.S.C. 3841(b)(1)) is amended--
            (1) by striking ``1996, and'' and inserting ``2002,''; and
            (2) by striking ``2002,'' and inserting ``2008, and 
        $1,000,000,000 of the funds allocated by the Commodity Credit 
        Corporation for each of the fiscal years 2003 through 2008.''.
    (b) Set Asides.--Section 1241(b) of the Food Security Act of 1985 
(16 U.S.C. 3841(b)) is amended by striking paragraph (2) and inserting 
the following new paragraph:
            ``(2) Set asides for livestock, and water conservation.--
        For each of the fiscal years 2003 through 2008:
                    ``(A) Managed grazing.--Not less than 20 percent of 
                the funding available for technical assistance, cost-
                sharing payments, and incentive payments shall be 
                targeted at managed grazing systems;
                    ``(B) Innovative manure management.--Not less than 
                10 percent of the funding available for technical 
                assistance, cost-sharing payments, and incentive 
                payments shall be targeted for innovative manure 
                management systems, including digesters.
                    ``(C) Water conservation.--Not less than 20 percent 
                of the funding available for technical assistance, 
                cost-sharing payments, and incentive payments shall be 
                made available for innovative irrigation efficiency 
                infrastructure and practices. Not less than half of the 
                set aside available for water conservation shall be 
                provided for measures that improve habitat conditions 
                for fisheries.
                    ``(D) Pesticide reduction.--Not less than 10 
                percent of the funding available for technical 
                assistance, cost-sharing payments, and incentive 
                payments shall be targeted for practices which reduce 
                the use and toxicity of pesticides.''.
    (c) Watershed Quality Incentive Contracts.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary shall provide incentive 
        payments to reward private landowners who implement nutrient 
        management, pest management, or soil erosion practices that 
        protect public drinking water supplies.
            (2) Contracts.--The Secretary shall enter into multi-year 
        contracts with private landowners whose activities affect 
        public drinking water supplies to reduce soil loss, improve 
        water quality, and protect human health.
            (3) Plan.--To be eligible to receive incentive payments, 
        landowners whose activities affect public drinking water 
        supplies shall submit a plan, and shall enter into a watershed 
        quality incentives contract with the Secretary to carry out the 
        plan. The plan shall--
                    (A) describe the nutrient management, pest 
                management or soil loss practices to be implemented, 
                maintained, or improved;
                    (B) contain a schedule of implementation;
                    (C) address water quality priorities of the 
                watershed in which the operation is located to the 
                greatest extent possible; and
                    (D) contain such other terms as the Secretary 
                determines to be appropriate.
            (4) Consistency with watershed plan.--Conservation 
        practices proposed in the plan required by paragraph (3) must 
        be consistent with a watershed plan developed by the Secretary, 
        based upon the best available science, that identifies and 
        ranks measures, such as nutrient management, pest management 
        and conservation tillage, needed to improve the quality of 
        public drinking water supplies in a watershed.
            (5) Role of watershed councils.--The Secretary shall, to 
        the maximum extent possible, work with conservation districts 
        and existing and new watershed councils to develop the 
        watershed plan under paragraph (4).
            (6) Authorization of appropriations.--There is hereby 
        authorized to be appropriated $1,000,000,000 from the Commodity 
        Credit Corporation to carry out the purposes of this 
        subsection.
            (7) Annual payments.--The Secretary is authorized to make 
        annual payments to farm and ranch operators not to exceed 
        $50,000.
            (8) Monitoring.--To provide incentives and cost-sharing 
        payments under this subsection, the Secretary shall collaborate 
        with other Federal and non-Federal interests to maintain or 
        establish a water quality monitoring network to measure the 
        benefits of funds allocated under this subsection and must 
        annually share the results of such monitoring.
            (9) Privacy.--Data collected will not be subject to 
        mandatory disclosure provisions (5 U.S.C. 552), but may be used 
        in an aggregate form to measure expected benefits.
            (10) Guidance.--The Secretary shall collaborate with other 
        local, state and Federal agencies to develop guidance for 
        locally-led water quality monitoring networks.
            (11) Role of drinking water supplies.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary shall work with drinking 
        water utilities to allocate payments under this section.
            (2) Pilot program.--The Secretary shall permit drinking 
        water utilities in 10 watersheds to allocate payments under 
        this section, provided that drinking water utilities maintain 
        monitoring networks which can target incentive and cost-sharing 
        payments and measure results.
            (12) Recognition of state efforts.--The Secretary shall 
        recognize the financial contribution of States, among other 
        factors, during the allocation of funding under this 
        subsection.
    (d) Exception to Limitation on Payments.--
            (1) Section 1240G(b) of the Food Security Act of 1985 (16 
        USC 3839aa-7(a)) is amended by inserting the following:
            ``(3) to share the cost of digesters.''.
            (2) No funding may be provided to livestock producers who 
        must comply with permit requirements under the Federal Water 
        Pollution Control Act.
    (e) Limitation on Payments.--Section 1240G(c) is repealed.
    (f) Evaluation of Offers and Payments.--Section 1240C is amended by 
inserting the following:
    ``(a) The Secretary shall establish a ranking process and benefits 
index to prioritize technical assistance, cost-share payments, and 
incentives to producers to maximize soil and water quality and wildlife 
habitat benefits. The ranking process shall be weighted to ensure that 
technical assistance, cost-share payments, and incentives are provided 
to small and socially-disadvantaged farmers, and shall recognize the 
extent to which producers have previously implemented resource-
conserving practices. The Secretary shall consult with local, State, 
and Federal public and private to entities to develop the ranking 
process and benefits index.''.
    (g) Non-Federal Assistance.--Section 1240B(g) is amended by 
inserting ``drinking water utility'' after ``forestry agency,'' and by 
inserting ``cost-share payments, and incentives'' after ``technical 
assistance''.
    (h) Priority Areas.--Section 1240(c)(1) is amended by adding the 
following: ``State allocations shall reflect, among other appropriate 
factors, the extent to which States have engaged local stakeholders in 
setting priority areas, developed and implemented education and 
outreach programs, and developed and implemented water quality 
monitoring programs for designated priority areas.''.
    (i) Animal Antibiotics Use.--When providing funds for livestock 
operators under this section, the Secretary shall consider, among other 
factors, the extent to which operators reduce and limit the use of 
antibiotics to those levels necessary to ensure animal health.

SEC. 202. MANURE REUSE LOANS AND GRANTS.

    (a) Loans for Farm Owners and Tenants.--Section 304(a) of the 
Consolidated Farm and Rural Development Act (7 U.S.C. 1924(a)) is 
amended--
            (1) by striking ``and'' at the end of paragraph (5);
            (2) by re-designating paragraph (6) as paragraph (7); and
            (3) by inserting after paragraph (5) the following:
            ``(6) the installation of animal waste biogas recovery 
        facilities; and''.
    (b) Loans for Organizations.--Section 306(a) of such Act (7 U.S.C. 
1926(a)) is amended by inserting ``the installation of animal waste 
biogas recovery facilities'' after ``waste disposal facilities,''.
    (c) Increase in Maximum Loan.--Section 304(c)(2) of such Act (7 
U.S.C. 1924(c)(2)) is amended by inserting the following: ``Loans for 
digesters may exceed $50,000.''.

               TITLE II--PRESERVATION OF WILDLIFE HABITAT

SEC. 301. WILDLIFE HABITAT INCENTIVES PROGRAM.

    (a) Extension and Funding Increase.--Subsection (c) of section 387 
of the Federal Agriculture Improvement and Reform Act of 1996 (16 
U.S.C. 3836a) is amended by inserting after ``2002'' the following: ``a 
total of $500,000,000 from the Commodity Credit Corporation'' for 
fiscal years 2003 through 2008,''.
    (b) Program Modifications.--Such section is further amended by 
adding at the end the following new subsections:
    ``(d) Funding Priority.--Beginning with fiscal year 2003, not less 
than 50 percent of the funds made available under subsection (c) shall 
be targeted at ecologically significant habitat for imperiled native 
species, including species identified as endangered, threatened or of 
special concern by the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service or species that 
are considered imperiled by State natural heritage programs; The 
Secretary shall establish a panel of experts from Federal and State 
fish, wildlife and natural resource agencies to assist the Secretary in 
meeting this goal.
    ``(e) Safe Harbor.--The Secretary is authorized to assist 
landowners entering safe harbor agreements by sharing the costs of 
wildlife assessments or other costs related to safe harbor agreements.
    ``(f) Acquisition of Easements and Water Rights.--Beginning with 
fiscal year 2003, not less than 20 percent of the funds made available 
under subsection (c) shall be used to acquire permanent easements and 
water rights to preserve important and declining fish and wildlife 
habitats as identified by the Secretary for each State in consultation 
with the State fish and wildlife
agency.
    ``(g) Incentive Payments.--The Secretary may provide incentive 
payments to landowners in exchange for the implementation of land 
management practices designed to create or preserve wildlife habitat. 
The payments may be in an amount and at a rate determined by the 
Secretary to be necessary to encourage a landowner to engage in the 
practice.
    ``(h) Criteria for Enrollment.--The Secretary shall work with 
local, State and Federal experts to revise enrollment criteria not 
later than six months after the date of enactments to ensure that 
projects maximize conservation benefits, are regionally equitable, and 
to encourage the implementation of projects that also contribute to 
producer profitability.''.

SEC. 302. WETLANDS RESERVE PROGRAM.

    (a) Enrollment Authority.--Section 1237(b) of the Food Security Act 
of 1985 (16 U.S.C. 3837(b)) is amended by striking paragraph (1) and 
inserting the following new paragraph:
            ``(1) Enrollment.--The Secretary shall enroll a total of 
        not less than 250,000 acres per fiscal year in the wetlands 
        reserve program during the fiscal years 2003 through 2008, and 
        the total number of acres enrolled in the wetlands reserve 
        program shall not exceed 2,500,000 acres.''.
    (b) Regional Equity.--Section 1237A(f) of the Food Security Act of 
1985 (16 U.S.C. 3837a(f)) is amended by adding at the end the following 
new sentence:
    ``Not later than October 1, 2002, the Secretary shall reform 
compensation policies to ensure that the enrollment of lands under this 
subchapter is equitable on a regional basis, taking into account 
historic wetlands distribution and existing opportunities for 
restoration.''.

SEC. 303. WETLANDS RESERVE ENHANCEMENT PROGRAM.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary of Agriculture shall establish a 
cost-share program with any State or States to enter into annual 
incentive payment contracts and easements with private landowners or 
operators to protect 250,000 acres of wetlands that have been 
identified by the State or States--
            (1) as habitat for animal or plant populations of 
        significant ecological value;
            (2) as having significant water quality value; or
            (3) as having the potential to reduce flood losses.
    (b) Eligible Lands.--Land shall be eligible to be enrolled in the 
program if the Secretary of Agriculture determines that the land--
            (1) is a wetland or prior converted wetland;
            (2) once served as a natural wetland, and is located in an 
        area that has potential to serve as wetland habitat for animal 
        or plant populations of significant ecological value;
            (3) is located within 150 feet of land described in 
        paragraph (1) or (2); or
            (4) is incidental to land described in paragraph (1), (2) 
        or (3), if the Secretary also determines that enrollment of the 
        incidental land is necessary for the efficient administration 
        of the other land.
    (c) Eligibility Requirements for States.--To be eligible for this 
program, a State must--
            (1) Submit a wetland conservation plan which identifies, by 
        county or parish, wetlands in the respective State that have 
        been identified by the State as habitat for animal or plant 
        populations of significant ecological value; and
            (2) Provide documentation to the Secretary of potential and 
        likely sources of in-kind or in-cash contributions available 
        from the State to meet the cost-share requirements of the 
        program created by this subsection. In-kind and in-cash 
        contributions from the State necessary to meet the requirements 
        of the program may include State and local governments, private 
        non-profit and for-profit organizations, and any private group 
        and individual.
    (d) Cost Share Requirements.--States eligible for this program must 
provide at least 25 percent of the funds (in-kind and/or in-cash) 
necessary to negotiate, execute, maintain, and enforce a contract or 
easement under this program.
    (e) Terms of Contract.--
            (1) Permitted activities.--A contract or easement under 
        this section may permit the following activities on the land 
        subject to the contract or easement:
                    (A) The use of common grazing practices on the 
                enrolled land in a manner that is consistent with 
                maintaining the viability of wetlands, riparian areas, 
                and adjacent uplands.
                    (B) Haying, mowing, or haying for seed production, 
                except that such uses shall not be permitted until 
                after the end of the nesting and brood-rearing seasons 
                for birds in the local area which are in significant 
                decline or are conserved pursuant to State or Federal 
                law, as determined by the Natural Resources 
                Conservation Service State Conservationist, in 
                consultation with the State Technical Committee, the 
                State wildlife agency and the Secretary of the 
                Interior.
                    (C) The construction of fire breaks and fences, 
                including placement of the posts necessary for fences.
            (2) Prohibited activities.--Enrolled land under this 
        section may not be used for the following:
                    (A) The production of row-crops, fruit trees, 
                vineyards, or any other agricultural commodity that 
                requires breaking the soil surface.
                    (B) The conduct of any other activities that would 
                disturb the surface of the land covered by the 
                contract, including plowing and disking.
            (3) Special rules for permanent easements.--In the case of 
        a permanent easement under this section, the terms of the 
        easement shall--
                    (A) permit wetland, grass and shrub restoration;
                    (B) prohibit commercial timber production or row 
                crop production; and
                    (C) prohibit development.
    (f) Payments.--The Secretary of Agriculture shall establish a 
system to fairly compensate landowners for the value of an annual 
incentive payment contract or easement entered into under this section.
    (g) Term of Contracts or Easements.--
            (1) Contracts.--The Secretary is authorized to enter into 
        annual incentive payment contracts with State(s) and owners 
        and/or operators of private land under this section that have a 
        duration of no less than 10 years and no more than 30 years.
            (2) Easements.--The Secretary is authorized to purchase 30-
        year or perpetual easements under this section from owners and/
        or operators of private land.
    (h) Special Emphasis.--Special emphasis should be placed on 
enrollment of wetlands which are declining or endangered regionally or 
nationally, and on those wetlands which are not adequately protected by 
local, State, and Federal statute or regulation, including isolated 
wetlands.

SEC. 304. CONSERVATION RESERVE PROGRAM.

    (a) Enrollment Authority.--Section 1231 of the Food Security Act of 
1985 (16 U.S.C. 3831) is amended--
            (1) in subsection (a), by striking ``2002'' and inserting 
        ``2008'';
            (2) in subsection (b)(3), by striking ``2002'' and 
        inserting ``2008'';
            (3) in subsection (d)--
                    (A) by striking ``36,400,000'' and inserting 
                ``45,000,000''; and
                    (B) by striking ``2002'' and inserting ``2008''; 
                and
            (4) in subsection (h)(1), by striking ``and 2002'' and 
        inserting ``through 2008''.
    (b) Environmentally-Sensitive Lands and Buffer Strips.--Section 
1231(d) of the Food Security Act of 1985 (16 U.S.C. 3831(d)) is amended 
by adding at the end the following new sentence:
    ``Of the acreage authorized for enrollment, not less than 9,000,000 
acres shall be used to enroll environmentally-sensitive lands, 
including buffers and conservation enhancement program easements; and 
not less than 5,000,000 acres shall be used to enroll buffers to 
restore wetlands, shrublands, grasslands, and other rare habitat.''.
    (c) Limited Permanent Easement Authority.-- Section 1231(e) of the 
Food Security Act of 1985 (16 U.S.C. 3831(e)) is amended by adding at 
the end the following new paragraph:
            ``(3) Permanent easements.--Notwithstanding paragraph (1), 
        the Secretary may enroll up to 3,000,000 acres in the 
        conservation reserve using permanent easements to protect 
        critically-important environmentally-sensitive lands, including 
        1,000,000 acres for isolated wetlands, and habitats such as 
        native prairies, native shrublands, small wetlands, springs, 
        seeps, fens, and other rare and declining habitats. The 
        Secretary may provide a payment equal to not more than 14 
        percent of the cost of enrollment to qualified private entities 
        providing technical assistance, including conservation 
        districts.
            ``(4) Fruit and vegetables.--Producers of fruits and 
        vegetables, sod, orchards, and specialty crops shall be 
eligible for the conservation reserve program to meet the terms of 
enrollment in the continuous enrollment program or the conservation 
reserve enhancement program.
            ``(5) State and local role.--The Secretary shall attempt to 
        implement paragraph (3) of this section through qualified State 
        and local governments and non-profit land conservation 
        organizations.''.
    (d) Pasture, Hay, and Rangelands.--
            (1) Eligible lands.--Section 1231(b) of the Food Security 
        Act of 1985 (16 U.S.C. 3831(b)) is amended by striking 
        paragraph (3) and inserting the following new paragraph:
            ``(3) pasture, hay, and rangelands if the land (A) will be 
        restored as wetlands or (B) is in or within 300 feet of a 
        riparian area, will be restored in native riparian vegetation, 
        and will be managed to prohibit livestock access;''.
            (2) Special enrollment authority.--Section 1231 of the Food 
        Security Act of 1985 (16 U.S.C. 3831) is amended by adding at 
        the end the following new subsection:
    ``(i) Enrollment of Grasslands and Rangelands.--
            ``(1) Enrollment authority.--The Secretary may enroll up to 
        3,000,000 acres of grasslands and rangelands in the 
        conservation reserve if the conservation plan for the acreage--
                    ``(A) prohibits all economic use, including 
                emergency haying and grazing;
                    ``(B) ensures a mixture of predominantly native 
                species;
                    ``(C) will benefit declining, rare, and/or 
                endangered species;
                    ``(D) promotes the establishment of plant 
                communities that benefit wildlife; and
                    ``(E) contributes to improvement in water quality.
            ``(2) Relation to other enrollments.--Lands enrolled under 
        the authority of this subsection shall be in addition to any 
        lands enrolled pursuant to subsection (b)(3).''.
    (e) Continuous Enrollment of Buffer Strips.--Section 1234(c) of the 
Food Security Act of 1985 (16 U.S.C. 3834(c)) is amended by adding at 
the end the following new paragraphs:
            ``(5) Continuous enrollment of buffer strips and small 
        wetlands.--The Secretary shall allow continuous enrollment of 
        small wetlands (5 acres or less) and buffers whose width and 
        vegetation is designed to provide significant wildlife or water 
        quality benefits, as determined by the Secretary.
            ``(6) Contour strips.--The Secretary shall extend these 
        incentives to contour buffer strips and other in-field strip 
        practices.
            ``(7) Irrigated lands.--Irrigated lands shall be enrolled 
        at irrigated land rates unless the Secretary determines that 
        other compensation is appropriate.''.
    (f) Exception to Payment Limitation.--Payments made in connection 
with the enrollment of lands pursuant to the continuous enrollment or 
the conservation reserve enhancement program shall not be subject to 
any payment limitations.
    (g) Native Seed Collection.--The collection of native seeds is 
permitted on lands enrolled in the Conservation Reserve Program.

SEC. 305. CONSERVATION OF PRIVATE GRAZING LANDS.

    Section 386 of the Federal Agriculture Improvement and Reform Act 
of 1996 (16 U.S.C. 2005b) is amended by striking subsection (f) and 
inserting the following new subsections:
    ``(f) Incentive Payments.--The Secretary may enter into 5-year, 10-
year and 20-year contracts with landowners to provide financial 
assistance for landowner efforts to improve the ecological health of 
grazing lands, including practices that reduce erosion, employ 
prescribed burns, restore riparian area, control or eliminate exotic 
species, reestablish native grasses, or otherwise enhance wildlife 
habitat.
    ``(g) Authorization of Appropriations.--There are authorized to be 
appropriated to carry out this section $100,000,000 for each of the 
fiscal years 2003 through 2008 from the Commodity Credit 
Corporation.''.

SEC. 306. GRASSLAND RESERVE PROGRAM.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary of Agriculture shall establish a 
program to use contracts and easements to protect 3,000,000 acres of 
environmentally-critical grasslands, shrublands, and blufflands. At 
least half of the acres may be enrolled using permanent easements, and 
the balance shall be enrolled in contracts through which the Secretary 
shall provide assistance and incentive payments.
    (b) Eligible Lands.--Land shall be eligible to be enrolled in the 
program if the Secretary of Agriculture determines that the land--
            (1) is native grass or native shrubs;
            (2) is located in area that has been historically dominated 
        by native grass or shrubland and has potential to serve as 
        habitat for animal or plant populations of significant 
        ecological value if the land is restored to native grass or 
        native shrubland; or
            (3) is incidental to land described in paragraph or if the 
        Secretary also determines that enrollment of the incidental 
        land is necessary for the efficient administration of the other 
        land to ensure the success of maintaining or restoring native 
        grassland or native shrubland.
    (c) Terms of Contract.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary shall enter into contracts 
        of 10 years through which the Secretary may provide the costs 
        of management practices and incentive payments.
            (2) Permitted activities.--A contract or easement under 
        this section may permit the following activities on the land 
        subject to the contract or easement:
                    (A) The use of common grazing practices on the 
                enrolled land in a manner that is consistent with 
                maintaining the viability of native grass and shrub 
                species and native wildlife species indigenous to that 
                locality.
                    (B) Haying, mowing, or haying for seed production, 
                except that such uses shall not be permitted until 
                after the end of the nesting and brood-rearing seasons 
                for birds in the local area which are in significant 
                decline or are conserved pursuant to State or Federal 
                law, as determined by the Natural Resources 
                Conservation Service State Conservationist, in 
                consultation with the State Technical Committee, state 
                wildlife agency and the US Fish and Wildlife Service.
                    (C) The construction of fire breaks and fences, 
                including placement of the posts necessary for fences.
                    (D) Practices which reduce erosion, restore native 
                species, control and eradicate exotic species, enhance 
                habitat for native wildlife, and improve the health of 
                riparian areas.
            (2) Prohibited activities.--Enrolled land under this 
        section may not be used for the following:
                    (A) The production of row-crops, fruit trees, 
                vineyards, or any other agricultural commodity that 
                requires breaking the soil surface.
                    (B) The conduct of any other activities that would 
                disturb the surface of the land covered by the 
                contract, including plowing and disking .
                    (C) Development of homes, businesses or other 
                permanent structures.
            (3) Special rules for permanent easements.--In the case of 
        a permanent easement under this section, the terms of the 
        easement shall--
                    (A) permit grass and shrub restoration;
                    (B) permit the use of common grazing practices in a 
                manner consistent with maintaining the viability of 
                native grass and shrub species and native wildlife 
                species indigenous to that locality;
                    (C) prohibit forestry or row crop production; and
                    (D) prohibit development.
    (d) Establishment of Criteria.--The Secretary of Agriculture shall 
establish criteria to evaluate and rank applications for the enrollment 
of land under this section. In establishing the criteria, the Secretary 
shall emphasize support for native grass and shrubland, grazing 
operations, and plant and animal biodiversity, and the protection of 
large contiguous tracts of working farmland and ranchland.
    (e) Payments.--The Secretary of Agriculture shall establish a 
system to fairly compensate landowners for the value of a contract or 
easement entered into under this section. Easement payments for 
permanent easements should be the fair appraised market value of the 
land unencumbered by the easement less the appraised market value of 
the land encumbered by the easement.

                       TITLE IV--ORGANIC FARMING

SEC. 401. PROGRAM TO ASSIST TRANSITION TO ORGANIC FARMING.

    (a) Assistance Authorized.--The Secretary of Agriculture shall 
expand the National Organic Program to include a voluntary program to 
assist agricultural producers and organic certification organizations 
in making the transition from conventional to organic farming and to 
reward existing organic farmers. Under the program, the Secretary may 
make payments to cover all or a portion of--
            (1) losses incurred while the producer develops markets for 
        the organic products;
            (2) conservation practices related to organic food 
        production;
            (3) certification costs;
            (4) technical assistance by qualified third parties;
            (5) educational materials;
            (6) farm-to-consumer market development; and
            (7) monitoring by producers.
    (b) Limit on Expenditures.--Payments to new and existing individual 
farm and ranch operators shall not exceed $5,000 per year and payments 
shall not be made to individual farm and ranch operators in more than 
three fiscal years.
    (c) Organic Certification Reimbursement Program.--The Secretary 
shall establish a national organic certification program to reimburse 
producers for the cost of organic certification. To expedite 
certification, certified organic farmers shall be eligible for a direct 
reimbursement of up to $500 by the Secretary of certification costs, so 
long as producers present an organic certificate and receipt.
    (d) Authorization of Appropriations.--There is authorized to be 
appropriated from the Commodity Credit Corporation to carry out this 
section $100,000,000 for each of the fiscal years 2003 through 2008.

                           TITLE V--FORESTRY

SEC. 501. FOREST STEWARDSHIP PROGRAM.

    (a) Enrollment Authority and Funding Increase.--Section 5 of the 
Cooperative Forestry Assistance Act of 1978 (16 U.S.C. 2103a) is 
amended--
            (1) in subsection (b)--
                    (A) by striking ``25,000,000'' and inserting 
                ``75,000,000''; and
                    (B) by striking ``by December 31, 1995''; and
            (2) in subsection (h), by inserting after ``1995,'' the 
        following: ``$270,000,000 for each of the fiscal years 2003 
        through 2008,''.
    (b) Alternative Actions.--Section 5(d) of the Cooperative Forestry 
Assistance Act of 1978 (16 U.S.C. 2103a(d)) is amended--
            (1) by striking ``Implementation.--'' and inserting 
        ``Information and Professional Assistance.--'';
            (2) by inserting ``and'' at the end of paragraph (2); and
            (3) by striking paragraphs (3) and (4) and inserting the 
        following new paragraph:
            ``(3) promoting sustainable timber management.''.
    (c) New Elements of Program.--Section 5 of the Cooperative Forestry 
Assistance Act of 1978 (16 U.S.C. 2103a) is amended--
            (1) by redesignating subsections (e), (f), (g), and (h) as 
        subsections (j), (k), (l), and (m), respectively; and
            (2) by inserting after subsection (d) the following new 
        subsections:
    ``(e) Cost Sharing of New Land Management Practices.--
            ``(1) Financial assistance.--The Secretary shall use not 
        less than $150,000,000 of the amount appropriated for a fiscal 
        year pursuant to the authorization of appropriations in 
        subsection (m) to share the cost of land management practices 
        that improve water quality and wildlife habitat. The Secretary 
        shall consider the extent to which States have adopted minimum 
        mandatory forestry practices when making allocations of such 
        funds to States.
            ``(2) Eligible practices.--Practices that are eligible for 
        funding under this subsection include the following:
                    ``(A) Natural forest regeneration.
                    ``(B) Prescribed burns.
                    ``(C) Native species restoration, including the 
                restoration of longleaf pine, ponderosa pine, chestnut, 
                and atlantic white cedar.
                    ``(D) Selective harvesting.
                    ``(E) Stream and watershed restoration.
                    ``(F) Road retirement.
                    ``(G) Exotic species control.
                    ``(H) Permanent conservation easements.
            ``(3) Non-federal share.--The non-Federal share of projects 
        implemented under this subsection shall be 15 percent, which 
        may be satisfied through in-kind contributions.
    ``(f) Easements.--Not more than 20 percent of the funds available 
under this section may be used to acquire perpetual easements, and half 
of these funds may be used to acquire easements which permit 
sustainable timber management.
    ``(g) Technical Assistance.--The Secretary may use up to 
$100,000,000 of the amount appropriated for a fiscal year pursuant to 
the authorization of appropriations in subsection (m) to provide 
technical assistance to private landowners implementing practices that 
improve water quality and wildlife habitat. Not more than $1,000,000 in 
technical assistance funding may be provided in the form of grants to 
qualified third-parties for the purpose of implementing independent 
certification programs.
    ``(h) Watershed Forestry Initiative.--The Secretary may use up to 
$20,000,000 of the amount appropriated for a fiscal year pursuant to 
the authorization of appropriations in subsection (m) to make grants to 
finance private, nonindustrial forestry activities that enhance the 
quality of municipal water supplies.
    ``(i) Regional and Watershed Planning.--The Secretary shall make 
information on lands affected by Federal easement and incentive 
programs available to facilitate regional planning, and shall promote 
efforts to identify high priority watersheds.''.

SEC. 502. URBAN AND COMMUNITY FORESTRY.

    Section 9 of the Cooperative Forestry Assistance Act of 1978 (16 
U.S.C. 2105) is amended by striking subsection (i) and inserting the 
following new subsection:
    ``(i) Authorization of Appropriations.--There is authorized to be 
appropriated to carry out this section $100,000,000 for each of the 
fiscal years 2003 through 2008.''.

SEC. 503. ELIMINATION OF REPETITION IN FEDERAL COOPERATIVE FORESTRY 
              ASSISTANCE PROGRAMS.

    The Secretary of Agriculture shall combine existing Federal 
cooperative forestry assistance programs, including the programs 
authorized by sections 6 and 9 of the Cooperative Forestry Assistance 
Act of 1978 (16 U.S.C. 2103b, 2105), into a single forest stewardship 
program designed to promote the health of private, nonindustrial 
forests by providing financial and technical assistance to landowners 
to improve water quality, wildlife habitat, and the preservation of 
open space near urban areas.

                     TITLE VI--TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE

SEC. 601. CONSERVATION TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE.

    16 U.S.C. 590(a) is amended by inserting the following: ``There is 
hereby authorized to appropriated from the Commodity Credit Corporation 
$964,000,000 for each of the fiscal years 2003 through 2008 to provide 
technical assistance to farm and ranch operators.''.

SEC. 602. REIMBURSEMENT FOR PROGRAM ADMINISTRATION AND OUTREACH.

    Subtitle E of title XII of the Food Security Act of 1985 (16 U.S.C. 
3841 et seq.) is amended to read as follows:

                ``Subtitle E--Funding and Administration

``SEC. 1241. FUNDING.

    ``(a) Mandatory Expenses; Technical Assistance.--
            ``(1) Funding.--The Secretary shall allocate funding from 
        the Commodity Credit Corporation for the provision of technical 
        assistance to allow for full reimbursement of actual costs.
            ``(2) Eligible programs.--Programs authorized for this 
        funding include--
                    ``(A) Environmental Quality Incentives Program;
                    ``(B) Wildlife Habitat Incentives Program;
                    ``(C) Conservation Reserve Program;
                    ``(D) Wetlands Reserve Program;
                    ``(E) Farmland Protection Program;
                    ``(F) Agricultural Management Assistance Program 
                authorized under the Agricultural Risk Management Act 
                of 2000; and
                    ``(G) any other conservation programs administered 
                through CCC for which technical assistance is required.
            ``(3) Approved Reimbursements.--
                    ``(A) providing an eligibility assessment of the 
                farming or ranching operation of the producer as a 
                basis for developing the plan;
                    ``(B) providing technical assistance in developing 
                and implementing the plan;
                    ``(C) providing technical assistance for designing 
                and implementing 1 or more structural practices or 1 or 
                more land management practices, as appropriate; and
                    ``(D) providing the producer with information, 
                education, and training to aid in implementation of the 
                plan.''.

SEC. 603. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE BY OTHERS.

    Section 1243(d) of the 96 Farm Bill is deleted and replaced with 
the following:
    ``(a) Technical Assistance by Others.--
            ``(1) Generally.--The Secretary shall contract with 
        conservation districts, extension service employees, qualified 
        nonprofit organizations, and other parties certified by the 
        Secretary to provide technical assistance to landowners, so 
        long as these organizations and individuals have been certified 
        by the Secretary to provide technical assistance and these 
        organizations and individuals comply with Federal guidelines 
        for providing such assistance.
            ``(2) Guidelines and certification.--The Secretary shall 
        develop guidelines to train and certify third-parties to 
        provide technical assistance.
            ``(3) Qualified nonprofit organizations.--Qualified 
        nonprofit organizations shall include organizations whose 
        missions primarily promote the stewardship of working farmland 
        and ranchland.
            ``(4) Quality assurance program.--The Secretary shall 
        establish a program to assess the quality of the technical 
        assistance provided by third parties
            ``(5) National training centers.--To facilitate the 
        training and certification of Federal and non-Federal employees 
        and qualified third parties, the Secretary shall establish 
        training centers in the following cities:
                    ``(A) Fresno, California.
                    ``(B) Platteville, Wisconsin.
                    ``(C) College Station, Texas.
                    ``(D) Ithaca, New York.
                    ``(E) Pullman, Washington.
                    ``(F) Orono, Maine.
                    ``(G) Gainesville, Florida.
                    ``(H) College Park, Maryland.
            ``(6) Authorization of appropriations.--There is hereby 
        authorized to be appropriated from the Commodity Credit 
        Corporation $50,000,000 to carry out this subsection for each 
        of the fiscal years 2003 through 2008.''.

SEC. 604. CONSERVATION PRACTICE STANDARDS.

    The Secretary of Agriculture shall revise standards and, when 
necessary, establish standards for eligible conservation practices to 
include measurable goals for enhancing natural resources, including 
innovative practices. In particular, the Secretary shall immediately 
revise the National Handbook of Conservation Practices and field office 
technical guides, and shall update the Handbook and technical guides to 
reflect the best available science at least once every five years.

            TITLE VII--MISCELLANEOUS CONSERVATION PROVISIONS

SEC. 701. REGIONAL EQUITY.

    16 U.S.C. 3830 is amended--
            (1) by inserting the following ``In carrying out the 
        programs in the Environmental Conservation Acreage Reserve 
        Program, the Secretary shall recognize the importance of 
        regional equity, and the importance of accomplishing many 
        conservation objectives that can sometimes only be achieved on 
        land of high value. Not later than October 1, 2002, the 
        Secretary shall reform compensation and other policies to 
        ensure that the enrollment of lands in ECARP are equitable on a 
        regional basis.''; and
            (2) by inserting ``(D) the grassland preservation and 
        enhancement program.''.

SEC. 702. CONSERVATION PROGRAM PERFORMANCE REVIEW AND EVALUATION.

    (a) Performance Evaluation as a Condition on Payments.--As a 
condition on the receipt of rental or incentive payments, a landowner 
or operator shall work with the Secretary, state and local governments, 
and local interests to develop a watershed-based or other 
scientifically appropriate evaluation program to measure the benefits 
of the conservation practices implemented using the payments.
    (b) Program Requirements.--An evaluation program shall be deemed to 
satisfy the requirements of subsection (a) if the Secretary determines 
that--
            (1) the evaluation program is administered by a voluntary 
        organization possessing no direct or indirect regulatory 
        authority;
            (2) the membership of the organization administering the 
        evaluation program is representative of interests within the 
        watershed or other appropriately scaled geographical framework, 
        including tribal, private, public, governmental, and nonprofit 
        interests, as well as existing special purpose districts, as 
        appropriate;
            (3) the evaluation program has available to it, through its 
        members or through cooperation with other Federal and non-
        Federal entities, the expertise necessary to perform the 
        functions identified in this section; and
            (4) the organization administering the evaluation program 
        has adopted procedures to ensure public participation in the 
        organization's activities.
    (c) Prioritization.--The Secretary shall use information collected 
through the evaluation programs required by this section to identify 
and rank measures needed to improve water quality, habitat, or other 
environmental goals that the programs seek to promote.
    (d) Evaluation Guidelines.--The Secretary shall work with the 
National Academy of Sciences to develop guidelines to evaluate the 
benefits of conservation practices.
    (e) Authorization of Appropriations.--There is authorized to be 
appropriated from the Commodity Credit Corporation for each of the 
fiscal years 2003 through 2008 $10,000,000 to carry out the performance 
monitoring.
    (f) Privacy of Data Collected.--Data collected pursuant to this 
section is not subject to the mandatory disclosure provisions of 
section 552 of title 5, United States Code, but may be used in an 
aggregate form to measure expected benefits.

        TITLE VIII--CONSERVATION CORRIDOR DEMONSTRATION PROGRAM

SEC. 801. DEMONSTRATION PROGRAM TO PROMOTE AND SUPPORT ECOSYSTEM- AND 
              WATERSHED-BASED CONSERVATION.

    (a) Establishment and Purpose.--
            (1) In general.--Recognizing the leveraged benefit of an 
        ecosystem-based application of the Department of Agriculture 
        conservation programs specified in paragraph (2), the 
        increasing and extraordinary threats to economically important 
        agriculture in many areas of the United States, and the 
        importance of local involvement in the protection of 
        economically and ecologically important agricultural lands, the 
        Secretary of Agriculture shall establish a Conservation 
        Corridor Demonstration Program to finance private land 
        incentive contracts, acquire easement and development rights, 
        and finance water quality, forestry, and wildlife incentives, 
        as provided for in such conservation programs.
            (2) Covered conservation programs.--The Department of 
        Agriculture conservation programs referred to in paragraph (1) 
        are the following:
                    (A) The environmental quality incentives program 
                authorized by chapter 3 of subtitle D of title XII of 
                the Food Security Act of 1985 (16 U.S.C. 3839aa et 
                seq.).
                    (B) The wildlife habitat incentives program 
                authorized by section 387 of the Federal Agriculture 
                Improvement and Reform Act of 1996 (16 U.S.C. 3836a).
                    (C) The wetlands reserve program authorized by 
                subchapter C of chapter 1 of subtitle D of title XII of 
                the Food Security Act of 1985 (16 U.S.C. 3837 et seq.).
                    (D) The conservation reserve program authorized by 
                subchapter B of chapter 1 of subtitle D of title XII of 
                the Food Security Act of 1985 (16 U.S.C. 3831 et seq.).
                    (E) The forest stewardship program authorized by 
                section 5 of the Cooperative Forestry Assistance Act of 
                1978 (16 U.S.C. 2103a).
                    (F) The urban and community forestry assistance 
                program authorized by section 9 of the Cooperative 
                Forestry Assistance Act of 1978 (16 U.S.C. 2105).
                    (G) Other conservation programs administered by the 
                Secretary of Agriculture.
    (b) Location of Conservation Corridor.--Within 90 days after the 
date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall identify one or 
more priority regions, as defined and delineated by watershed or 
ecosystem, and potentially consisting of several States within which 
the Conservation Corridor Program will be carried out. In identifying a 
priority region for inclusion in the Program, the Secretary shall 
cooperate with State agencies responsible for natural resource and 
agriculture to develop maps and descriptions of economically and 
ecologically important agricultural lands that are under increasing and 
extraordinary threats and whose protection is a high priority.
    (c) Memorandum of Agreement.--As part of the Conservation Corridor 
Program in a priority region, the Secretary may enter into a memorandum 
of agreement with the States in that region that--
            (1) guarantees specific resources for implementation of the 
        Program;
            (2) establishes different or automatic enrollment criteria 
        than otherwise established by regulation or policy, for 
        specific levels of enrollments of specific conservation 
        programs within the region;
            (3) establishes different compensation rates to the extent 
        the parties to the agreement consider justified;
            (4) establishes different conservation practice criteria if 
        doing so will achieve greater conservation benefits;
            (5) provides more streamlined and integrated paperwork 
        requirements; and
            (6) otherwise alters or waives any other requirement 
        established by policy and regulation to the extent not 
        inconsistent with the statutory requirements of an individual 
        conservation program.

SEC. 802. CONSERVATION PLAN.

    (a) Preparation.--To be eligible to participate in the Conservation 
Corridor Program, a State located within a priority region identified 
under section 801(b) shall prepare a conservation plan that describes 
efforts to prioritize and link Federal, State, and local natural 
resources that--
            (1) improve the economic viability of agriculture by 
        protecting contiguous tracts of land;
            (2) improve the ecological integrity of the ecosystems or 
        watersheds within the region by linking land with high 
        ecological and natural resource value; and
            (3) provide for a memorandum of agreement among the States 
        in the priority region that accommodates ecosystem boundaries.
    (b) Consultation.--The conservation plan shall be prepared in 
consultation with the National Resources Inventory of the Natural 
Resources Conservation Service.
    (c) Submission and Review.--The conservation plan shall be 
submitted to the Secretary for review within six months after the 
inclusion of the priority area in the Conservation Corridor Program. 
Within 30 days of receipt of the conservation plan, the Secretary shall 
review the plan and approve it for implementation and funding under the 
Conservation Corridor Program if the Secretary determines that the plan 
and memorandum of agreement meet the criteria specified in subsection 
(d).
    (d) Criteria for Program.--The Secretary may approve the 
conservation plan of a State for implementation and funding under the 
Conservation Corridor Program only if, as determined by the Secretary, 
the plan provides for each of the following:
            (1) Actions taken under the conservation plan are voluntary 
        and require the consent of willing landowners.
            (2) Enrollments through the Conservation Corridor Program 
        are of lands of exceptionally high agricultural or ecological 
        value, as defined by the natural resource and agriculture 
        agencies of the State or States in which the Program is 
        located.
            (3) The Conservation Corridor Program provides benefits 
        greater than the benefits that would likely be achieved through 
        individual application of the Federal conservation programs 
        because of such factors as--
                    (A) ecosystem- or watershed-based enrollment 
                criteria;
                    (B) lengthier conservation commitments;
                    (C) integrated treatment of special natural 
                resource problems, including preservation and 
                enhancement of natural resource corridors; and
                    (D) improved economic viability for agriculture.
            (4) Staffing and marketing, considering both Federal and 
        non-Federal resources, are sufficient to assure program 
        success.
    (e) Implementation.--Within 30 days of the approval of the 
conservation plan of a State under this section, the Secretary shall 
begin to provide funds for the implementation of the Conservation 
Corridor Program in the ecosystem, watershed, or region described in 
the conservation plan.

SEC. 803. FUNDING REQUIREMENTS.

    (a) Cost-Sharing.--As a further condition on the approval of the 
conservation plan submitted by a State under section 802, the Secretary 
shall require the State to contribute a specific dollar amount toward, 
or percentage of, the total cost of the project or activity funded 
under the Conservation Corridor Program, as required by the Department 
of Agriculture conservation program providing the Federal portion of 
the funds for the project or activity.
    (b) Exception.--The Secretary may reduce the cost-share requirement 
in the case of a specific activity under the Conservation Corridor 
Program upon demonstration that the project or activity is likely to 
achieve extraordinary natural resource benefits, as defined by the 
natural resource and agriculture agencies of the State in which the 
project or activity is conducted.
    (c) Coordination.--Non-Federal interests contributing financial 
resources for the Conservation Corridor Program shall implement 
streamlined paperwork requirements and other procedures to allow for 
integration with the Federal programs for participants in the Program.
    (d) Reservation of Funds.--For each of the fiscal years 2003 
through 2008, the Secretary shall reserve for obligation and 
expenditure under the Conservation Corridor Program a percentage of the 
funds made available to the Secretary to carry out conservation 
programs administered by the Secretary.
                                 &lt;all&gt;
</pre></body></html>
