<html><body><pre>
[Congressional Bills 107th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[S. 2201 Introduced in Senate (IS)]







107th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                S. 2201

   To protect the online privacy of individuals who use the Internet.


_______________________________________________________________________


                   IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

                             April 18, 2002

  Mr. Hollings (for himself, Mr. Stevens, Mr. Burns, Mr. Inouye, Mr. 
Rockefeller, Mr. Kerry, Mr. Breaux, Mr. Cleland, Mr. Nelson of Florida, 
and Mrs. Carnahan) introduced the following bill; which was read twice 
 and referred to the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
   To protect the online privacy of individuals who use the Internet.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Online Personal Privacy Act''.

SEC. 2. TABLE OF CONTENTS.

    The table of contents of this Act is as follows:

Sec. 1. Short title.
Sec. 2. Table of contents.
Sec. 3. Findings.
Sec. 4. Preemption of State law or regulations.
                   TITLE I--ONLINE PRIVACY PROTECTION

Sec. 101. Collection, use, or disclosure of personally identifiable 
                            information.
Sec. 102. Notice and consent requirements.
Sec. 103. Policy changes; privacy breach.
Sec. 104. Exceptions.
Sec. 105. Access.
Sec. 106. Security.
                         TITLE II--ENFORCEMENT

Sec. 201. Enforcement by Federal Trade Commission.
Sec. 202. Violation is unfair or deceptive act or practice.
Sec. 203. Private right of action.
Sec. 204. Actions by States.
Sec. 205. Whistleblower protection.
Sec. 206. No effect on other remedies.
        TITLE III--APPLICATION TO CONGRESS AND FEDERAL AGENCIES

Sec. 301. Exercise of rulemaking power.
Sec. 302. Senate.
Sec. 303. Application to Federal agencies.
                        TITLE IV--MISCELLANEOUS

Sec. 401. Definitions.
Sec. 402. Effective date.
Sec. 403. FTC rulemaking.
Sec. 404. FTC report.
Sec. 405. Development of automated privacy controls.

SEC. 3. FINDINGS.

    The Congress finds the following:
            (1) The right to privacy is a personal and fundamental 
        right worthy of protection through appropriate legislation.
            (2) Individuals engaging in and interacting with companies 
        engaged in interstate commerce have a significant interest in 
        their personal information, as well as a right to control how 
        that information is collected, used, or transferred.
            (3) Absent the recognition of these rights and the 
        establishment of consequent industry responsibilities to 
        safeguard those rights, the privacy of individuals who use the 
        Internet will soon be more gravely threatened.
            (4) To extent that States regulate, their efforts to 
        address Internet privacy will lead to a patchwork of 
        inconsistent standards and protections.
            (5) Existing State, local, and Federal laws provide minimal 
        privacy protection for Internet users.
            (6) With the exception of Federal Trade Commission 
        enforcement of laws against unfair and deceptive practices, the 
        Federal Government thus far has eschewed general Internet 
        privacy laws in favor of industry self-regulation, which has 
        led to several self-policing schemes, none of which are 
        enforceable in any meaningful way or provide sufficient privacy 
        protection to individuals.
            (7) State governments have been reluctant to enter the 
        field of Internet privacy regulation because use of the 
        Internet often crosses State, or even national, boundaries.
            (8) States are nonetheless interested in providing greater 
        privacy protection to their citizens as evidenced by recent 
        lawsuits brought against offline and online companies by State 
        attorneys general to protect the privacy of individuals using 
        the Internet.
            (9) The ease of gathering and compiling personal 
        information on the Internet, both overtly and surreptitiously, 
        is becoming increasingly efficient and effortless due to 
        advances in digital communications technology which have 
        provided information gatherers the ability to compile 
        seamlessly highly detailed personal histories of Internet 
        users.
            (10) Personal information flowing over the Internet 
        requires greater privacy protection than is currently available 
        today. Vast amounts of personal information, including 
        sensitive information, about individual Internet users are 
        collected on the Internet and sold or otherwise transferred to 
        third parties.
            (11) Poll after poll consistently demonstrates that 
        individual Internet users are highly troubled over their lack 
        of control over their personal information.
            (12) Market research demonstrates that tens of billions of 
        dollars in e-commerce are lost due to individual fears about a 
        lack of privacy protection on the Internet.
            (13) Market research demonstrates that as many as one-third 
        of all Internet users give false information about themselves 
        to protect their privacy, due to fears about a lack of privacy 
        protection on the Internet.
            (14) Notwithstanding these concerns, the Internet is 
        becoming a major part of the personal and commercial lives of 
        millions of Americans, providing increased access to 
        information, as well as communications and commercial 
        opportunities.
            (15) It is important to establish personal privacy rights 
        and industry obligations now so that individuals have 
        confidence that their personal privacy is fully protected on 
        the Internet.
            (16) The social and economic costs of establishing baseline 
        privacy standards now will be lower than if Congress waits 
        until the Internet becomes more prevalent in our everyday lives 
        in coming years.
            (17) Whatever costs may be borne by industry will be 
        significantly offset by the economic benefits to the commercial 
        Internet created by increased consumer confidence occasioned by 
        greater privacy protection.
            (18) Toward the close of the 20th Century, as individuals' 
        personal information was increasingly collected, profiled, and 
        shared for commercial purposes, and as technology advanced to 
        facilitate these practices, the Congress enacted numerous 
        statutes to protect privacy.
            (19) Those statutes apply to the government, telephones, 
        cable television, e-mail, video tape rentals, and the Internet 
        (but only with respect to children).
            (20) Those statutes all provide significant privacy 
        protections, but neither limit technology nor stifle business.
            (21) Those statutes ensure that the collection and 
        commercialization of individuals' personal information is fair, 
        transparent, and subject to law.

SEC. 4. PREEMPTION OF STATE LAW OR REGULATIONS.

    This Act supersedes any State statute, regulation, or rule 
regulating Internet privacy to the extent that it relates to the 
collection, use, or disclosure of personally identifiable information 
obtained through the Internet.

                   TITLE I--ONLINE PRIVACY PROTECTION

SEC. 101. COLLECTION, USE, OR DISCLOSURE OF PERSONALLY IDENTIFIABLE 
              INFORMATION.

    (a) In General.--An internet service provider, online service 
provider, or operator of a commercial website on the Internet may not 
collect personally identifiable information from a user, or use or 
disclose personally identifiable information about a user, of that 
service or website except in accordance with the provisions of this 
Act.
    (b) Application to Certain Third-Party Operators.--The provisions 
of this Act applicable to internet service providers, online service 
providers, and commercial website operators apply to any third party, 
including an advertising network, that uses an internet service 
provider, online service provider, or commercial website operator to 
collect information about users of that service or website.

SEC. 102. NOTICE AND CONSENT REQUIREMENTS.

    (a) Notice.--Except as provided in section 104, an internet service 
provider, online service provider, or operator of a commercial website 
may not collect personally identifiable information from a user of that 
service or website online unless that provider or operator provides 
clear and conspicuous notice to the user in the manner required by this 
section for the kind of personally identifiable information to be 
collected. The notice shall disclose--
            (1) the specific types of information that will be 
        collected;
            (2) the methods of collecting and using the information 
        collected; and
            (3) all disclosure practices of that provider or operator 
        for personally identifiable information so collected, including 
        whether it will be disclosed to third parties.
    (b) Sensitive Personally Identifiable Information Requires Opt-In 
Consent.--An internet service provider, online service provider, or 
operator of a commercial website may not--
            (1) collect sensitive personally identifiable information 
        online, or
            (2) disclose or otherwise use such information collected 
        online, from a user of that service or website,
unless the provider or operator obtains that user's affirmative consent 
to the collection and disclosure or use of that information before, or 
at the time, the information is collected.
    (c) Nonsensitive Personally Identifiable Information Requires 
Robust Notice and Opt-Out Consent.--An internet service provider, 
online service provider, or operator of a commercial website may not--
            (1) collect personally identifiable information not 
        described in subsection (b) online, or
            (2) disclose or otherwise use such information collected 
        online, from a user of that service or website,
unless the provider or operator provides robust notice to the user, in 
addition to clear and conspicuous notice, and has given the user an 
opportunity to decline consent for such collection and use by the 
provider or operator before, or at the time, the information is 
collected.
    (d) Initial Notice Only for Robust Notice.--An internet service 
provider, online service provider, or operator of a commercial website 
shall provide robust notice under subsection (c) of this section to a 
user only upon its first collection of non-sensitive personally 
identifiable information from that user, except that a subsequent 
collection of additional or materially different non-sensitive 
personally identifiable information from that user shall be treated as 
a first collection of such information from that user.
    (e) Permanence of Consent.--
            (1) In general.--The consent or denial of consent by a user 
        of permission to an internet service provider, online service 
        provider, or operator of a commercial website to collect, 
        disclose, or otherwise use any information about that user for 
        which consent is required under this Act--
                    (A) shall remain in effect until changed by the 
                user; and
                    (B) shall apply to the collection, disclosure, or 
                other use of that information by any entity that is a 
                commercial successor of, or legal successor-in-interest 
                to, that provider or operator, without regard to the 
                legal form in which such succession was accomplished 
                (including any entity that collects, discloses, or uses 
                such information as a result of a proceeding under 
                chapter 7 or chapter 11 of title 11, United States 
                Code, with respect to the provider or operator).
            (2) Exception.--The consent by a user to the collection, 
        disclosure, or other use of information about that user for 
        which consent is required under this Act does not apply to the 
        collection, disclosure, or use of that information by a 
        successor entity under paragraph (1)(B) if--
                    (A) the kind of information collected by the 
                successor entity about the user is materially different 
from the kind of information collected by the predecessor entity;
                    (B) the methods of collecting and using the 
                information employed by the successor entity are 
                materially different from the methods employed by the 
                predecessor entity; or
                    (C) the disclosure practices of the successor 
                entity are materially different from the practices of 
                the predecessor entity.

SEC. 103. POLICY CHANGES; BREACH OF PRIVACY.

    (a) Notice of Policy Change.--Whenever an internet service 
provider, online service provider, or operator of a commercial website 
makes a material change in its policy for the collection, use, or 
disclosure of sensitive or nonsensitive personally identifiable 
information, it--
            (1) shall notify all users of that service or website of 
        the change in policy; and
            (2) may not collect, disclose, or otherwise use any 
        sensitive or nonsensitive personally identifiable information 
        in accordance with the changed policy unless the user has been 
        afforded an opportunity to consent, or withhold consent, to its 
        collection, disclosure, or use in accordance with the 
        requirements of section 102 (b) or (c), whichever is 
        applicable.
    (b) Notice of Breach of Privacy.--
            (1) In general.--If the sensitive or nonsensitive 
        personally identifiable information of a user of an internet 
        service provider, online service provider, or operator of a 
        commercial website--
                    (A) is collected, disclosed, or otherwise used by 
                the provider or operator in violation of any provision 
                of this Act, or
                    (B) the security, confidentiality, or integrity of 
                such information is compromised by a hacker or other 
                third party, or by any act or failure to act of the 
                provider or operator,
        then the provider or operator shall notify all users whose 
        sensitive or nonsensitive personally identifiable information 
        was affected by the unlawful collection, disclosure, use, or 
        compromise. The notice shall describe the nature of the 
        unlawful collection, disclosure, use, or compromise and the 
        steps taken by the provider or operator to remedy it.
            (2) Delay of notification.--
                    (A) Action taken by individuals.--If the compromise 
                of the security, confidentiality, or integrity of the 
                information is caused by a hacker or other external 
                interference with the service or website, or by an 
                employee of the service or website, the provider or 
                operator may postpone issuing the notice required by 
                paragraph (1) for a reasonable period of time in order 
                to--
                            (i) facilitate the detection and 
                        apprehension of the person responsible for the 
                        compromise; and
                            (ii) take such measures as may be necessary 
                        to restore the integrity of the service or 
                        website and prevent any further compromise of 
                        the security, confidentiality, and integrity of 
                        such information.
                    (B) System failures and other functional causes.--
                If the unlawful collection, disclosure, use, or 
                compromise of the security, confidentiality, and 
                integrity of the information is the result of a system 
                failure, a problem with the operating system, software, 
                or program used by the internet service provider, 
                online service provider, or operator of the commercial 
                website, or other non-external interference with the 
                service or website, the provider or operator may 
                postpone issuing the notice required by paragraph (1) 
                for a reasonable period of time in order to--
                            (i) restore the system's functionality or 
                        fix the problem; and
                            (ii) take such measures as may be necessary 
                        to restore the integrity of the service or 
                        website and prevent any further compromise of 
                        the security, confidentiality, and integrity of 
                        the information after the failure or problem 
                        has been fixed and the integrity of the service 
                        or website has been restored.

SEC. 104. EXCEPTIONS.

    (a) In General.--Section 102 does not apply to the collection, 
disclosure, or use by an internet service provider, online service 
provider, or operator of a commercial website of information about a 
user of that service or website necessary--
            (1) to protect the security or integrity of the service or 
        website or to ensure the safety of other people or property;
            (2) to conduct a transaction, deliver a product or service, 
        or complete an arrangement for which the user provided the 
        information; or
            (3) to provide other products and services integrally 
        related to the transaction, service, product, or arrangement 
        for which the user provided the information.
    (b) Protected Disclosures.--An internet service provider, online 
service provider, or operator of a commercial website may not be held 
liable under this Act, any other Federal law, or any State law for any 
disclosure made in good faith and following reasonable procedures in 
responding to--
            (1) a request for disclosure of personal information under 
        section 1302(b)(1)(B)(iii) of the Children's Online Privacy 
        Protection Act of 1998 (15 U.S.C. 6501 et seq.) to the parent 
        of a child; or
            (2) a request for access to, or correction or deletion of, 
        personally identifiable information under section 105 of this 
        Act.
    (c) Disclosure to Law Enforcement Agency or Under Court Order.--
            (1) In general.--Notwithstanding any other provision of 
        this Act, an internet service provider, online service 
        provider, operator of a commercial website, or third party that 
        uses such a service or website to collect information about 
        users of that service or website may disclose personally 
        identifiable information about a user of that service or 
        website--
                    (A) to a law enforcement, investigatory, national 
                security, or regulatory agency or department of the 
                United States in response to a request or demand made 
                under authority granted to that agency or department, 
                including a warrant issued under the Federal Rules of 
                Criminal Procedure, an equivalent State warrant, a 
                court order, or a properly executed administrative 
                compulsory process; and
                    (B) in response to a court order in a civil 
                proceeding granted upon a showing of compelling need 
                for the information that cannot be accommodated by any 
                other means if--
                            (i) the user to whom the information 
                        relates is given reasonable notice by the 
                        person seeking the information of the court 
                        proceeding at which the order is requested; and
                            (ii) that user is afforded a reasonable 
                        opportunity to appear and contest the issuance 
                        of requested order or to narrow its scope.
            (2) Safeguards against further disclosure.--A court that 
        issues an order described in paragraph (1) shall impose 
        appropriate safeguards on the use of the information to protect 
        against its unauthorized disclosure.

SEC. 105. ACCESS.

    (a) In General.--An internet service provider, online service 
provider, or operator of a commercial website shall--
            (1) upon request provide reasonable access to a user to 
        personally identifiable information that the provider or 
        operator has collected from the user online, or that the 
        provider or operator has combined with personally identifiable 
        information collected from the user online after the effective 
        date of this Act;
            (2) provide a reasonable opportunity for a user to suggest 
        a correction or deletion of any such information maintained by 
        that provider or operator to which the user was granted access; 
        and
            (3) make the correction a part of that user's sensitive 
        personally identifiable information or nonsensitive personally 
        identifiable information (whichever is appropriate), or make 
        the deletion, for all future disclosure and other use purposes.
    (b) Exception.--An internet service provider, online service 
provider, or operator of a commercial website may decline to make a 
suggested correction a part of that user's sensitive personally 
identifiable information or nonsensitive personally identifiable 
information (whichever is appropriate), or to make a suggested deletion 
if the provider or operator--
            (1) reasonably believes that the suggested correction or 
        deletion is inaccurate or otherwise inappropriate;
            (2) notifies the user in writing, or in digital or other 
        electronic form, of the reasons the provider or operator 
        believes the suggested correction or deletion is inaccurate or 
        otherwise inappropriate; and
            (3) provides a reasonable opportunity for the user to 
        refute the reasons given by the provider or operator for 
        declining to make the suggested correction or deletion.
    (c) Reasonableness Test.--The reasonableness of the access or 
opportunity provided under subsection (a) or (b) by an internet service 
provider, online service provider, or operator of a commercial website 
shall be determined by taking into account such factors as the 
sensitivity of the information requested and the burden or expense on 
the provider or operator of complying with the request, correction, or 
deletion.
    (d) Reasonable Access Fee.--
            (1) In general.--An internet service provider, online 
        service provider, or operator of a commercial website may 
        impose a reasonable charge for access under subsection (a).
            (2) Amount.--The amount of the fee shall not exceed $3, 
        except that upon request of a user, a provider or operator 
        shall provide such access without charge to that user if the 
        user certifies in writing that the user--
                    (A) is unemployed and intends to apply for 
                employment in the 60-day period beginning on the date 
                on which the certification is made;
                    (B) is a recipient of public welfare assistance; or
                    (C) has reason to believe that the incorrect 
                information is due to fraud.

SEC. 106. SECURITY.

    An internet service provider, online service provider, or operator 
of a commercial website shall establish and maintain reasonable 
procedures necessary to protect the security, confidentiality, and 
integrity of personally identifiable information maintained by that 
provider or operator.

                         TITLE II--ENFORCEMENT

SEC. 201. ENFORCEMENT BY FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION.

    Except as provided in section 202(b) of this Act and section 
2710(d) of title 18, United States Code, this Act shall be enforced by 
the Commission.

SEC. 202. VIOLATION IS UNFAIR OR DECEPTIVE ACT OR PRACTICE.

    (a) In General.--The violation of any provision of title I is an 
unfair or deceptive act or practice proscribed under section 
18(a)(1)(B) of the Federal Trade Commission Act (15 U.S.C. 
57a(a)(1)(B)).
    (b) Enforcement by Certain Other Agencies.--Compliance with title I 
of this Act shall be enforced under--
            (1) section 8 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 
        U.S.C. 1818), in the case of--
                    (A) national banks, and Federal branches and 
                Federal agencies of foreign banks, by the Office of the 
                Comptroller of the Currency;
                    (B) member banks of the Federal Reserve System 
                (other than national banks), branches and agencies of 
                foreign banks (other than Federal branches, Federal 
                agencies, and insured State branches of foreign banks), 
                commercial lending companies owned or controlled by 
foreign banks, and organizations operating under section 25 or 25A of 
the Federal Reserve Act (12 U.S.C. 601 and 611), by the Board; and
                    (C) banks insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance 
                Corporation (other than members of the Federal Reserve 
                System) and insured State branches of foreign banks, by 
                the Board of Directors of the Federal Deposit Insurance 
                Corporation;
            (2) section 8 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 
        U.S.C. 1818), by the Director of the Office of Thrift 
        Supervision, in the case of a savings association the deposits 
        of which are insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance 
        Corporation;
            (3) the Federal Credit Union Act (12 U.S.C. 1751 et seq.) 
        by the National Credit Union Administration Board with respect 
        to any Federal credit union;
            (4) part A of subtitle VII of title 49, United States Code, 
        by the Secretary of Transportation with respect to any air 
        carrier or foreign air carrier subject to that part;
            (5) the Packers and Stockyards Act, 1921 (7 U.S.C. 181 et 
        seq.) (except as provided in section 406 of that Act (7 U.S.C. 
        226, 227)), by the Secretary of Agriculture with respect to any 
        activities subject to that Act; and
            (6) the Farm Credit Act of 1971 (12 U.S.C. 2001 et seq.) by 
        the Farm Credit Administration with respect to any Federal land 
        bank, Federal land bank association, Federal intermediate 
        credit bank, or production credit association.
    (c) Exercise of Certain Powers.--For the purpose of the exercise by 
any agency referred to in subsection (b) of its powers under any Act 
referred to in that subsection, a violation of title I is deemed to be 
a violation of a requirement imposed under that Act. In addition to its 
powers under any provision of law specifically referred to in 
subsection (b), each of the agencies referred to in that subsection may 
exercise, for the purpose of enforcing compliance with any requirement 
imposed under title I, any other authority conferred on it by law.
    (d) Actions by the Commission.--The Commission shall prevent any 
person from violating title I in the same manner, by the same means, 
and with the same jurisdiction, powers, and duties as though all 
applicable terms and provisions of the Federal Trade Commission Act (15 
U.S.C. 41 et seq.) were incorporated into and made a part of this Act. 
Any entity that violates any provision of that subtitle is subject to 
the penalties and entitled to the privileges and immunities provided in 
the Federal Trade Commission Act in the same manner, by the same means, 
and with the same jurisdiction, power, and duties as though all 
applicable terms and provisions of the Federal Trade Commission Act 
were incorporated into and made a part of that subtitle.
    (e) Disposition of Civil Penalties Obtained by FTC Enforcement 
Action Involving Nonsensitive Personally Identifiable Information.--
            (1) In general.--If a civil penalty is imposed on an 
        internet service provider, online service provider, or 
        commercial website operator in an enforcement action brought by 
        the Commission for a violation of title I with respect to 
        nonsensitive personally identifiable information of users of 
        the service or website, the penalty shall be--
                    (A) paid to the Commission;
                    (B) held by the Commission in trust for 
                distribution under paragraph (2); and
                    (C) distributed in accordance with paragraph (2).
            (2) Distribution to users.--Under procedures to be 
        established by the Commission, the Commission shall hold any 
        amount received as a civil penalty for violation of title I for 
        a period of not less than 180 days for distribution under those 
        procedures to users--
                    (A) whose nonsensitive personally identifiable 
                information was the subject of the violation; and
                    (B) who file claims with the Commission for 
                compensation for loss or damage from the violation at 
                such time, in such manner, and containing such 
                information as the Commission may require.
            (3) Amount of payment.--The amount a user may receive under 
        paragraph (2)--
                            (i) shall not exceed $200; and
                            (ii) may be limited by the Commission as 
                        necessary to afford each such user a reasonable 
                        opportunity to secure that user's appropriate 
                        portion of the amount available for 
                        distribution.
            (4) Remainder.--If the amount of any such penalty held by 
        the Commission exceeds the sum of the amounts distributed under 
        paragraph (2) attributable to that penalty, the excess shall be 
        covered into the Treasury of the United States as miscellaneous 
        receipts no later than 12 months after it was paid to the 
        Commission.
    (f) Effect on Other Laws.--
            (1) Preservation of commission authority.--Nothing 
        contained in this subtitle shall be construed to limit the 
        authority of the Commission under any other provision of law.
            (2) Relation to title ii of communications act.--Nothing in 
        title I requires an operator of a website or online service to 
        take any action that is inconsistent with the requirements of 
        section 222 of the Communications Act of 1934 (47 U.S.C. 222).
            (3) Relation to title vi of communications act.--Section 
        631 of the Communications Act of 1934 (47 U.S.C. 551) is 
        amended by adding at the end the following:
    ``(i) To the extent that the application of any provision of this 
title to a cable operator as an internet service provider, online 
service provider, or operator of a commercial website (as those terms 
are defined in section 401 of the Online Personal Privacy Act) with 
respect to the provision of Internet service or online service, or the 
operation of a commercial website, conflicts with the application of 
any provision of that Act to such provision or operation, the Act shall 
be applied in lieu of the conflicting provision of this title.''.

SEC. 203. ACTIONS BY USERS.

    (a) Private Right of Action for Sensitive Personally Identifiable 
Information.--If an internet service provider, online service provider, 
or commercial website operator collects, discloses, or uses the 
sensitive personally identifiable information of any person or fails to 
provide reasonable access to or reasonable security for such sensitive 
personally identifiable information in violation of any provision of 
title I then that person may bring an action in a district court of the 
United States of appropriate jurisdiction--
            (1) to enjoin or restrain a violation of title I or to 
        obtain other appropriate relief; and
            (2) upon a showing of actual harm to that person caused by 
        the violation, to recover the greater of--
                    (A) the actual monetary loss from the violation; or
                    (B) $5,000.
    (b) Repeated Violations.--If the court finds, in an action brought 
under subsection (a) to recover damages, that the defendant repeatedly 
and knowingly violated title I, the court may, in its discretion, 
increase the amount of the award available under subsection (a)(2)(B) 
to an amount not in excess of $100,000.
    (c) Exception.--Neither an action to enjoin or restrain a 
violation, nor an action to recover for loss or damage, may be brought 
under this section for the accidental disclosure of information if the 
disclosure was caused by an Act of God, unforeseeable network or 
systems failure, or other event beyond the control of the Internet 
service provider, online service provider, or operator of a commercial 
website.

SEC. 204. ACTIONS BY STATES.

          (a) In General.--
            (1) Civil actions.--In any case in which the attorney 
        general of a State has reason to believe that an interest of 
        the residents of that State has been or is threatened or 
        adversely affected by the engagement of any person in a 
        practice that violates title I, the State, as parens patriae, 
        may bring a civil action on behalf of the residents of the 
        State in a district court of the United States of appropriate 
        jurisdiction--
                    (A) to enjoin that practice;
                    (B) to enforce compliance with the rule;
                    (C) to obtain damage, restitution, or other 
                compensation on behalf of residents of the State; or
                    (D) to obtain such other relief as the court may 
                consider to be appropriate.
            (2) Notice.--
                    (A) In general.--Before filing an action under 
                paragraph (1), the attorney general of the State 
                involved shall provide to the Commission--
                            (i) written notice of that action; and
                            (ii) a copy of the complaint for that 
                        action.
                    (B) Exemption.--
                            (i) In general.--Subparagraph (A) shall not 
                        apply with respect to the filing of an action 
                        by an attorney general of a State under this 
                        subsection, if the attorney general determines 
                        that it is not feasible to provide the notice 
                        described in that subparagraph before the 
                        filing of the action.
                            (ii) Notification.--In an action described 
                        in clause (i), the attorney general of a State 
                        shall provide notice and a copy of the 
                        complaint to the Commission at the same time as 
                        the attorney general files the action.
    (b) Intervention.--
            (1) In general.--On receiving notice under subsection 
        (a)(2), the Commission shall have the right to intervene in the 
        action that is the subject of the notice.
            (2) Effect of intervention.--If the Commission intervenes 
        in an action under subsection (a), it shall have the right--
                    (A) to be heard with respect to any matter that 
                arises in that action; and
                    (B) to file a petition for appeal.
    (c) Construction.--For purposes of bringing any civil action under 
subsection (a), nothing in this subtitle shall be construed to prevent 
an attorney general of a State from exercising the powers conferred on 
the attorney general by the laws of that State to--
            (1) conduct investigations;
            (2) administer oaths or affirmations; or
            (3) compel the attendance of witnesses or the production of 
        documentary and other evidence.
          (d) Actions by the Commission.--In any case in which an 
action is instituted by or on behalf of the Commission for violation of 
title I, no State may, during the pendency of that action, institute an 
action under subsection (a) against any defendant named in the 
complaint in that action for violation of that rule.
          (e) Venue; Service of Process.--
            (1) Venue.--Any action brought under subsection (a) may be 
        brought in the district court of the United States that meets 
        applicable requirements relating to venue under section 1391 of 
        title 28, United States Code.
            (2) Service of process.--In an action brought under 
        subsection (a), process may be served in any district in which 
        the defendant--
                    (A) is an inhabitant; or
                    (B) may be found.

SEC. 205. WHISTLEBLOWER PROTECTION.

    (a) In General.--No internet service provider, online service 
provider, or commercial website operator may discharge or otherwise 
discriminate against any employee with respect to compensation, terms, 
conditions, or privileges of employment because the employee (or any 
person acting pursuant to the request of the employee) provided 
information to any Federal or State agency or to the Attorney General 
of the United States or of any State regarding a violation of any 
provision of title I.
    (b) Enforcement.--Any employee or former employee who believes he 
has been discharged or discriminated against in violation of subsection 
(a) may file a civil action in the appropriate United States district 
court before the close of the 2-year period beginning on the date of 
such discharge or discrimination. The complainant shall also file a 
copy of the complaint initiating such action with the appropriate 
Federal agency.
    (c) Remedies.--If the district court determines that a violation of 
subsection (a) has occurred, it may order the Internet service 
provider, online service provider, or commercial website operator that 
committed the violation--
            (1) to reinstate the employee to his former position;
            (2) to pay compensatory damages; or
            (3) to take other appropriate actions to remedy any past 
        discrimination.
    (d) Limitation.--The protections of this section shall not apply to 
any employee who--
            (1) deliberately causes or participates in the alleged 
        violation; or
            (2) knowingly or recklessly provides substantially false 
        information to such an agency or the Attorney General.
    (e) Burdens of Proof.--The legal burdens of proof that prevail 
under subchapter III of chapter 12 of title 5, United States Code (5 
U.S.C. 1221 et seq.) shall govern adjudication of protected activities 
under this section.

SEC. 206. NO EFFECT ON OTHER REMEDIES.

    The remedies provided by sections 203 and 204 are in addition to 
any other remedy available under any provision of law.

        TITLE III--APPLICATION TO CONGRESS AND FEDERAL AGENCIES

SEC. 301. SENATE.

    The Sergeant at Arms of the United States Senate shall develop 
regulations setting forth an information security and electronic 
privacy policy governing use of the Internet by officers and employees 
of the Senate that meets the requirements of title I.

SEC. 302. APPLICATION TO FEDERAL AGENCIES.

    (a) In General.--Except as provided in subsection (b), this Act 
applies to each Federal agency that is an internet service provider or 
an online service provider, or that operates a website, to the extent 
provided by section 2674 of title 28, United States Code.
    (b) Exceptions.--This Act does not apply to any Federal agency to 
the extent that the application of this Act would compromise law 
enforcement activities or the administration of any investigative, 
security, or safety operation conducted in accordance with Federal law.

                        TITLE IV--MISCELLANEOUS

SEC. 401. DEFINITIONS.

    In this Act:
            (1) Collect.--The term ``collect'' means the gathering of 
        personally identifiable information about a user of an Internal 
        service, online service, or commercial website by or on behalf 
        of the provider or operator of that service or website by any 
        means, direct or indirect, active or passive, including--
                    (A) an online request for such information by the 
                provider or operator, regardless of how the information 
                is transmitted to the provider or operator;
                    (B) the use of a chat room, message board, or other 
                online service to gather the information; or
                    (C) tracking or use of any identifying code linked 
                to a user of such a service or website, including the 
                use of cookies or other tracking technology.
            (2) Commission.--The term ``Commission'' means the Federal 
        Trade Commission.
            (3) Cookie.--The term ``cookie'' means any program, 
        function, or device, commonly known as a ``cookie'', that makes 
        a record on the user's computer (or other electronic device) of 
        that user's access to an internet service, online service, or 
        commercial website.
            (4) Disclose.--The term ``disclose'' means the release of 
        personally identifiable information about a user of an Internet 
        service, online service, or commercial website by an internet 
        service provider, online service provider, or operator of a 
        commercial website for any purpose, except where such 
        information is provided to a person who provides support for 
        the internal operations of the service or website and who does 
        not disclose or use that information for any other purpose.
            (5) Federal agency.--The term ``Federal agency'' means an 
        agency, as that term is defined in section 551(1) of title 5, 
        United States Code.
            (6) Internal operations support.--The term ``support for 
        the internal operations of a service or website'' means any 
        activity necessary to maintain the technical functionality of 
        that service or website.
            (7) Internet.--The term ``Internet'' means collectively the 
        myriad of computer and telecommunications facilities, including 
        equipment and operating software, which comprise the 
        interconnected world-wide network of networks that employ the 
        Transmission Control Protocol/Internet Protocol, or any 
        predecessor or successor protocols to such protocol, to 
        communicate information of all kinds by wire or radio.
            (8) Internet service provider; online service provider; 
        website.--The Commission shall by rule define the terms 
        ``internet service provider'', ``online service provider'', and 
        ``website'', and shall revise or amend such rule to take into 
        account changes in technology, practice, or procedure with 
        respect to the collection of personal information over the 
        Internet.
            (9) Online.--The term ``online'' refers to any activity 
        regulated by this Act or by section 2710 of title 18, United 
        States Code, that is effected by active or passive use of an 
        Internet connection, regardless of the medium by or through 
        which that connection is established.
            (10) Operator of a commercial website.--The term ``operator 
        of a commercial website''--
                    (A) means any person who operates a website located 
                on the Internet or an online service and who collects 
                or maintains personal information from or about the 
                users of or visitors to such website or online service, 
                or on whose behalf such information is collected or 
                maintained, where such website or online service is 
                operated for commercial purposes, including any person 
                offering products or services for sale through that 
                website or online service, involving commerce--
                            (i) among the several States or with 1 or 
                        more foreign nations;
                            (ii) in any territory of the United States 
                        or in the District of Columbia, or between any 
                        such territory and--
                                    (I) another such territory; or
                                    (II) any State or foreign nation; 
                                or
                            (iii) between the District of Columbia and 
                        any State, territory, or foreign nation; but
                    (B) does not include any nonprofit entity that 
                would otherwise be exempt from coverage under section 5 
of the Federal Trade Commission Act (15 U.S.C. 45).
            (11) Personally identifiable information.--
                    (A) In general.--The term ``personally identifiable 
                information'' means individually identifiable 
                information about an individual collected online, 
                including--
                            (i) a first and last name, whether given at 
                        birth or adoption, assumed, or legally changed;
                            (ii) a home or other physical address 
                        including street name and name of a city or 
                        town;
                            (iii) an e-mail address;
                            (iv) a telephone number;
                            (v) a birth certificate number;
                            (vi) any other identifier for which the 
                        Commission finds there is a substantial 
                        likelihood that the identifier would permit the 
                        physical or online contacting of a specific 
                        individual; or
                            (vii) information that an Internet service 
                        provider, online service provider, or operator 
                        of a commercial website collects and combines 
                        with an identifier described in clauses (i) 
                        through (vi) of this subparagraph.
                    (B) Inferential information excluded.--Information 
                about an individual derived or inferred from data 
                collected online but not actually collected online is 
                not personally identifiable information.
            (12) Release.--The term ``release of personally 
        identifiable information'' means the direct or indirect, 
        sharing, selling, renting, or other provision of personally 
        identifiable information of a user of an internet service, 
        online service, or commercial website to any other person other 
        than the user.
            (13) Robust notice.--The term ``robust notice'' means 
        actual notice at the point of collection of the personally 
        identifiable information describing briefly and succinctly the 
        intent of the Internet service provider, online service 
        provider, or operator of a commercial website to use or 
        disclose that information for marketing or other purposes.
            (14) Sensitive financial information.--The term ``sensitive 
        financial information'' means--
                    (A) the amount of income earned or losses suffered 
                by an individual;
                    (B) an individual's account number or balance 
                information for a savings, checking, money market, 
                credit card, brokerage, or other financial services 
                account;
                    (C) the access code, security password, or similar 
                mechanism that permits access to an individual's 
                financial services account;
                    (D) an individual's insurance policy information, 
                including the existence, premium, face amount, or 
                coverage limits of an insurance policy held by or for 
                the benefit of an individual; or
                    (E) an individual's outstanding credit card, debt, 
                or loan obligations.
            (15) Sensitive personally identifiable information.--The 
        term ``sensitive personally identifiable information'' means 
        personally identifiable information about an individual's--
                    (A) individually identifiable health information 
                (as defined in section 164.501 of title 45, Code of 
                Federal Regulations);
                    (B) race or ethnicity;
                    (C) political party affiliation;
                    (D) religious beliefs;
                    (E) sexual orientation;
                    (F) a Social Security number; or
                    (G) sensitive financial information.

SEC. 402. EFFECTIVE DATE OF TITLE I.

    Title I of this Act takes effect on the day after the date on which 
the Commission publishes a final rule under section 403.

SEC. 403. FTC RULEMAKING.

    The Commission shall--
            (1) initiate a rulemaking within 90 days after the date of 
        enactment of this Act for regulations to implement the 
        provisions of title I; and
            (2) complete that rulemaking within 270 days after 
        initiating it.

SEC. 404. FTC REPORT.

    (a) Report.--The Commission shall submit a report to the Senate 
Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation and the House of 
Representatives Committee on Commerce 18 months after the effective 
date of title I, and annually thereafter, on--
            (1) whether this Act is accomplishing the purposes for 
        which it was enacted;
            (2) whether technology that protects privacy is being 
        utilized in the marketplace in such a manner as to facilitate 
        administration of and compliance with title I;
            (3) whether additional legislation is required to 
        accomplish those purposes or improve the administrability or 
        effectiveness of this Act;
            (4) whether legislation is appropriate or necessary to 
        regulate the collection, use, and distribution of personally 
        identifiable information collected other than via the Internet;
            (5) whether and how the government might assist industry in 
        developing standard online privacy notices that substantially 
        comply with the requirements of section 102(a);
            (6) whether and how the creation of a set of self-
        regulatory guidelines established by independent safe harbor 
        organizations and approved by the Commission would facilitate 
        administration of and compliance with title I; and
            (7) whether additional legislation is necessary or 
        appropriate to regulate the collection, use, and disclosure of 
        personally identifiable information collected online before the 
        effective date of title I.
    (b) FTC Notice of Inquiry.--The Commission shall initiate a notice 
of inquiry within 90 days after the date of enactment of this Act to 
request comment on the matter described in paragraphs (1) through (7) 
of subsection (a).

SEC. 405. DEVELOPMENT OF AUTOMATED PRIVACY CONTROLS.

    Section 20 of the National Institute of Standards and Technology 
Act (15 U.S.C. 278g-3) is amended--
            (1) by redesignating subsection (d) as subsection (e); and
            (2) by inserting after subsection (c) the following:
    ``(d) Development of Internet Privacy Program.--The Institute shall 
encourage and support the development of one or more computer programs, 
protocols, or other software, such as the World Wide Web Consortium's 
P3P program, capable of being installed on computers, or computer 
networks, with Internet access that would reflect the user's 
preferences for protecting personally-identifiable or other sensitive, 
privacy-related information, and automatically execute the program, 
once activated, without requiring user intervention.''.
                                 &lt;all&gt;
</pre></body></html>
