<html><body><pre>
[106th Congress Public Law 331]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]


&lt;DOC&gt;
[DOCID: f:publ331.106]


[[Page 114 STAT. 1303]]

Public Law 106-331
106th Congress

                                 An Act


 
 To provide for the establishment of the Cahaba River National Wildlife 
 Refuge in Bibb County, Alabama. &lt;&lt;NOTE: Oct. 19, 2000 -  [H.R. 4286]&gt;&gt; 

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled, &lt;&lt;NOTE: Cahaba River 
National Wildlife Refuge Establishment Act. 16 USC 688dd note.&gt;&gt; 

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Cahaba River National Wildlife Refuge 
Establishment Act''.

SEC. 2. FINDINGS.

    The Congress finds the following:
            (1) The Cahaba River in Alabama is recognized nationally for 
        its unique biological diversity which includes providing habitat 
        for 131 species of fish (more than any other river its size in 
        North America).
            (2) The Cahaba River is home to 64 rare and imperiled 
        species of aquatic plants and animals, including fishes, 
        freshwater turtles, mussels, and snails.
            (3) The Cahaba River is home to 12 species of fish, mussels, 
        and snails listed as endangered or threatened species.
            (4) The Cahaba River is home to six terrestrial species of 
        plants and animals listed as endangered or threatened species.
            (5) The Cahaba River harbors the largest population in the 
        world of the imperiled shoals lily, known locally as the Cahaba 
        Lily.
            (6) The Cahaba River watershed contains extremely rare plant 
        communities that are home to eight species of plants previously 
        unknown to science and a total of 69 rare and imperiled species 
        of plants.
            (7) The Cahaba River is home to at least a dozen endemic 
        aquatic animals that are found nowhere else in the world.
            (8) The Cahaba River is the longest remaining free-flowing 
        river in Alabama, flowing through five counties in central 
        Alabama.
            (9) The Cahaba River is recognized as an Outstanding Alabama 
        Water by the Alabama Department of Environmental Management.
            (10) The Cahaba River has high recreational value for 
        hunters, anglers, birdwatchers, canoeists, nature photographers, 
        and others.
            (11) The Cahaba River Watershed supports large populations 
        of certain game species, including deer, turkey, and various 
        species of ducks.

[[Page 114 STAT. 1304]]

            (12) The Cahaba River area is deserving of inclusion in the 
        National Wildlife Refuge System.

SEC. 3. DEFINITIONS.

    In this Act:
            (1) Refuge.--The term ``Refuge'' means the Cahaba River 
        National Wildlife Refuge established by section 4(a).
            (2) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary 
        of the Interior.

SEC. 4. ESTABLISHMENT OF REFUGE.

    (a) Establishment.--
            (1) In general.--There is established in Bibb County, 
        Alabama, the Cahaba National Wildlife Refuge, consisting of 
        approximately 3,500 acres of Federal lands and waters, and 
        interests in lands and waters, within the boundaries depicted 
        upon the map entitled ``Cahaba River National Wildlife Refuge-
        Proposed'', dated April 10, 2000.
            (2) Boundary revisions.--The Secretary may make such minor 
        revisions of the boundaries of the Refuge as may be appropriate 
        to carry out the purposes of the Refuge or to facilitate the 
        acquisition of property within the Refuge.
            (3) Availability of map.--The Secretary shall keep the map 
        referred to in paragraph (1) available for inspection in 
        appropriate offices of the United States Fish and Wildlife 
        Service.

    (b) &lt;&lt;NOTE: Federal Register, publication.&gt;&gt;  Effective Date.--The 
establishment of the Refuge under paragraph (1) of subsection (a) shall 
take effect on the date the Secretary publishes, in the Federal Register 
and publications of local circulation in the vicinity of the area within 
the boundaries referred to in that paragraph, a notice that sufficient 
property has been acquired by the United States within those boundaries 
to constitute an area that can be efficiently managed as a National 
Wildlife Refuge.

SEC. 5. ACQUISITION OF LANDS AND WATERS.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary, subject to the availability of 
appropriations, may acquire up to 3,500 acres of lands and waters, or 
interests therein, within the boundaries of the Refuge described in 
section 4(a)(1).
    (b) Inclusion in Refuge.--Any lands, waters, or interests acquired 
by the Secretary under this section shall be part of the Refuge.

SEC. 6. ADMINISTRATION.

    In administering the Refuge, the Secretary shall--
            (1) conserve, enhance, and restore the native aquatic and 
        terrestrial community characteristics of the Cahaba River 
        (including associated fish, wildlife, and plant species);
            (2) conserve, enhance, and restore habitat to maintain and 
        assist in the recovery of animals and plants that are listed 
        under the Endangered Species Act of 1973 (16 U.S.C. 1331 et 
        seq.);
            (3) in providing opportunities for compatible fish- and 
        wildlife-oriented recreation, ensure that hunting, fishing, 
        wildlife observation and photography, and environmental 
        education and interpretation are the priority general public 
        uses of the Refuge,

[[Page 114 STAT. 1305]]

        in accordance with section 4(a)(3) and (4) of the National 
        Wildlife Refuge System Administration Act of 1966 (16 U.S.C. 
        668ee(a)(3), (4)); and
            (4) encourage the use of volunteers and to facilitate 
        partnerships among the United States Fish and Wildlife Service, 
        local communities, conservation organizations, and other non-
        Federal entities to promote public awareness of the resources of 
        the Cahaba River National Wildlife Refuge and the National 
        Wildlife Refuge System and public participation in the 
        conservation of those resources.

SEC. 7. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.

    There are authorized to be appropriated to the Secretary--
            (1) such funds as may be necessary for the acquisition of 
        lands and waters within the boundaries of the Refuge; and
            (2) such funds as may be necessary for the development, 
        operation, and maintenance of the Refuge.

    Approved October 19, 2000.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY--H.R. 4286:
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

HOUSE REPORTS: No. 106-713 (Comm. on Resources).
SENATE REPORTS: No. 106-461 (Comm. on Environment and Public Works).
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD, Vol. 146 (2000):
            July 10, considered and passed House.
            Oct. 5, considered and passed Senate.

                                  &lt;all&gt;
</pre></body></html>
