<html><body><pre>
[Congressional Bills 117th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[S. 2234 Introduced in Senate (IS)]

&lt;DOC&gt;






117th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                S. 2234

          To make housing affordable, and for other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                   IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

                             June 24, 2021

  Mr. Merkley introduced the following bill; which was read twice and 
                  referred to the Committee on Finance

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
          To make housing affordable, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE; TABLE OF CONTENTS.

    (a) Short Title.--This Act may be cited as the ``Affordable Housing 
Opportunities Made Equitable Act'' or the ``Affordable HOME Act''.
    (b) Table of Contents.--The table of contents for this Act is as 
follows:

Sec. 1. Short title; table of contents.
Sec. 2. Findings.
Sec. 3. Definitions.
                         TITLE I--HOMEOWNERSHIP

Sec. 101. Direct down payment assistance.
Sec. 102. Mortgage interest tax credit.
Sec. 103. Positive rental history credit enhancement.
Sec. 104. Individual development accounts.
Sec. 105. Shared equity homeownership initiative.
Sec. 106. National right of first refusal.
Sec. 107. No cause evictions.
Sec. 108. Right to Counsel.
Sec. 109. Landlord Guarantee Program.
Sec. 110. Including all forms of housing in HUD consolidated plan.
Sec. 111. Prohibiting discrimination against voucher holders.
Sec. 112. Fair market rent appeal.
Sec. 113. Office of restorative housing justice.
                TITLE II--CONSTRUCTION AND PRESERVATION

Sec. 201. Housing Trust Fund.
Sec. 202. Rural housing trust fund construction of USDA multifamily 
                            housing for low-income families.
Sec. 203. Strategy and investment in rural housing.
Sec. 204. Manufactured housing preservation strategy and investment.
Sec. 205. Community energy savings program.
Sec. 206. Public housing.
   TITLE III--HOUSING ASSISTANCE FOR HOMELESS AND LOW-INCOME FAMILIES

Sec. 301. Increasing direct rental assistance.
Sec. 302. Supportive tiny housing village innovation pilot program.
Sec. 303. Permanent supportive housing.
Sec. 304. Navigation center pilot program.
             TITLE IV--HOUSING AND HOMELESSNESS INNOVATION

Sec. 401. Housing and homelessness innovation research centers.
                   TITLE V--EMERGENCY HOUSING PROGRAM

Sec. 501. Definitions.
Sec. 502. Emergency assistance.
Sec. 503. Authorization of appropriations.

SEC. 2. FINDINGS.

    Congress finds the following:
            (1) The United States is experiencing an ongoing affordable 
        housing crisis that the Federal Government has failed to 
        adequately or proportionately address. The Harvard Housing 
        Center found that about half of all renters in the United 
        States spent more than 30 percent of their incomes on rent and 
        utilities, while 1 in 4 renters spent more than half their 
        incomes on housing in 2018. Although developers have increased 
        new home construction in recent years, the impacts of increased 
        supply have not alleviated pricing pressures evenly across 
        income distributions. Often, housing developers focus new 
        development on the most profitable sectors, increasing 
        construction in the luxury housing market and leaving a void in 
        affordable home construction. The most disadvantaged 
        populations are left defenseless, without affordable housing 
        options and at risk of eviction and displacement due to rising 
        rents.
            (2) In 2019, an average of 568,000 people experienced 
        homelessness at a single point in time. Despite this large 
        number of unhoused people in the United States, the housing 
        choice voucher program, one of our most essential housing 
        safety nets, had multi-year wait lists in many areas. The 
        public housing agencies that administer these vouchers continue 
        to experience serious underfunding since Congress has only 
        provided funding for administrative expenses prorated at 80 
        percent.
            (3) The current housing affordability crisis does not 
        impact all Americans equally--it is felt most acutely by people 
        of color, and in particular African Americans, a testament to 
        the lingering impacts of discriminatory housing policies. 
        African Americans represent 40 percent of all people 
        experiencing homelessness in the United States, while only 
        accounting for 13 percent of the United States population.
            (4) In 1933, the Federal Government created the Home 
        Owners' Loan Corporation, which played a pivotal role in the 
        development and racial segregation of the United States housing 
        market, also known as redlining. By deeming certain 
        neighborhoods as hazardous and limiting investment in others, 
        the Federal Government firmly established racially segregated 
        neighborhoods throughout the United States.
            (5) Predatory use of eminent domain in predominantly 
        African-American neighborhoods was coupled by Federal urban 
        renewal projects in the latter half of the 20th century, which 
        cleared out homes and businesses throughout many of these 
        communities.
            (6) Several areas of the United States saw an influx of 
        African Americans migrating from the Deep South in pursuit of 
        better economic opportunities. The Federal Government and State 
        and local municipalities and their policies heavily influenced 
        where this population settled.
            (7) Historical restrictions on homeownership have driven 
        disparate impacts for Black Americans, indigenous people, and 
        people of color across most sectors of social existence. In the 
        fourth quarter of 2018, the homeownership rate among Black 
        Americans was 43.6 percent, while the Hispanic homeownership 
        rate was 46.9 percent. In comparison, the White (non-Hispanic) 
        homeownership rate was 73.6 percent in the fourth quarter of 
        2018, more than the all-minority homeownership rate. Creating 
        policies and programs that encourage homeownership for the most 
        disadvantaged is necessary to achieve equitable outcomes for 
        all people in the United States.
            (8) Generations of African Americans have been 
        systematically displaced and that legacy is still felt by 
        descendants today.
            (9) Despite these clear and documented patterns, the 
        Federal Government has not dedicated significant attention and 
        resources to remedy the historical legacies of redlining, urban 
        renewal, and other explicitly and intentionally racist housing 
        policies.
            (10) Housing impacts education policy and outcomes. Low-
        income students who lack a quality education are less likely to 
        pursue education or training beyond high school, and thus more 
        likely to live in low-income neighborhoods. Schools with a 
        large concentration of low-income students are classified as 
        title I schools, and in 2016, the largest racial demographic in 
        those schools were African-American children, followed by White 
        children. Generally, school districts are largely funded by 
        local property taxes, and low-income neighborhoods have lower 
        home values. School districts are therefore unable to provide a 
        high quality education to their students. The property value 
        funding mechanism perpetuates a systematic cycle that keeps 
        low-income African-American people in poverty, with very little 
        opportunity for upward mobility. Some States have tried to 
        wrestle with this systematic cycle by redesigning the funding 
        formula, yet the lasting implications of inequitable funding 
        structures remain.
            (11) Data demonstrates that communities of color and low-
        income families experience the adverse consequence of 
        displacement the most due to Federal, State, and local 
        inequitable housing policies. As a result, disparities have 
        occurred, diminishing or outright denying opportunities to 
        obtain homeownership and access to generational wealth within 
        these means. As living preferences change, current trends 
        demonstrate that urban areas once comprised of higher 
        concentrations of low income people and people of color have 
        become more desirable and sought after by affluent people with 
        different identities of those displaced--this is also known as 
        gentrification.
            (12) Congress should address and continue to study the 
        ramifications of structural racism and social class disparities 
        within Federal housing policies. This can be done by targeting 
        displacement, homelessness, housing affordability, enforcing 
        tenant protections, providing landlords with incentives to 
        participate in affordable housing programs, and facilitating 
        access to resources that lead to homeownership.
            (13) This Act aims to address the shortcomings of our 
        current housing policies and funding levels by holistically 
        addressing disparities and systematic obstacles and ensuring an 
        equitable outcome for the most vulnerable Americans.

SEC. 3. DEFINITIONS.

    In this Act:
            (1) Indian country.--The term ``Indian country'' has the 
        meaning given the term in section 1151 of title 18, United 
        States Code.
            (2) Indian tribe.--The term ``Indian Tribe'' has the 
        meaning given the term ``Indian tribe'' in section 102 of the 
        Federally Recognized Indian Tribe List Act of 1994 (25 U.S.C. 
        5130).
            (3) Manufactured home.--The term ``manufactured home''--
                    (A) has the meaning given the term in section 603 
                of the National Manufactured Housing Construction and 
                Safety Standards Act of 1974 (42 U.S.C. 5402);
                    (B) includes a home described in subparagraph (A) 
                without regard to whether the home was built before, 
                on, or after the date on which the construction and 
                safety standards established under section 604 of that 
                Act (42 U.S.C. 5403) became effective; and
                    (C) shall not include any self-propelled 
                recreational vehicle.
            (4) Manufactured housing community.--The term 
        ``manufactured housing community'' means a community comprised 
        primarily of manufactured homes used primarily for residential 
        purposes.
            (5) Public housing agency.--The term ``public housing 
        agency'' has the meaning given the term in section 3(b) of the 
        United States Housing Act of 1937 (42 U.S.C. 1437a(b)).
            (6) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary 
        of Housing and Urban Development.
            (7) State.--The term ``State'' means--
                    (A) a State;
                    (B) the District of Columbia;
                    (C) the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico; and
                    (D) any other territory or possession of the United 
                States.

                         TITLE I--HOMEOWNERSHIP

SEC. 101. DIRECT DOWN PAYMENT ASSISTANCE.

    (a) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Eligible household.--The term ``eligible household'' 
        means a household with an income that is less than 140 percent 
        of the area median income.
            (2) Share equity home; shared equity homeownership 
        program.--The terms ``shared equity home'' and ``shared equity 
        homeownership program'' have the meanings given those terms in 
        section 105(a).
    (b) Establishment.--The Secretary shall establish a program to 
provide grants to State housing finance agencies to establish new or 
supplement existing down payment assistance programs for eligible 
households located within the State.
    (c) Requirements for Eligible Households.--An eligible household 
receiving assistance from a grant provided under this section shall--
            (1) participate in housing counseling provided by--
                    (A) an organization approved by the Department of 
                Housing and Urban Development; or
                    (B) a culturally specific nonprofit organization; 
                and
            (2) use the assistance for a down payment on a property to 
        be used by the eligible household as a primary residence for a 
        period of not less than 10 years.
    (d) No Restriction on Housing.--An eligible household may use 
assistance received from a grant provided under this section for a down 
payment on any type of dwelling that shall be used as a primary 
residence, including a manufactured housing unit, residential property 
under 400 square feet, a condominium, or a cooperative.
    (e) Unrestricted Co-Borrowers Pilot.--There shall be reserved 2 
percent of the funds made available under this section for grantees to 
carry out a pilot down payment assistance program serving more than 2 
co-borrowers receiving assistance from a grant provided under this 
section.
    (f) Supplement for Shared Equity Home Purchases.--A grantee shall 
establish a 25 percent supplemental bonus down payment for eligible 
households that are seeking to purchase an existing shared equity home 
or cooperative or bring a property into a shared equity homeownership 
program or cooperative with funds made available under this section.
    (g) Limitation.--The aggregate amount treated as acquisition 
indebtedness for purposes of this section for any period shall not 
exceed the limitation governing the maximum original principal 
obligation for a mortgage secured by a single-family residence, as 
determined and adjusted annually under section 302(b)(2) of the Federal 
National Mortgage Association Charter Act (12 U.S.C. 1717(b)(2)) and 
section 305(a)(2) of the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation Act (12 
U.S.C. 1454(a)(2)).
    (h) Authorization of Appropriations.--
            (1) In general.--There is authorized to be appropriated to 
        carry out this section $1,000,000,000 for each of fiscal years 
        2022 through 2031.
            (2) Set aside for fund.--An amount equal to 20 percent of 
        the funds appropriated under paragraph (1) in a fiscal year 
        shall be set aside and transferred to the Restorative Housing 
        Justice Fund established under section 113(h).
            (3) Set aside for indian tribes.--Of the amount 
        appropriated under paragraph (1) for each fiscal year, the 
        Secretary shall allocate as grant funds--
                    (A) 98 percent to be provided to States; and
                    (B) 2 percent to be provided to Indian Tribes in 
                accordance with paragraph (4).
            (4) Allocation to indian tribes.--Of the amount allocated 
        for Indian Tribes under paragraph (3)(B), the Secretary shall 
        allocate funds to each Indian Tribe participating in the 
        program during that fiscal year based on a formula established 
        by the Secretary that takes into account any factor that the 
        Secretary determines to be appropriate.
            (5) Publication of allocation formulas.--Not later than 90 
        days before the beginning of each fiscal year for which grants 
        are provided to States and Indian Tribes under this section, 
        the Secretary shall publish in the Federal Register the 
        formulas for allocation established under this subsection.

SEC. 102. MORTGAGE INTEREST TAX CREDIT.

    (a) Allowance of Credit.--
            (1) In general.--Subpart A of part IV of subchapter A of 
        chapter 1 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 is amended by 
        inserting after section 25D the following new section:

``SEC. 25A-1. MORTGAGE INTEREST.

    ``(a) In General.--There shall be allowed as a credit against the 
tax imposed by this chapter for the taxable year an amount equal to 15 
percent of the qualified mortgage interest paid or accrued by the 
taxpayer during the taxable year.
    ``(b) Qualified Mortgage Interest.--For purposes of this section--
            ``(1) In general.--The term `qualified mortgage interest' 
        means interest paid or accrued on acquisition indebtedness (as 
        defined in section 163(h)(3)(B)(i)) with respect to a residence 
        of the taxpayer which is the principal residence (within the 
        meaning of section 121) of the taxpayer.
            ``(2) Limitation.--The aggregate amount treated as 
        acquisition indebtedness for purposes of this section for any 
        period shall not exceed the limitation governing the maximum 
        original principal obligation for a mortgage secured by a 
        single-family residence, as determined and adjusted annually 
        under section 302(b)(2) of the Federal National Mortgage 
        Association Charter Act (12 U.S.C. 1717(b)(2)) and section 
        305(a)(2) of the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation Act (12 
        U.S.C. 1454(a)(2)).
            ``(3) Treatment of mortgage insurance premiums.--Rules 
        similar to the rules of section 163(h)(3)(E) shall apply.
            ``(4) Cooperative housing corporations; unenforceable 
        security interests; estates and trusts.--Rules similar to the 
        rules of subparagraphs (B), (C), and (D) of section 163(h)(4) 
        shall apply.
    ``(c) Election.--A taxpayer may elect not to have this section 
apply with respect to qualified mortgage interest paid or accrued by 
the taxpayer for any taxable year.
    ``(d) Coordination With Other Provisions.--No credit shall be 
allowed under this section for any taxable year with respect any 
residence if--
            ``(1) a deduction is allowed for such taxable year under 
        section 163 with respect to such residence, or
            ``(2) a credit is allowed for such taxable year under 
        section 25 with respect to such residence.''.
            (2) Clerical amendment.--The table of sections for subpart 
        A of part IV of subchapter A of chapter 1 of such Code is 
        amended by inserting after the item relating to section 25 the 
        following new item:

``Sec. 25A-1. Mortgage interest.''.
    (b) Coordination With Existing Credit.--
            (1) In general.--Section 25 of the Internal Revenue Code of 
        1986 is amended by adding at the end the following new 
        subsections:
    ``(j) Election.--A taxpayer may elect not to have this section 
apply for any taxable year.
    ``(k) Coordination.--No credit shall be allowed under this section 
for any taxable year with respect to if a credit is allowed for such 
taxable year under section 25A-1 with respect to such residence.''.
            (2) Conforming amendment.--Section 6501(m) of such Code is 
        amended by inserting ``25(j), 25A-1(c),'' before ``30B(h)(9)''.
    (c) Effective Date.--The amendments made by this section shall 
apply to taxable years beginning after December 31, 2020.

SEC. 103. POSITIVE RENTAL HISTORY CREDIT ENHANCEMENT.

    Not later than 180 days after the date of enactment of this Act, 
the Director of the Federal Housing Finance Agency shall issue 
supervisory guidance requiring, to the greatest extent practicable, 
that not less than 5 percent of mortgages securitized by the Federal 
Home Loan Mortgage Corporation or the Federal National Mortgage 
Association by 2024 factor borrower opt-in positive rental payment 
history in the credit rating and underwriting process with respect to 
those mortgages.

SEC. 104. INDIVIDUAL DEVELOPMENT ACCOUNTS.

    (a) In General.--Section 416 of the Assets for Independence Act (42 
U.S.C. 604 note) is amended by striking ``$25,000,000 for each of 
fiscal years 1999, 2000, 2001, 2002, and 2003,'' and inserting 
``$100,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2022 through 2031,''.
    (b) Set Aside.--An amount equal to 10 percent of the funds 
appropriated under section 416 of the Assets for Independence Act (42 
U.S.C. 604 note) in a fiscal year shall be set aside and transferred to 
the Restorative Housing Justice Fund established under section 113(h).

SEC. 105. SHARED EQUITY HOMEOWNERSHIP INITIATIVE.

    (a) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Eligible entity.--The term ``eligible entity'' means--
                    (A) a participating jurisdiction; and
                    (B) an entity certified as a community development 
                financial institution by the Community Development 
                Financial Institutions Fund established under section 
                104(a) of the Riegle Community Development and 
                Regulatory Improvement Act of 1994 (12 U.S.C. 4703(a)).
            (2) Eligible household.--The term ``eligible household'' 
        means a household described in subsection (e).
            (3) Participating jurisdiction.--The term ``participating 
        jurisdiction'' has the meaning given the term in section 92.2 
        of title 24, Code of Federal Regulations, or any successor 
        regulation.
            (4) Shared equity home.--The term ``shared equity home'' 
        means a dwelling unit serving an eligible household that 
        utilizes a ground lease, deed restriction, subordinate loan, or 
        similar legal mechanism that includes provisions stating that--
                    (A) the dwelling unit is intended to be kept 
                affordable for subsequent eligible households;
                    (B) the affordability term is not less than 60 
                years after recordation;
                    (C) a resale formula applies that limits the 
                proceeds of the homeowner upon resale; and
                    (D) the shared equity homeownership program, its 
                agent, or its assignee has a preemptive option to 
                purchase the dwelling unit from the homeowner at 
                resale.
            (5) Shared equity homeownership program.--The term ``shared 
        equity homeownership program'' means a program that--
                    (A) provides access to shared equity homes for 
                eligible households; and
                    (B) is administered by community land trusts, other 
                nonprofit organizations, or State or local governments 
                or instrumentalities.
            (6) Subsidy to cover the affordability gap.--The term 
        ``subsidy to cover the affordability gap'' means the subsidy 
        amount needed to make a dwelling unit affordable at a targeted 
        area median income level in a targeted market, such as a census 
        tract, neighborhood, county, city, or metropolitan statistical 
        area, that--
                    (A) accounts for the number of bedrooms in a 
                dwelling unit and the area median income adjusted for 
                family size; and
                    (B) shall be not be less than 20 percent of the 
                median sales price in the targeted market.
    (b) Establishment.--The Secretary shall provide grants to eligible 
entities to establish and expand shared equity homeownership programs 
and shared equity homes, including through partnerships with nonprofit 
entities, community land trusts, or State or local governments or 
instrumentalities.
    (c) Types of Grants.--
            (1) Grants for planning and capacity building.--The 
        Secretary may award 3-year grants under this section to 
        eligible entities to provide grants to nonprofit entities, 
        community land trusts, or State or local governments or 
        instrumentalities to develop shared equity homeownership 
        programs or community land trusts or to plan and build capacity 
        related to carrying out grant activities under this section.
            (2) Grants for expanding the number of shared equity 
        homes.--The Secretary may award grants under this section to 
        eligible entities to expand the number of shared equity homes 
        in existing shared equity homeownership programs, which may 
        include--
                    (A) grants for acquisition and rehabilitation or 
                new construction to create shared equity homes and 
                includes subsidy to cover the affordability gap; and
                    (B) grants to implement a buyer-initiated program, 
                where eligible households identify homes in the market 
                and bring them into the shared equity homeownership 
                program, which may include subsidy to cover the 
                affordability gap and funds necessary for 
                rehabilitation or repair of the property.
            (3) Limitation.--The amount of grants provided under 
        paragraph (1) in a fiscal year shall be limited to not more 
        than 25 percent of the amount appropriated in the fiscal year 
        under subsection (h).
    (d) Eligible Grant Expenses.--An eligible entity receiving a grant 
under (c)(2) may use the funds--
            (1) to provide a developer with a subsidy to cover the 
        affordability gap, which funds may be used to acquire 
        properties and conduct rehabilitation or to construct new homes 
        before the property is converted to shared equity 
        homeownership;
            (2) for acquisition, rehabilitation, and development 
        expenses that are not covered by a subsidy provided under 
        paragraph (1), including a developer fee;
            (3) for capitalization of repair and replacement reserves, 
        which funds may be used for repair and replacement expenses 
        between resales to repair or improve a property so that a 
        subsequent eligible households is not financially vulnerable 
        due to deferred maintenance;
            (4) to provide initial stewardship funds to support the 
        operations of the shared equity homeownership program; and
            (5) for the cost of administering the shared equity 
        homeownership program, such as identifying and qualifying 
        eligible households.
    (e) Eligible Households.--Shared equity homeownership programs 
receiving funds under this section may serve households with an income 
under 120 percent of the area median income, as adjusted for household 
size, based upon the needs of the targeted market.
    (f) Technical Assistance and Capacity Building Hub.--The Secretary 
shall establish a dedicated shared equity housing professional 
technical assistance hub entity to educate and engage with local 
partners to share best practices and otherwise facilitate the shared 
equity homeownership model.
    (g) Annual Report.--The Secretary shall establish a data collection 
hub to which all eligible entities receiving a grant under this section 
shall report on an annual basis--
            (1) the number of shared equity homes created;
            (2) the number of households served;
            (3) eligible household demographic characteristics; and
            (4) any other relevant demographic information required at 
        the discretion of the Secretary.
    (h) Authorization of Appropriations.--
            (1) In general.--There is authorized to be appropriated to 
        carry out this section $1,000,000,000 for each of fiscal years 
        2022 through 2031.
            (2) Set aside for fund.--An amount equal to 20 percent of 
        the funds appropriated under paragraph (1) in a fiscal year 
        shall be set aside and transferred to the Restorative Housing 
        Justice Fund established under section 113(h).

SEC. 106. NATIONAL RIGHT OF FIRST REFUSAL.

    (a) Fannie Mae.--Section 302 of the Federal National Mortgage 
Association Charter Act (12 U.S.C. 1717) is amended by adding at the 
end the following:
    ``(d) Right of First Refusal.--The corporation may not sell or 
transfer any mortgage that is secured by a single-family or multi-
family residential property that is a rental property unless the 
current tenant or the most recent tenant within the preceding 12-month 
period was given--
            ``(1) not less than 20 days to indicate interest in 
        purchasing the single-family home or dwelling unit in which the 
        tenant resides; and
            ``(2) not less than 45 additional days to initiate the 
        application process of securing financing to purchase the home 
        or dwelling unit.''.
    (b) Freddie Mac.--Section 305 of the Federal Home Loan Mortgage 
Corporation Act (12 U.S.C. 1454) is amended by adding at the end the 
following:
    ``(e) Right of First Refusal.--The Corporation may not sell or 
transfer any mortgage that is secured by a single-family or multi-
family residential property that is a rental property unless the 
current tenant or the most recent tenant within the preceding 12-month 
period was given--
            ``(1) not less than 20 days to indicate interest in 
        purchasing the single-family home or dwelling unit in which the 
        tenant resides; and
            ``(2) not less than 45 additional days to secure financing 
        to purchase the home or dwelling unit.''.
    (c) Special Rule for Manufactured Housing Communities.--
            (1) Definitions.--
                    (A) Manufactured housing community cooperative or 
                corporation.--The term ``manufactured housing community 
                cooperative or corporation'' means a cooperative or 
                nonprofit corporation established pursuant to the laws 
                of the State in which the property used as a 
                manufactured housing community.
                    (B) Qualified gain.--The term ``qualified gain'' 
                means the gain from the sale or exchange of real 
                property comprised primarily of manufactured housing 
                used solely for residential purposes.
            (2) Resident right to purchase.--
                    (A) In general.--A taxpayer who is a party to a 
                manufactured housing community sale or transfer or 
                ownership shall be assessed the tax penalty described 
                in subparagraph (B) unless--
                            (i) the residents of a manufactured housing 
                        community were given 60 days to form a 
                        manufactured housing community cooperative or 
                        corporation if no such entity currently exists; 
                        and
                            (ii) the manufactured housing community 
                        cooperative or corporation subjected to sale or 
                        exchange is given 90 days to initiate the 
                        application process of securing financing to 
                        purchase the manufactured housing community.
                    (B) Tax penalty.--The tax penalty described in this 
                subparagraph for any taxable year is an amount equal to 
                15 percent of the qualified gain received by the 
                taxpayer during the taxable year.
    (d) Technical Assistance and Capacity Buildings Grants.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary shall award grants to 
        organizations described in section 501(c)(3) of the Internal 
        Revenue Code and exempt from taxation under section 501(a) of 
        such Code that are actively engaged in supporting affordable 
        housing and resident-owned manufactured housing communities.
            (2) Appropriations.--There is authorized to be appropriated 
        $10,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2022 to 2031 to carry out 
        this subsection.

SEC. 107. NO CAUSE EVICTIONS.

    (a) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Landlord.--The term ``landlord''--
                    (A) means the owner, lessor, or sublessor of a 
                residence; and
                    (B) includes an individual who is authorized by an 
                owner, lessor, or sublessor of a residence to--
                            (i) manage the residence; or
                            (ii) enter into a lease agreement for the 
                        residence.
            (2) Residence.--The term ``residence''--
                    (A) means a non-commercial--
                            (i) plot of real property; or
                            (ii) dwelling; and
                    (B) includes--
                            (i) a tiny home that has not more than 400 
                        square feet of living space;
                            (ii) an accessory dwelling unit;
                            (iii) an apartment; and
                            (iv) a manufactured home on a plot of real 
                        property leased from the landlord.
            (3) Tenant.--The term ``tenant'' means an individual who--
                    (A) is not less than 18 years of age; and
                    (B) has leased a residence for not fewer than 6 
                months.
    (b) Prohibition.--Subject to subsection (e), a landlord may not 
evict a tenant from a residence, unless--
            (1) there is not less than one just cause for the eviction 
        under subsection (c); and
            (2) the landlord has followed the notice procedure 
        established under subsection (d).
    (c) Just Causes for Eviction by a Landlord.--The following 
situations constitute just cause for a landlord to evict a tenant:
            (1) The intentional or negligent actions of the tenant 
        cause substantial physical damage to the residence of the 
        tenant.
            (2) The intentional actions of the tenant measurably and 
        demonstrably inhibit the quality of life of an individual who 
        lives--
                    (A) in the building where the residence of the 
                tenant is located; or
                    (B) in the immediate vicinity of the residence of 
                the tenant.
            (3) The tenant does not pay rent owed to the landlord for 
        the residence of the tenant.
            (4) The tenant, in the residence of the tenant or in the 
        immediate vicinity of the residence of the tenant, commits a 
        crime--
                    (A) that involves--
                            (i) prostitution; commercial sexual 
                        solicitation, or the promotion of prostitution;
                            (ii) the unlawful manufacture, delivery, or 
                        possession of a controlled substance;
                            (iii) the manufacture of a cannabinoid 
                        extract, unless the tenant holds a license to 
                        manufacture the cannabinoid extract under 
                        Federal, State, or Tribal law; or
                            (iv) burglary; and
                    (B) which, at a trial for damages under this 
                section, the landlord of the residence can prove by a 
                preponderance of the evidence.
            (5) The tenant commits a crime that impacts--
                    (A) the health or safety of individuals who live 
                within the immediate vicinity of the residence of the 
                tenant; or
                    (B) the right of individuals who live within the 
                immediate vicinity of the residence of the tenant to 
                peacefully enjoy the property of those individuals.
            (6) The landlord or an immediate relative of the landlord 
        makes a measurable, demonstrable, and bona fide plan to occupy 
        the residence.
            (7)(A) Local or State housing inspectors determine that the 
        residence of the tenant is unsuitable for occupancy; and
            (B) the unsuitability of the residence is not a result of 
        deferred maintenance of the residence by the landlord.
    (d) Notice Procedure.--Before a landlord may evict a tenant, the 
landlord shall provide the following notice:
            (1) The landlord shall provide the tenant with an initial 
        eviction notice not fewer than 6 months before the eviction 
        takes place that--
                    (A) states the just cause for the eviction under 
                subsection (c); and
                    (B) if the just cause stated under subparagraph (A) 
                is described in paragraphs (1) through (3) of 
                subsection (c) and the tenant can remedy the just 
                cause, provides the tenant with 15 days to correct the 
                actions of the tenant.
            (2) Not sooner than 30 days after providing the initial 
        eviction notice under paragraph (1), the landlord shall provide 
        the tenant with a second eviction notice that--
                    (A) states the just cause for the eviction under 
                subsection (c); and
                    (B) if the just cause stated under subparagraph (A) 
                is described in paragraphs (1) through (3) of 
                subsection (c) and the tenant can remedy the just 
                cause, provides the tenant with 15 days to correct the 
                actions of the tenant.
    (e) Exceptions.--A landlord may evict a tenant from a residence 
without a just cause for the eviction under subsection (c) or providing 
the notice required under subsection (d) for one or more of the 
following reasons:
            (1)(A) The tenant intentionally provided a substantial 
        amount of false information relating to a criminal conviction 
        of the tenant on a rental application for the residence;
            (B) the conviction described in subparagraph (A) occurred 
        not less than 1 year before the date of the submission of the 
        application;
            (C) the landlord would not have entered into a rental 
        agreement for the residence with the tenant if the landlord had 
        known that the information described in subparagraph (A) was 
        false; and
            (D) the landlord terminates the rental agreement of the 
        tenant not later than 30 days after the date on which the 
        landlord discovered that the information described in 
        subparagraph (A) was false.
            (2) The tenant commits domestic violence, dating violence, 
        sexual assault, or stalking against a member of the household 
        of the tenant.
    (f) Penalty.--A landlord who violates subsection (b) shall pay to 
the tenant a sum not less than 6 times the median monthly rent price 
for the area in which the residence of the tenant is located.
    (g) Duty To Evict.--
            (1) If a landlord knows that a tenant has committed 
        domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault, or stalking 
        against a member of the household of the tenant, the landlord 
        shall--
                    (A) take steps to exclude, evict, or otherwise 
                expel the tenant from the residence of the tenant; and
                    (B) permit the member of the household of the 
                tenant to continue living in the residence.
    (h) Tenant Right To Terminate Lease.--
            (1) In general.--A tenant may terminate the lease agreement 
        for the residence of the tenant and any immediate family 
        members of the tenant if--
                    (A) the tenant provides the landlord of the 
                residence written notice not less than 14 days before 
                the date on which the tenant terminates the lease 
                agreement;
                    (B)(i) the tenant is protected by a valid order of 
                protection; or
                    (ii) not more than 90 days before the date on which 
                the tenant provides the landlord the notice described 
                in subparagraph (A), the tenant has been the victim of 
                domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault, or 
                stalking;
                    (C) the tenant provides the landlord with a 
                document that verifies the condition described in 
                subparagraph (B), which includes the signature or seal 
                of--
                            (i) a court;
                            (ii) a State or local governmental 
                        authority; or
                            (iii) an entity that serves victims of--
                                    (I) domestic violence;
                                    (II) dating violence;
                                    (III) sexual assault; or
                                    (IV) stalking; and
                    (D) the tenant vacates the residence not later than 
                14 days after the date on which the tenant provides the 
                notice described in subparagraph (A).
            (2) Effect of termination.--If a tenant terminates a lease 
        agreement for the residence of the tenant under paragraph (1)--
                    (A) the tenant is not liable for any unpaid rent 
                for the period of time beginning on the date that is--
                            (i) 14 days after the tenant gives the 
                        landlord notice under paragraph (1)(A); or
                            (ii) agreed upon in the lease agreement; 
                        and
                    (B) not later than 21 days after receiving the 
                notice described in paragraph (1)(A), the landlord 
                shall return to the tenant--
                            (i) the appropriate share of a security 
                        deposit of the tenant; and
                            (ii) in the case that it is not possible to 
                        discern the appropriate share of a security 
                        deposit of the tenant to be returned, not less 
                        than 20 percent of the security deposit of the 
                        tenant.
    (i) Savings Clauses.--Nothing in this section shall be construed to 
supersede or preempt--
            (1) any provision of law enacted by a State or local 
        government that provides greater protections for tenants than 
        provided in this section; or
            (2) any provision of section 41411 of the Violence Against 
        Women Act of 1994 (34 U.S.C. 12491) that offers greater 
        protections to individuals residing in federally assisted 
        housing that are victims of--
                    (A) domestic violence;
                    (B) dating violence;
                    (C) sexual assault; or
                    (D) stalking.

SEC. 108. RIGHT TO COUNSEL.

    (a) Purpose.--The purpose of this section is to--
            (1) establish funding for State governments, local 
        governments, or Indian Tribes that have established a Right to 
        Counsel through legislation for covered individuals who are 
        facing--
                    (A) eviction;
                    (B) a termination of a housing subsidy; or
                    (C) foreclosure;
            (2) provide counsel to the most vulnerable populations;
            (3) allow governing bodies to tailor the Right to Counsel 
        to fit the unique needs of the community of the governing body, 
        including by setting eligibility requirements for individuals 
        who receive the Right to Counsel; and
            (4) guarantee that--
                    (A) covered individuals have a legal right to 
                receive full legal representation at no cost;
                    (B) covered individuals are not denied a Right to 
                Counsel for discretionary reasons; and
                    (C) funding for a State government, a local 
                government, or an Indian Tribe with a Right to Counsel 
                continues as long as the State government, local 
                government, or Indian Tribe complies with--
                            (i) the plan outlined in the application of 
                        the State government, local government, or 
                        Indian Tribe; and
                            (ii) the reporting requirements described 
                        in subsection (f).
    (b) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Affirmative case.--The term ``affirmative case'' means 
        any housing-related lawsuit in which a covered individual is 
        not a defendant, which may include a lawsuit designed to--
                    (A) compel a landlord to make a necessary repair to 
                a residence;
                    (B) enjoin the harassment of a tenant by a 
                landlord;
                    (C) remedy mortgage or rental lease fraud; and
                    (D) remedy--
                            (i) an instance of discrimination against a 
                        tenant or prospective tenant by a landlord;
                            (ii) discrimination in lending;
                            (iii) discrimination under the Fair Housing 
                        Act (42 U.S.C. 3601 et seq.); or
                            (iv) any other instance of discrimination 
                        that is directly related to housing.
            (2) Covered individual.--The term ``covered individual''--
                    (A) means an individual who--
                            (i) meets the eligibility requirements of 
                        an eligible entity established in the Right to 
                        Counsel legislation of the eligible entity; and
                            (ii) is a defendant or plaintiff in a 
                        covered proceeding that takes place within the 
                        geographic boundaries of the eligible entity 
                        described in clause (i); and
                    (B) includes any individual described in 
                subparagraph (A) who is--
                            (i) a tenant of any type of rental housing, 
                        including public housing;
                            (ii) a homeowner of any type of home, 
                        including a tiny home or a manufactured home;
                            (iii) a tenant or homeowner with a 
                        terminated housing subsidy; or
                            (iv) a tenant or homeowner who has received 
                        notice that the housing subsidy of the tenant 
                        or homeowner will be terminated.
            (3) Covered proceeding.--The term ``covered proceeding'' 
        means a civil action in a court or administrative forum--
                    (A) for--
                            (i) eviction from the primary residence of 
                        a tenant;
                            (ii) the termination of a housing subsidy;
                            (iii) foreclosure on the primary residence 
                        of a homeowner; and
                            (iv) an affirmative case, if the eligible 
                        entity meets the requirement under subsection 
                        (c)(2)(B); and
                    (B) that an eligible entity chooses to cover in the 
                Right to Counsel legislation of the eligible entity.
            (4) Eligible entity.--The term ``eligible entity'' means a 
        State government, a local government, or an Indian Tribe with a 
        Right to Counsel.
            (5) Housing-related legal representation.--The term 
        ``housing-related legal representation''--
                    (A) means full legal representation by a Right to 
                Counsel attorney for a covered individual in a covered 
                proceeding; and
                    (B) includes full legal representation on an appeal 
                from a covered proceeding.
            (6) Housing subsidy.--The term ``housing subsidy'' means 
        Federal, State, or local monetary assistance for a rental or 
        mortgage payment, such as a voucher.
            (7) Implementation period.--The term ``implementation 
        period'' means the 5-year period during which an eligible 
        entity gradually increases the capacity of the eligible entity 
        to provide housing-related legal representation to covered 
        individuals.
            (8) Legal service provider.--The term ``legal service 
        provider'' means a nonprofit organization that--
                    (A) provides housing-related legal representation 
                on behalf of an eligible entity to covered individuals; 
                and
                    (B) receives compensation from the eligible entity 
                for providing the housing-related legal representation 
                described in subparagraph (A).
            (9) Local government.--The term ``local government'' 
        includes the government of a city, town, township, county, 
        parish, village, or any other subdivision of a State.
            (10) Public housing.--The term ``public housing'' has the 
        meaning given the term in section 3(b) of the United States 
        Housing Act of 1937 (42 U.S.C. 1437a(b)).
            (11) Right to counsel.--The term ``Right to Counsel'' means 
        a right established by a State government, a local government, 
        or an Indian Tribe that--
                    (A) is created through Right to Counsel 
                legislation;
                    (B) guarantees housing-related legal representation 
                at no cost to--
                            (i) during the implementation period, the 
                        amount of covered individuals the eligible 
                        entity identifies in the plan required under 
                        subsection (d)(2)(B); and
                            (ii) after the implementation period ends, 
                        every covered individual; and
                    (C) may be contingent upon the receipt of a 
                certification by the Secretary under subsection (e).
            (12) Right to counsel attorney.--The term ``Right to 
        Counsel attorney'' means an attorney--
                    (A) employed by a legal service provider; or
                    (B) who, under the supervision of a legal service 
                provider--
                            (i) provides housing-related legal 
                        representation to a covered individual; or
                            (ii) works on an affirmative case.
            (13) Right to counsel legislation.--The term ``Right to 
        Counsel legislation'' means legislation of a State government, 
        a local government, or an Indian Tribe that--
                    (A) establishes a Right to Counsel;
                    (B) identifies eligibility requirements for covered 
                individuals, which may not--
                            (i) discriminate against any individual on 
                        the basis of--
                                    (I) the criminal record, gender 
                                identity, gender expression, sexual 
                                orientation, family status, age, 
                                national origin, disability, genetic 
                                information, family medical history, 
                                eviction history, or foreclosure 
                                history of the individual;
                                    (II) the immigration status or 
                                prior immigration status of the 
                                individual, except as required by Legal 
                                Services Corporation law and 
                                regulations; or
                                    (III) any other protected status;
                    (C) identifies the type of covered proceedings the 
                eligible entity will include in the Right to Counsel; 
                and
                    (D) provides for a not more than 5-year 
                implementation period.
    (c) Federal Reimbursements.--
            (1) In general.--Each fiscal year, the Secretary shall 
        reimburse an eligible entity for the total cost of implementing 
        and maintaining a Right to Counsel if the Right to Counsel has 
        a certification from the Secretary under subsection (e).
            (2) Use of funds.--
                    (A) In general.--The cost described in paragraph 
                (1) may include--
                            (i) personnel costs;
                            (ii) operational costs;
                            (iii) administrative costs; and
                            (iv) the cost of support services.
                    (B) Limitation.--
                            (i) Affirmative cases.--Not more than 5 
                        percent of the cost described in paragraph (1) 
                        may be used to provide representation for 
                        covered individuals in an affirmative case.
                            (ii) Other proceedings favored.--An 
                        eligible entity may only provide representation 
                        for a covered individual in an affirmative case 
                        if the provision does not interfere with the 
                        ability of the eligible entity to provide 
                        representation to covered individuals for 
                        covered proceedings that are not affirmative 
                        proceedings.
    (d) Application.--
            (1) In general.--An eligible entity that desires a 
        reimbursement from the Secretary under subsection (c) shall 
        submit to the Secretary an application at such time, in such 
        manner, and accompanied by such information as the Secretary 
        may reasonably require.
            (2) Contents.--Each application submitted under paragraph 
        (1) shall include the following:
                    (A) If the Right to Counsel of the eligible entity 
                covers actions for eviction, statistical data that 
                shows, within the geographic boundaries of the eligible 
                entity--
                            (i) the number of actions for eviction that 
                        were filed against individuals;
                            (ii) the number of orders for eviction that 
                        were granted as a result of an action described 
                        in clause (i);
                            (iii) the number of actions for foreclosure 
                        that were filed against individuals;
                            (iv) the number of foreclosures that were 
                        granted as a result of an action described in 
                        clause (iii);
                            (v) the percentage of the individuals 
                        described in clauses (i) and (iii) that were 
                        represented by an attorney in the eviction or 
                        foreclosure proceeding; and
                            (vi) to the greatest extent practicable, 
                        the household income level of the individuals 
                        described in clauses (i) and (iii).
                    (B) A detailed plan for the implementation period 
                of the Right to Counsel of the eligible entity that 
                includes--
                            (i) a timeline that describes the gradual 
                        increase in the number of covered individuals 
                        who receive housing-related legal 
                        representation at no cost;
                            (ii) an assurance that key stakeholders, 
                        including legal service providers and community 
                        organizations--
                                    (I) were included in the 
                                formulation of the plan; and
                                    (II) will be included in the 
                                execution of the plan; and
                            (iii) proposed methods to increase the rate 
                        of housing-related legal representation for 
                        covered individuals.
    (e) Certification.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary shall certify the Right to 
        Counsel of an eligible entity if the eligible entity submits an 
        application meeting the requirements under subsection (d).
            (2) 3-year review.--
                    (A) In general.--A certification of the Secretary 
                under paragraph (1) shall be effective for a 3-year 
                period.
                    (B) Recertification.--The Secretary shall extend 
                the certification of the Right to Counsel of an 
                eligible entity for an additional 3-year period if--
                            (i) the eligible entity submits an 
                        additional application under subsection (d); 
                        and
                            (ii) the additional application meets the 
                        requirements under subsection (d).
    (f) Reports.--
            (1) In general.--Not less frequently than annually, each 
        eligible entity receiving a reimbursement from the Secretary 
        under subsection (c) shall submit to the Secretary each of the 
        following reports:
                    (A) For an eligible entity that is under an 
                implementation period, a report summarizing the 
                progress of the plan described in subsection (d)(2)(B).
                    (B) A report that includes--
                            (i) an estimation of the number of covered 
                        individuals who live in the geographic 
                        boundaries of the eligible entity; and
                            (ii) statistical information relating to 
                        eviction and foreclosure proceedings handled by 
                        Right to Counsel attorneys of the eligible 
                        entity, including, to the greatest extent 
                        practicable, for each proceeding--
                                    (I) the race of each covered 
                                individual;
                                    (II) the age of each covered 
                                individual;
                                    (III) the household income of each 
                                covered individual;
                                    (IV) the number of individuals 
                                included in the household of the 
                                covered individual;
                                    (V) the type of property at issue; 
                                and
                                    (VI) whether the covered individual 
                                or a member of the household of the 
                                covered individual was a victim of 
                                domestic violence, dating violence, 
                                sexual assault, or stalking.
                    (C) For an eligible entity with covered proceedings 
                that include actions for eviction, a report that 
                includes, for the previous year--
                            (i) information with respect to the 
                        eligible entity on--
                                    (I) the rate of eviction filings;
                                    (II) the number of evictions that 
                                were ordered;
                                    (III) the number of evictions that 
                                were executed; and
                                    (IV) the percentage of individuals 
                                who were represented by an attorney of 
                                an eviction proceeding;
                            (ii) information on the resolution of each 
                        eviction proceeding handled by Right to Counsel 
                        attorneys on behalf of the eligible entity, 
                        including--
                                    (I) whether the covered individual 
                                was permitted to stay in the residence 
                                of the covered individual;
                                    (II) whether the covered individual 
                                was displaced from the residence of the 
                                covered individual; and
                                    (III) in the case of a covered 
                                individual who was permitted to stay in 
                                the residence of the covered 
                                individual--
                                            (aa) whether the landlord 
                                        was ordered to perform repairs; 
                                        and
                                            (bb) the amount of damages 
                                        either party to the proceeding 
                                        was ordered to pay; and
                            (iii) information on eviction proceedings 
                        handled by Right to Counsel attorneys on behalf 
                        of the eligible entity in which the Right to 
                        Counsel attorney withdrew or was discharged 
                        from the proceeding.
                    (D) For an eligible entity with covered proceedings 
                that include actions for foreclosure, a report that 
                includes, for the previous year--
                            (i) information with respect to the 
                        eligible entity on--
                                    (I) the number of individuals who 
                                were defendants in a foreclosure 
                                proceeding; and
                                    (II) the percentage of the 
                                individuals described in subclause (I) 
                                that were represented by an attorney; 
                                and
                            (ii) information on the resolution of each 
                        foreclosure proceeding handled by Right to 
                        Counsel attorneys on behalf of the eligible 
                        entity, including--
                                    (I) whether the covered individual 
                                retained possession of the residence of 
                                the covered individual;
                                    (II) whether the covered individual 
                                was displaced from the residence of the 
                                covered individual;
                                    (III) whether any payment plans 
                                were agreed upon;
                                    (IV) the default amount at issue;
                                    (V) the value of the home on the 
                                date on which the foreclosure 
                                proceeding began; and
                                    (VI) if applicable, the sale price 
                                of the home at foreclosure sale.
            (2) Personally identifying information removed.--In each 
        report submitted under paragraph (1), an eligible entity shall 
        remove the personally identifying information of any covered 
        individual.
    (g) Planning Grants.--
            (1) In general.--Each fiscal year, the Secretary shall 
        award grants in the amount of $100,000 to each eligible entity 
        that submits an application under paragraph (3) for the purpose 
        of preparing an application under subsection (d).
            (2) Limitation.--The total amount of grants made under 
        paragraph (1) shall not exceed $2,500,000 in a fiscal year, to 
        be provided to eligible entities described in that paragraph on 
        a first-come, first-served basis.
            (3) Planning grant application.--
                    (A) In general.--An eligible entity that desires a 
                grant under paragraph (1) shall submit to the Secretary 
                an application at such time, in such manner, and 
                accompanied by such information as the Secretary may 
                reasonably require.
                    (B) Contents.--An application submitted under 
                subparagraph (A) shall include an estimation of the 
                number of covered individuals the Right to Counsel of 
                the eligible entity will serve.
    (h) Independent Commission Study.--The Secretary shall conduct a 
study to analyze the feasibility of establishing an independent 
commission or another independent regulatory body to administer Right 
to Counsel funding under this section.
    (i) Establishment of Fund.--
            (1) In general.--There is established in the Treasury of 
        the United States a fund consisting of the amounts authorized 
        to be appropriated under paragraph (2).
            (2) Deposits to the fund.--There are authorized to be 
        appropriated and there are appropriated to the fund established 
        under paragraph (1) such sums as may be necessary for each 
        fiscal year for the cost of--
                    (A) the reimbursements required under subsection 
                (c);
                    (B) the grants required under subsection (g); and
                    (C) the study required under subsection (h).

SEC. 109. LANDLORD GUARANTEE PROGRAM.

    (a) Establishment.--The Secretary shall develop and implement a 
Landlord Guarantee Program (in this section referred to as the 
``Program''), to be administered by public housing agencies, to provide 
financial assistance to landlords to mitigate damages caused by tenants 
receiving tenant-based rental assistance under section 8(o) of the 
United States Housing Act of 1937 (42 U.S.C. 1437f(o)).
    (b) Eligibility.--In order to receive assistance under the Program, 
a landlord shall--
            (1) obtain judgment against the tenant from the public 
        housing agency with jurisdiction over the property;
            (2) submit to the Secretary an application to receive 
        assistance under the Program not later than 1 year after the 
        date on which the landlord obtains judgment under paragraph 
        (1); and
            (3) rent to a tenant with a valid guarantee.
    (c) Use of Funds.--Amounts received under the Program shall only be 
used for reimbursing amounts in a judgment described in subsection (b) 
that are related to property damage, unpaid rent, or other damages, 
including damages--
            (1) caused as a result of the occupancy of the tenant, 
        including where the tenant is a victim of domestic violence, 
        dating violence, sexual assault, or stalking;
            (2) that exceed normal wear and tear; and
            (3) that are in excess of $500 but not more than $5,000 per 
        tenancy.
    (d) Fees.--The Secretary shall assess and collect a fee from each 
landlord that participates in the Program that is equal to 1 percent of 
the rental value of the property for which the landlord seeks to 
mitigate damages caused by tenants.
    (e) Tenant Accountability.--A tenant shall be eligible for not more 
than 2 claims under the Program every 10 years.
    (f) Landlord Accountability.--A landlord shall be eligible for not 
more than 1 claim under the Program per dwelling unit every 10 years.
    (g) Fund.--There is established in the Treasury of the United 
States a fund to be known as the Landlord Guarantee Program Fund, into 
which shall be deposited--
            (1) amounts appropriated to the fund; and
            (2) all amounts collected as fees under subsection (d).
    (h) Regulations.--The Secretary shall issue regulations to 
implement the Program, including regulations relating to--
            (1) additional qualifications and requirements that a 
        landlord is required to meet to receive assistance under the 
        Program; and
            (2) the form of application that a landlord shall submit to 
        the Secretary to receive assistance under the Program.

SEC. 110. INCLUDING ALL FORMS OF HOUSING IN HUD CONSOLIDATED PLAN.

    (a) Definition of Consolidated Plan.--In this section, the term 
``consolidated plan'' means a comprehensive housing affordability 
strategy and community development plan required under part 91 of title 
24, Code of Federal Regulations, or any successor regulation.
    (b) Issuance of Guidelines Relating to Non-Traditional Forms of 
Affordable Housing.--The Secretary shall issue regulations that require 
that each grantee that is required to submit a consolidated plan shall 
include, to the greatest extent practicable, actionable plans to 
incorporate and preserve in the overall affordable housing stock--
            (1) modular housing constructed in accordance with State, 
        local, or regional site-built building codes;
            (2) single room occupancy units;
            (3) emergency shelters, including dwelling units under 400 
        square feet and supportive tiny housing villages;
            (4) shared equity homes, including community land trusts; 
        and
            (5) cooperative housing ownership models.

SEC. 111. PROHIBITING DISCRIMINATION AGAINST VOUCHER HOLDERS.

    (a) In General.--The Fair Housing Act (42 U.S.C. 3601 et seq.) is 
amended--
            (1) in section 802 (42 U.S.C. 3602), by adding at the end 
        the following:
    ``(p) `Source of income' means lawful, verifiable income paid 
directly to a tenant or to a representative of a tenant, or paid to a 
housing owner or landlord on behalf of a tenant, including Federal rent 
subsidy payments under section 8 of the United States Housing Act of 
1937 (42 U.S.C. 1437f) and any other local, State, or Federal housing 
or financial assistance.'';
            (2) in section 804 (42 U.S.C. 3604), by inserting ``source 
        of income,'' after ``familial status,'' each place that term 
        appears;
            (3) in section 805 (42 U.S.C. 3605)--
                    (A) in subsection (a), by inserting ``source of 
                income,'' after ``familial status,''; and
                    (B) in subsection (c), by inserting ``source of 
                income,'' after ``handicap,'';
            (4) in section 806 (42 U.S.C. 3606), by inserting ``source 
        of income,'' after ``familial status,''; and
            (5) in section 808(e)(6) (42 U.S.C. 3608(e)(6)), by 
        inserting ``source of income,'' after ``handicap,''.
    (b) Prevention of Intimidation in Fair Housing Cases.--Section 901 
of the Civil Rights Act of 1968 (42 U.S.C. 3631) is amended by 
inserting ``source of income (as defined in section 802),'' before ``or 
national origin'' each place that term appears.
    (c) Authorization of Appropriations.--There is authorized to be 
appropriated to carry out this section $50,000,000 for each of fiscal 
years 2022 through 2031.

SEC. 112. FAIR MARKET RENT APPEAL.

    (a) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Fair market rent.--The term ``fair market rent'' means 
        the applicable fair market rental established under section 
        8(c) of the United States Housing Act of 1937 (42 U.S.C. 
        1437f(c)).
            (2) Successful fair market rent appeal.--The term 
        ``successful fair market rent appeal'' means a reevaluation of 
        a fair market rent resulting in a revised fair market rent that 
        is not less than 3 percent higher than the fair market rent for 
        the preceding year.
    (b) Fair Market Rent Appeal.--In the case of an appeal made by a 
public housing agency of a fair market rent established by the 
Secretary, the Secretary shall--
            (1) calculate and publish estimates of historical 
        underfunding over the preceding 10-year period due to fair 
        market rents that are below true market value; and
            (2) if the Secretary determines that the fair market rent 
        calculation was below true market value, reimburse the public 
        housing agency or nonprofit owner of a residential dwelling 
        unit subject to fair market rent an amount equal to 75 percent 
        of the estimated underpayment caused by the inaccurate fair 
        market rent calculation.
    (c) Survey.--The Secretary shall enter into a memorandum of 
agreement with a State housing finance agency to conduct a statewide 
rental market survey if a State experiences more than 2 successful fair 
market rent appeals within the preceding 5 calendar years.
    (d) Reimbursement for Successful Fair Market Rent Appeals.--The 
Secretary shall grant an amount equal the actual direct expenses 
incurred by a public housing agency associated with a successful fair 
market rent appeal.
    (e) Authorization of Appropriations.--There is authorized to be 
appropriated such sums as may be necessary to carry out this section 
for each of fiscal years 2022 through 2031.

SEC. 113. OFFICE OF RESTORATIVE HOUSING JUSTICE.

    (a) Definition of Covered Geographic Area.--In this section, the 
term ``covered geographic area'' means a geographic area that is--
            (1) within 20 miles of--
                    (A) an area that was subject to an Urban Renewal 
                Loan and Grant Contract from the Department of Housing 
                and Urban Development; or
                    (B) an area designated by the Home Owners' Loan 
                Corporation as ``C--Definitely Declining'' or ``D--
                Hazardous''; and
            (2) within the service area of a single public housing 
        agency.
    (b) Establishment.--The Secretary shall establish within the 
Department of Housing and Urban Development an Office of Restorative 
Housing Justice (in this section referred to as the ``Office'') to 
execute an affordable housing assistance preference policy for 
individuals and the parents, grandparents, or primary caretakers of 
people who--
            (1)(A) lost title to a personal residential property or at 
        any point possessed title to real property in a covered 
        geographic area; or
            (B) were displaced from a tenancy or established residence 
        in a covered geographic area; and
            (2) seek to return to an area that was historically a 
        covered geographic area.
    (c) Public Housing Agencies.--
            (1) In general.--Each public housing agency with a 
        geographic service area that includes a covered geographic area 
        shall be eligible to receive funding from the Office to carry 
        out an affordable housing assistance preference policy in 
        accordance with subsection (h).
            (2) Additional expenses.--A public housing agency may use 
        not more than 10 percent of the funding received from the 
        Office in a fiscal year for administration and education 
        purposes.
    (d) Director.--The Office shall be headed by a Director, who shall 
be appointed by the Secretary.
    (e) Office of the Ombudsperson.--
            (1) Establishment.--There is established within the Office 
        an Office of the Ombudsperson, which shall be--
                    (A) responsible for--
                            (i) ensuring that the National Advisory 
                        Council and the Community Advisory Council 
                        established under subsections (f) and (g), 
                        respectively, are carrying out the intended 
                        mission of the Office; and
                            (ii) advocating for individuals who are 
                        seeking housing assistance through the housing 
                        assistance preference policy established under 
                        subsection (h); and
                    (B) an impartial, confidential resource that is 
                fully independent of the Department of Housing and 
                Urban Development and the Office.
            (2) Ombudsperson.--
                    (A) In general.--The Office of the Ombudsperson 
                shall be headed by an Ombudsperson, who shall--
                            (i) be a career employee in the Senior 
                        Executive Service, as defined in section 
                        3132(a) of title 5, United States Code; and
                            (ii) have demonstrated experience in 
                        housing law and racial equity work.
                    (B) Duties.--The Ombudsperson shall--
                            (i) monitor the National Advisory Council 
                        and the Community Advisory Council established 
                        under subsections (f) and (g), respectively, 
                        and the Office for compliance with applicable 
                        laws and standards, including by 
                        investigating--
                                    (I) claims of--
                                            (aa) inadequate use of 
                                        funds;
                                            (bb) inequitable 
                                        implementation of the 
                                        preference policy established 
                                        under subsection (h); and
                                            (cc) inaccurate covered 
                                        geographic areas; and
                                    (II) complaints against the Office 
                                and each of the Councils;
                            (ii) not less frequently than quarterly, 
                        invite community stakeholders, tenants' rights 
                        organizations, and others to participate in a 
                        meeting to ensure that Ombudsperson is aware of 
                        stakeholder concerns and priorities and to 
                        provide feedback on stakeholder requests; and
                            (iii) establish regional offices to the 
                        Office of the Ombudsperson to sure the 
                        inclusion of pertinent local and regional 
                        issues, trends, and challenges for 
                        consideration by the Ombudsperson.
                    (C) Subpoena power.--The Ombudsperson may--
                            (i) issue a subpoena to require the 
                        production of all information, reports, and 
                        other documentary evidence necessary to carry 
                        out the duties of the Ombudsperson; and
                            (ii) invoke the aid of any appropriate 
                        court of the United States.
                    (D) Reporting mechanisms.--The Ombudsperson shall 
                establish and maintain--
                            (i) a toll free telephone number to receive 
                        complaints and reports of matters for 
                        investigation;
                            (ii) an email address to receive 
                        complaints, such reports, and requests for 
                        review of housing preference determinations; 
                        and
                            (iii) a website to receive complaints and 
                        reports for matter of investigation.
    (f) National Advisory Council.--
            (1) In general.--The Director of the Office shall establish 
        within the Office an advisory council, which shall--
                    (A) be composed of 10 members, of whom--
                            (i) one shall be the Director of the 
                        Office;
                            (ii) two shall be representatives from 
                        national nonprofit civil rights organizations 
                        and appointed by the Director;
                            (iii) two shall be representatives from 
                        national tenant rights organizations and 
                        appointed by the Director;
                            (iv) three shall be individuals eligible 
                        for assistance under this section and appointed 
                        by the Director; and
                            (v) two shall be appointed by the Secretary 
                        at the discretion of the Secretary;
                    (B) submit to Congress an annual report in 
                partnership with a housing and homelessness innovation 
                research center established under section 401;
                    (C) provide technical assistance to annual action 
                plans submitted by a community advisory council 
                established under subsection (g); and
                    (D) submit annual recommendations relating to the 
                policies and regulations of the Office.
    (g) Community Advisory Council.--
            (1) In general.--Each public housing agency shall establish 
        a community advisory council, which shall--
                    (A) establish an annual action plan, which shall--
                            (i) be submitted to the National Advisory 
                        Council established under subsection (f);
                            (ii) govern the release of funds under this 
                        section and administer the preference scale 
                        established under subsection (h); and
                            (iii) include demographic data and 
                        information on how funds released under this 
                        section were used during the preceding year; 
                        and
                    (B) be composed of 10 members with a 2-year term 
                limit, of whom--
                            (i) one shall be the Executive Director of 
                        the public housing agency or an appointee from 
                        the public housing agency;
                            (ii) two shall be representatives from a 
                        local nonprofit civil rights organizations and 
                        appointed by the Director of the council;
                            (iii) two shall be representatives from 
                        local tenant rights organizations and appointed 
                        by the Director of the council;
                            (iv) three shall be individuals eligible 
                        for displacement compensation under this 
                        section and appointed by the Director of the 
                        council; and
                            (v) two shall be appointed by the Director 
                        of the council at the discretion of the 
                        Executive Director of the public housing 
                        agency.
            (2) Director.--
                    (A) Appointment in first year.--During the 1-year 
                period following the date on which a community advisory 
                council is established under paragraph (1), the member 
                described in paragraph (1)(B)(i) shall serve as 
                Director of the council.
                    (B) After first year.--After the 1-year period 
                described in subparagraph (B), the Director of a 
                community advisory council shall be appointed on an 
                annual basis by majority vote of the council.
                    (C) Duties.--The Director of a community advisory 
                council shall submit to the council established under 
                subsection (e) on an annual basis--
                            (i) the action plan required under 
                        paragraph (1)(A) and an accompanying report; 
                        and
                            (ii) policy proposals for the community 
                        advisory council.
            (3) Incorporation by states.--Each State shall, to the 
        greatest extent possible, incorporate the action plan 
        established by the applicable community advisory council into 
        all applicable sections of the annual consolidated plan, as 
        defined in section 110(a).
            (4) Funding.--Each public housing agency shall allocate 
        $100,000 on an annual basis to the community advisory council 
        established under this subsection.
    (h) Preference Scale.--
            (1) In general.--The community advisory council of a public 
        housing agency established under subsection (f) shall determine 
        individual preference for funds made available under this 
        section to applicants on a scale of 1 to 5, with 1 point 
        awarded for each of the following factors:
                    (A) Whether the applicant lost title or possessed 
                title to a property or was displaced, as described in 
                subparagraphs (A) and (B) of subsection (b)(1).
                    (B) Whether the applicant is a descendant of 
                someone who lost title or possessed title to a property 
                or was displaced, as described in subparagraphs (A) and 
                (B) of subsection (b)(1).
                    (C) Whether the income of the applicant is below 30 
                percent of the median income in the area in which the 
                applicant resides.
                    (D) Whether the income of the applicant is below 60 
                percent of the median income in the area in which the 
                applicant resides.
                    (E) Whether the applicant attended a school 
                designated as a title I school for more than 5 years.
    (i) Fund.--There is established in the Treasury of the United 
States a fund to be known as the Restorative Housing Justice Fund, into 
which shall be deposited--
            (1) amounts appropriated to the fund; and
            (2) all amounts set aside for the Restorative Housing 
        Justice Fund under any other provision of law.
    (j) Authorization of Appropriations.--There is authorized to be 
appropriated to the Secretary to carry out this section such sums as 
may be necessary each of fiscal years 2022 through 2031.

                TITLE II--CONSTRUCTION AND PRESERVATION

SEC. 201. HOUSING TRUST FUND.

    (a) In General.--Section 1338 of the Federal Housing Enterprises 
Financial Safety and Soundness Act of 1992 (12 U.S.C. 4568) is amended 
by adding at the end the following:
    ``(j) Inclusion of Supplemental Appropriations in Congressional 
Justification.--Beginning for fiscal year 2022 and each fiscal year 
thereafter, the Secretary shall include, in the annual budget 
justification submitted by the Secretary, a recommended supplemental 
appropriation level for the Housing Trust Fund, which shall be in an 
amount that is sufficient to eliminate the shortage of affordable and 
available rental dwelling units over a 10-year period.
    ``(k) Supplemental Appropriation for 2021.--Out of amounts not 
otherwise appropriated, there is appropriated to the Housing Trust Fund 
$45,000,000,000 for fiscal year 2021.''.

SEC. 202. RURAL HOUSING TRUST FUND CONSTRUCTION OF USDA MULTIFAMILY 
              HOUSING FOR LOW-INCOME FAMILIES.

    The Housing Act of 1949 (42 U.S.C. 1471 et seq.) is amended by 
adding at the end the following:

``SEC. 545. MULTIFAMILY HOUSING CONSTRUCTION FOR LOW-INCOME FAMILIES.

    ``(a) Establishment.--The Secretary shall carry out a program under 
this section for the construction of multifamily rental housing 
projects financed with a loan under section 515 and with rental 
assistance provided under section 521 for low-income families in rural 
areas.
    ``(b) Authorization of Appropriations.--There is authorized to be 
appropriated to the Secretary to carry out this section $100,000,000 
for each of fiscal years 2022 through 2031.''.

SEC. 203. STRATEGY AND INVESTMENT IN RURAL HOUSING.

    (a) In General.--Title V of the Housing Act of 1949 (42 U.S.C. 1471 
et seq.), as amended by section 202 of this Act, is amended by adding 
at the end the following:

``SEC. 546. HOUSING PRESERVATION AND REVITALIZATION PROGRAM.

    ``(a) Establishment.--The Secretary shall carry out a program under 
this section for the preservation and revitalization of multifamily 
rental housing projects financed with loans under sections 514, 515, 
and 516.
    ``(b) Notice of Maturing Loans.--
            ``(1) To owners.--On an annual basis, the Secretary shall 
        provide written notice to each owner of a property financed 
        under section 515 or both sections 514 and 516 that will mature 
        within the 4-year period beginning upon the provision of such 
        notice, setting forth the options and financial incentives that 
        are available to facilitate the extension of the loan term or 
        the option to decouple a rental assistance contract pursuant to 
        subsection (f).
            ``(2) To tenants.--
                    ``(A) In general.--For each property financed with 
                a loan made or insured under section 514, 515, or 516, 
                not later than the date that is 2 years before the date 
                that such loan will mature, the Secretary shall provide 
                written notice to each household residing in such 
                property that informs them of the date of the loan 
                maturity, the possible actions that may happen with 
                respect to the property upon such maturity, and how to 
                protect their right to reside in Federally assisted 
                housing after such maturity.
                    ``(B) Hold harmless.--If the Secretary fails to 
                provide households with the notice required under 
                subparagraph (A), the residents shall be held harmless 
                from rent increases until the required notice period 
                elapses.
                    ``(C) Language.--Notice under this paragraph shall 
                be provided in plain English and shall be translated to 
                other languages in the case of any property located in 
                an area in which a significant number of residents 
                speak such other languages, consistent with guidance 
                issued by the Secretary in accordance with Executive 
                Order 13166 (42 U.S.C. 2000d-1 note; relating to access 
                to services for persons with limited English 
                proficiency).
    ``(c) Loan Restructuring.--Under the program under this section, 
the Secretary may restructure such existing housing loans, as the 
Secretary considers appropriate, for the purpose of ensuring that such 
projects have sufficient resources to preserve the projects to provide 
safe and affordable housing for low-income residents and farm laborers, 
by--
            ``(1) reducing or eliminating interest;
            ``(2) deferring loan payments;
            ``(3) subordinating, reducing, or reamortizing loan debt; 
        and
            ``(4) providing other financial assistance, including 
        advances, payments, and incentives (including the ability of 
        owners to obtain reasonable returns on investment) required by 
        the Secretary.
    ``(d) Renewal of Rental Assistance.--When the Secretary offers to 
restructure a loan pursuant to subsection (c), the Secretary shall 
offer to renew the rental assistance contract under section 521(a)(2) 
for a 20-year term that is subject to annual appropriations, provided 
that the owner agrees to bring the property up to such standards that 
will ensure its maintenance as decent, safe, and sanitary housing for 
the full term of the rental assistance contract.
    ``(e) Restrictive Use Agreements.--
            ``(1) Requirement.--As part of the preservation and 
        revitalization agreement for a project, the Secretary shall 
        obtain a restrictive use agreement that obligates the owner to 
        operate the project in accordance with this title.
            ``(2) Term.--
                    ``(A) No extension of rental assistance contract.--
                Except when the Secretary enters into a 20-year 
                extension of the rental assistance contract for the 
                project, the term of the restrictive use agreement for 
                the project shall be consistent with the term of the 
                restructured loan for the project.
                    ``(B) Extension of rental assistance contract.--If 
                the Secretary enters into a 20-year extension of the 
                rental assistance contract for a project, the term of 
                the restrictive use agreement for the project shall be 
                extended for 20 years.
                    ``(C) Termination.--The Secretary may terminate the 
                20-year use restrictive use agreement for a project 
                prior to the end of its term if the 20-year rental 
                assistance contract for the project with the owner is 
                terminated at any time for reasons outside the owner's 
                control.
    ``(f) Decoupling of Rental Assistance.--
            ``(1) Renewal of rental assistance contract.--If the 
        Secretary determines that a maturing loan for a project cannot 
        reasonably be restructured in accordance with subsection (c) 
        and the project was operating with rental assistance under 
        section 521, the Secretary may renew the rental assistance 
        contract, notwithstanding any provision of section 521, for a 
        term, subject to annual appropriations, of not less than 10 
        years but not more than 20 years.
            ``(2) Rents.--Any agreement to extend the term of the 
        rental assistance contract under section 521 for a project 
        shall obligate the owner to continue to maintain the project as 
        decent, safe and sanitary housing and to operate the 
        development in accordance with this title, except that rents 
        shall be based on the lesser of--
                    ``(A) the budget-based needs of the project; or
                    ``(B)(i) the operating cost adjustment factor as a 
                payment standard as provided under section 524 of the 
                Multifamily Assisted Housing Reform and Affordability 
                Act of 1997 (42 U.S.C. 1437 note).
            ``(3) Initial decoupled rent.--At the time of an agreement 
        to extend the term of rental assistance contract under section 
        521, the initial rent shall established as conventional rents 
        for comparable units by appraisal or market study.
            ``(4) Rural housing vouchers for maturing mortgages.--
        Residents of projects originally financed with a loan made or 
        insured under section 514 or 515 that has matured shall be 
        eligible for voucher assistance under section 542 if a rental 
        assistance contract under section 521 is not extended beyond 
        the term of the underlying loan made or insured under section 
        514 or 515.
    ``(g) Authority.--If the Secretary determines that additional 
voucher funds under section 542 are needed, funds for the 
revitalization program under this section may be used for those 
vouchers for any low-income household (including those not receiving 
rental assistance) residing in a property financed with a loan under 
this section that has been prepaid after September 30, 2005.
    ``(h) Multifamily Housing Transfer Technical Assistance.--
            ``(1) In general.--Under the program under this section, 
        the Secretary may provide grants to qualified nonprofit 
        organizations, public housing agencies, and tribal housing 
        authorities to provide technical assistance, including 
        financial and legal services, to borrowers under loans under 
        this title for multifamily housing to facilitate the 
        acquisition of such multifamily housing properties in areas 
        where the Secretary determines there is a risk of loss of 
        affordable housing.
            ``(2) Prohibition.--The Secretary shall not categorically 
        exclude previously initiated acquisitions from the provision of 
        technical assistance funding under this subsection.
    ``(i) Transfer of Rental Assistance.--After the loan or loans for a 
rental project originally financed under section 515 or both sections 
514 and 516 have matured or have been prepaid and the owner has chosen 
not to restructure the loan pursuant to subsection (c), a tenant 
residing in such project shall have 18 months prior to loan maturation 
or prepayment to transfer the rental assistance assigned to the 
tenant's unit to another rental project originally financed under 
section 515 or both sections 514 and 516, and the owner of the initial 
project may rent the tenant's previous unit to a new tenant without 
income restrictions.
    ``(j) Administrative Expenses.--Of any amounts made available for 
the program under this section for any fiscal year, the Secretary may 
use not more than $1,000,000 for administrative expenses for carrying 
out such program.
    ``(k) Rural Housing Service Staffing.--The Secretary--
            ``(1) shall not carry out any policy reducing the number of 
        full-time equivalent employees of the Rural Housing Service 
        without explicit authorization in an Act of Congress;
            ``(2) shall produce, not later than 90 days after the date 
        of enactment of this section, a comprehensive, actionable, and 
        measurable staffing plan to increase staffing levels at rural 
        development field offices to levels sufficient to approve 
        ownership transfers of multifamily housing projects under 
        section 515 of this Act within 90 days of receipt of the 
        transfer;
            ``(3) shall hire and on-board not less than 100 full-time 
        equivalent employees of the Rural Housing Service in each of 
        fiscal years 2022, 2023, and 2024; and
            ``(4) shall delegate primary and final hiring authority to 
        each Rural Development State Director for all vacant Rural 
        Housing Service staff positions until the Secretary certifies 
        that the staff vacancy rate for the Rural Housing Service in 
        the respective State is under 3 percent.
    ``(l) Authorization of Appropriations.--
            ``(1) In general.--There is authorized to be appropriated 
        for the program under this section $220,000,000 for each of 
        fiscal years 2022 through 2031.
            ``(2) Set aside.--Of amounts authorized to be appropriated 
        for each fiscal year under paragraph (1)--
                    ``(A) $10,000,000 shall be set aside and allocated 
                for activities carried out under subsection (h); and
                    ``(B) $10,000,000 shall be set aside and allocated 
                for activities carried out under subsection (k).''.
    (b) Multifamily Preservation and Revitalization Program.--Section 
515 of the Housing Act of 1949 (42 U.S.C. 1485) is amended by adding at 
the end the following:
    ``(bb) Multifamily Preservation and Revitalization Program.--
            ``(1) In general.--The Secretary shall establish a 
        multifamily preservation and revitalization program to preserve 
        and revitalize multifamily housing projects financed under 
        section 514, 515, or 516.
            ``(2) Options.--In carrying out paragraph (1), the 
        Secretary may--
                    ``(A) with respect to the loans provided under 
                sections 514, 515, and 516--
                            ``(i) reduce or eliminate interest;
                            ``(ii) defer loan payments; and
                            ``(iii) subordinate, reduce, or reamortize 
                        loan debt; and
                    ``(B) provide other financial assistance, 
                including--
                            ``(i) advances; and
                            ``(ii) payments and incentives (including 
                        the ability of owners to obtain reasonable 
                        returns on investment).
            ``(3) Requirements.--In exchange for assistance provided 
        pursuant to this subsection, the Secretary shall enter into a 
        restrictive use agreement with the property owner to ensure 
        that the property remains subject to low-income use 
        restrictions for an additional period of time consistent with 
        the terms of the restructuring.
            ``(4) Use of voucher funds for revitalization program.--If 
        the Secretary determines that additional funds for the 
        revitalization program under this subsection are needed, funds 
        for the rural housing voucher program under section 542 may be 
        used for the revitalization program under this subsection.''.

SEC. 204. MANUFACTURED HOUSING PRESERVATION STRATEGY AND INVESTMENT.

    (a) Definition of Eligible Entity.--In this section, the term 
``eligible entity'' means--
            (1) a nonprofit organization, including a community land 
        trust;
            (2) a public housing agency or other State or local 
        government agency, including a State housing finance agency;
            (3) an Indian Tribe;
            (4) a cooperative resident organization formed in 
        compliance with State law in which homeowners are members and 
        have open and equal access to membership; and
            (5) any entity that the Secretary determines to have 
        sufficient capacity and demonstrated history of maintaining 
        long term housing affordability in manufactured housing 
        communities.
    (b) Establishment.--The Secretary shall establish a grant program 
to make grants to eligible entities for acquiring and preserving 
manufactured housing communities.
    (c) Grants.--Amounts from a grant under this section may be used 
only for--
            (1) the acquisition and preservation of manufactured 
        housing communities;
            (2) such acquisition and preservation, together with costs 
        for making improvements to infrastructure, including roads, 
        water, and sanitary systems, common areas, and community 
        property for acquired manufactured housing communities; or
            (3) the demolition, removal, and replacement of dilapidated 
        homes from a manufactured housing community.
    (d) Term of Affordability and Purpose.--The Secretary shall ensure 
any grantee under this section maintains a manufactured housing 
community for a period of not less than 60 years following receipt of 
the grant.
    (e) Grant Amount.--The amount of any grant under this section may 
not exceed an amount that is equal to $30,000 multiplied by the number 
of manufactured home lots in the manufactured housing community for 
which the grant is made.
    (f) Technical Assistance and Capacity Building Grants.--The 
Secretary shall establish a manufactured housing technical assistance 
hub to make grants to eligible entities seeking to promote best 
practices, project planning assistance and manufactured housing 
community preservation.
    (g) Authorization of Appropriations.--There is authorized to be 
appropriated for the program under this section $500,000,000 for each 
of fiscal years 2022 through 2031.

SEC. 205. COMMUNITY ENERGY SAVINGS PROGRAM.

    (a) In General.--The Energy Policy and Conservation Act (42 U.S.C. 
6201 et seq.) is amended by inserting after section 362 (42 U.S.C. 
6322) the following:

``SEC. 362A. COMMUNITY ENERGY SAVINGS PROGRAM.

    ``(a) Purpose.--The purpose of this section is to help households 
and small businesses achieve cost savings by providing loans to 
implement cost-effective energy efficiency measures.
    ``(b) Definitions.--In this section:
            ``(1) Community development financial institution.--The 
        term `community development financial institution' means a 
        financial institution certified by the Community Development 
        Financial Institutions Fund administered by the Secretary of 
        the Treasury.
            ``(2) Eligible entity.--The term `eligible entity' means--
                    ``(A) a public power group;
                    ``(B) a community development financial 
                institution; and
                    ``(C) an eligible unit of local government.
            ``(3) Eligible unit of local government.--The term 
        `eligible unit of local government' means any agency or 
        political subdivision of a State.
            ``(4) Energy efficiency measures.--The term `energy 
        efficiency measures' means, with respect to a property served 
        by or in the service area or jurisdiction, as applicable, of an 
        eligible entity, structural improvements and investments in 
        cost-effective commercial technologies to increase energy 
        efficiency (including cost-effective on- or off-grid renewable 
        energy, energy storage, or demand response systems).
            ``(5) Household with a high energy burden.--
                    ``(A) In general.--The term `household with a high 
                energy burden' means a low-income household the 
                residential energy burden of which exceeds the median 
                energy burden for all low-income households in the 
                State in which the low-income household is located.
                    ``(B) Calculation.--The residential energy burden 
                referred to in subparagraph (A) is the quotient 
                obtained by dividing residential energy expenditures by 
                the annual income of the low-income household.
            ``(6) Indian tribe.--The term `Indian Tribe' has the 
        meaning given the term `Indian tribe' in section 4 of the 
        Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act (25 
        U.S.C. 5304).
            ``(7) Manufactured home.--The term `manufactured home'--
                    ``(A) has the meaning given the term in section 603 
                of the National Manufactured Housing Construction and 
                Safety Standards Act of 1974 (42 U.S.C. 5402); and
                    ``(B) includes a home described in subparagraph (A) 
                without regard to whether the home was built before, 
                on, or after the date on which the construction and 
                safety standards established under section 604 of that 
                Act (42 U.S.C. 5403) became effective.
            ``(8) Program.--The term `program' means the program 
        established under subsection (c).
            ``(9) Public power group.--The term `public power group' 
        means--
                    ``(A) a public utility;
                    ``(B) an electric or energy cooperative;
                    ``(C) a public power district; and
                    ``(D) a group of one or more public utilities or 
                electric or energy cooperatives (commonly referred to 
                as a `joint action agency', `generation and 
                transmission cooperative', `municipal power 
                association', or `State cooperative association').
            ``(10) Qualified consumer.--The term `qualified consumer' 
        means a consumer served by or in the service area or 
        jurisdiction, as applicable, of an eligible entity that has the 
        ability to repay a loan made under subsection (f), as 
        determined by the eligible entity.
            ``(11) Secretary.--The term `Secretary' means the Secretary 
        of Energy.
            ``(12) State.--The term `State' means--
                    ``(A) a State;
                    ``(B) the District of Columbia;
                    ``(C) the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico; and
                    ``(D) any other territory or possession of the 
                United States.
    ``(c) Establishment.--Not later than 120 days after the date of 
enactment of this section, the Secretary shall establish a program 
under which the Secretary shall provide grants to States and Indian 
Tribes to provide loans to eligible entities in accordance with this 
section.
    ``(d) Grant Fund Allocation.--
            ``(1) In general.--Of the amount appropriated under 
        subsection (k) for each fiscal year, the Secretary shall 
        allocate as grant funds--
                    ``(A) 98 percent to be provided to States in 
                accordance with paragraph (2); and
                    ``(B) 2 percent to be provided to Indian Tribes in 
                accordance with paragraph (3).
            ``(2) Allocation to states.--Of the amount allocated for 
        all States under paragraph (1)(A), the Secretary shall--
                    ``(A) allocate not less than 1 percent to each 
                State described in subparagraphs (A) through (C) of 
                subsection (b)(12);
                    ``(B) allocate not less than 0.5 percent to each 
                State described in subparagraph (D) of that subsection; 
                and
                    ``(C) of the amount remaining after the allocations 
                under subparagraphs (A) and (B), allocate funds to 
                States based on the population of each State as 
                determined in the latest available decennial census 
                conducted under section 141(a) of title 13, United 
                States Code.
            ``(3) Allocation to indian tribes.--Of the amount allocated 
        for Indian Tribes under paragraph (1)(B), the Secretary shall 
        allocate funds to each Indian Tribe participating in the 
        program during that fiscal year based on a formula established 
        by the Secretary that takes into account any factor that the 
        Secretary determines to be appropriate.
            ``(4) Publication of allocation formulas.--Not later than 
        90 days before the beginning of each fiscal year for which 
        grants are provided to States and Indian Tribes under this 
        section, the Secretary shall publish in the Federal Register 
        the formulas for allocation established under this subsection.
            ``(5) Administrative costs.--Of the amount allocated to a 
        State or Indian Tribe under this subsection, not more than 15 
        percent shall be used by the State or Indian Tribe for the 
        administrative costs of administering loans.
    ``(e) Loans by States and Indian Tribes to Eligible Entities.--
            ``(1) In general.--Under the program, a State or Indian 
        Tribe shall make loans to eligible entities to make loans to 
        qualified consumers--
                    ``(A) to implement cost-effective energy efficiency 
                measures; and
                    ``(B) in accordance with subsection (f).
            ``(2) State energy offices.--A State shall carry out 
        paragraph (1) through the State energy office that is 
        responsible for developing a State energy conservation plan 
        under section 362.
            ``(3) Priority.--In making loans under paragraph (1), a 
        State or Indian Tribe shall give priority to public power 
        groups.
            ``(4) Requirements.--
                    ``(A) In general.--Subject to subparagraph (C), as 
                a condition of receiving a loan under this subsection, 
                an eligible entity shall--
                            ``(i) establish a list of energy efficiency 
                        measures that are expected to decrease the 
                        energy use or costs of qualified consumers;
                            ``(ii) prepare an implementation plan for 
                        use of the loan funds, including the use of any 
                        interest to be received under subsection 
                        (f)(4);
                            ``(iii) establish an appropriate 
                        measurement and verification system to ensure--
                                    ``(I) the effectiveness of the 
                                energy efficiency loans made by the 
                                eligible entity; and
                                    ``(II) that there is no conflict of 
                                interest in any loan provided by the 
                                eligible entity;
                            ``(iv) demonstrate expertise in the 
                        effective implementation of energy efficiency 
                        measures;
                            ``(v) ensure that a portion of the loan 
                        funds, which may be determined by the State or 
                        Indian Tribe, are used to provide loans to 
                        qualified consumers that are households with a 
                        high energy burden; and
                            ``(vi) give priority to providing loans to 
                        qualified consumers that own homes or other 
                        real property that pose health risks to the 
                        occupants of the property that may be mitigated 
                        by energy efficiency measures, as determined by 
                        the State or Indian Tribe.
                    ``(B) Revision of list of energy efficiency 
                measures.--Subject to the approval of the State or 
                Indian Tribe, as applicable, an eligible entity may 
                update the list required under subparagraph (A)(i) to 
                account for newly available efficiency technologies.
                    ``(C) Existing energy efficiency programs.--An 
                eligible entity that has established an energy 
                efficiency program for qualified consumers before the 
                date of enactment of this section may use an existing 
                list of energy efficiency measures, implementation 
                plan, and measurement and verification system for that 
                program to satisfy the applicable requirements under 
                subparagraph (A), if the State or Indian Tribe, as 
                applicable, determines that the list, plan, or system, 
                as applicable, is consistent with the purposes of this 
                section.
            ``(5) No interest.--A loan under this subsection shall bear 
        no interest.
            ``(6) Term.--The term of a loan provided to an eligible 
        entity under paragraph (1) shall not exceed 20 years after the 
        date on which the loan is issued.
            ``(7) Advance.--
                    ``(A) In general.--In providing a loan to an 
                eligible entity under paragraph (1), a State or Indian 
                Tribe may provide an advance of loan funds on request 
                of the eligible entity.
                    ``(B) Amount limitation.--Any advance provided to 
                an eligible entity under subparagraph (A) in any single 
                year shall not exceed 50 percent of the approved loan 
                amount.
                    ``(C) Repayment.--The repayment of an advance under 
                subparagraph (A) shall be amortized for a period of not 
                more than 10 years.
            ``(8) Special advance for start-up activities.--
                    ``(A) In general.--In providing a loan to an 
                eligible entity under paragraph (1), a State or Indian 
                Tribe may provide a special advance on request of the 
                eligible entity for assistance in defraying the start-
                up costs of the eligible entity, as determined by the 
                State or Indian Tribe, as applicable, of providing 
                loans to qualified consumers under subsection (f).
                    ``(B) Limitation.--A special advance shall be 
                provided to an eligible entity under subparagraph (A) 
                only during the 10-year period beginning on the date on 
                which the loan is issued to that eligible entity.
                    ``(C) Amount.--The amount of a special advance 
                provided under subparagraph (A) shall not be greater 
                than 5 percent of the approved loan amount.
                    ``(D) Repayment.--Repayment of a special advance 
                provided under subparagraph (A)--
                            ``(i) shall be required during the 10-year 
                        period beginning on the date on which the 
                        special advance is made; and
                            ``(ii) may be deferred to the end of the 
                        10-year period described in clause (i) at the 
                        election of the eligible entity.
            ``(9) Revolving loan fund.--
                    ``(A) In general.--As a condition of participating 
                in the program, a State or Indian Tribe shall use the 
                funds repaid to the State or Indian Tribe under loans 
                offered under this subsection to issue new loans under 
                this subsection.
                    ``(B) Administrative costs.--Not more than 10 
                percent of the repaid funds described in subparagraph 
                (A) may be used for the administrative cost of issuing 
                new loans from those repaid funds under this 
                subsection.
    ``(f) Loans by Eligible Entities to Qualified Consumers.--
            ``(1) Use of loan.--
                    ``(A) In general.--A loan made by an eligible 
                entity to a qualified consumer using loan funds 
                provided by a State or Indian Tribe under subsection 
                (e)--
                            ``(i) shall be used to finance energy 
                        efficiency measures for the purpose of 
                        decreasing the energy use or costs of the 
                        qualified consumer by an amount that ensures, 
                        to the maximum extent practicable, that the 
                        applicable loan term described in subparagraph 
                        (B) shall not be an undue financial burden on 
                        the qualified consumer, as determined by the 
                        eligible entity;
                            ``(ii) shall not be used to fund purchases 
                        of, or modifications to, personal property 
                        unless the personal property is or becomes 
                        attached to real property as a fixture;
                            ``(iii) may be used to upgrade a 
                        manufactured home, regardless of the 
                        classification of the home as real or personal 
                        property; and
                            ``(iv) may be used to finance the 
                        replacement of a manufactured home--
                                    ``(I) if the cost of upgrading the 
                                manufactured home is excessive, as 
                                determined by the eligible entity; and
                                    ``(II) with priority given to a 
                                manufactured home that was constructed 
                                before June 15, 1976.
                    ``(B) Loan term described.--The loan term referred 
                to in subparagraph (A)(i) is--
                            ``(i) in the case of a manufactured home 
                        replacement, not more than 20 years; and
                            ``(ii) in the case of any other energy 
                        efficiency measure, not more than 15 years.
            ``(2) Repayment.--
                    ``(A) In general.--Subject to subparagraph (B), a 
                loan described in paragraph (1)(A) shall be repaid by 
                the qualified consumer through charges added to an 
                existing or new electric or recurring service bill for 
                the property of the qualified consumer for, or at 
                which, energy efficiency measures are being 
                implemented.
                    ``(B) Alternative repayment.--Repayment under 
                subparagraph (A) shall not preclude--
                            ``(i) the voluntary prepayment of the loan 
                        by the qualified consumer; or
                            ``(ii) the use of any additional repayment 
                        mechanism, including a tariffed on-bill 
                        mechanism, that--
                                    ``(I) has appropriate risk 
                                mitigation features, as determined by 
                                the eligible entity; or
                                    ``(II) is required due to the 
                                qualified consumer no longer being a 
                                customer of the eligible entity.
            ``(3) Energy assessment.--
                    ``(A) In general.--Prior to the installation of 
                energy efficiency measures at the property of a 
                qualified consumer that receives a loan from an 
                eligible entity under this section, and to assist in 
                the selection of the energy efficiency measures to be 
                installed, the eligible entity shall conduct an energy 
                assessment or audit to determine the impact of proposed 
                energy efficiency measures on--
                            ``(i) the energy costs and consumption of 
                        the qualified consumer; and
                            ``(ii) the health and safety of the 
                        occupants of the property on which the energy 
                        efficiency measures are to be installed.
                    ``(B) Field or online assessment.--An energy 
                assessment or audit under subparagraph (A) may be 
                conducted in the field or online, as determined by the 
                State or Indian Tribe that has issued a loan to the 
                eligible entity under subsection (e).
            ``(4) Interest.--A loan described in paragraph (1)(A) may 
        bear interest, not to exceed 5 percent, which may be used--
                    ``(A) to establish a loan loss reserve for the 
                eligible entity;
                    ``(B) to offset the personnel and program costs of 
                the eligible entity in providing the loan; and
                    ``(C) for any other related purpose, as determined 
                by the eligible entity, in consultation with the State 
                or Indian Tribe that has issued a loan to the eligible 
                entity under subsection (e).
            ``(5) Outside contracts.--An eligible entity may enter into 
        one or more contracts with one or more qualified entities, as 
        determined by the State or Indian Tribe that has issued a loan 
        to the eligible entity under subsection (e)--
                    ``(A) to assist the eligible entity in 
                administering the loans described in paragraph (1)(A); 
                and
                    ``(B) to carry out any of the requirements of the 
                eligible entity described in subsection (e)(4)(A).
    ``(g) Direct Loans From States and Indian Tribes.--A State or 
Indian Tribe may act as an eligible entity under subsection (f) to 
provide loans directly to qualified consumers--
            ``(1) in accordance with that subsection; and
            ``(2) if the State or Indian Tribe satisfies the 
        requirements under subsection (e)(4), as determined by the 
        Secretary.
    ``(h) Program Administration.--
            ``(1) Plan.--Not later than 120 days after the date of 
        enactment of this section, the Secretary shall establish and 
        begin carrying out a plan to--
                    ``(A) measure and verify the success of the program 
                in implementing energy efficiency measures;
                    ``(B) provide training to the employees of eligible 
                entities relating to carrying out the requirements of 
                eligible entities under this section; and
                    ``(C) provide technical assistance to States, 
                Indian Tribes, and eligible entities relating to 
                carrying out the requirements of this section.
            ``(2) Public awareness.--Not later than 120 days after the 
        date of enactment of this section, the Secretary shall 
        establish and begin carrying out a plan to make eligible 
        entities and the general public aware of the program, including 
        by developing a marketing program to raise awareness of the 
        program.
            ``(3) Outside contracts.--
                    ``(A) In general.--The Secretary may enter into one 
                or more contracts with one or more qualified entities, 
                as determined by the Secretary, to carry out paragraphs 
                (1) and (2).
                    ``(B) Use of subcontractors authorized.--A 
                qualified entity that enters into a contract with the 
                Secretary under subparagraph (A) may use one or more 
                subcontractors to assist the qualified entity in 
                carrying out the contract.
            ``(4) Accounting.--The Secretary, and each State and Indian 
        Tribe participating in the program, shall take appropriate 
        steps to streamline the accounting requirements for eligible 
        entities under the program while maintaining adequate 
        assurances of the repayment of the loans made to those eligible 
        entities under the program.
    ``(i) Effect on Authority.--Nothing in this section shall impede, 
impair, or modify the authority of the Secretary to offer loans or 
grants under any other law.
    ``(j) Report.--
            ``(1) In general.--Not later than 15 months after the date 
        on which the program is established, and 90 days after the end 
        of each fiscal year for each fiscal year thereafter, the 
        Secretary shall submit to the appropriate committees of 
        Congress and make publicly available a report that describes, 
        with respect to the program--
                    ``(A) the number of applications received by each 
                State and Indian Tribe from eligible entities for that 
                fiscal year;
                    ``(B) the number of loans made by each State and 
                Indian Tribe for that fiscal year--
                            ``(i) to eligible entities; and
                            ``(ii) directly to qualified consumers;
                    ``(C) the eligible entities that are the recipients 
                of the loans described in subparagraph (B)(i); and
                    ``(D) the manner in which the program was 
                advertised to eligible entities and the general public.
            ``(2) Consultation.--The Secretary shall consult with and 
        obtain information from States and Indian Tribes in preparing 
        the report submitted under paragraph (1).
    ``(k) Authorization of Appropriations.--
            ``(1) In general.--There is authorized to be appropriated 
        to the Secretary to carry out this section $150,000,000 for 
        each of fiscal years 2022 through 2027.
            ``(2) Supplement not supplant.--The funding provided to a 
        State or Indian Tribe under subsection (d) for each fiscal year 
        shall be used to supplement, not supplant, any Federal, State, 
        or other funds otherwise made available to that State or Indian 
        Tribe under--
                    ``(A) a State energy conservation plan established 
                under part D of title III of the Energy Policy and 
                Conservation Act (42 U.S.C. 6321 et seq.); or
                    ``(B) the Weatherization Assistance Program for 
                Low-Income Persons established under part A of title IV 
                of the Energy Conservation and Production Act (42 
                U.S.C. 6861 et seq.).''.
    (b) State Energy Conservation Plans.--Section 362(d)(5) of the 
Energy Policy and Conservation Act (42 U.S.C. 6322(d)(5)) is amended--
            (1) in subparagraph (A), by striking ``or'' at the end;
            (2) in subparagraph (B), by inserting ``or'' after the 
        semicolon; and
            (3) by adding at the end the following:
                    ``(C) which may include the community energy 
                savings program under section 362A;''.
    (c) Technical Amendment.--The table of contents for the Energy 
Policy and Conservation Act (Public Law 94-163; 89 Stat. 872) is 
amended by inserting after the item relating to section 362 the 
following:

``Sec. 362A. Community energy savings program.''.

SEC. 206. PUBLIC HOUSING.

    (a) Repeal of Faircloth Amendment.--Section 9(g) of the United 
States Housing Act of 1937 (42 U.S.C. 1437g(g)) is amended by striking 
paragraph (3).
    (b) Authorization of Appropriations for Public Housing Capital 
Fund.--Section 9(c)(2)(A) of the United States Housing Act of 1937 (42 
U.S.C. 1437g(c)(2)(A)) is amended to read as follows:
                    ``(A) Capital fund.--For allocations of assistance 
                from the Capital Fund, $70,000,000,000 for fiscal year 
                2022, to remain available until expended.''.

   TITLE III--HOUSING ASSISTANCE FOR HOMELESS AND LOW-INCOME FAMILIES

SEC. 301. INCREASING DIRECT RENTAL ASSISTANCE.

    (a) In General.--Section 8(o) of the United States Housing Act of 
1937 (42 U.S.C. 1437f(o)) is amended by adding at the end the 
following:
            ``(21) Emergency rental assistance voucher program.--
                    ``(A) Definition of indian tribe.--In this 
                paragraph, the term `Indian Tribe' has the meaning 
                given the term `Indian tribe' in section 102 of the 
                Federally Recognized Indian Tribe List Act of 1994 (25 
                U.S.C. 5130).
                    ``(B) Vouchers.--The Secretary shall set aside, 
                from amounts made available for rental assistance under 
                this subsection, the amount specified in subparagraph 
                (F) to provide vouchers to tenants that are eligible 
                for tenant-based assistance under this subsection.
                    ``(C) Set aside.--Of the amount appropriated under 
                subparagraph (F) for each fiscal year, the Secretary 
                shall allocate as grant funds--
                            ``(i) 98 percent to be provided to States; 
                        and
                            ``(ii) 2 percent to be provided to Indian 
                        Tribes in accordance with subparagraph (D).
                    ``(D) Allocation to indian tribes.--Of the amount 
                allocated for Indian Tribes under subparagraph (C)(ii), 
                the Secretary shall allocate funds to each Indian Tribe 
                under this paragraph during that fiscal year based on a 
                formula established by the Secretary that takes into 
                account any factor that the Secretary determines to be 
                appropriate.
                    ``(E) Publication of allocation formulas.--Not 
                later than 90 days before the beginning of each fiscal 
                year for which grants are provided to States and tribal 
                housing authorities under this paragraph, the Secretary 
                shall publish in the Federal Register the formulas for 
                allocation established under this paragraph.
                    ``(F) Amounts.--The amount specified in this 
                subparagraph is--
                            ``(i) for fiscal year 2022, the amount 
                        necessary to provide 100,000 vouchers for 
                        rental assistance under this subsection;
                            ``(ii) for fiscal year 2023, the amount 
                        necessary to provide 200,000 vouchers for 
                        rental assistance under this subsection;
                            ``(iii) for fiscal year 2024, the amount 
                        necessary to provide 300,000 vouchers for 
                        rental assistance under this subsection;
                            ``(iv) for fiscal year 2025, the amount 
                        necessary to provide 400,000 vouchers for 
                        rental assistance under this subsection;
                            ``(v) for fiscal year 2026, the amount 
                        necessary to provide 500,000 vouchers for 
                        rental assistance under this subsection;
                            ``(vi) for fiscal year 2027, the amount 
                        necessary to provide 600,000 vouchers for 
                        rental assistance under this subsection;
                            ``(vii) for fiscal year 2028, the amount 
                        necessary to provide 700,000 vouchers for 
                        rental assistance under this subsection;
                            ``(viii) for fiscal year 2029, the amount 
                        necessary to provide 800,000 vouchers for 
                        rental assistance under this subsection;
                            ``(ix) for fiscal year 2030, the amount 
                        necessary to provide 900,000 vouchers for 
                        rental assistance under this subsection; and
                            ``(x) for fiscal year 2031, the amount 
                        necessary to provide 1,000,000 vouchers for 
                        rental assistance under this subsection.
                    ``(G) Amount of voucher.--A voucher provided to a 
                tenant under this paragraph shall be in an amount that 
                is not more than 110 percent of the small area fair 
                market rental established under section 8(c) for the 
                area in which the tenant resides.
                    ``(H) Administrative fee.--Each public housing 
                agency or tribal housing authority that administers a 
                voucher provided under this paragraph shall be provided 
                with amounts necessary to cover all related 
                administrative fees.
                    ``(I) Administration of vouchers.--
                            ``(i) Priority.--The Secretary shall give 
                        priority to public housing agencies over State 
                        housing finance agencies with respect to the 
                        administration of vouchers provided under this 
                        paragraph.
                            ``(ii) State housing finance agencies.--A 
                        State housing finance agency may apply for and 
                        administer a voucher provided under this 
                        paragraph on the same terms as a public housing 
                        agency if the Secretary determines that public 
                        housing agencies in that State lack the 
                        capacity to administer the voucher.
                    ``(J) No arbitrary time limit.--The Secretary shall 
                not limit the amount of time a voucher holder is 
                eligible to receive rental assistance under this 
                paragraph, except by an individualized determination 
                that ending rental assistance serves the best interest 
                of the voucher holder.''.
    (b) Set Aside.--An amount equal to 20 percent of the funds 
appropriated to carry out paragraph (21) of section 8(o) of the United 
States Housing Act of 1937 (42 U.S.C. 1437f(o)), as added by subsection 
(a), in a fiscal year shall be set aside and transferred to the 
Restorative Housing Justice Fund established under section 113(h).
    (c) Prohibition on Denial of Assistance Based on Non-Violent 
Criminal Convictions.--Section 8(o) of the United States Housing Act of 
1937 (42 U.S.C. 1437f(o)), as amended by subsection (a) of this 
section, is amended by adding at the end the following:
            ``(22) Prohibition.--Each public housing agency or tribal 
        housing authority that administers a voucher provided under 
        this subsection shall not establish eligibility criteria for 
        the voucher that excludes individuals with non-violent criminal 
        convictions, except for--
                    ``(A) registered sex offenders; and
                    ``(B) a person described in section 16(f).''.

SEC. 302. SUPPORTIVE TINY HOUSING VILLAGE INNOVATION PILOT PROGRAM.

    (a) Definition of Eligible Entity.--In this section, the term 
``eligible entity'' means--
            (1) a public housing agency;
            (2) a religious organization;
            (3) an Indian Tribe that has jurisdiction over Indian 
        country; and
            (4) a nonprofit housing entity.
    (b) Establishment.--The Secretary shall establish a pilot program 
to provide grants to eligible entities to promote innovation and 
increased capacity of tiny housing village programs.
    (c) Priority.--In awarding grants under this section, the Secretary 
shall prioritize funding for public housing agencies, religious 
organizations, Indian Tribes that have jurisdiction over Indian 
country, and nonprofit housing entities to construct and operate gate-
controlled tiny home villages or community spaces that--
            (1) have a per unit cost of not more than $25,000, 
        including all necessary construction materials, labor, shared 
        infrastructure, dining, laundry, and sanitation facilities;
            (2) require residents to receive not less than 1 hour of 
        weekly case management; and
            (3) permit residents to bring and share their housing unit 
        with a partner, an assistance animal, or a pet.
    (d) Case Managers.--In hiring case managers to provide assistance 
to residents in the tiny home village or community space under this 
section, a public housing agency shall give priority to applications 
submitted by former residents.
    (e) Matching Funding.--A recipient of a grant under this section 
shall provide matching non-Federal funds in an amount equal to 50 
percent of the grant amount.
    (f) Authorization of Appropriations.--There is authorized to be 
appropriated to carry out this section $100,000,000 for each of fiscal 
years 2022 through 2031.

SEC. 303. PERMANENT SUPPORTIVE HOUSING.

    (a) In General.--Out of funds in the Treasury not otherwise 
appropriated, there is appropriated to the Secretary $1,000,000,000 for 
each of fiscal years 2022 through 2031 to provide grants under title IV 
of the McKinney-Vento Homeless Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 11360 et seq.) 
to support permanent supportive housing, including capital costs, 
rental subsidies, and services.
    (b) Technical Assistance.--Of amounts appropriated under subsection 
(a), there shall be allocated to the Secretary $25,000,000 in each 
fiscal year for under-capacity jurisdictions to develop comprehensive 
whole-of-local government plans to build capacity for permanent 
supportive housing in a rural area, as defined in section 1282.1 of 
title 12, Code of Federal Regulations, or any successor regulation.
    (c) Equity Evaluation.--Of amounts appropriated under subsection 
(a), there shall be allocated to the Secretary $25,000,000 in each 
fiscal year for housing innovation research centers to evaluate access 
barriers impacting people of color within existing permanent supportive 
housing implementation criteria.

SEC. 304. NAVIGATION CENTER PILOT PROGRAM.

    (a) Establishment.--The Secretary shall establish a grant program 
to provide funding to State and local governments to create low-barrier 
navigation centers for individuals and families experiencing 
homelessness.
    (b) Use of Funds.--A low-barrier navigation center created by a 
grant recipient shall--
            (1) provide intensive management services, including 
        connections to health care, employment, legal aid, and 
        permanent housing, to individuals and families experiencing 
        homelessness; and
            (2) allow an individual or family experiencing homelessness 
        to stay at the center for not more than 90 continuous days per 
        180-day period.
    (c) Matching Funding.--A recipient of a grant under this section 
shall provide matching non-Federal funds in an amount equal to 100 
percent of the grant amount.
    (d) Authorization of Appropriations.--There is authorized to be 
appropriated to carry out this section--
            (1) $50,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2022 through 2026; 
        and
            (2) $100,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2027 through 
        2031.

             TITLE IV--HOUSING AND HOMELESSNESS INNOVATION

SEC. 401. HOUSING AND HOMELESSNESS INNOVATION RESEARCH CENTERS.

    (a) Establishment.--The Secretary shall establish not less than 1 
housing and homelessness innovation research center in each region of 
the Department of Housing and Urban Development.
    (b) Reports.--Each center established under subsection (a) shall, 
on an annual basis, submit a report to the Secretary and Congress that 
includes--
            (1) recommendations for changes to Federal policy 
        surrounding housing and homelessness; and
            (2) a study of best practices to preserve low- and middle-
        cost housing and expand low-cost housing options in the region 
        served by the center, including single room occupancy units, 
        manufactured housing, shelters, housing units under 400 square 
        feet, stacked flats, and accessory dwelling units.
    (c) Authorization of Appropriations.--There is authorized to be 
appropriated to carry out this section $100,000,000 for each of fiscal 
years 2022 through 2031.

                   TITLE V--EMERGENCY HOUSING PROGRAM

SEC. 501. DEFINITIONS.

    In this title:
            (1) Eligible individual.--The term ``eligible individual'' 
        means an individual renter or homeowner who--
                    (A) is, or is expected to be, unable to make 
                payments, correct a rental, mortgage, tax, or insurance 
                delinquency within a reasonable time, or resume full 
                rent of mortgage payments due to a reduction in the 
                income of the individual due to--
                            (i) involuntary loss of, or reduction in, 
                        the employment income of the individual or the 
                        self-employment income of the individual;
                            (ii) any similar loss or reduction in 
                        income experienced by any person who 
                        contributes to the income of the individual;
                            (iii) a significant reduction in the income 
                        of the household due to divorce or death; or
                            (iv) a significant increase in basic 
                        expenses of the individual or an immediate 
                        family member of the individual (including the 
                        spouse, child, parent, or immediate family 
                        member for whom the individual provides 
                        substantial care of financial assistance) due 
                        to--
                                    (I) an unexpected or significant 
                                increase in medical expenses;
                                    (II) an initiating event;
                                    (III) a personal or national 
                                economic crisis; or
                                    (IV) an unexpected increase in rent 
                                by the individual; and
                    (B) is not otherwise receiving housing counseling 
                provided by an organization approved by the Department 
                of Housing and Urban Development.
            (2) Initiating event.--The term ``initiating event'' 
        means--
                    (A) a major disaster declared by the President 
                under section 401 of the Robert T. Stafford Disaster 
                Relief and Emergency Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5170);
                    (B) an increase in State-wide unemployment of not 
                less than 8 percent for 2 consecutive months;
                    (C) an increase in State-wide unemployment of not 
                less than 10 percent for 2 consecutive months; or
                    (D) an emergency declaration issued by the 
                Secretary of Housing and Urban Development with respect 
                to a housing disaster emergency.

SEC. 502. EMERGENCY ASSISTANCE.

    (a) In General.--After the occurrence of an initiating event, the 
Secretary of Housing and Urban Development or the Secretary of the 
Treasury, as appropriate, shall use amounts appropriated under section 
503 to provide assistance to eligible individuals described in this 
section, provided that--
            (1) the Governor of a State submits to the Secretary of 
        Housing and Urban Development or the Secretary of the Treasury, 
        as appropriate, a request for assistance to be provided under 
        this section; and
            (2) half of the amount allocated for a State shall be 
        provided if the State is only experiencing an initiating event 
        described in section 501(2)(B), with the full amount provided 
        if the State experiences an initiating event described in 
        section 501(2)(C).
    (b) Emergency Assistance and Housing Counseling.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary of the Treasury shall, 
        through a program established by the Department of the Treasury 
        that is similar to the Emergency Rental Assistance Program 
        established under section 501 of division N of the Consolidated 
        Appropriations Act, 2021 (Public Law 116-133), provide--
                    (A) direct monthly rental or mortgage payment 
                assistance to eligible individuals for the duration of 
                the initiating event; and
                    (B) grants to nonprofit housing counseling 
                organizations to provide counseling to eligible 
                individuals with respect to--
                            (i) personal financial budgeting and 
                        personal debt management;
                            (ii) available community resources, 
                        including public assistance programs, rental 
                        assistance programs, credit assistance 
                        programs, food programs, and social services; 
                        and
                            (iii) employment training and placement.
            (2) Availability of housing counseling.--The Secretary of 
        the Treasury shall ensure that grants described in paragraph 
        (1)(B) are made available throughout the areas affected by the 
        initiating event, with priority given to areas that--
                    (A) are experiencing high rates of evictions, 
                foreclosures, or any other indicators of renter or 
                homeowner distress determined by the Secretary of the 
                Treasury to be appropriate; or
                    (B) are not already adequately served by housing 
                counseling organizations.
            (3) Authorization of appropriations.--There is authorized 
        to be appropriated $25,000,000, to remain available until 
        expended, to carry out this subsection.
    (c) National Housing Trust Fund.--Out of amounts appropriated under 
section 503, the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development may 
transfer not more than $10,000,000,000 to the Housing Trust Fund 
established under section 1338 of the Federal Housing Enterprises 
Financial Safety and Soundness Act of 1992 (12 U.S.C. 4568) to provide 
assistance described in such section 1338.
    (d) CDFI Fund.--Out of amounts appropriated under section 503, the 
Secretary of the Treasury may transfer not more than $10,000,000,000 to 
the Community Development Financial Institutions Fund established under 
section 104 of the Riegle Community Development and Regulatory 
Improvement Act of 1994 (12 U.S.C. 4703) to provide assistance 
described in section 108 of such Act (12 U.S.C. 4707).
    (e) Rural Housing Service.--Out of amounts appropriated under 
section 503, the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development may 
transfer not more than $10,000,000,000 to provide rental assistance 
redeterminations and supplemental rental assistance payments to 
residents of housing assisted under section 514 or 515 of the Housing 
Act of 1949 (42 U.S.C. 1484, 1485) who do not receive rental 
assistance.
    (f) Emergency Vouchers.--Out of amounts appropriated under section 
503, the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development may provide 
vouchers authorized under section 301 in an amount that is not more 
than $10,000,000,000.
    (g) Emergency Solutions Grants.--Out of amounts appropriated under 
section 503, the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development may 
transfer not more than $10,000,000,000 to provide assistance under the 
Emergency Solutions Grants program under subtitle B of title IV of the 
McKinney-Vento Homeless Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 11371 et seq.) for 
uses authorized under that program and for non-congregate shelters, 
including shelters designed with a multi-year life expectancy.
    (h) CDBG-Disaster Recovery.--
            (1) In general.--Out of amounts appropriated under section 
        503, the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development may 
        transfer not more than $50,000,000,000 to the community 
        development block grant disaster recovery program established 
        under title I of the Housing and Community Development Act of 
        1974 (42 U.S.C. 5301 et seq.) to provide assistance relating to 
        the initiating event.
            (2) Priority.--In providing assistance under paragraph (1), 
        the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development shall--
                    (A) establish primary priority for preserving, 
                rehabilitating, or rebuilding housing units (including 
                non-titled manufactured housing), providing short-term 
                bridge lending for property acquisitions, and funding 
                public utility and infrastructure projects serving 
                residents below 30 percent of the area median income; 
                and
                    (B) establish secondary priority for preserving, 
                rehabilitating, or rebuilding housing units (including 
                non-titled manufactured housing), providing short-term 
                bridge lending for property acquisitions, and funding 
                public utility and infrastructure projects serving 
                residents below 60 percent of the area median income.
    (i) Disbursement of Amounts.--

SEC. 503. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.

    (a) In General.--There is authorized to be appropriated to the 
Secretary of Housing and Urban Development and the Secretary of the 
Treasury such sums as may be necessary to carry out this title, to 
remain available until expended.
    (b) Administrative Costs.--Not more than 10 percent of amounts 
appropriated under subsection (a) may be used for administrative costs 
related to carrying out this title.
                                 &lt;all&gt;
</pre></body></html>
