<html><body><pre>
[Congressional Bills 115th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[S. 987 Introduced in Senate (IS)]

&lt;DOC&gt;






115th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                 S. 987

 To transition away from fossil fuel sources of energy to 100 percent 
      clean and renewable energy by 2050, and for other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                   IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

                             April 27, 2017

  Mr. Merkley (for himself, Mr. Sanders, Mr. Markey, and Mr. Booker) 
introduced the following bill; which was read twice and referred to the 
                          Committee on Finance

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
 To transition away from fossil fuel sources of energy to 100 percent 
      clean and renewable energy by 2050, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE; TABLE OF CONTENTS.

    (a) Short Title.--This Act may be cited as the ``100 by '50 Act''.
    (b) Table of Contents.--The table of contents of this Act is as 
follows:

Sec. 1. Short title; table of contents.
Sec. 2. Findings; purposes; statement of policy.
Sec. 3. Definitions.
              TITLE I--CLEAN AND RENEWABLE ENERGY FOR ALL

Sec. 101. Making public transportation affordable and accessible.
Sec. 102. Making solar energy affordable and accessible to low-income 
                            and disadvantaged families.
Sec. 103. Making energy efficiency retrofits affordable and accessible 
                            to low-income and disadvantaged families.
Sec. 104. Making electricity affordable for low income and 
                            disadvantaged families.
Sec. 105. Increasing sustainable community development capacity.
Sec. 106. Training workers for jobs in clean energy.
Sec. 107. Requirements for apprenticeship programs and employment of 
                            targeted workers.
                 TITLE II--JUST TRANSITION FOR WORKERS

Sec. 201. Short title.
Sec. 202. Definitions.
               Subtitle A--Adjustment Assistance Program

                      Part I--Group Certification

Sec. 211. Petitions.
Sec. 212. Group eligibility requirements.
Sec. 213. Determinations and certifications.
Sec. 214. Subpoena power.
Sec. 215. Judicial review.
      Part II--Individual Applications; Termination of Assistance

Sec. 221. Adjustment assistance.
Sec. 222. Termination of adjustment assistance.
          Part III--Federally Funded Unemployment Compensation

Sec. 231. Temporary additional unemployment compensation program for 
                            certain adversely affected workers.
Sec. 232. Permanent State requirement for the provision of additional 
                            unemployment compensation for certain 
                            adversely affected workers.
                  Part IV--Other Benefits and Services

Sec. 241. Eligibility for premium subsidy credit and cost sharing 
                            benefits for health insurance.
Sec. 242. Training and support for employment.
Sec. 243. Additional pensions benefits.
                            Part V--Funding

Sec. 251. Establishment of Clean Energy Workers Trust Fund.
Sec. 252. Modifications to rules relating to inverted corporations.
                   Part VI--Miscellaneous Provisions

Sec. 261. Credit for hiring unemployed certified adversely affected 
                            workers.
Sec. 262. Enforcement.
Sec. 263. Benefit information to workers.
Sec. 264. Amendment to Surface Mining Control and Reclamation Act of 
                            1977.
Sec. 265. Regulations.
                  Subtitle B--Workplace Democracy Act

Sec. 271. Short title.
Sec. 272. Streamlining certification for labor organizations.
Sec. 273. Facilitating initial collective bargaining agreements.
Subtitle C--Community Need-Based Economic Transition Assistance Program

Sec. 281. Community need-based economic transition assistance program.
Sec. 282. Economic development grant programs.
Sec. 283. Need-based water, broadband, and electric grid infrastructure 
                            investment program.
                      TITLE III--GREENING THE GRID

                    Subtitle A--Fossil Fuel Phaseout

Sec. 301. Fossil fuel phaseout.
                 Subtitle B--Enhancing Grid Reliability

Sec. 311. Enhancing grid reliability.
        Subtitle C--Making Clean and Renewable Energy Affordable

Part I--Reducing Carbon Pollution and Creating Jobs by Transitioning to 
                       Sustainable Energy Sources

Sec. 321. Extension and modification of credits with respect to 
                            facilities producing energy from certain 
                            renewable resources.
Sec. 322. Extension and modification of energy credit.
Sec. 323. Permanent extension of qualifying advanced energy project 
                            credit.
Sec. 324. Promoting access to renewable energy and energy efficiency 
                            for tax-exempt organizations.
  Part II--Saving Consumers and Businesses Money by Promoting Energy 
                               Efficiency

Sec. 326. Permanent extension of energy efficient commercial buildings 
                            deduction.
Sec. 327. Permanent extension of new energy efficient home credit.
Sec. 328. Permanent extension and refundability of credit for 
                            nonbusiness energy property.
Sec. 329. Permanent extension, modification, and refundability of 
                            credit for residential energy efficient 
                            property.
               TITLE IV--ELECTRIFYING THE ENERGY ECONOMY

                     Subtitle A--General Provisions

Sec. 401. National zero-emission vehicle standard.
Sec. 402. Carbon fee for aviation, maritime transportation, and rail.
Sec. 403. Accelerating the deployment of zero-emission vehicles in 
                            communities.
Sec. 404. Accelerating the deployment of zero-emission vehicle fleets.
Sec. 405. Decarbonizing America's highways.
Sec. 406. Accelerating the deployment of zero-emission aviation, rail, 
                            and maritime transportation.
Sec. 407. Accelerating the deployment of zero-emission residential and 
                            commercial heating.
             Subtitle B--Helping Americans Move Beyond Oil

Sec. 411. Permanent extension, increase, and refundability of credit 
                            for qualified new plug in electric drive 
                            motor vehicles.
Sec. 412. Permanent extension of credit for hybrid medium- and heavy-
                            duty trucks.
Sec. 413. Extension of second generation biofuel producer credit.
Sec. 414. Extension of special allowance for second generation biofuel 
                            plant property.
Sec. 415. Extension and modification of the alternative fuel vehicle 
                            refueling property credit.
              TITLE V--ENDING NEW FOSSIL FUEL INVESTMENTS

             Subtitle A--Ending New Fossil Fuel Investments

Sec. 501. Moratorium on new major fossil fuel projects.
Sec. 502. Ending fossil fuel subsidies.
                Subtitle B--Ending Fossil Fuel Subsidies

Sec. 511. Termination of various tax expenditures relating to fossil 
                            fuels.
Sec. 512. Uniform 7-year amortization for geological and geophysical 
                            expenditures.
Sec. 513. Natural gas gathering lines treated as 15-year property.
Sec. 514. Repeal of domestic manufacturing deduction for hard mineral 
                            mining.
Sec. 515. Limitation on deduction for income attributable to domestic 
                            production of oil, natural gas, or primary 
                            products thereof.
Sec. 516. Termination of last-in, first-out method of inventory for 
                            oil, natural gas, and coal companies.
Sec. 517. Repeal of percentage depletion for coal and hard mineral 
                            fossil fuels.
Sec. 518. Termination of capital gains treatment for royalties from 
                            coal.
Sec. 519. Modifications of foreign tax credit rules applicable to oil, 
                            natural gas, and coal companies which are 
                            dual capacity taxpayers.
Sec. 520. Increase in Oil Spill Liability Trust Fund financing rate.
Sec. 521. Application of certain environmental taxes to synthetic crude 
                            oil.
Sec. 522. Denial of deduction for removal costs and damages for certain 
                            oil spills.
Sec. 523. Tax on crude oil and natural gas produced from the outer 
                            Continental Shelf in the Gulf of Mexico.
Sec. 524. Repeal of corporate income tax exemption for publicly traded 
                            partnerships with qualifying income and 
                            gains from activities relating to fossil 
                            fuels.
             TITLE VI--MAINTAINING AMERICAN COMPETITIVENESS

Sec. 601. Purposes; definitions.
Sec. 602. Leveling playing field for domestic manufacturers.
Sec. 603. Making American manufacturing energy efficient.
                TITLE VII--MOBILIZING AMERICAN RESOURCES

Sec. 701. National Climate Change Council.
Sec. 702. Climate Fund; climate bonds.
Sec. 703. Accelerating 100 percent locally.
Sec. 704. Climate justice resiliency.
                       TITLE VIII--MISCELLANEOUS

Sec. 801. Tax amendments review.

SEC. 2. FINDINGS; PURPOSES; STATEMENT OF POLICY.

    (a) Findings.--Congress finds that--
            (1) from 1880 through 2015, global temperatures have 
        increased by about 1.06 degrees Celsius;
            (2) the vast majority of global warming that has occurred 
        over the 50-year period ending on the date of enactment of this 
        Act was due to human activities, primarily the burning of 
        fossil fuels;
            (3) emissions of greenhouse gases and atmospheric 
        concentrations of greenhouse gases continue to rise, which 
        results in a continued warming trend;
            (4) global warming already has a significant impact on the 
        economy, including the farming, fishing, forestry, and 
        recreation industries;
            (5) the significant impacts of global warming that are 
        already occurring will be amplified by a global temperature 
        increases, resulting in increased droughts, rising seas, mass 
        extinctions, heat waves, desertification, wildfires, acidifying 
        oceans, significant economic disruption, and security threats;
            (6) low-income communities, communities of color, 
        indigenous communities and other environmental justice 
        communities in the United States are inordinately exposed to 
        pollution from fossil fuels, and climate impacts will be 
        disproportionately felt by those communities;
            (7) the world is facing a climate emergency;
            (8) people in States and local communities across the 
        United States are engaging in and winning the fight to mobilize 
        to solve the climate crisis; and
            (9) the Federal Government has thus far failed to 
        adequately address the climate crisis.
    (b) Purposes.--The purposes of this Act are--
            (1) to reduce, in conjunction with other laws and policies, 
        emissions of carbon pollution to ensure that the contribution 
        of the United States to global climate change is lower than the 
        level required to keep global average temperature increases 
        below dangerous levels;
            (2) to implement solutions that acknowledge the 
        intersections of environmental degradation that perpetuate 
        racial, social, and economic inequities;
            (3) to protect the lives of low-income and disadvantaged 
        communities and invest in those communities;
            (4) to empower communities to prepare for, and react to, 
        the impacts of climate change that are already being 
        experienced;
            (5) to demonstrate to the international community a 
        commitment by the Federal Government to aggressively reduce 
        carbon pollution;
            (6) to create jobs for all individuals, especially in 
        communities with high rates of unemployment or underemployment, 
        and build a sustainable economy; and
            (7) to ensure universal access to clean and renewable 
        energy for all homes and businesses in the United States.
    (c) Statement of Policy.--It is the policy of the United States 
that--
            (1) the United States should aggressively reduce carbon 
        pollution as rapidly as practicable, and achieve 100 percent 
        clean and renewable energy not later than 2050; and
            (2) the Federal Government should do everything in its 
        power--
                    (A) to protect public health and environment;
                    (B) to avoid the most dangerous impacts of climate 
                change; and
                    (C) to promote a rapid, just, and equitable 
                transition to a clean energy economy.

SEC. 3. DEFINITIONS.

    In this Act:
            (1) Administrator.--The term ``Administrator'' means the 
        Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency.
            (2) Climate fund.--The term ``Climate Fund'' means the 
        Climate Fund established by section 702(a).
            (3) Council.--The term ``Council'' means the National 
        Climate Change Council established by section 701(b).
            (4) Disadvantaged community.--
                    (A) In general.--The term ``disadvantaged 
                community'' means a community that is disadvantaged 
                based on geographic, public health, environmental 
                hazard, or socioeconomic criteria.
                    (B) Inclusions.--The term ``disadvantaged 
                community'' includes--
                            (i) an area burdened by cumulative 
                        environmental pollution or other hazard that 
                        can lead to a negative public health effect;
                            (ii) an area with a concentration of people 
                        that--
                                    (I) are low-income;
                                    (II) have high unemployment;
                                    (III) have a high rent burden;
                                    (IV) have a low level of home 
                                ownership;
                                    (V) have a low level of educational 
                                attainment; or
                                    (VI) are members of groups that 
                                have historically experienced 
                                discrimination on the basis of race or 
                                ethnicity; and
                            (iii) an area that is vulnerable to the 
                        impact of climate change such as flooding, 
                        storm surges, and urban heat island effects.
            (5) Indian tribe.--The term ``Indian tribe'' has the 
        meaning given the term in section 4 of the Indian Self-
        Determination and Education Assistance Act (25 U.S.C. 5304).
            (6) Low-income community.--The term ``low-income 
        community'' means a census or tribal block group in which not 
        less than 50 percent of households have an annual income that 
        is less than 80 percent of the greater of--
                    (A) the annual median gross income for the area in 
                which the census or tribal block group is located; and
                    (B) the annual median gross income for the State in 
                which the census or tribal block group is located.
            (7) Rail.--
                    (A) In general.--The term ``rail'' means any entity 
                transporting goods or passengers operating on the 
                general railroad system of transportation (as defined 
                in Appendix A of part A of title 49, Code of Federal 
                Regulations (or successor regulations)).
                    (B) Exclusion.--The term ``rail'' does not include 
                rapid transit operations in an urban area not connected 
                to the general railroad system of transportation (as 
                defined in Appendix A of part 209 of title 49, Code of 
                Federal Regulations (or successor regulations)).
            (8) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary 
        of Energy.
            (9) State.--The term ``State'' means--
                    (A) a State;
                    (B) the District of Columbia;
                    (C) the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico; and
                    (D) any other territory or possession of the United 
                States.
            (10) Zero-emission vehicle.--The term ``zero-emission 
        vehicle'' means a vehicle that produces zero exhaust emissions 
        of any criteria pollutant, precursor pollutant, or greenhouse 
        gas in any mode of operation or condition, as determined by the 
        Administrator.

              TITLE I--CLEAN AND RENEWABLE ENERGY FOR ALL

SEC. 101. MAKING PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION AFFORDABLE AND ACCESSIBLE.

    (a) Establishment.--The Secretary shall establish a zero-emission 
vehicle-based public transportation program (referred to in this 
section as the ``Program'').
    (b) Goals.--The goals of the Program are--
            (1) to facilitate affordable and accessible zero-emission 
        vehicle-based public transportation;
            (2) to establish regionally appropriate, interoperable 
        models for zero-emission vehicle-based public transportation in 
        diverse communities throughout the United States;
            (3) to encourage the innovation and investment necessary to 
        achieve mass market modes of zero-emission vehicle-based public 
        transportation; and
            (4) to reduce and displace fossil fuel use and reduce 
        greenhouse gas emissions by accelerating the deployment of 
        zero-emission vehicle-based public transportation in the United 
        States.
    (c) Competitive Grants.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary shall establish a 
        competitive process to select communities for the Program to 
        receive grants.
            (2) Community selection criteria.--Not later than 150 days 
        after the date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall 
        publish a set of selection criteria for the grants competition 
        that--
                    (A) shall prioritize communities that demonstrate 
                affordable modes of access to zero-emission vehicle-
                based public transportation for disadvantaged 
                communities;
                    (B) shall ensure, to the maximum extent 
                practicable, that--
                            (i) the combination of selected communities 
                        is diverse in population, population density, 
                        demographics, urban and suburban composition, 
                        typical commuting patterns, and climate;
                            (ii) at least 1 community selected has a 
                        population of less than 500,000; and
                            (iii) grants are of a sufficient amount 
                        such that each community will be able to 
                        provide broadly accessible zero-emission 
                        vehicle-based public transportation throughout 
                        the community;
                    (C) may give preference to applicants proposing a 
                greater non-Federal cost share; and
                    (D) in considering community plans, shall take into 
                account previous Department of Energy and other Federal 
                investments to ensure that the maximum domestic benefit 
                from Federal investments is realized.
            (3) Applications.--
                    (A) In general.--Not later than 150 days after the 
                date of publication by the Secretary of selection 
                criteria described in paragraph (2), any State, tribal, 
                or local government, or group of State, tribal, or 
                local governments may apply to the Secretary to receive 
                a grant under this subsection.
                    (B) Joint sponsorship.--
                            (i) In general.--An application submitted 
                        under subparagraph (A) may be jointly sponsored 
                        by electric utilities, automobile 
                        manufacturers, technology providers, carsharing 
                        companies or organizations, third-party zero-
                        emission vehicle service providers, 
                        nongovernmental organizations, or other 
                        appropriate entities.
                            (ii) Disbursement of grants.--A grant 
                        provided under this subsection shall only be 
                        disbursed to a State, tribal, or local 
                        government, or group of State, tribal, or local 
                        governments, regardless of whether the 
                        application is jointly sponsored under clause 
                        (i).
            (4) Selection.--Not later than 120 days after an 
        application deadline has been established under subparagraph 
        (A), the Secretary shall announce the names of the communities 
        selected under this subsection.
            (5) Community plans.--Plans for the deployment of zero-
        emission vehicle-based public transportation shall include--
                    (A) a proposed level of cost sharing;
                    (B) documentation demonstrating a project involving 
                relevant stakeholders, including--
                            (i) a list of stakeholders that includes--
                                    (I) elected and appointed officials 
                                from each of the participating State, 
                                local, and tribal governments;
                                    (II) all relevant generators and 
                                distributors of electricity;
                                    (III) State utility regulatory 
                                authorities;
                                    (IV) departments of public works 
                                and transportation;
                                    (V) as appropriate, owners and 
                                operators of regional electric power 
                                distribution and transmission 
                                facilities; and
                                    (VI) as appropriate, other existing 
                                community coalitions recognized by the 
                                Department of Energy;
                            (ii) evidence of the commitment of the 
                        stakeholders to participate in the project;
                            (iii) a clear description of the role and 
                        responsibilities of each stakeholder; and
                            (iv) a plan for continuing the engagement 
                        and participation of the stakeholders, as 
                        appropriate, throughout the implementation of 
                        the deployment plan;
                    (C) descriptions of incentives for economically 
                disadvantaged residents in the community to ensure 
                affordable access to zero-emission vehicle-based public 
                transportation, in addition to any Federal incentives;
                    (D) a timeline for the deployment of zero-emission 
                vehicle-based public transportation;
                    (E) a plan for monitoring and evaluating the 
                implementation of the plan, including metrics for 
                assessing the success of the deployment and an approach 
                to updating the plan, as appropriate; and
                    (F) a description of the manner in which any grant 
                funds applied for under paragraph (3) will be used and 
                the proposed local cost share for the funds.
    (d) Funding.--The Secretary shall use to carry out this section not 
more than $30,000,000,000 for each fiscal year from the Climate Fund.

SEC. 102. MAKING SOLAR ENERGY AFFORDABLE AND ACCESSIBLE TO LOW-INCOME 
              AND DISADVANTAGED FAMILIES.

    (a) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Administrative expense.--The term ``administrative 
        expense'' has the meaning given the term by the Secretary.
            (2) Community solar facility.--The term ``community solar 
        facility'' means a community-based distributed photovoltaic 
        solar electricity generating facility that, as determined by 
        the Secretary--
                    (A) is owned by a subscriber organization;
                    (B) has a nameplate rating of 2 megawatts or less;
                    (C) is located in or near a community of 
                subscribers to whom the beneficial use of the 
                electricity generated by the facility belongs; and
                    (D) reserves not less than 25 percent of the 
                quantity of electricity generated by the facility for 
                households in low-income communities and disadvantaged 
                communities that are subscribers to the facility.
            (3) Eligible entity.--
                    (A) In general.--The term ``eligible entity'' 
                means--
                            (i) a low-income household;
                            (ii) a household in a disadvantaged 
                        community;
                            (iii) a unit of State, territorial, or 
                        local government;
                            (iv) an Indian tribe;
                            (v) a Native Hawaiian community-based 
                        organization;
                            (vi) a rural area (as defined in section 
                        343(a) of the Consolidated Farm and Rural 
                        Development Act (7 U.S.C. 1991(a))); and
                            (vii) any other national or regional entity 
                        that--
                                    (I) deploys a safe, high-quality 
                                photovoltaic solar electricity 
                                generating facility for consumers under 
                                a model that maximizes energy savings 
                                to those consumers; and
                                    (II) has experience, as determined 
                                by the Secretary, in the installation 
                                of solar systems using a job training 
                                or community volunteer-based 
                                installation model.
                    (B) Loan program.--With respect to a loan provided 
                under this section, the term ``eligible entity'' 
                means--
                            (i) an entity described in clauses (i) 
                        through (vi) of subparagraph (A); and
                            (ii) a private entity that--
                                    (I) deploys a safe, high-quality 
                                photovoltaic solar electricity 
                                generating facility for consumers under 
                                a model that maximizes energy savings 
                                to those consumers; and
                                    (II) will install solar systems 
                                using a job training installation 
                                model.
            (4) Grant-eligible household.--The term ``grant-eligible 
        household'' means a household the members of which--
                    (A) earn an income equal to 80 percent or less of 
                the applicable area median income, as defined for the 
                applicable year by the Secretary of Housing and Urban 
                Development; and
                    (B) reside in an owner-occupied home.
            (5) Low-income household.--The term ``low-income 
        household'' means a household with an income equal to 80 
        percent or less of the applicable area median income, as 
        defined for the applicable year by the Secretary of Housing and 
        Urban Development.
            (6) Multi-family affordable housing.--The term ``multi-
        family affordable housing'' means any federally subsidized 
        affordable housing complex in which not less than 50 percent of 
        the units are reserved for low-income households and households 
        in disadvantaged communities.
            (7) Native hawaiian community-based organization.--The term 
        ``Native Hawaiian community-based organization'' means any 
        organization that is composed primarily of Native Hawaiians 
        from a specific community and that assists in the social, 
        cultural, and educational development of Native Hawaiians in 
        that community.
            (8) Photovoltaic solar electricity generating facility.--
        The term ``photovoltaic solar electricity generating facility'' 
        means--
                    (A) a generator that creates electricity from light 
                photons; and
                    (B) the accompanying hardware enabling that 
                electricity to flow--
                            (i) onto the electric grid; or
                            (ii) into an energy storage device.
            (9) Subscriber.--The term ``subscriber'' means an 
        electricity consumer who--
                    (A) owns a subscription, or an equivalent unit or 
                share of the capacity or generation, of a community 
                solar facility;
                    (B) has identified 1 or more physical locations--
                            (i) to which the subscription will be 
                        attributed;
                            (ii) within the same electric utility 
                        service territory, or within the same 
                        geographical area, as the community solar 
                        facility, in accordance with applicable State 
                        and local law; and
                            (iii) that may change from time to time, 
                        subject to the condition that the physical 
                        location shall be within the geographical 
                        limits allowed for a subscriber of the 
                        applicable community solar facility; and
                    (C) confirms the status of the consumer as a low-
                income household, or a household in a disadvantaged 
                community, for each applicable fiscal year.
            (10) Subscription.--The term ``subscription'' means a share 
        in the capacity, or a proportional interest in the solar 
        electricity generation, of a community solar facility.
            (11) Underserved area.--The term ``underserved area'' 
        means--
                    (A) a geographical area with low or no photovoltaic 
                solar deployment, as determined by the Secretary; or
                    (B) trust land, as defined in section 3765 of title 
                38, United States Code.
    (b) Establishment of Loan and Grant Program.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary shall establish a program 
        under which the Secretary shall provide loans and grants to 
        eligible entities for use in accordance with this section.
            (2) Funding.--
                    (A) In general.--Subject to the availability of 
                appropriations, the Secretary shall make grants and 
                issue loans in accordance with this subsection.
                    (B) Loans.--Subject to subparagraph (D), not more 
                than 50 percent of funds made available under 
                subparagraph (A) for a fiscal year shall be used to 
                provide loans to eligible entities for--
                            (i) community solar facilities; or
                            (ii) multi-family affordable housing solar 
                        installations.
                    (C) Grants.--After allocating amounts to carry out 
                subparagraph (B), the Secretary shall use the remaining 
                funds made available under subparagraph (A) for a 
                fiscal year to provide grants to eligible entities--
                            (i) to pay the upfront costs of 
                        photovoltaic solar electricity generating 
                        facilities installed on properties of grant-
                        eligible households; or
                            (ii) for any other eligible use described 
                        in subsection (e).
                    (D) Increase in loan amount.--Notwithstanding 
                subparagraph (B), if the Secretary determines that more 
                than 50 percent of the amounts described in that 
                subparagraph are necessary for any of fiscal years 2018 
                through 2050 to provide loans to encourage innovative 
                financing and installation models to reach underserved 
                markets, the Secretary may use more than 50 percent of 
                those amounts to provide those loans.
            (3) Goals and accountability.--
                    (A) In general.--In providing loans and grants 
                under this subsection, the Secretary shall take such 
                actions as may be necessary to ensure that--
                            (i) the assistance provided under this 
                        subsection is used to facilitate and encourage 
                        innovative solar installation and financing 
                        models, under which the recipients develop and 
                        install photovoltaic solar electricity 
                        generating facilities that provide significant 
                        savings to low-income households and households 
                        in disadvantaged communities while providing 
                        job training or community engagement 
                        opportunities with respect to each solar system 
                        installed;
                            (ii) loan and grant recipients--
                                    (I) install not less than 600 
                                kilowatts of photovoltaic solar energy 
                                during the 2-year period ending on the 
                                date on which the loan or grant is 
                                provided to ensure consumer protection; 
                                or
                                    (II) before the date on which the 
                                goal described in subclause (I) is 
                                achieved, enter into partnership with 
                                an entity that--
                                            (aa) has not less than 2 
                                        years of experience deploying 
                                        solar photovoltaic systems for 
                                        low-income households and 
                                        households in disadvantaged 
                                        communities in a manner that 
                                        maximizes the savings benefits 
                                        of solar access; and
                                            (bb) was primarily 
                                        responsible for the 
                                        installation of at least 2 
                                        megawatts of solar energy 
                                        during the 2-year period ending 
                                        on the date on which the loan 
                                        or grant is provided;
                            (iii) the photovoltaic solar electricity 
                        generating facilities installed using 
                        assistance provided under this subsection are 
                        safe, high-quality systems that comply with 
                        local building and safety codes and standards;
                            (iv) the provision of assistance under this 
                        subsection establishes and fosters a 
                        partnership between the Federal Government and 
                        eligible entities, resulting in efficient 
                        development of solar installations with--
                                    (I) minimal governmental 
                                intervention;
                                    (II) limited governmental 
                                regulation; and
                                    (III) significant involvement by 
                                nonprofit and private entities;
                            (v) solar projects installed using 
                        assistance provided under this subsection--
                                    (I) shall include job training; and
                                    (II) may include community 
                                participation in which job trainees and 
                                volunteers assist in the development of 
                                solar projects;
                            (vi) assistance provided under this 
                        subsection gives priority to development in--
                                    (I) areas with low photovoltaic 
                                penetration;
                                    (II) rural areas;
                                    (III) Indian tribal areas; and
                                    (IV) other underserved areas, 
                                including Alaskan Native and 
                                Appalachian communities;
                            (vii) solar systems are developed using 
                        assistance provided under this subsection on a 
                        geographically diverse basis among the eligible 
                        entities; and
                            (viii) to the maximum extent practicable, 
                        solar installation activities for which 
                        assistance is provided under this section 
                        leverage, or connect grant-eligible households 
                        to, federally or locally subsidized 
                        weatherization and energy efficiency efforts 
                        that meet or exceed local energy efficiency 
                        standards.
                    (B) Determination.--If, at any time, the Secretary 
                determines that any goal described in subparagraph (A) 
                cannot be met by providing assistance in accordance 
                with this subsection, the Secretary shall immediately 
                submit to the appropriate committees of Congress a 
                written notice of that determination, including any 
                proposed changes necessary to achieve the goal.
            (4) Community solar facilities.--
                    (A) In general.--A community solar facility may use 
                a loan provided under this subsection only to offset 
                the costs of generation and provision of solar energy 
                to low-income households, and households in 
                disadvantaged communities, that are subscribers of the 
                community solar facility.
                    (B) Transfer and assignment of subscriptions.--A 
                subscription to a community solar facility that 
                receives assistance under this subsection may be 
                transferred or assigned by the subscriber to--
                            (i) any subscriber organization; or
                            (ii) any individual or entity who qualifies 
                        to be a subscriber to that community solar 
                        facility.
                    (C) Treatment.--
                            (i) In general.--No owner, operator, or 
                        subscriber of a community solar facility that 
                        receives assistance under this subsection shall 
                        be subject to regulation by the Federal Energy 
                        Regulatory Commission solely as a result of an 
                        interest in the community solar facility.
                            (ii) Price of subscription.--The price paid 
                        for any subscription to a community solar 
                        facility shall not be subject to the regulation 
                        of any Federal department, agency, or 
                        commission.
    (c) National Competition.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary shall select eligible 
        entities to receive loans or grants under this section through 
        a nationwide competitive process, to be established by the 
        Secretary.
            (2) Applications.--To be eligible to receive a loan or 
        grant under this section, an eligible entity shall submit to 
        the Secretary an application at such time, in such manner, and 
        containing such information as the Secretary may require.
            (3) Requirements.--In selecting eligible entities to 
        receive loans or grants under this section, the Secretary 
        shall, at a minimum--
                    (A) require that the eligible entity--
                            (i) enter into a grant or loan agreement, 
                        as applicable, under subsection (d); and
                            (ii) has obtained financial commitments (or 
                        has demonstrated the capacity to obtain 
                        financial commitments) necessary to comply with 
                        that agreement;
                    (B) ensure that loans and grants are provided, and 
                amounts are used, in a manner that results in 
                geographical diversity throughout the United States and 
                within States, territories, and Indian tribal land 
                among photovoltaic solar electricity generating 
                facilities installed using the assistance provided 
                under this section;
                    (C) to the maximum extent practicable, expand 
                photovoltaic solar energy availability to--
                            (i) geographical areas, throughout the 
                        United States and within States, territories, 
                        and Indian tribal land, with--
                                    (I) low photovoltaic solar 
                                penetration; or
                                    (II) a higher cost burden with 
                                respect to the deployment or 
                                installation of photovoltaic solar 
                                electricity generating facilities;
                            (ii) rural communities;
                            (iii) Indian tribes; and
                            (iv) other underserved areas, including 
                        Appalachian and Alaska Native communities;
                    (D) take into account the warranty period and 
                quality of the applicable photovoltaic solar 
                electricity generating facility equipment and any 
                necessary interconnecting equipment; and
                    (E) ensure that all calculations for estimated 
                household energy savings are based solely on 
                electricity offsets from the photovoltaic solar 
                electricity generating facilities.
    (d) Loan and Grant Agreements.--
            (1) In general.--As a condition of receiving a loan or 
        grant under this section, an eligible entity shall enter into a 
        loan or grant agreement, as applicable, with the Secretary.
            (2) Requirements.--A loan or grant agreement under this 
        subsection shall--
                    (A) require the eligible entity--
                            (i) to use the assistance provided under 
                        this section only in accordance with this 
                        section;
                            (ii) to install such quantity of solar 
                        systems with such defined capacity target 
                        (expressed in megawatts) as may be established 
                        by the Secretary, taking into consideration the 
                        costs associated with carrying out loan or 
                        grant obligations in the areas in which the 
                        solar systems will be developed;
                            (iii) to use the assistance in a manner 
                        that leverages other sources of funding (other 
                        than loans or grants under this section), 
                        including private or public funds, in 
                        developing the solar projects; and
                            (iv) to establish loan terms, if 
                        applicable, that maximize the benefit to the 
                        low-income households, and households in 
                        disadvantaged communities, receiving solar 
                        energy from the eligible entity;
                    (B) require the Secretary to rescind any amounts 
                provided to the eligible entity that are not used 
                during the 2-year period beginning on the date on which 
                the amounts are initially distributed to the eligible 
                entity, except in any case in which the eligible entity 
                has demonstrated to the satisfaction of the Secretary 
                that a longer period, not to exceed 3 years after the 
                date of initial distribution, is necessary to deliver 
                proposed services;
                    (C) with respect to a loan provided under this 
                section, establish--
                            (i) an interest rate equal to the cost of 
                        funds to the Department of the Treasury for 
                        obligations of comparable maturity to the loan 
                        as of the date on which the loan agreement is 
                        entered into; and
                            (ii) a payout time that maximizes the 
                        savings to customers during the effective 
                        period of the agreement; and
                    (D) contain such other terms as the Secretary may 
                require to ensure compliance with the requirements of 
                this section.
    (e) Use.--An eligible entity shall use a loan or grant provided 
under this section for the purpose of developing new photovoltaic solar 
projects in the United States for low-income households, households in 
disadvantaged communities, and individuals who otherwise would likely 
be unable to afford or purchase photovoltaic solar systems through 1 or 
more of the following activities:
            (1) Photovoltaic solar equipment and installation.--To pay 
        the costs of--
                    (A) solar equipment, including only photovoltaic 
                solar equipment and storage and all hardware or 
                software components relating to safely producing, 
                monitoring, and connecting the system to the electric 
                grid or onsite storage; and
                    (B) installation, including all direct labor 
                associated with installing the photovoltaic solar 
                equipment.
            (2) Job training.--To fund onsite job training and 
        community or volunteer engagement, including--
                    (A) only job training costs directly associated 
                with the solar projects funded under this section; and
                    (B) job training opportunities that may cover the 
                full range of the solar value chain, such as marketing 
                and outreach, customer acquisition, system design, and 
                installation positions.
            (3) Deployment support.--To fund entities that have a 
        demonstrated ability, as determined by the Secretary--
                    (A) to advise State and local entities regarding 
                solar policy, regulatory, and program design to 
                continue and expand the work of the entities in low-
                income communities and disadvantaged communities;
                    (B) to foster community outreach and education 
                regarding the benefits of photovoltaic solar energy for 
                low-income communities and disadvantaged communities; 
                or
                    (C) to provide apprenticeship program opportunities 
                registered and approved by--
                            (i) the Office of Apprenticeship of the 
                        Department of Labor pursuant to part 29 of 
                        title 29, Code of Federal Regulations (or 
                        successor regulations); or
                            (ii) a State Apprenticeship Agency 
                        recognized by that Office.
            (4) Administration.--To pay the administrative expenses of 
        the eligible entity, including preproject feasibility efforts, 
        in carrying out the duties of the Secretary associated with 
        delivering proposed services, except that not more than 15 
        percent of the total amount of the assistance provided to the 
        eligible entity under this section may be used for 
        administrative expenses.
    (f) Compliance.--
            (1) Records and audits.--During the period beginning on the 
        date of initial distribution to an eligible entity of a loan or 
        grant under this section and ending on the termination date of 
        the loan or grant under subsection (g), the eligible entity 
        shall maintain such records and adopt such administrative 
        practices as the Secretary may require to ensure compliance 
        with the requirements of this section and the applicable loan 
        or grant agreement.
            (2) Determination by secretary.--If the Secretary 
        determines that an eligible entity that receives a grant or 
        loan under this section has not, during the 2-year period 
        beginning on the date of initial distribution to the eligible 
        entity of the assistance (or such longer period as is 
        established under subsection (d)(2)(B)), substantially 
        fulfilled the obligations of the eligible entity under the 
        applicable loan or grant agreement, the Secretary shall--
                    (A) rescind the balance of any funds distributed 
                to, but not used by, the eligible entity under this 
                section; and
                    (B) use those amounts to provide other loans or 
                grants in accordance with this section.
    (g) Termination.--The Secretary shall terminate a loan or grant 
provided under this section on the date on which the Secretary makes a 
determination that the total amount of the loan or grant (excluding any 
interest, fees, and other earnings of the loan or grant) has been--
            (1) fully expended by the eligible entity; or
            (2) returned to the Secretary.
    (h) Regulations.--Not later than 90 days after the date of 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall promulgate such regulations 
as the Secretary determines to be necessary to carry out this section, 
to take effect on the date of promulgation.
    (i) Funding.--The Secretary shall use to carry out this section not 
more than $10,000,000,000 for each fiscal year from the Climate Fund.

SEC. 103. MAKING ENERGY EFFICIENCY RETROFITS AFFORDABLE AND ACCESSIBLE 
              TO LOW-INCOME AND DISADVANTAGED FAMILIES.

    (a) Weatherization Assistance Program.--Section 422 of the Energy 
Conservation and Production Act (42 U.S.C. 6872) is amended to read as 
follows:

``SEC. 422. FUNDING.

    ``The Secretary shall use to carry out the weatherization program 
under this part from amounts in the Climate Fund established by section 
702(a) of the 100 by '50 Act not more than $10,000,000,000 for each 
fiscal year.''.
    (b) Technical Correction.--Section 415 of the Energy Conservation 
and Production Act (42 U.S.C. 6865) is amended in subsections (d) and 
(e)(1)(A) by striking ``section 422(b)'' each place it appears and 
inserting ``section 422''.

SEC. 104. MAKING ELECTRICITY AFFORDABLE FOR LOW INCOME AND 
              DISADVANTAGED FAMILIES.

    Section 2602 of the Low-Income Home Energy Assistance Act of 1981 
(42 U.S.C. 8621) is amended--
            (1) by striking subsection (b) and inserting the following:
    ``(b) Funding.--The Secretary shall use to carry out this title 
(other than section 2607A) from amounts in the Climate Fund established 
by section 702(a) of the 100 by '50 Act not more than $24,000,000,000 
for each fiscal year.''; and
            (2) in subsection (c), by striking ``appropriated''and 
        inserting ``made available''.

SEC. 105. INCREASING SUSTAINABLE COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT CAPACITY.

    (a) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Eligible community development organization.--The term 
        ``eligible community development organization'' means--
                    (A) a unit of general local government (as defined 
                in section 104 of the Cranston-Gonzalez National 
                Affordable Housing Act (42 U.S.C. 12704));
                    (B) a community housing development organization 
                (as defined in section 104 of the Cranston-Gonzalez 
                National Affordable Housing Act (42 U.S.C. 12704));
                    (C) an Indian tribe;
                    (D) a tribally designated housing entity (as 
                defined in section 4 of the Native American Housing 
                Assistance and Self-Determination Act of 1996 (25 
                U.S.C. 4103)); and
                    (E) a public housing agency (within the meaning of 
                section 3(b) of the United States Housing Act of 1937 
                (42 U.S.C. 1437a(b))).
            (2) Nonprofit organization.--The term ``nonprofit 
        organization'' has the meaning given the term in section 104 of 
        the Cranston-Gonzalez National Affordable Housing Act (42 
        U.S.C. 12704).
            (3) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary 
        of Housing and Urban Development.
    (b) Grants to Nonprofit Organizations.--The Secretary may make 
grants to nonprofit organizations to provide training, education, 
support, or advice to an eligible community development organization or 
qualified youth service and conservation corps--
            (1) to improve energy efficiency;
            (2) to design strategies to maximize energy efficiency; and
            (3) to promote--
                    (A) resource conservation and reuse;
                    (B) the installation or construction of renewable 
                energy technologies or facilities, such as wind, wave, 
                solar, and geothermal energy; and
                    (C) the effective use of existing infrastructure in 
                affordable housing and economic development activities 
                in low-income communities and disadvantaged 
                communities.
    (c) Application.--To be eligible for a grant under this section, a 
nonprofit organization shall prepare and submit to the Secretary an 
application at such time, in such manner, and containing such 
information as the Secretary may require.
    (d) Award of Contracts.--Contracts for architectural or engineering 
services funded with amounts from grants made under this section shall 
be awarded in accordance with chapter 11 of title 40, United States 
Code.
    (e) Funding.--For fiscal year 2018 and each fiscal year thereafter, 
the Secretary shall use to carry out this section from amounts in the 
Climate Fund not more than a total of $2,000,000,000.

SEC. 106. TRAINING WORKERS FOR JOBS IN CLEAN ENERGY.

    (a) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Eligible partnership.--The term ``eligible 
        partnership'' means a partnership that includes--
                    (A) not less than 1--
                            (i) local educational agency that is 
                        eligible for funding under section 131 of the 
                        Carl D. Perkins Career and Technical Education 
                        Act of 2006 (20 U.S.C. 2351); or
                            (ii) area career and technical education 
                        school or educational service agency described 
                        in subsection (e) or (f) of such section;
                    (B) not less than 1 postsecondary institution 
                eligible for funding under section 132 of such Act (20 
                U.S.C. 2352); and
                    (C) representatives of the community, including 
                nonprofit organizations, business entities, labor 
                organizations, or industry entities that have 
                experience in fields described in subsection (b)(1).
            (2) Program of study.--The term ``program of study'' means 
        a program of study for a field described in subsection (b)(1) 
        that contains the information described in section 122(c)(1)(A) 
        of the Carl D. Perkins Career and Technical Education Act of 
        2006 (20 U.S.C. 2342(c)(1)(A)).
    (b) Program Authorized.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary of Education is authorized 
        to award grants, on a competitive basis, to eligible 
        partnerships to enable the eligible partnerships to develop 
        programs of study that are focused on emerging careers and jobs 
        in the fields of clean energy, renewable energy, energy 
        efficiency, climate change mitigation, and climate change 
        adaptation.
            (2) Consultation.--The Secretary of Education shall consult 
        with the Secretary of Labor and the Secretary prior to the 
        issuance of a solicitation for grant applications under this 
        section.
    (c) Application.--
            (1) In general.--An eligible partnership seeking a grant 
        under this section shall submit an application to the Secretary 
        of Education at such time and in such manner as such Secretary 
        may require.
            (2) Contents.--Each application submitted under this 
        subsection shall include--
                    (A) a description of the eligible partnership and 
                the roles and responsibilities of each partner in the 
                partnership, and a demonstration of each partner's 
                capacity to support the program of study;
                    (B)(i) a description of each career area within a 
                field described in subsection (b)(1) to be developed 
                through the grant and the reason for choosing such 
                field; and
                    (ii) evidence of the labor market need to prepare 
                students in such career area;
                    (C) a description of the program of study proposed 
                to be funded by the grant, including--
                            (i) whether such program of study is a new 
                        or existing program (as of the date of the 
                        application); and
                            (ii) the secondary and postsecondary 
                        components of such program of study;
                    (D) a description of the students to be served by 
                the program of study;
                    (E) a description of how the proposed program of 
                study will be replicable and disseminated to schools 
                outside of the partnership, including schools in urban 
                and rural areas;
                    (F) a description of the applied learning that will 
                be incorporated into the program of study and how the 
                applied learning will incorporate or reinforce academic 
                learning;
                    (G) a description of how the proposed program of 
                study will be delivered;
                    (H) a description of how the program of study will 
                provide accessibility to students, especially 
                economically disadvantaged, low-performing, urban, and 
                rural students;
                    (I) a description of how the program will address 
                placement of students in non-traditional fields, as 
                defined in section 3 of the Carl D. Perkins Career and 
                Technical Education Act of 2006 (20 U.S.C. 2302); and
                    (J) a description of how the applicant proposes to 
                consult or has consulted with a labor organization, 
                labor management partnership, apprenticeship program, 
                or joint apprenticeship and training program, that 
                provides education and training in the field of study 
                for which the applicant proposes to develop a 
                curriculum.
    (d) Priority.--In awarding grants under this section, the Secretary 
of Education shall give priority to any application that proposes--
            (1) to use innovative means to deliver the proposed program 
        of study to students, educators, and instructors outside of the 
        eligible partnership;
            (2) to focus on low-performing students and special 
        populations, as defined in section 3 of the Carl D. Perkins 
        Career and Technical Education Act of 2006 (20 U.S.C. 2302);
            (3) to provide a comprehensive plan to enroll economically 
        disadvantaged students in the program of study; and
            (4) to provide a comprehensive plan to ensure that all 
        students can complete programs of study supported by a grant 
        under this section without borrowing Federal or private 
        education loans.
    (e) Peer Review.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary of Education shall convene a 
        peer review process to review applications for grants under 
        this section and to make recommendations regarding the 
        selection of grantees.
            (2) Membership.--Members of the peer review committee shall 
        include in a balanced manner (to the maximum extent 
        practicable)--
                    (A) educators who have experience implementing 
                curricula with comparable purposes; and
                    (B) business and industry experts in fields 
                described in subsection (b)(1).
    (f) Use of Funds.--An eligible partnership receiving a grant under 
this section shall use grant funds for the development, implementation, 
and dissemination of 1 or more programs of study in a career area 
related to a field described in subsection (b)(1).
    (g) Funding.--For fiscal year 2018 and each fiscal year thereafter, 
the Secretary of Education shall use to carry out this section from 
amounts in the Climate Fund not more than a total of $400,000,000.

SEC. 107. REQUIREMENTS FOR APPRENTICESHIP PROGRAMS AND EMPLOYMENT OF 
              TARGETED WORKERS.

    (a) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Qualified apprenticeship or other training program.--
        The term ``qualified apprenticeship or other training program'' 
        means--
                    (A) an apprenticeship or other training program 
                that qualifies as an employee welfare benefit plan (as 
                defined in section 3 of the Employee Retirement Income 
                Security Act of 1974 (29 U.S.C. 1002)), in which--
                            (i) not later than 18 months after the date 
                        of enactment of this Act, not less than 50 
                        percent of participating first-year apprentices 
                        or trainees are projected to be targeted 
                        workers; and
                            (ii) not later than 4 years after the date 
                        of enactment of this Act, not less than 30 
                        percent of all apprentices or trainees are 
                        projected to be targeted workers; and
                    (B) in any case in which the Secretary of Labor 
                certifies that a qualified apprenticeship or other 
                training program described in subparagraph (A) for a 
                craft or trade classification of workers that a 
                prospective contractor or subcontractor intends to 
                employ is not operated in the locality in which a 
                project will be performed, an apprenticeship or other 
                training program that is not an employee welfare 
                benefit plan (as so defined) if the Secretary of Labor 
                determines that the apprenticeship or other training 
                program--
                            (i) is registered with the Office of 
                        Apprenticeship of the Department of Labor or a 
                        State apprenticeship agency recognized by the 
                        Office of Apprenticeship for Federal purposes; 
                        and
                            (ii) meets the requirements of subparagraph 
                        (A).
            (2) Targeted worker.--The term ``targeted worker'' means an 
        individual who--
                    (A) resides in the same labor market area (as 
                defined in section 3 of the Workforce Innovation and 
                Opportunity Act (29 U.S.C. 3102)) as the area in which 
                the applicable project will be carried out; and
                    (B) is--
                            (i) a member of a targeted group (within 
                        the meaning of section 51 of the Internal 
                        Revenue Code of 1986) and resides in a census 
                        tract in which not less than 20 percent of the 
                        households have incomes that are below the most 
                        recent annual Federal Poverty Income Guidelines 
                        published by the Department of Health and Human 
                        Services;
                            (ii) a member of a family that received an 
                        annual family income that, during the 2-year 
                        period prior to employment on the project or 
                        admission to the preapprenticeship program, did 
                        not exceed 200 percent of the most recent 
                        annual Federal Poverty Income Guidelines 
                        published by the Department of Health and Human 
                        Services, excluding--
                                    (I) unemployment compensation;
                                    (II) child support payments;
                                    (III) cash payments under a 
                                Federal, State, or local income-based 
                                public assistance program; and
                                    (IV) benefits under the old-age, 
                                survivors, and disability insurance 
                                benefits program established under 
                                title II of the Social Security Act (42 
                                U.S.C. 401 et seq.); or
                            (iii) a member of a disadvantaged 
                        community.
    (b) Preapprenticeship Requirements.--Each contractor and 
subcontractor on any contract for construction services for a project 
funded directly by, or assisted in whole or in part by or through, the 
Federal Government pursuant to this Act or an amendment made by this 
Act shall agree to provide not less than 1 percent of the contract 
amount to fund preapprenticeship programs that--
            (1) demonstrate the ability to recruit, train, and prepare 
        for admission to apprenticeship programs individuals who 
        qualify as targeted workers; and
            (2) arrange to provide individuals who successfully 
        complete the preapprenticeship program to qualified 
        apprenticeship or other training programs.
    (c) Qualified Apprenticeship and Other Training Programs.--Each 
contractor and subcontractor that seeks to provide construction 
services on projects funded directly by, or assisted in whole or in 
part by or through, the Federal Government pursuant to this Act or an 
amendment made by this Act shall submit adequate assurances with the 
bid or proposal of the contractor or subcontractor that the contractor 
or subcontractor participates in a qualified apprenticeship or other 
training program for each craft or trade classification of worker that 
the contractor or subcontractor intends to employ to perform work on 
the project.
    (d) Employment of Targeted Workers.--
            (1) In general.--Each contractor and subcontractor on each 
        project funded directly by, or assisted in whole or in part by 
        or through, the Federal Government pursuant to this Act or an 
        amendment made by this Act shall--
                    (A) to the maximum extent practicable, ensure that 
                not less than 15 percent of all hours worked by newly 
                hired laborers and mechanics employed on the project be 
                performed by targeted workers; and
                    (B) establish a goal that at least 30 percent of 
                all hours worked by newly hired laborers and mechanics 
                employed on the project be performed by targeted 
                workers.
            (2) Reliance on identification of targeted workers.--For 
        purposes of this subsection, contractors and subcontractors may 
        rely on the identification of individuals as targeted workers 
        by a qualified apprenticeship or other training program.

                 TITLE II--JUST TRANSITION FOR WORKERS

SEC. 201. SHORT TITLE.

    This title may be cited as the ``Clean Energy Worker Just 
Transition Act''.

SEC. 202. DEFINITIONS.

    In this title:
            (1) Adversely affected employment.--The term ``adversely 
        affected employment'' means employment in an applicable firm.
            (2) Adversely affected worker.--The term ``adversely 
        affected worker'' means an individual who, because of lack of 
        work in adversely affected employment, has been totally or 
        partially separated from such employment, or has been 
        threatened to be totally or partially separated from such 
        employment.
            (3) Adjustment assistance.--The term ``adjustment 
        assistance'' means any compensation, credit, benefit, funding, 
        training, or service provided under subtitle A through any 
        option described in paragraph (1), (2), or (3) of section 
        221(b).
            (4) Applicable firm.--The term ``applicable firm'' means, 
        as applicable--
                    (A) the firm, or subdivision of a firm, for which 
                the group of workers who are petitioning for 
                certification under section 211 work;
                    (B) the firm, or subdivision of a firm, for which a 
                group of certified adversely affected workers work;
                    (C) a group of firms within close geographic 
                proximity, as determined by the Secretary, for which a 
                group of workers who are petitioning for certification 
                under section 211 work; or
                    (D) a group of firms within a close geographic 
                proximity, as determined by the Secretary, for which a 
                group of certified adversely affected workers work.
            (5) Certified adversely affected worker.--The term 
        ``certified adversely affected worker'' means an adversely 
        affected worker covered by a certification issued under section 
        213(a)(2).
            (6) Certified or recognized labor organization.--The term 
        ``certified or recognized labor organization'' means a labor 
        organization that is certified or recognized under section 9 of 
        the National Labor Relations Act (29 U.S.C. 159) as the 
        representative of the workers involved.
            (7) Energy industry.--The term ``energy industry'' means a 
        commercial sector, as determined by the Secretary, that--
                    (A) extracts, transports, or uses as a direct input 
                energy resources or electricity; or
                    (B) is otherwise dependent on the generation or 
                consumption of energy resources or electricity.
            (8) Partial separation.--The term ``partial separation'' 
        means, with respect to an individual who has not been totally 
        separated, that such individual has experienced--
                    (A) a reduction in hours of work to 80 percent or 
                less of the individual's average weekly hours in 
                adversely affected employment; and
                    (B) a reduction in wages to 80 percent or less of 
                the individual's average weekly wage in such adversely 
                affected employment.
            (9) Partially separated.--The term ``partially separated'' 
        means, with respect to an individual who has not been totally 
        separated, that such individual is experiencing partial 
        separation.
            (10) Rapid response activity.--The term ``rapid response 
        activity'' has the meaning given the term in section 3 of the 
        Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act (29 U.S.C. 3102) 
        except that--
                    (A) a reference in such section to a State shall be 
                considered to be a reference to the Secretary; and
                    (B) the reference in such section to funds shall be 
                considered to be a reference to funds reserved by the 
                Secretary under section 242(b)(1).
            (11) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary 
        of Labor.
            (12) Threatened.--The term ``threatened'', with respect to 
        total or partial separation, means that an individual is aware 
        of imminent total or partial separation from employment with an 
        applicable firm or with a company with which the applicable 
        firm is contracted to provide goods or services.
            (13) Total separation.--The term ``total separation'' means 
        the layoff or severance of an individual from employment with 
        an applicable firm.
            (14) Totally separated.--The term ``totally separated'' 
        means, with respect to an individual, that such individual is 
        experiencing total separation.

               Subtitle A--Adjustment Assistance Program

                      PART I--GROUP CERTIFICATION

SEC. 211. PETITIONS.

    (a) In General.--A petition for a group of workers to be certified 
under section 213 for eligibility to apply for adjustment assistance 
may be submitted to the Secretary by any of the following:
            (1) Not less than 3 workers on behalf of the group of 
        workers petitioning for such certification.
            (2) A certified or recognized labor organization, or any 
        other duly authorized representative of such workers (as 
        determined by the Secretary), representing not less than 3 of 
        the workers in the group.
            (3) The applicable firm.
    (b) Actions by the Secretary.--On receipt of a petition submitted 
under subsection (a), the Secretary shall--
            (1) ensure that rapid response activities and appropriate 
        career services (as described in section 134 of the Workforce 
        Innovation and Opportunity Act (29 U.S.C. 3174)) authorized 
        under other Federal laws are made available to the workers 
        covered by the petition to the extent authorized under such 
        laws;
            (2) verify the information included in the petition; and
            (3) publish notice in the Federal Register and on the Web 
        site of the Department of Labor that the Secretary has received 
        such petition and has initiated an investigation into whether 
        the group of workers shall be certified under section 213.
    (c) Hearing.--
            (1) In general.--If an individual who submits a petition 
        under subsection (a), or any other individual determined by the 
        Secretary to have a substantial interest in the outcome of the 
        decision of the Secretary regarding certification under section 
        213, submits a request for a hearing in accordance with 
        paragraph (2), the Secretary shall--
                    (A) provide for a public hearing; and
                    (B) afford such individual an opportunity to be 
                present, produce evidence, and be heard.
            (2) Submission.--The request under paragraph (1) shall be 
        submitted to the Secretary not later than 10 days after the 
        date on which the Secretary publishes notice in the Federal 
        Register under subsection (b)(3).

SEC. 212. GROUP ELIGIBILITY REQUIREMENTS.

    (a) Criteria.--
            (1) In general.--A group of workers shall be certified by 
        the Secretary as eligible to apply for adjustment assistance 
        pursuant to a petition filed under section 211, if the 
        Secretary determines that--
                    (A) such petition covers not less than 3 workers 
                who are similarly situated as--
                            (i) workers who work or have worked for the 
                        same applicable firm;
                            (ii) workers who are totally or partially 
                        separated, or threatened to be totally or 
                        partially separated, due to the same local or 
                        regional circumstance; or
                            (iii) workers who are serviced by the same 
                        one-stop center described in section 121 of the 
                        Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act (29 
                        U.S.C. 3151);
                    (B) such workers are workers who work in an 
                industry that is a qualifying industry, as determined 
                under paragraph (2);
                    (C) a significant number or proportion of the 
                workers working for the applicable firm have become 
                totally or partially separated or are threatened to 
                become totally or partially separated;
                    (D)(i) sales or production of the applicable firm 
                have decreased absolutely;
                    (ii) the applicable firm has been closed, 
                relocated, or acquired from another entity or foreign 
                country; or
                    (iii) the sales, production, or services of the 
                applicable firm have caused a shift that has 
                contributed to the total or partial separation, or 
                threatened total or partial separation, of such 
                workers; and
                    (E) the total or partial separation, threatened 
                total or partial separation, or any of the actions 
                described in subparagraph (D), are directly 
                attributable to--
                            (i) actions by the Federal Government;
                            (ii) the low cost of competing alternative 
                        forms of energy; or
                            (iii) other reasons as determined by the 
                        Secretary.
            (2) Qualifying industry.--
                    (A) Initial period.--For any group filing a 
                petition under section 211 on a date that is during the 
                period beginning on the date of enactment of this Act 
                and ending on the date that is 5 years after such date 
                of enactment, a qualifying industry shall be a coal-
                related or coal-dependent industry, as determined by 
                the Secretary.
                    (B) Subsequent years.--
                            (i) System.--For any group filing a 
                        petition under section 211 on a date that is 
                        after the 5-year period described in 
                        subparagraph (A), the Secretary shall establish 
                        a system in accordance with this subparagraph 
                        for determining industries (in addition to the 
                        coal-related or coal-dependent industry) to add 
                        as qualifying industries.
                            (ii) Qualifications.--To be added as a 
                        qualifying industry under clause (i), an 
                        industry shall be--
                                    (I) an energy industry; and
                                    (II) an industry for which the 
                                Secretary, in consultation with the 
                                Secretary of Commerce, has determined 
                                that, during the 5-year period 
                                preceding the determination of the 
                                Secretary under this subparagraph, not 
                                less than 20 percent of the workers in 
                                such industry are totally or partially 
                                separated or are threatened to become 
                                totally or partially separated.
                            (iii) Timing.--On the date that is 5 years 
                        after the date of enactment of this Act, and 
                        each year thereafter, the Secretary, in 
                        consultation with the Secretary of Commerce, 
                        shall determine if any industry meets the 
                        qualifications under clause (ii) and add any 
                        such industry as a qualifying industry.
                    (C) Indefinitely qualified.--Notwithstanding any 
                other provision in this paragraph, an industry that is 
                a qualifying industry, under subparagraph (A) or (B), 
                shall indefinitely remain a qualifying industry.
    (b) Basis for Secretary's Determinations.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary shall, in determining 
        whether to certify a group of workers under section 213, obtain 
        from the workers, the applicable firm, or a customer of the 
        applicable firm, information the Secretary determines to be 
        necessary to make such certification, through questionnaires 
        and in any other manner that the Secretary determines 
        appropriate.
            (2) Standards; criteria.--The Secretary shall establish--
                    (A) standards, including data requirements, to 
                investigate petitions filed under section 211; and
                    (B) criteria for making determinations under 
                section 213.
            (3) Additional information.--The Secretary may seek 
        additional information to determine whether to certify a group 
        of workers--
                    (A) by contacting--
                            (i) officials or workers of the applicable 
                        firm;
                            (ii) officials of a certified or recognized 
                        labor organization or other duly authorized 
                        representative of the group of workers;
                            (iii) State or regional departments of 
                        labor, energy, the environment, economic 
                        development, or commerce or that regulate 
                        utilities; or
                            (iv) the Administrator, the Secretary, the 
                        Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, the 
                        Secretary of the Army (acting through the Chief 
                        of Engineers), the Secretary of the Interior, 
                        the United States Geological Survey, the 
                        Secretary of Agriculture, the Secretary of 
                        Commerce, or the Secretary of the Treasury, as 
                        applicable; and
                    (B) by using any other available sources of 
                information.
            (4) Verification of information.--
                    (A) Certification.--The Secretary shall require the 
                worker, applicable firm, or a customer of such firm to 
                certify--
                            (i) all information obtained under 
                        paragraph (1) through questionnaires; and
                            (ii) all other information obtained under 
                        paragraph (1) from such worker, firm, or 
                        customer on which the Secretary relies in 
                        making a determination under section 213, 
                        unless the Secretary has a reasonable basis for 
                        determining that such information is accurate 
                        and complete without being certified.
                    (B) Use of subpoenas.--
                            (i) In general.--Except as provided in 
                        clause (ii), if a worker, applicable firm, or 
                        customer of such firm fails to provide 
                        information requested by the Secretary under 
                        paragraph (1) within 20 days after the date of 
                        such request, the Secretary shall obtain such 
                        information by subpoena in accordance with 
                        section 214.
                            (ii) Exception.--The requirement under 
                        clause (i) shall not apply if the worker, 
                        applicable firm, or customer of such firm 
                        demonstrates to the satisfaction of the 
                        Secretary that such worker, firm, or customer 
                        will provide the information within a 
                        reasonable period of time.
                    (C) Protection of confidential information.--
                            (i) In general.--The Secretary may not 
                        release information obtained under paragraph 
                        (1) that the Secretary considers to be 
                        confidential business information or personally 
                        identifiable information unless the worker, 
                        applicable firm, or customer whose information 
                        is at issue had notice, at the time of 
                        submission, that the information would be 
                        released by the Secretary, or such worker, 
                        applicable firm, or customer subsequently 
                        consents to the release of the information.
                            (ii) Exception.--Nothing in this 
                        subparagraph prohibits the Secretary from 
                        providing the confidential business information 
                        described in clause (i) to a court in camera or 
                        to another party under a protective order 
                        issued by a court.

SEC. 213. DETERMINATIONS AND CERTIFICATIONS.

    (a) In General.--As soon as practicable after the date on which a 
petition is filed under section 211 and, subject to subsection (e), not 
later than 40 days after that date, the Secretary shall--
            (1) determine whether the petitioning group meets the 
        requirements under section 212(a); and
            (2) issue a certification of eligibility to apply for 
        adjustment assistance covering the workers in any group which 
        meets such requirements.
    (b) Date of Separation.--Each certification issued under subsection 
(a)(2) shall specify the date on which the total or partial separation 
began or threatened to begin.
    (c) Publication.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 5 days after reaching a 
        determination on a petition filed under section 211, the 
        Secretary shall publish a summary of the determination in the 
        Federal Register and on the Web site of the Department of 
        Labor, together with the reasons of the Secretary for making 
        such determination.
            (2) Limitation on personal information.--The publication 
        under paragraph (1)--
                    (A) shall not include any personal information, 
                including names, of workers certified; and
                    (B) may include information regarding the 
                applicable firm.
    (d) Termination of Certification.--Whenever the Secretary 
determines, with respect to any certification of eligibility of the 
workers of an applicable firm, that total or partial separations, or 
threatened total or partial separations, from such firm are no longer 
attributable to the factors described in subparagraph (E) of section 
212(a)(1), the Secretary shall--
            (1) terminate such certification; and
            (2) promptly have notice of such termination, and the 
        reasons for such termination, published in the Federal Register 
        and on the Web site of the Department of Labor.
    (e) Extension.--The Secretary may have an extension for completing 
the determination or issuance under subsection (a) if any individual 
fails to comply with the requirements for providing information under 
section 212(b).

SEC. 214. SUBPOENA POWER.

    (a) In General.--In the case described in section 212(b)(4)(B), the 
Secretary may require by subpoena the attendance of witnesses and the 
production of evidence necessary for the Secretary to make a 
determination under section 213.
    (b) Contumacy.--If a person refuses to obey a subpoena issued under 
subsection (a), a United States district court within the jurisdiction 
of which the relevant proceeding under this title is conducted may, on 
petition by the Secretary, issue an order requiring compliance with 
such subpoena.

SEC. 215. JUDICIAL REVIEW.

    A denial of a certification under section 213 shall be subject to 
judicial review in accordance with chapter 7 of title 5, United States 
Code.

      PART II--INDIVIDUAL APPLICATIONS; TERMINATION OF ASSISTANCE

SEC. 221. ADJUSTMENT ASSISTANCE.

    (a) In General.--In accordance with this part, the Secretary shall 
award adjustment assistance for a calendar year to any individual who--
            (1) submits an application for an adjustment assistance 
        option under any of paragraphs (1) through (3) of subsection 
        (b) to the Secretary in a manner determined by the Secretary;
            (2) is determined by the Secretary to be a certified 
        adversely affected worker as of the date on which such 
        individual submits the application; and
            (3) meets all requirements under this section with respect 
        to the applicable adjustment assistance option.
    (b) Options.--For a calendar year, an individual may apply for 
adjustment assistance under not more than 1 of the following options:
            (1) Option a.--Option A shall consist of adjustment 
        assistance that is--
                    (A) federally funded unemployment compensation 
                under part III, and the amendments made by such part;
                    (B) premium subsidy credits and cost sharing 
                benefits for health insurance under section 241, and 
                the amendments made by such section; and
                    (C) additional pension benefits under section 243, 
                and the amendment made by such section.
            (2) Option b.--Option B shall consist of adjustment 
        assistance that is--
                    (A)(i) funding in an amount equal to the cost of 
                attendance (as defined in section 472 of the Higher 
                Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1087ll)), for a 
                program of education or training of not more than 4 
                years at a public institution of higher education (as 
                defined in section 102 of such Act (20 U.S.C. 1002)), 
                subject to paragraph (4); or
                    (ii)(I) training services and appropriate career 
                services under section 242;
                    (II) job search allowances and relocation 
                allowances under section 242, for individuals who meet 
                the requirements under subsections (d) and (e) of that 
                section, respectively; and
                    (III) an amount for living expenses that is based 
                on, and calculated in the same manner as, the cost of 
                attendance, as defined in that section, for the 
                training services and career services, subject to 
                paragraph (4); and
                    (B) premium subsidy credits and cost sharing 
                benefits for health insurance under section 241, and 
                the amendments made by such section, and additional 
                pension benefits under section 243, and the amendment 
                made by such section.
            (3) Option c.--Option C shall--
                    (A) be for an individual who is 62 years of age or 
                older on the date on which such individual submits an 
                application under subsection (a) and--
                            (i) retires from the adversely affected 
                        employment not later than 120 days after the 
                        date on which such individual becomes a 
                        certified adversely affected worker; or
                            (ii) in the case of an individual whose 
                        adversely affected employment was at an 
                        applicable firm that is no longer capable of 
                        providing the full retirement pension and 
                        health care benefits as promised, has retired 
                        prior to the date on which such individual 
                        becomes a certified adversely affected worker; 
                        and
                    (B) consist of adjustment assistance that is--
                            (i) the premium subsidy credits and cost 
                        sharing benefits for health insurance under 
                        section 241, and the amendments made by such 
                        section; and
                            (ii) additional pension benefits under 
                        section 243, and the amendment made by such 
                        section.
            (4) Special rule.--Any amount provided for the cost of 
        attendance of a program of education or training under 
        paragraph (2)(A)(i), or for living expenses related to training 
        services under paragraph (2)(A)(ii), shall be reduced by any 
        amount provided toward such cost of attendance or living 
        expenses under section 242, section 401 of the Higher Education 
        Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1070a), or any other Federal grant 
        assistance program.
    (c) Reapplication Process.--An individual who has received 
adjustment assistance for a calendar year shall reapply for such 
assistance for any subsequent calendar year subject to subsection (d).
    (d) Limitations.--
            (1) Option a.--An individual may receive adjustment 
        assistance under subsection (b)(1) for not more than 3 years.
            (2) Option b.--An individual may receive adjustment 
        assistance under subsection (b)(2) for not more than 4 years.
    (e) Flexibility in Options.--During a calendar year, an individual 
receiving adjustment assistance under an option under subsection (b) 
may terminate adjustment assistance under that option and apply to 
receive adjustment assistance under a different option under such 
subsection.

SEC. 222. TERMINATION OF ADJUSTMENT ASSISTANCE.

    (a) Definition of Comparable Benefits.--In this section, the term 
``comparable benefits'' means benefits that provide the individual with 
not less than 90 percent of the salary, pension benefits, and health 
care benefits provided to the individual by the applicable firm 
immediately prior to the individual becoming an adversely affected 
worker.
    (b) Notification of Comparable Benefits.--Not later than 60 days 
after obtaining comparable benefits, an individual receiving adjustment 
assistance shall notify the Secretary of such comparable benefits.
    (c) Termination.--Any adjustment assistance provided to an 
individual under this subtitle shall terminate not later than 60 days 
after the date on which such individual obtains comparable benefits.

          PART III--FEDERALLY FUNDED UNEMPLOYMENT COMPENSATION

SEC. 231. TEMPORARY ADDITIONAL UNEMPLOYMENT COMPENSATION PROGRAM FOR 
              CERTAIN ADVERSELY AFFECTED WORKERS.

    (a) Federal-State Agreements.--Any State that desires to do so may 
enter into and participate in an agreement under this section with the 
Secretary. Any State that is a party to an agreement under this section 
may, upon providing 30 days' written notice to the Secretary, terminate 
such agreement.
    (b) Provisions of Agreement.--
            (1) In general.--Any agreement under subsection (a) shall 
        provide that the State agency of the State will make payments 
        of temporary additional unemployment compensation to applicable 
        individuals who--
                    (A) have exhausted all rights to regular 
                compensation under the State law or under Federal law 
                with respect to a benefit year;
                    (B) have no rights to regular compensation with 
                respect to a week under such law or any other State 
                unemployment compensation law or to compensation under 
                any other Federal law;
                    (C) are not receiving compensation with respect to 
                such week under the unemployment compensation law of 
                Canada; and
                    (D) are able to work, available to work, and 
                actively seeking work.
            (2) Exhaustion of benefits.--For purposes of paragraph 
        (1)(A), an applicable individual shall be deemed to have 
        exhausted such individual's rights to regular compensation 
        under a State law when--
                    (A) no payments of regular compensation can be made 
                under such law because such individual has received all 
                regular compensation available to such individual based 
                on employment or wages during such individual's base 
                period; or
                    (B) such individual's rights to such compensation 
                have been terminated by reason of the expiration of the 
                benefit year with respect to which such rights existed.
            (3) Weekly benefit amount, etc.--
                    (A) In general.--Subject to paragraph (4), for 
                purposes of any agreement under this section--
                            (i) the amount of temporary additional 
                        unemployment compensation that shall be payable 
                        to any applicable individual for any week of 
                        total unemployment shall be equal to the amount 
                        of the regular compensation (including 
                        dependents' allowances) payable to such 
                        individual during such individual's benefit 
                        year under the State law for a week of total 
                        unemployment;
                            (ii) subject to subparagraph (B), the terms 
                        and conditions of the State law which apply to 
                        claims for regular compensation and to the 
                        payment thereof (including terms and conditions 
                        relating to availability for work, active 
                        search for work, and refusal to accept work) 
                        shall apply to claims for temporary additional 
                        unemployment compensation and the payment 
                        thereof, except--
                                    (I) that an applicable individual 
                                shall not be eligible for temporary 
                                additional unemployment compensation 
                                unless, in the base period with respect 
                                to which such individual exhausted all 
                                rights to regular compensation under 
                                the State law, such individual had 20 
                                weeks of full-time insured employment 
                                or the equivalent in insured wages, as 
                                determined under the provisions of the 
                                State law implementing section 
                                202(a)(5) of the Federal-State Extended 
                                Unemployment Compensation Act of 1970 
                                (26 U.S.C. 3304 note; Public Law 91-
                                373); and
                                    (II) where otherwise inconsistent 
                                with the provisions of this section or 
                                with the regulations or operating 
                                instructions of the Secretary 
                                promulgated to carry out this section; 
                                and
                            (iii) the maximum amount of temporary 
                        additional unemployment compensation payable to 
                        any applicable individual is 156 weeks.
                    (B) Exception.--Under an agreement under this 
                section, temporary additional unemployment compensation 
                shall not be denied under subparagraph (A) to an 
                applicable individual for any week by reason of a 
                failure to accept an offer of, or apply for, work if 
                the work does not provide for comparable benefits (as 
                defined in section 222(c)).
            (4) No new benefit year.--In determining the amount under 
        paragraph (3), a State shall not establish a new benefit year 
        with respect to applicable individuals.
            (5) Coordination rule.--Notwithstanding any other provision 
        of Federal law (and if the State law permits), the Governor of 
        a State that is in an extended benefit period may provide for 
        the payment of emergency unemployment compensation prior to 
        temporary additional unemployment compensation to applicable 
        individuals who otherwise meet the requirements of this 
        section.
            (6) Unauthorized aliens ineligible.--A State shall require 
        as a condition of temporary additional unemployment 
        compensation that each alien who receives such compensation 
        must be legally authorized to work in the United States, as 
        defined for purposes of the Federal Unemployment Tax Act (26 
        U.S.C. 3301 et seq.). In determining whether an alien meets the 
        requirements of this subsection, a State must follow the 
        procedures provided in section 1137(d) of the Social Security 
        Act (42 U.S.C. 1320b-7(d)).
    (c) Payments to States.--
            (1) In general.--
                    (A) Full reimbursement.--There shall be paid to 
                each State which has entered into an agreement under 
                this section an amount equal to 100 percent of--
                            (i) the total amount of additional weeks of 
                        temporary additional unemployment compensation 
                        paid to applicable individuals by the State 
                        pursuant to such agreement; and
                            (ii) any additional administrative expenses 
                        incurred by the State by reason of such 
                        agreement (as determined by the Secretary).
                    (B) Terms of payments.--Sums payable to any State 
                by reason of such State's having an agreement under 
                this section shall be payable, either in advance or by 
                way of reimbursement (as determined by the Secretary), 
                in such amounts as the Secretary estimates the State 
                will be entitled to receive under this section for a 
                period, reduced or increased, as the case may be, by 
                any amount by which the Secretary finds that his 
                estimates for any prior period were greater or less 
                than the amounts which should have been paid to the 
                State. Such estimates may be made on the basis of such 
                statistical, sampling, or other method as may be agreed 
                upon by the Secretary and the State agency of the State 
                involved.
            (2) Certifications.--The Secretary shall from time to time 
        certify to the Secretary of the Treasury for payment to each 
        State the sums payable to such State under this section.
            (3) Funding.--Payments to States under an agreement under 
        this section shall be made from the Trust Fund established 
        under section 251.
    (d) Fraud and Overpayments.--
            (1) In general.--If an individual knowingly has made, or 
        caused to be made by another, a false statement or 
        representation of a material fact, or knowingly has failed, or 
        caused another to fail, to disclose a material fact, and as a 
        result of such false statement or representation or of such 
        nondisclosure such individual has received an amount of 
        temporary additional unemployment compensation to which such 
        individual was not entitled, such individual--
                    (A) shall be ineligible for further temporary 
                additional unemployment compensation in accordance with 
                the provisions of the applicable State unemployment 
                compensation law relating to fraud in connection with a 
                claim for unemployment compensation; and
                    (B) shall be subject to prosecution under section 
                1001 of title 18, United States Code.
            (2) Repayment.--In the case of individuals who have 
        received amounts of temporary additional unemployment 
        compensation to which they were not entitled, the State shall 
        require such individuals to repay the amounts of such temporary 
        additional unemployment compensation to the State agency, 
        except that the State agency may waive such repayment if it 
        determines that--
                    (A) the payment of such temporary additional 
                unemployment compensation was without fault on the part 
                of any such individual; and
                    (B) such repayment would be contrary to equity and 
                good conscience.
            (3) Recovery by state agency.--
                    (A) In general.--The State agency shall recover the 
                amount to be repaid, or any part thereof, by deductions 
                from any temporary additional unemployment compensation 
                payable to such individual under this section or from 
                any unemployment compensation payable to such 
                individual under any State or Federal unemployment 
                compensation law administered by the State agency or 
                under any other State or Federal law administered by 
                the State agency which provides for the payment of any 
                assistance or allowance with respect to any week of 
                unemployment, during the 3-year period after the date 
                such individual received the payment of the temporary 
                additional unemployment compensation to which the 
                individual was not entitled, in accordance with the 
                same procedures as apply to the recovery of 
                overpayments of regular unemployment benefits paid by 
                the State.
                    (B) Opportunity for hearing.--No repayment shall be 
                required, and no deduction shall be made, until a 
                determination has been made, notice thereof and an 
                opportunity for a fair hearing has been given to the 
                individual, and the determination has become final.
            (4) Review.--Any determination by a State agency under this 
        subsection shall be subject to review in the same manner and to 
        the same extent as determinations under the State unemployment 
        compensation law, and only in that manner and to that extent.
    (e) Applicability.--
            (1) In general.--An agreement entered into under this 
        section shall apply to weeks of unemployment--
                    (A) beginning after the date on which such 
                agreement is entered into; and
                    (B) ending on or before January 1, 2020.
            (2) Termination.--No temporary additional unemployment 
        compensation under this section shall be payable for any week 
        subsequent to the last week described in paragraph (1)(B).
    (f) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Applicable individual.--The term ``applicable 
        individual'' means, with respect to a week of temporary 
        additional unemployment compensation, an individual who--
                    (A) is a certified adversely affected worker (as 
                defined in section 202) for such week; and
                    (B) has been awarded adjustment assistance for 
                option A under section 221(b) for such week.
            (2) EB program definitions.--The terms ``compensation'', 
        ``regular compensation'', ``extended compensation'', ``benefit 
        year'', ``base period'', ``State'', ``State agency'', ``State 
        law'', and ``week'' have the respective meanings given such 
        terms under section 205 of the Federal-State Extended 
        Unemployment Compensation Act of 1970 (26 U.S.C. 3304 note).

SEC. 232. PERMANENT STATE REQUIREMENT FOR THE PROVISION OF ADDITIONAL 
              UNEMPLOYMENT COMPENSATION FOR CERTAIN ADVERSELY AFFECTED 
              WORKERS.

    (a) Unemployment Compensation.--Chapter 23 of subtitle C of the 
Internal Revenue Code of 1986 is amended--
            (1) in section 3304(a)--
                    (A) in paragraph (18), by striking ``and'' at the 
                end;
                    (B) by redesignating paragraph (19) as paragraph 
                (20); and
                    (C) by inserting after paragraph (18) the following 
                new paragraph:
            ``(19) additional unemployment compensation for applicable 
        individuals shall be payable as provided in section 3312; 
        and''; and
            (2) by adding at the end the following:

``SEC. 3312. ADDITIONAL UNEMPLOYMENT COMPENSATION FOR CERTAIN ADVERSELY 
              AFFECTED WORKERS.

    ``(a) Additional Unemployment Compensation.--
            ``(1) In general.--
                    ``(A) In general.--For purposes of section 
                3304(a)(19), a State law shall provide that payment of 
                additional unemployment compensation shall be made to 
                applicable individuals who--
                            ``(i) have exhausted all rights to regular 
                        compensation under the State law or under 
                        Federal law with respect to a benefit year;
                            ``(ii) have no rights to regular 
                        compensation with respect to a week under such 
                        law or any other State unemployment 
                        compensation law or to compensation under any 
                        other Federal law;
                            ``(iii) are not receiving compensation with 
                        respect to such week under the unemployment 
                        compensation law of Canada; and
                            ``(iv) are able to work, available to work, 
                        and actively seeking work.
                    ``(B) Exception.--Additional unemployment 
                compensation shall not be denied under subparagraph (A) 
                to an applicable individual for any week by reason of a 
                failure to accept an offer of, or apply for, work if 
                the work does not provide for comparable benefits (as 
                defined in section 232(c) of the Clean Energy Worker 
                Just Transition Act).
            ``(2) Exhaustion of benefits.--For purposes of paragraph 
        (1)(A), an applicable individual shall be deemed to have 
        exhausted such individual's rights to regular compensation 
        under a State law when--
                    ``(A) no payments of regular compensation can be 
                made under such law because such individual has 
                received all regular compensation available to such 
                individual based on employment or wages during such 
                individual's base period; or
                    ``(B) such individual's rights to such compensation 
                have been terminated by reason of the expiration of the 
                benefit year with respect to which such rights existed.
            ``(3) Weekly benefit amount, etc.--
                    ``(A) In general.--Subject to paragraph (4), for 
                purposes of this section--
                            ``(i) the amount of additional unemployment 
                        compensation which shall be payable to any 
                        applicable individual for any week of total 
                        unemployment shall be equal to the amount of 
                        the regular compensation (including dependents' 
                        allowances) payable to such individual during 
                        such individual's benefit year under the State 
                        law for a week of total unemployment;
                            ``(ii) the terms and conditions of the 
                        State law which apply to claims for regular 
                        compensation and to the payment thereof 
                        (including terms and conditions relating to 
                        availability for work, active search for work, 
                        and refusal to accept work) shall apply to 
                        claims for additional unemployment compensation 
                        and the payment thereof, except--
                                    ``(I) that an applicable individual 
                                shall not be eligible for additional 
                                unemployment compensation unless, in 
                                the base period with respect to which 
                                such individual exhausted all rights to 
                                regular compensation under the State 
                                law, such individual had 20 weeks of 
                                full-time insured employment or the 
                                equivalent in insured wages, as 
                                determined under the provisions of the 
                                State law implementing section 
                                202(a)(5) of the Federal-State Extended 
                                Unemployment Compensation Act of 1970 
                                (26 U.S.C. 3304 note); and
                                    ``(II) where otherwise inconsistent 
                                with the provisions of this section or 
                                with the regulations or operating 
                                instructions of the Secretary of Labor 
                                promulgated to carry out this section; 
                                and
                            ``(iii) the maximum amount of additional 
                        unemployment compensation payable to any 
                        applicable individual is 156 weeks.
                    ``(B) Transition for applicable individuals 
                receiving compensation under the temporary additional 
                unemployment compensation program.--In the case of an 
                applicable individual who received temporary additional 
                unemployment compensation under section 231 of the 
                Clean Energy Worker Just Transition Act for weeks 
                ending prior to January 1, 2020--
                            ``(i) the number of weeks described in 
                        subparagraph (A)(iii) shall be reduced by the 
                        number of weeks such individual received the 
                        temporary additional unemployment compensation 
                        under such section 231; and
                            ``(ii) in determining the amount under 
                        subparagraph (A) for such individual, the State 
                        shall use the same benefit year as was used for 
                        such individual under such section 231.
            ``(4) No new benefit year.--In determining the amount under 
        paragraph (3), a State shall not establish a new benefit year 
        with respect to applicable individuals.
            ``(5) Coordination rule.--Notwithstanding any other 
        provision of Federal law (and if the State law permits), the 
        Governor of a State that is in an extended benefit period may 
        provide for the payment of emergency unemployment compensation 
        prior to additional unemployment compensation to applicable 
        individuals who otherwise meet the requirements of this 
        section.
            ``(6) Unauthorized aliens ineligible.--A State shall 
        require as a condition of additional unemployment compensation 
        that each alien who receives such compensation must be legally 
        authorized to work in the United States, as defined for 
        purposes of the Federal Unemployment Tax Act (26 U.S.C. 3301 et 
        seq.). In determining whether an alien meets the requirements 
        of this subsection, a State must follow the procedures provided 
        in section 1137(d) of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1320b-
        7(d)).
    ``(b) Payments to States.--
            ``(1) In general.--
                    ``(A) Full reimbursement.--There shall be paid to 
                each State an amount equal to 100 percent of--
                            ``(i) the total amount of additional 
                        unemployment compensation paid to applicable 
                        individuals by the State pursuant to this 
                        section; and
                            ``(ii) any additional administrative 
                        expenses incurred by the State by reason of 
                        this section (as determined by the Secretary of 
                        Labor).
                    ``(B) Terms of payments.--Sums payable to any State 
                by reason of this section shall be payable, either in 
                advance or by way of reimbursement (as determined by 
                the Secretary of Labor), in such amounts as the 
                Secretary of Labor estimates the State will be entitled 
                to receive under this section for a period, reduced or 
                increased, as the case may be, by any amount by which 
                the Secretary of Labor finds that his estimates for any 
                prior period were greater or less than the amounts 
                which should have been paid to the State. Such 
                estimates may be made on the basis of such statistical, 
                sampling, or other method as may be agreed upon by the 
                Secretary of Labor and the State agency of the State 
                involved.
            ``(2) Certifications.--The Secretary of Labor shall from 
        time to time certify to the Secretary of the Treasury for 
        payment to each State the sums payable to such State under this 
        section.
            ``(3) Funding.--Payments to States under an agreement under 
        this section shall be made from the Clean Energy Workers Trust 
        Fund established under section 251 of the Clean Energy Worker 
        Just Transition Act.
    ``(c) Fraud and Overpayments.--
            ``(1) In general.--If an individual knowingly has made, or 
        caused to be made by another, a false statement or 
        representation of a material fact, or knowingly has failed, or 
        caused another to fail, to disclose a material fact, and as a 
        result of such false statement or representation or of such 
        nondisclosure such individual has received an amount of 
        additional unemployment compensation to which such individual 
        was not entitled, such individual--
                    ``(A) shall be ineligible for further additional 
                unemployment compensation in accordance with the 
                provisions of the applicable State unemployment 
                compensation law relating to fraud in connection with a 
                claim for unemployment compensation; and
                    ``(B) shall be subject to prosecution under section 
                1001 of title 18, United States Code.
            ``(2) Repayment.--In the case of individuals who have 
        received amounts of additional unemployment compensation to 
        which they were not entitled, the State shall require such 
        individuals to repay the amounts of such additional 
        unemployment compensation to the State agency, except that the 
        State agency may waive such repayment if it determines that--
                    ``(A) the payment of such additional unemployment 
                compensation was without fault on the part of any such 
                individual; and
                    ``(B) such repayment would be contrary to equity 
                and good conscience.
            ``(3) Recovery by state agency.--
                    ``(A) In general.--The State agency shall recover 
                the amount to be repaid, or any part thereof, by 
                deductions from any additional unemployment 
                compensation payable to such individual under this 
                section or from any unemployment compensation payable 
                to such individual under any State or Federal 
                unemployment compensation law administered by the State 
                agency or under any other State or Federal law 
                administered by the State agency which provides for the 
                payment of any assistance or allowance with respect to 
                any week of unemployment, during the 3-year period 
                after the date such individuals received the payment of 
                the additional unemployment compensation to which they 
                were not entitled, in accordance with the same 
                procedures as apply to the recovery of overpayments of 
                regular unemployment benefits paid by the State.
                    ``(B) Opportunity for hearing.--No repayment shall 
                be required, and no deduction shall be made, until a 
                determination has been made, notice thereof and an 
                opportunity for a fair hearing has been given to the 
                individual, and the determination has become final.
            ``(4) Review.--Any determination by a State agency under 
        this subsection shall be subject to review in the same manner 
        and to the same extent as determinations under the State 
        unemployment compensation law, and only in that manner and to 
        that extent.
    ``(d) Definitions.--In this section:
            ``(1) Applicable individual.--The term `applicable 
        individual' means, with respect to a week of additional 
        unemployment compensation, an individual who--
                    ``(A) is a certified adversely affected worker (as 
                defined in section 202 of the Clean Energy Worker Just 
                Transition Act) for such week; and
                    ``(B) has been awarded adjustment assistance for 
                option A under section 221(b)(1) of such Act for such 
                week.
            ``(2) EB program definitions.--The terms `compensation', 
        `regular compensation', `extended compensation', `benefit 
        year', `base period', `State', `State agency', `State law', and 
        `week' have the respective meanings given such terms under 
        section 205 of the Federal-State Extended Unemployment 
        Compensation Act of 1970 (26 U.S.C. 3304 note).''.
    (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of sections for chapter 23 of 
subtitle C of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 is amended by adding at 
the end the following item:

``Sec. 3312. Additional unemployment compensation.''.
    (c) Effective Date.--The amendments made by this section shall take 
effect on January 1, 2020, and shall apply to weeks of unemployment 
ending on or after such date.

                  PART IV--OTHER BENEFITS AND SERVICES

SEC. 241. ELIGIBILITY FOR PREMIUM SUBSIDY CREDIT AND COST SHARING 
              BENEFITS FOR HEALTH INSURANCE.

    (a) Premium Subsidy Credit.--
            (1) In general.--Paragraph (1) of section 36B(c) of the 
        Internal Revenue Code of 1986 is amended by adding at the end 
        the following new subparagraph:
                    ``(E) Special rule for certain certified adversely 
                affected workers.--If--
                            ``(i) a taxpayer has a household income 
                        which is not greater than 100 percent of an 
                        amount equal to the poverty line for a family 
                        of the size involved, and
                            ``(ii) the taxpayer is a certified 
                        adversely affected worker under section 202 of 
                        the Clean Energy Worker Just Transition Act and 
                        has been awarded adjustment assistance under 
                        Option A, Option B, or Option C of section 
                        211(b) of such Act,
                the taxpayer shall, for purposes of the credit under 
                this section, be treated as an applicable taxpayer with 
                a household income which is equal to 100 percent of the 
                poverty line for a family of the size involved.''.
            (2) Effective date.--The amendment made by this subsection 
        shall apply to months beginning after December 31, 2017.
    (b) Cost Sharing.--The second sentence of section 1402(b) of the 
Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act is amended by striking 
``section 36B(c)(1)(B)'' and inserting ``subparagraph (C) or (E) of 
section 36B(c)(1)''.

SEC. 242. TRAINING AND SUPPORT FOR EMPLOYMENT.

    (a) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Career services.--The term ``career services'' means 
        services described in section 134(c)(2) of the Workforce 
        Innovation and Opportunity Act (29 U.S.C. 3174(c)(2)).
            (2) Eligible adversely affected worker.--The term 
        ``eligible adversely affected worker'' means a certified 
        adversely affected worker who has been awarded adjustment 
        assistance under section 221(b)(2).
            (3) Suitable employment.--The term ``suitable employment'', 
        used with respect to an eligible adversely affected worker, 
        means employment--
                    (A) at a wage that is not less than 90 percent of 
                the wage the worker received on the day before the date 
                described in section 213(b); and
                    (B) that meets such other requirements as the 
                Secretary may specify.
            (4) Training services.--The term ``training services'' 
        means services provided under section 134(c)(3) of the 
        Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act (29 U.S.C. 
        3174(c)(3)).
    (b) Funding.--Each fiscal year, the Secretary shall use a portion 
of the funds made available under section 251 to carry out this 
section. From that portion, the Secretary shall--
            (1) reserve an amount for the Secretary to use in ensuring 
        the availability of rapid response activities and career 
        services under section 211(b)(1);
            (2) reserve an amount to grant job search allowances under 
        subsection (d);
            (3) reserve an amount to grant relocation allowance under 
        subsection (e); and
            (4) use the remainder of the portion to carry out 
        subsection (c).
    (c) Career Services and Training Services.--
            (1) Funding.--Each fiscal year, the Secretary shall use the 
        remainder described in subsection (b)(4) to provide career 
        services and training services to eligible adversely affected 
        workers, or to contribute to the costs of the one-stop delivery 
        system involved.
            (2) Treatment of funds.--The Secretary shall treat the 
        funds in that remainder as if the funds are part of the amount 
        described in section 132(b)(2)(B) of the Workforce Innovation 
        and Opportunity Act (29 U.S.C. 3172(b)(2)(B)), except that--
                    (A) all funds in that remainder may only be used to 
                provide career services and training services to 
                eligible adversely affected worker, or to contribute to 
                the costs of the one-stop delivery system involved, as 
                described in section 133(b)(5)(B)(ii) of the Workforce 
                Innovation and Opportunity Act (29 U.S.C. 
                3173(b)(5)(B)(ii));
                    (B) the funds in that remainder shall not be 
                counted for purposes of applying section 
                132(b)(2)(B)(iii) or 133(b)(2)(B)(iii) of that Act (29 
                U.S.C. 3172(b)(2)(B)(iii), 3173(b)(2)(B)(iii)); and
                    (C) section 133(b)(4) of that Act (29 U.S.C. 
                3173(b)(4)) shall not apply to the funds in that 
                remainder.
    (d) Job Search Allowances.--
            (1) Job search allowance authorized.--
                    (A) Distributions.--
                            (i) Initial distribution.--The Secretary 
                        shall establish procedures for an initial 
                        distribution to States of reserved funds 
                        described in subsection (b)(2) and available 
                        for a fiscal year. Such procedures may include 
                        the distribution of funds pursuant to requests 
                        submitted by States in need of such funds.
                            (ii) Subsequent distribution.--The 
                        Secretary shall establish procedures for the 
                        distribution to States of the reserved funds 
                        that remain available for the fiscal year after 
                        the initial distribution required under clause 
                        (i). Such procedures may include the 
                        distribution of funds pursuant to requests 
                        submitted by States in need of such funds.
                    (B) State use of funds.--Each State may use funds 
                distributed to the State under subparagraph (A) to 
                allow an eligible adversely affected worker who has 
                completed a program of training services or has 
                received appropriate career services to file an 
                application with the Secretary for payment of a job 
                search allowance.
                    (C) Approval of applications.--The Secretary may 
                grant an allowance pursuant to an application filed 
                under subparagraph (B) when all of the following apply:
                            (i) Assist eligible adversely affected 
                        worker.--The allowance is paid to assist a 
                        worker described in subparagraph (B) in 
                        securing a job within the United States.
                            (ii) Local employment not available.--The 
                        Secretary determines that the worker cannot 
                        reasonably be expected to secure suitable 
                        employment in the commuting area in which the 
                        worker resides.
                            (iii) Application.--The worker has filed an 
                        application for the allowance with the 
                        Secretary at such time and containing such 
                        information as the Secretary may determine.
            (2) Amount of allowance.--
                    (A) In general.--Any allowance granted under 
                paragraph (1) shall provide reimbursement to the worker 
                of not more than 90 percent of the necessary job search 
                expenses of the worker as prescribed by the Secretary 
                in regulations.
                    (B) Maximum allowance.--Reimbursement under this 
                paragraph may not exceed $1,250 for any worker.
                    (C) Exception.--Notwithstanding subparagraphs (A) 
                and (B), a State may reimburse any worker described in 
                paragraph (1)(B) for necessary expenses incurred by the 
                worker in participating in a job search program 
                approved by the Secretary.
    (e) Relocation Allowances.--
            (1) Relocation allowance authorized.--
                    (A) Distributions.--
                            (i) Initial distribution.--The Secretary 
                        shall establish procedures for an initial 
                        distribution to States of reserved funds 
                        described in subsection (b)(3) and available 
                        for a fiscal year. Such procedures may include 
                        the distribution of funds pursuant to requests 
                        submitted by States in need of such funds.
                            (ii) Subsequent distribution.--The 
                        Secretary shall establish procedures for the 
                        distribution to States of the reserved funds 
                        that remain available for the fiscal year after 
                        the initial distribution required under clause 
                        (i). Such procedures may include the 
                        distribution of funds pursuant to requests 
                        submitted by States in need of such funds.
                    (B) State use of funds.--Each State may use funds 
                distributed to the State under subparagraph (A) to 
                allow an eligible adversely affected worker to file an 
                application for a relocation allowance with the 
                Secretary, and the Secretary may grant the relocation 
                allowance, subject to the terms and conditions of this 
                subsection.
            (2) Conditions for granting allowance.--The relocation 
        allowance may be granted if all of the following terms and 
        conditions are met:
                    (A) Assist eligible adversely affected worker.--The 
                relocation allowance will assist an eligible adversely 
                affected worker in relocating within the United States 
                to receive training services or for employment.
                    (B) Local employment not available.--The Secretary 
                determines that the worker cannot reasonably be 
                expected to secure--
                            (i) in the case of a worker relocating to 
                        receive training services, suitable training 
                        services in the commuting area in which the 
                        worker resides; and
                            (ii) in the case of a worker relocating for 
                        employment, suitable employment in that 
                        commuting area.
                    (C) Separation or threat.--The worker is totally or 
                partially separated, or is threatened to become totally 
                or partially separated, from employment at the time 
                relocation commences.
                    (D) Suitable training or employment.--The worker--
                            (i) in the case of a worker relocating to 
                        receive training services or for employment 
                        after receiving training services, obtains 
                        approval from the Secretary for the program of 
                        training services involved; or
                            (ii) in the case of a worker relocating for 
                        employment, has obtained suitable employment 
                        affording a reasonable expectation of long-term 
                        duration in the area in which the worker wishes 
                        to relocate, or has obtained a bona fide offer 
                        of such employment.
                    (E) Application.--The worker filed an application 
                with the Secretary before--
                            (i) in the case of a worker relocating for 
                        employment or to receive training services, the 
                        later of--
                                    (I) the 425th day after the date of 
                                the certification under section 212 
                                that covers the worker; or
                                    (II) the 425th day after the date 
                                of the worker's last total separation; 
                                or
                            (ii) in the case of a worker relocating for 
                        employment after receiving training services, 
                        the date that is the 182d day after the date on 
                        which the worker concluded a program of 
                        training services approved by the Secretary 
                        under subparagraph (D)(i).
            (3) Amount of allowance.--Any relocation allowance granted 
        to a worker under paragraph (1) shall include--
                    (A) not more than 90 percent of the reasonable and 
                necessary expenses (including subsistence and 
                transportation expenses at levels not exceeding those 
                allowable as specified in regulations prescribed by the 
                Secretary) incurred in transporting the worker, the 
                worker's family, and household effects; and
                    (B) a lump sum equivalent to 3 times the worker's 
                average weekly wage, up to a maximum payment of $1,250.
            (4) Limitations.--A relocation allowance may not be granted 
        to a worker unless--
                    (A) in the case of a worker relocating for 
                employment or to receive training services, the 
                relocation occurs within 182 days after the filing of 
                the application for relocation assistance; or
                    (B) in the case of a worker relocating for 
                employment after receiving training services, the 
                relocation occurs within 182 days after the conclusion 
                of a program of training services approved by the 
                Secretary under paragraph (2)(D)(i).

SEC. 243. ADDITIONAL PENSIONS BENEFITS.

    (a) In General.--In the case that, with respect to a certified 
adversely affected worker, the amount of pension plan benefits 
guaranteed under section 4022 or 4022A of the Employee Retirement 
Income Security Act of 1974 (29 U.S.C. 1322, 1322a), subject to section 
4022B of such Act (29 U.S.C. 1322b) is less than the amount of the 
nonforfeitable benefit to which such employee was entitled under the 
terms of the pension plan of the applicable firm immediately before the 
date of the insolvency of such applicable firm, the Pension Benefit 
Guaranty Corporation shall make payments to such certified adversely 
affected worker or to the multiemployer plan of the certified adversely 
affected worker, as applicable, on a monthly basis in an amount equal 
to--
            (1) the excess of--
                    (A) the amount to which the employee was so 
                entitled; over
                    (B) the amount so guaranteed; and
            (2) the payments otherwise made to such worker in 
        accordance with section 4022 or 4022A of the Employee 
        Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 (29 U.S.C. 1322, 1322a), 
        subject to section 4022B of such Act (29 U.S.C. 1322b).
    (b) Transfers From Fund.--Each fiscal quarter, the Secretary of 
Labor shall transfer from the Trust Fund established under section 251 
to the fund established under subsection (i) of section 4005 of the 
Employee Retirement Income Security Act (29 U.S.C. 1305) (as added by 
subsection (c)), an amount equal to the aggregate payments that are 
expected to be made under subsection (a)(1) by the Pension Benefit 
Guaranty Corporation in the subsequent fiscal quarter. The Secretary of 
Labor may adjust the amounts so transferred for a fiscal quarter to 
account for any overpayment or underpayment so made in a previous 
fiscal quarter.
    (c) PBGC Fund.--Section 4005 of the Employee Retirement Income 
Security Act of 1974 (29 U.S.C. 1305) is amended by adding at the end 
the following:
    ``(i) An eighth fund shall be established and credited with any 
amounts transferred in accordance with section 243(b) of the Clean 
Energy Worker Just Transition Act. Such amounts shall be made available 
to make payments in accordance with section 243(a) of such Act.''.

                            PART V--FUNDING

SEC. 251. ESTABLISHMENT OF CLEAN ENERGY WORKERS TRUST FUND.

    (a) Establishment.--There is established in the Treasury of the 
United States a trust fund to be known as the ``Clean Energy Workers 
Trust Fund'' (referred to in this title as the ``Trust Fund''), 
consisting of such amounts as may be appropriated to the Trust Fund 
under subsection (b).
    (b) Amounts in Trust Fund.--There is appropriated to the Trust 
Fund, on an annual basis, an amount equal to the increase in revenues 
to the Treasury resulting from the amendments made by section 252.
    (c) Expenditures From Trust Fund.--
            (1) In general.--Except as provided under paragraph (2), 
        amounts in the Trust Fund shall be available without further 
        appropriation--
                    (A) to carry out--
                            (i) the group certification and individual 
                        application provisions under parts I and II of 
                        this subtitle, respectively;
                            (ii) adjustment assistance provided through 
                        any option under section 221(b) (subject to 
                        paragraph (2)); and
                            (iii) sections 262 and 263; and
                    (B) for the administrative costs associated with 
                carrying out subparagraph (A) and this section.
            (2) Tax credits and incentives.--From time to time there 
        shall be transferred from the Trust Fund to the general fund of 
        the Treasury amounts equal to the decrease in revenues to the 
        Treasury resulting from the amendments made by sections 241 and 
        261.
            (3) Availability.--The amounts in the Trust Fund shall be 
        available for the purposes described in paragraphs (1) and (2) 
        to the Secretary and the head of any other agency as necessary 
        to carry out such purposes.

SEC. 252. MODIFICATIONS TO RULES RELATING TO INVERTED CORPORATIONS.

    (a) In General.--Subsection (b) of section 7874 of the Internal 
Revenue Code of 1986 is amended to read as follows:
    ``(b) Inverted Corporations Treated as Domestic Corporations.--
            ``(1) In general.--Notwithstanding section 7701(a)(4), a 
        foreign corporation shall be treated for purposes of this title 
        as a domestic corporation if--
                    ``(A) such corporation would be a surrogate foreign 
                corporation if subsection (a)(2) were applied by 
                substituting `80 percent' for `60 percent', or
                    ``(B) such corporation is an inverted domestic 
                corporation.
            ``(2) Inverted domestic corporation.--For purposes of this 
        subsection, a foreign corporation shall be treated as an 
        inverted domestic corporation if, pursuant to a plan (or a 
        series of related transactions)--
                    ``(A) the entity completes after May 8, 2014, the 
                direct or indirect acquisition of--
                            ``(i) substantially all of the properties 
                        held directly or indirectly by a domestic 
                        corporation, or
                            ``(ii) substantially all of the assets of, 
                        or substantially all of the properties 
                        constituting a trade or business of, a domestic 
                        partnership, and
                    ``(B) after the acquisition, either--
                            ``(i) more than 50 percent of the stock (by 
                        vote or value) of the entity is held--
                                    ``(I) in the case of an acquisition 
                                with respect to a domestic corporation, 
                                by former shareholders of the domestic 
                                corporation by reason of holding stock 
                                in the domestic corporation, or
                                    ``(II) in the case of an 
                                acquisition with respect to a domestic 
                                partnership, by former partners of the 
                                domestic partnership by reason of 
                                holding a capital or profits interest 
                                in the domestic partnership, or
                            ``(ii) the management and control of the 
                        expanded affiliated group which includes the 
                        entity occurs, directly or indirectly, 
                        primarily within the United States, and such 
                        expanded affiliated group has significant 
                        domestic business activities.
            ``(3) Exception for corporations with substantial business 
        activities in foreign country of organization.--A foreign 
        corporation described in paragraph (2) shall not be treated as 
        an inverted domestic corporation if after the acquisition the 
        expanded affiliated group which includes the entity has 
        substantial business activities in the foreign country in which 
        or under the law of which the entity is created or organized 
        when compared to the total business activities of such expanded 
        affiliated group. For purposes of subsection (a)(2)(B)(iii) and 
        the preceding sentence, the term `substantial business 
        activities' shall have the meaning given such term under 
        regulations in effect on May 8, 2014, except that the Secretary 
        may issue regulations increasing the threshold percent in any 
        of the tests under such regulations for determining if business 
        activities constitute substantial business activities for 
        purposes of this paragraph.
            ``(4) Management and control.--For purposes of paragraph 
        (2)(B)(ii)--
                    ``(A) In general.--The Secretary shall prescribe 
                regulations for purposes of determining cases in which 
                the management and control of an expanded affiliated 
                group is to be treated as occurring, directly or 
                indirectly, primarily within the United States. The 
                regulations prescribed under the preceding sentence 
                shall apply to periods after May 8, 2014.
                    ``(B) Executive officers and senior management.--
                Such regulations shall provide that the management and 
                control of an expanded affiliated group shall be 
                treated as occurring, directly or indirectly, primarily 
                within the United States if substantially all of the 
                executive officers and senior management of the 
                expanded affiliated group who exercise day-to-day 
                responsibility for making decisions involving 
                strategic, financial, and operational policies of the 
                expanded affiliated group are based or primarily 
                located within the United States. Individuals who in 
                fact exercise such day-to-day responsibilities shall be 
                treated as executive officers and senior management 
                regardless of their title.
            ``(5) Significant domestic business activities.--For 
        purposes of paragraph (2)(B)(ii), an expanded affiliated group 
        has significant domestic business activities if at least 25 
        percent of--
                    ``(A) the employees of the group are based in the 
                United States,
                    ``(B) the employee compensation incurred by the 
                group is incurred with respect to employees based in 
                the United States,
                    ``(C) the assets of the group are located in the 
                United States, or
                    ``(D) the income of the group is derived in the 
                United States,
        determined in the same manner as such determinations are made 
        for purposes of determining substantial business activities 
        under regulations referred to in paragraph (3) as in effect on 
        May 8, 2014, but applied by treating all references in such 
        regulations to `foreign country' and `relevant foreign country' 
        as references to `the United States'. The Secretary may issue 
        regulations decreasing the threshold percent in any of the 
        tests under such regulations for determining if business 
        activities constitute significant domestic business activities 
        for purposes of this paragraph.''.
    (b) Conforming Amendments.--
            (1) Clause (i) of section 7874(a)(2)(B) of such Code is 
        amended by striking ``after March 4, 2003,'' and inserting 
        ``after March 4, 2003, and before May 9, 2014,''.
            (2) Subsection (c) of section 7874 of such Code is 
        amended--
                    (A) in paragraph (2)--
                            (i) by striking ``subsection 
                        (a)(2)(B)(ii)'' and inserting ``subsections 
                        (a)(2)(B)(ii) and (b)(2)(B)(i)'', and
                            (ii) by inserting ``or (b)(2)(A)'' after 
                        ``(a)(2)(B)(i)'' in subparagraph (B),
                    (B) in paragraph (3), by inserting ``or 
                (b)(2)(B)(i), as the case may be,'' after 
                ``(a)(2)(B)(ii)'',
                    (C) in paragraph (5), by striking ``subsection 
                (a)(2)(B)(ii)'' and inserting ``subsections 
                (a)(2)(B)(ii) and (b)(2)(B)(i)'', and
                    (D) in paragraph (6), by inserting ``or inverted 
                domestic corporation, as the case may be,'' after 
                ``surrogate foreign corporation''.
    (c) Effective Date.--The amendments made by this section shall 
apply to taxable years ending after May 8, 2014.

                   PART VI--MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS

SEC. 261. CREDIT FOR HIRING UNEMPLOYED CERTIFIED ADVERSELY AFFECTED 
              WORKERS.

    (a) Inclusion in Work Opportunity Credit.--Paragraph (1) of section 
51(d) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 is amended by striking 
``or'' at the end of subparagraph (I), by striking the period at the 
end of subparagraph (J) and inserting ``, or'', and by adding at the 
end the following new subparagraph:
                    ``(K) a qualified adversely affected energy 
                industry unemployed worker.''.
    (b) Definition of Qualified Adversely Affected Energy Industry 
Unemployed Worker.--Subsection (d) of section 51 of the Internal 
Revenue Code of 1986 is amended by adding at the end the following new 
paragraph:
            ``(16) Qualified adversely affected energy industry 
        unemployed worker.--The term `qualified adversely affected 
        energy industry unemployed worker' means any individual who--
                    ``(A) is a certified adversely affected worker 
                under section 202 of the Clean Energy Worker Just 
                Transition Act and whose status as such has not been 
                terminated before the date the individual begins work 
                for the employer,
                    ``(B) is certified by the designated local agency 
                as--
                            ``(i) having aggregate periods of 
                        unemployment during the 1-year period ending on 
                        the hiring date which equal or exceed 4 weeks 
                        (but less than 6 months), or
                            ``(ii) having aggregate periods of 
                        unemployment during the 1-year period ending on 
                        the hiring date which equal or exceed 6 
                        months.''.
    (c) Increased Credit Amount for Long-Term Unemployed Workers.--
Section 51(b)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 is amended--
            (1) by striking ``and'' before ``$24,000'', and
            (2) by inserting ``, and $14,000 per year in the case of 
        any individual who is a qualified adversely affected energy 
        industry unemployed worker by reason of subsection 
        (d)(16)(B)(ii)'' after ``subsection (d)(3)(A)(ii)(II)''.
    (d) Credit Limited to Individuals Hired for Comparable 
Occupation.--Subsection (b) of section 51 of the Internal Revenue Code 
of 1986 is amended by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
            ``(4) Special rule for qualified adversely affected energy 
        industry unemployed workers.--The term `qualified wages' shall 
        not include any wages paid to qualified adversely affected 
        energy industry unemployed worker unless the position for which 
        such worker is hired for is a comparable occupation as 
        determined under section 222 of the Clean Energy Worker Just 
        Transition Act.''.
    (e) Termination Provision Not To Apply.--Paragraph (4) of section 
51(c) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 is amended by adding at the 
end the following new sentence: ``The preceding sentence shall not 
apply with respect to amounts paid or incurred to qualified adversely 
affected energy industry unemployed workers.''.
    (f) Effective Date.--The amendments made by this section shall 
apply to individuals who begin work for the employer after December 31, 
2017.

SEC. 262. ENFORCEMENT.

    (a) Violations.--It shall be a violation of this subtitle to for 
any person to--
            (1) make a false statement of a material fact knowing it to 
        be false, or knowingly fail to disclose a material fact, for 
        the purpose of obtaining or increasing for that person or for 
        any other person any payment authorized to be furnished under 
        this subtitle; or
            (2) make a false statement of a material fact knowing it to 
        be false, or knowingly fail to disclose a material fact, when 
        providing information to the Secretary during an investigation 
        of a petition under section 211.
    (b) Penalties.--Any person who commits a violation under subsection 
(a) shall be imprisoned for not more than 1 year, fined under title 18, 
United States Code, or both.

SEC. 263. BENEFIT INFORMATION TO WORKERS.

    (a) General Information.--The Secretary shall provide--
            (1) full information to workers about--
                    (A) the adjustment assistance available under this 
                subtitle; and
                    (B) the petition and application procedures, and 
                the appropriate filing dates, for such adjustment 
                assistance;
            (2) whatever assistance is necessary to enable groups of 
        workers to prepare petitions or applications for such 
        adjustment assistance;
            (3) the applicable eligible agency, as defined in section 3 
        of the Carl D. Perkins Career and Technical Education Act of 
        2006 (20 U.S.C. 2302), or any equivalent agency, and public or 
        private agencies, institutions, and employers, as appropriate, 
        with information of each certification issued under section 213 
        and of projections, if available, of the needs for training 
        under section 242 as a result of such certification; and
            (4) labor organizations and other community organizations 
        with funding from the Trust Fund established under section 251, 
        to conduct community outreach to educate adversely affected 
        workers about such adjustment assistance.
    (b) Written Notice to Individuals.--The Secretary shall provide 
written notice through the mail of the adjustment assistance available 
under this subtitle to each worker whom the Secretary has reason to 
believe is covered by a certification under section 213--
            (1) at the time such certification is made, if the worker 
        was partially or totally separated, or threatened to become 
        totally or partially separated, from the adversely affected 
        employment before such certification, or
            (2) at the time of the total or partial separation, or 
        threatened total or partial separation, of the worker from the 
        adversely affected employment, if paragraph (1) does not apply.
    (c) Published Notice.--The Secretary shall publish notice of the 
adjustment assistance available under this subtitle to workers covered 
by each certification issued under section 213 in newspapers of general 
circulation in the areas in which such workers reside.
    (d) Notification to Department of Commerce.--Not later than 60 days 
after the date of enactment of this Act, and each year thereafter, the 
Secretary shall prepare and submit a report to the Department of 
Commerce on the geographic location and sector implicated by each 
certification issued under section 213.

SEC. 264. AMENDMENT TO SURFACE MINING CONTROL AND RECLAMATION ACT OF 
              1977.

    Section 402(i)(2) of the Surface Mining Control and Reclamation Act 
of 1977 (30 U.S.C. 1232(i)(2)) is amended--
            (1) by striking ``Subject to'' and inserting the following:
                    ``(A) In general.--Subject to''; and
            (2) by adding at the end the following:
                    ``(B) Excess amounts.--
                            ``(i) In general.--Subject to paragraph 
                        (3), and after all transfers referred to in 
                        subparagraph (A) and paragraph (1) have been 
                        made, any amounts remaining after the 
                        application of paragraph (3)(A) (without regard 
                        to this subparagraph) shall be transferred to 
                        the trustees of the 1974 UMWA Pension Plan and 
                        used solely to pay pension benefits required 
                        under such plan.
                            ``(ii) 1974 umwa pension plan.--For 
                        purposes of this subparagraph, the term `1974 
                        UMWA Pension Plan' means a pension plan 
                        referred to in section 9701(a)(3) of the 
                        Internal Revenue Code of 1986 but without 
                        regard to whether participation in such plan is 
                        limited to individuals who retired in 1976 and 
                        thereafter.''.

SEC. 265. REGULATIONS.

    The Secretary shall promulgate regulations to carry out this 
subtitle.

                  Subtitle B--Workplace Democracy Act

SEC. 271. SHORT TITLE.

    This subtitle may be cited as the ``Workplace Democracy for a Clean 
Energy Future''.

SEC. 272. STREAMLINING CERTIFICATION FOR LABOR ORGANIZATIONS.

    (a) In General.--Section 9(c) of the National Labor Relations Act 
(29 U.S.C. 159(c)) is amended by adding at the end the following:
    ``(6) Notwithstanding any other provision of this section, whenever 
a petition shall have been filed by an employee or group of employees 
or any individual or labor organization acting in their behalf alleging 
that a majority of employees in a unit appropriate for the purposes of 
collective bargaining wish to be represented by an individual or labor 
organization for such purposes, the Board shall investigate the 
petition. If the Board finds that a majority of the employees in a unit 
appropriate for bargaining has signed valid authorizations designating 
the individual or labor organization specified in the petition as their 
bargaining representative and that no other individual or labor 
organization is currently certified or recognized as the exclusive 
representative of any of the employees in the unit, the Board shall not 
direct an election but shall certify the individual or labor 
organization as the representative described in subsection (a).
    ``(7) The Board shall develop guidelines and procedures for the 
designation by employees of a bargaining representative in the manner 
described in paragraph (6). Such guidelines and procedures shall 
include--
            ``(A) model collective bargaining authorization language 
        that may be used for purposes of making the designations 
        described in paragraph (6); and
            ``(B) procedures to be used by the Board to establish the 
        validity of signed authorizations designating bargaining 
        representatives.''.
    (b) Conforming Amendments.--
            (1) National labor relations board.--Section 3(b) of the 
        National Labor Relations Act (29 U.S.C. 153(b)) is amended, in 
        the second sentence--
                    (A) by striking ``and to'' and inserting ``to''; 
                and
                    (B) by striking ``and certify the results 
                thereof,'' and inserting ``, and to issue 
                certifications as provided for in that section,''.
            (2) Unfair labor practices.--Section 8(b) of the National 
        Labor Relations Act (29 U.S.C. 158(b)) is amended--
                    (A) in paragraph (7)(B) by striking ``, or'' and 
                inserting ``or a petition has been filed under section 
                9(c)(6), or''; and
                    (B) in paragraph (7)(C) by striking ``when such a 
                petition has been filed'' and inserting ``when such a 
                petition other than a petition under section 9(c)(6) 
                has been filed''.

SEC. 273. FACILITATING INITIAL COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENTS.

    Section 8 of the National Labor Relations Act (29 U.S.C. 158) is 
amended by adding at the end the following:
    ``(h) Whenever collective bargaining is for the purpose of 
establishing an initial agreement following certification or 
recognition, the provisions of subsection (d) shall be modified as 
follows:
            ``(1) Not later than 10 days after receiving a written 
        request for collective bargaining from an individual or labor 
        organization that has been newly organized or certified as a 
        representative as defined in section 9(a), or within such 
        further period as the parties agree upon, the parties shall 
        meet and commence to bargain collectively and shall make every 
        reasonable effort to conclude and sign a collective bargaining 
        agreement.
            ``(2) If after the expiration of the 90-day period 
        beginning on the date on which bargaining is commenced, or such 
        additional period as the parties may agree upon, the parties 
        have failed to reach an agreement, either party may notify the 
        Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service of the existence of 
        a dispute and request mediation. Whenever such a request is 
        received, it shall be the duty of the Service promptly to put 
        itself in communication with the parties and to use its best 
        efforts, by mediation and conciliation, to bring them to 
        agreement.
            ``(3) If after the expiration of the 30-day period 
        beginning on the date on which the request for mediation is 
        made under paragraph (2), or such additional period as the 
        parties may agree upon, the Service is not able to bring the 
        parties to agreement by conciliation, the Service shall refer 
        the dispute to an arbitration board established in accordance 
        with such regulations as may be prescribed by the Service. The 
        arbitration panel shall render a decision settling the dispute 
        and such decision shall be binding upon the parties for a 
        period of 2 years, unless amended during such period by written 
        consent of the parties.''.

Subtitle C--Community Need-Based Economic Transition Assistance Program

SEC. 281. COMMUNITY NEED-BASED ECONOMIC TRANSITION ASSISTANCE PROGRAM.

    (a) Eligible County Defined.--In this subtitle, the term ``eligible 
county'' means a county or an Indian tribe eligible for assistance 
under this subtitle--
            (1) in which not less than 35 certified adversely affected 
        workers reside; and
            (2) that is certified by the Secretary under subsection 
        (b).
    (b) Certification.--The Secretary shall certify an eligible county 
not later than 20 days after the date on which the Secretary determines 
that at least 35 workers residing in the county are certified adversely 
affected workers.
    (c) Notification.--After the Secretary certifies a county as an 
eligible county under this section, the Secretary shall provide notice 
of the certification--
            (1) to the county government; or
            (2) if the county does not have a county government, to the 
        most localized relevant regional or State government.
    (d) Application.--After the date on which the Secretary certifies a 
county under this section, the county may apply for a grant under each 
of subsections (a) through (c) of section 282 and each of subsections 
(a) through (e) of section 283.

SEC. 282. ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT GRANT PROGRAMS.

    (a) Appalachian Regional Commission.--
            (1) In general.--The Appalachian Regional Commission 
        established by section 14301(a) of title 40, United States Code 
        (referred to in this subsection as the ``Commission''), shall 
        award grants to eligible counties to support economic 
        development planning and implementation activities in those 
        counties, including--
                    (A) developing entrepreneurial ecosystems;
                    (B) facilitating access to capital investments and 
                new markets; and
                    (C) addressing barriers relating to adequate water, 
                sewer, and telecommunications infrastructure.
            (2) Regulations; guidance.--The Commission may issue such 
        regulations and guidance to carry out this subsection as the 
        Commission determines to be necessary.
            (3) Funding.--The Commission shall use to carry out this 
        subsection not more than $40,000,000 for each of fiscal years 
        2016 through 2025 from the Climate Fund.
    (b) Economic Development Administration.--
            (1) In general.--The Assistant Secretary of Commerce for 
        Economic Development (referred to in this subsection as the 
        ``Assistant Secretary'') shall--
                    (A) advance and coordinate regional place-based 
                innovation efforts for the Federal Government; and
                    (B) provide planning and coordination assistance to 
                eligible counties and other Federal agencies to assist 
                in economic development activities under this subtitle.
            (2) Regulations; guidance.--The Assistant Secretary may 
        issue such regulations and guidance to carry out this 
        subsection as the Assistant Secretary determines to be 
        necessary.
            (3) Funding.--The Assistant Secretary shall use to carry 
        out this subsection not more than $10,000,000 for each of 
        fiscal years 2016 through 2025 from the Climate Fund.
    (c) New Development and Jobs in Abandoned Mine Land Communities.--
            (1) In general.--The Director of the Office of Surface 
        Mining Reclamation and Enforcement (referred to in this 
        subsection as the ``Director'') shall award grants to eligible 
        counties for activities relating to the reclamation of 
        abandoned coal mine land sites and associated polluted waters.
            (2) Purpose.--The purpose of the grant program under this 
        subsection is to promote sustainable redevelopment in eligible 
        counties.
            (3) Selection.--The Director shall award grants based on 
        economic factors, including--
                    (A) the unemployment rate in the eligible county;
                    (B) the amount and severity of problems in the 
                eligible county relating to abandoned coal mine land 
                and water problems; and
                    (C) whether, in the determination of the Director, 
                reclamation activities to promote economic development 
                would assist the eligible county.
            (4) Regulations; guidance.--In consultation with States, 
        Indian tribes, and other stakeholders, the Director may issue 
        such regulations and guidance to carry out this subsection as 
        the Director determines to be necessary.
            (5) Funding.--The Director shall use to carry out this 
        subsection not more than $250,000,000 for each of fiscal years 
        2016 through 2025 from the Climate Fund.
    (d) Small Business Administration.--
            (1) In general.--The Administrator of the Small Business 
        Administration shall award grants to members of disadvantaged 
        communities to support entrepreneurial opportunities, such as 
        starting or expanding small businesses or nonprofit 
        organizations that--
                    (A) promote improvements in energy efficiency;
                    (B) design strategies to maximize energy 
                efficiency; and
                    (C) promote--
                            (i) resource conservation and reuse;
                            (ii) the installation or construction of 
                        renewable energy technologies or facilities, 
                        such as wind, wave, solar, and geothermal 
                        energy; and
                            (iii) the effective use of existing 
                        infrastructure in affordable housing and 
                        economic development activities in low-income 
                        communities and disadvantaged communities.
            (2) Regulations; guidance.--The Administrator of the Small 
        Business Administration may issue such regulations and guidance 
        to carry out this subsection as the Administrator of the Small 
        Business Administration determines to be necessary.
            (3) Funding.--The Administrator of the Small Business 
        Administration shall use to carry out this subsection not more 
        than $50,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2018 through 2050 
        from the Climate Fund.

SEC. 283. NEED-BASED WATER, BROADBAND, AND ELECTRIC GRID INFRASTRUCTURE 
              INVESTMENT PROGRAM.

    (a) State Drinking Water Treatment Revolving Loan Funds.--The 
Administrator shall award to eligible counties capitalization grants 
for the purpose of establishing a drinking water treatment revolving 
loan fund under section 1452(a) of the Safe Drinking Water Act (42 
U.S.C. 300j-12(a)).
    (b) Water Infrastructure Finance and Innovation.--The Administrator 
shall provide to eligible counties long-term, low-interest loans for 
large water infrastructure projects that are not eligible for funding 
from a State revolving loan fund, in accordance with the Water 
Infrastructure Finance and Innovation Act of 2014 (33 U.S.C. 3901 et 
seq.).
    (c) Broadband Initiatives Program.--The Secretary of Agriculture 
shall provide to eligible counties loans and loan guarantees under the 
broadband initiatives program established under title VI of the Rural 
Electrification Act of 1936 (7 U.S.C. 950bb et seq.) to expand the 
access to, and quality of, broadband service across the rural United 
States.
    (d) Broadband Technology Opportunities Program.--The Assistant 
Secretary of Commerce for Communications and Information shall award to 
eligible counties grants for purposes of the Broadband Technology 
Opportunities Program established under section 6001(a) of the American 
Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 (47 U.S.C. 1305(a)), including 
providing access to, and improving, broadband service to underserved 
areas of the United States.
    (e) Electric Grid Infrastructure.--The Secretary shall award to 
eligible counties grants for expenses necessary for--
            (1) electricity delivery and energy reliability activities 
        to modernize the electric grid, including activities relating 
        to--
                    (A) demand-responsive equipment;
                    (B) enhanced security and reliability of energy 
                infrastructure;
                    (C) energy storage research, development, 
                demonstration, and deployment;
                    (D) facilitating recovery from disruptions to the 
                energy supply; and
                    (E) high-voltage transmission lines to bring 
                utility-scale hydro, wind, solar, and geothermal 
                generation to demand centers; and
            (2) implementation of the programs authorized under title 
        XIII of the Energy Independence and Security Act of 2007 (42 
        U.S.C. 17381 et seq.).
    (f) Grant and Loan Selection and Management.--
            (1) In general.--In carrying out this section, the 
        Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Assistant 
        Secretary of Commerce for Economic Development and State and 
        local workforce development boards established under sections 
        101 and 107 of the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act (29 
        U.S.C. 3111, 3122), shall determine the percentage of funds 
        made available to allocate to each agency carrying out a loan 
        or grant program under subsections (a) through (e).
            (2) Selection.--To the maximum extent practicable, in 
        selecting grant and loan applicants under this section, the 
        heads of the agencies carrying out the grant and loan programs 
        shall consult and coordinate with the Assistant Secretary of 
        Commerce for Economic Development.
    (g) Funding.--There shall be used to carry out this section from 
the Climate Fund $7,000,000,000 for the period of fiscal years 2016 
through 2025.

                      TITLE III--GREENING THE GRID

                    Subtitle A--Fossil Fuel Phaseout

SEC. 301. FOSSIL FUEL PHASEOUT.

    (a) In General.--Title VI of the Public Utility Regulatory Policies 
Act of 1978 (16 U.S.C. 2601 et seq.) is amended by adding at the end 
the following:

``SEC. 610. FOSSIL FUEL PHASEOUT.

    ``(a) Definitions.--In this section:
            ``(1) Administrator.--The term `Administrator' means the 
        Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency.
            ``(2) Base quantity of electricity.--The term `base 
        quantity of electricity' means the total quantity of electric 
        energy sold by a retail electric supplier, expressed in terms 
        of megawatt hours, to electric customers for purposes other 
        than resale during the most recent calendar year for which 
        information is available.
            ``(3) Fossil fuel energy.--The term `fossil fuel energy' 
        means electric energy generated, in whole or in part, by a 
        fossil fuel resource.
            ``(4) Fossil fuel energy credit.--The term `fossil fuel 
        energy credit' means a credit issued under subsection (f) that 
        represents 1 megawatt hour of fossil fuel energy.
            ``(5) Fossil fuel resource.--The term `fossil fuel 
        resource' means coal, oil, gas, oil shale, or tar sands.
            ``(6) Retail electric supplier.--
                    ``(A) In general.--The term `retail electric 
                supplier' means an entity that sold not less than 1,000 
                megawatt hours of electric energy to electric consumers 
                for purposes other than resale during the preceding 
                calendar year.
                    ``(B) Inclusion.--The term `retail electric 
                supplier' includes an entity that generates not less 
                than 1,000 megawatt hours of electric energy for use by 
                the entity.
            ``(7) Retire.--The term `retire', with respect to a fossil 
        fuel energy credit, means to disqualify the fossil fuel energy 
        credit for any subsequent use under this section, including 
        sale, transfer, exchange, or submission in satisfaction of a 
        compliance obligation.
    ``(b) Compliance.--For calendar year 2022 and each calendar year 
thereafter, each retail electric supplier shall meet the requirements 
of subsections (c) and (d) by submitting to the Administrator, not 
later than April 1 of the following calendar year, as applicable--
            ``(1) for a retail electric supplier that exceeds the 
        maximum allowable percentage of fossil fuel energy generation 
        for the applicable calendar year, as determined under 
        subsection (c), a quantity of fossil fuel energy credits 
        sufficient to offset that excess, as determined and certified 
        by the Administrator; or
            ``(2) for a retail electric supplier that does not exceed 
        the maximum allowable percentage of fossil fuel energy 
        generation for the applicable calendar year, as determined 
        under subsection (c), a certification of that compliance, as 
        the Administrator determines to be appropriate.
    ``(c) Maximum Allowable Annual Percentage of Fossil Fuel Energy 
Sales.--For calendar years 2022 through 2050, in annual increments, the 
maximum annual percentage of the base quantity of electricity of a 
retail electric supplier that may be generated from fossil fuel 
resources, or otherwise credited towards the percentage requirement 
pursuant to subsection (e), shall be the applicable percentage 
specified in the following table:

    ``Maximum Allowable Annual Percentage of Fossil Fuel Energy Sales
------------------------------------------------------------------------
                       Calendar Year                          Percentage
------------------------------------------------------------------------
2022.......................................................         70.0
2023.......................................................         67.5
2024.......................................................         65.0
2025.......................................................         62.5
2026.......................................................         60.0
2027.......................................................         57.5
2028.......................................................         55.0
2029.......................................................         52.5
2030.......................................................         50.0
2031.......................................................         47.5
2032.......................................................         45.0
2033.......................................................         42.5
2034.......................................................         40.0
2035.......................................................         37.5
2036.......................................................         35.0
2037.......................................................         32.5
2038.......................................................         30.0
2039.......................................................         27.5
2040.......................................................         25.0
2041.......................................................         22.5
2042.......................................................         20.0
2043.......................................................         17.5
2044.......................................................         15.0
2045.......................................................         12.5
2046.......................................................         10.0
2047.......................................................          7.5
2048.......................................................          5.0
2049.......................................................          2.5
2050.......................................................         0.0.
------------------------------------------------------------------------

    ``(d) Requirement for 2050 and Thereafter.--For calendar year 2050 
and each calendar year thereafter, a retail electric supplier shall not 
generate or sell any fossil fuel energy.
    ``(e) Fossil Fuel Energy Credits.--
            ``(1) In general.--A retail electric supplier may satisfy 
        the requirements of subsection (b) through the submission of 
        fossil fuel energy credits--
                    ``(A) issued to the retail electric supplier under 
                subsection (f); or
                    ``(B) obtained by purchase, transfer, or exchange 
                under subsection (g), subject to any emissions 
                adjustment under subsection (f)(3)(B).
            ``(2) Limitation.--A fossil fuel energy credit may be 
        counted toward compliance with subsection (b) only once.
    ``(f) Issuance of Fossil Fuel Energy Credits.--
            ``(1) In general.--Not later than 1 year after the date of 
        enactment of this section, the Administrator shall establish by 
        rule a program--
                    ``(A) to verify and issue fossil fuel energy 
                credits to retail electric suppliers;
                    ``(B) to track the sale, transfer, exchange, carry 
                over, and retirement of fossil fuel energy credits; and
                    ``(C) to enforce the requirements of this section.
            ``(2) Application.--
                    ``(A) In general.--To continue selling or 
                generating fossil fuel energy as a retail electric 
                supplier, or otherwise to be issued fossil fuel energy 
                credits, a retail electric supplier shall submit to the 
                Administrator an application for the issuance of fossil 
                fuel energy credits.
                    ``(B) Contents.--The application under subparagraph 
                (A) shall indicate--
                            ``(i) the quantity of electric energy sold 
                        to electric consumers, expressed in megawatt 
                        hours of electric energy, for purposes other 
                        than resale during the preceding calendar year;
                            ``(ii) if applicable--
                                    ``(I) the total quantity of 
                                electric energy generated by the retail 
                                electric supplier for use by the retail 
                                electric supplier;
                                    ``(II) the type and quantity of 
                                each energy resource that is used to 
                                produce any energy sold to electric 
                                consumers or used by the retail 
                                electric supplier; and
                                    ``(III) the location at which the 
                                fossil fuel energy will be produced; 
                                and
                            ``(iii) any other information the 
                        Administrator determines to be appropriate.
            ``(3) Quantity of fossil fuel energy credits.--
                    ``(A) In general.--Subject to subparagraphs (B) 
                through (D), the Administrator shall issue a quantity 
                of fossil fuel energy credits for a calendar year that 
                is equal to the amount by which fossil fuel energy 
                sales have been reduced during the period beginning on 
                January 1, 2000, and ending on December 31 of the 
                preceding calendar year.
                    ``(B) Maximum quantity.--On approval of an 
                application under paragraph (2), the maximum quantity 
                of fossil fuel energy credits that may be issued by the 
                Administrator to any retail electric supplier for a 
                calendar year shall be equal to a quantity of fossil 
                fuel energy credits equal to the difference between--
                            ``(i) the maximum annual percentage of 
                        fossil fuel energy sales, expressed in megawatt 
                        hours, for the applicable calendar year; and
                            ``(ii) the actual quantity, expressed in 
                        megawatt hours, of fossil fuel energy sold by 
                        the retail electric supplier during the 
                        applicable calendar year.
                    ``(C) Emissions adjustment.--
                            ``(i) In general.--The Administrator may 
                        adjust the calculation of the actual quantity 
                        of fossil fuel energy generation by setting 
                        standard emissions factors based on the 
                        lifecycle greenhouse gas emissions of specific 
                        types of fossil fuel energy-generating 
                        facilities.
                            ``(ii) Lifecycle emissions of non-fossil 
                        energy resources.--The Administrator shall--
                                    ``(I) evaluate the lifecycle 
                                emissions of non-fossil energy 
                                resources, including upstream emissions 
                                such as greenhouse gas emissions 
                                associated with mining; and
                                    ``(II) reduce any allocation of 
                                credits on the basis of that lifecycle 
                                evaluation.
                    ``(D) Limitation.--
                            ``(i) In general.--This paragraph applies 
                        only to retail electric suppliers that do not 
                        sell or generate fossil fuel energy in excess 
                        of the maximum allowable annual percentage of 
                        fossil fuel energy generation for the 
                        applicable calendar year, as determined under 
                        subsection (c).
                            ``(ii) Prohibition.--The Administrator may 
                        not issue a fossil fuel energy credit for a 
                        calendar year to any retail electric supplier 
                        that exceeds the maximum allowable annual 
                        percentage of fossil fuel energy sales for that 
                        calendar year.
            ``(4) Credit banking.--A fossil fuel energy credit for any 
        calendar year that is not submitted to comply with the maximum 
        allowable percentage of fossil fuel energy requirement of 
        subsection (c) for that calendar year may be carried forward 
        for use in accordance with this section within the next 5 
        years, but not later than 2049.
    ``(g) Fossil Fuel Energy Credit Trading.--
            ``(1) In general.--A fossil fuel energy credit for any 
        calendar year before 2050 that is not submitted to comply with 
        the maximum allowable percentage of fossil fuel energy 
        requirement of subsection (c) for that calendar year may be 
        sold, transferred, or exchanged by the retail electric supplier 
        to which the fossil fuel energy credit is issued or by any 
        other retail electric supplier that acquires the fossil fuel 
        energy credit.
            ``(2) Limitations.--
                    ``(A) In general.--The sale, transfer, or exchange 
                of fossil fuel energy credits may only occur between 
                retail electric suppliers.
                    ``(B) Rights.--A retail electric supplier shall be 
                the only entity that may obtain legal rights to a 
                fossil fuel energy credit.
                    ``(C) Hotspots.--The Administrator shall--
                            ``(i) evaluate trading to determine if 
                        trading results in the unsafe concentration of 
                        pollution in any area to any population; and
                            ``(ii) if any unsafe concentration of 
                        pollution is identified, halt the sale of 
                        credits to entities--
                                    ``(I) within the identified area; 
                                or
                                    ``(II) that purchase electricity 
                                from a facility that would exacerbate 
                                pollution in the identified area, as 
                                determined by the Administrator.
            ``(3) Delegation.--The Administrator may delegate to an 
        appropriate market-making entity the administration of a 
        national tradeable fossil fuel energy credit market for 
        purposes of creating a transparent national market for the sale 
        or trade of fossil fuel energy credits.
    ``(h) Fossil Fuel Energy Credit Retirement.--
            ``(1) In general.--Any retail electric supplier that 
        obtains legal rights to a fossil fuel energy credit may retire 
        the fossil fuel energy credit in any calendar year.
            ``(2) Use of retired fossil fuel energy credit.--A fossil 
        fuel energy credit retired under paragraph (1) may not be used 
        for compliance with subsection (b) in--
                    ``(A) the calendar year in which the fossil fuel 
                energy credit is retired; or
                    ``(B) any subsequent calendar year.
    ``(i) Information Collection.--The Administrator may collect the 
information necessary to verify and audit--
            ``(1) the annual fossil fuel energy sales or generation of 
        any retail electric supplier;
            ``(2) a fossil fuel energy credit submitted by a retail 
        electric supplier pursuant to subsection (b)(1);
            ``(3) the validity of a fossil fuel energy credit submitted 
        for compliance by a retail electric supplier to the 
        Administrator; and
            ``(4) the quantity of electricity sales of all retail 
        electric suppliers.
    ``(j) State Programs.--
            ``(1) In general.--Nothing in this section diminishes any 
        authority of a State or political subdivision of a State--
                    ``(A) to adopt or enforce any law (including 
                regulations) respecting electricity; or
                    ``(B) to regulate an electric utility.
            ``(2) Compliance with section.--No law or regulation of a 
        State or political subdivision of a State shall relieve any 
        electric utility from compliance with any requirement otherwise 
        applicable under this section.
    ``(k) Regulations.--Not later than 1 year after the date of 
enactment of this section, the Administrator shall promulgate 
regulations to implement this section.
    ``(l) Enforcement.--
            ``(1) Civil penalty.--
                    ``(A) In general.--A retail electric supplier that 
                fails to comply with subsection (b) shall be liable for 
                a civil penalty, assessed by the Administrator, in an 
                amount that is equal to twice the average value of the 
                aggregate quantity of fossil fuel energy credits that 
                the retail electric supplier failed to submit in 
                violation of that subsection, as determined by the 
                Administrator.
                    ``(B) Enforcement.--The Administrator shall assess 
                any civil penalty under subparagraph (A).
                    ``(C) Deposit.--With respect to any civil penalty 
                paid to the Administrator pursuant to subparagraph (A), 
                the Administrator shall deposit the amount in the 
                Climate Fund established by section 702(a) of the 100 
                by '50 Act.
            ``(2) Injunction.--After calendar year 2050, the 
        Administrator may issue an injunction on the purchase or 
        generation of fossil fuel energy by a retail electric 
        supplier.''.
    (b) Table of Contents Amendment.--The table of contents of the 
Public Utility Regulatory Policies Act of 1978 (16 U.S.C. prec. 2601) 
is amended by adding at the end of the items relating to title VI the 
following:

``Sec. 609. Rural and remote communities electrification grants.
``Sec. 610. Fossil fuel phaseout.''.

                 Subtitle B--Enhancing Grid Reliability

SEC. 311. ENHANCING GRID RELIABILITY.

    (a) Energy Storage and Dispatchable Energy Grant Program.--
            (1) Establishment.--The Secretary shall establish a 
        competitive grant program for utility-scale demonstration 
        projects for energy storage and dispatchable concentrated solar 
        thermal, geothermal, and ocean power energy technologies, or 
        other emerging dispatchable technologies, as identified by the 
        Secretary.
            (2) Federal cost share.--The Secretary may provide a grant 
        under this subsection in an amount that is equal to not more 
        than 20 percent of the total costs incurred in connection with 
        the development, construction, acquisition of components for, 
        or engineering of a demonstration project referred to in 
        paragraph (1).
            (3) No ownership interest.--The United States shall hold no 
        equity or other ownership interest in a qualified advanced 
        electric transmission manufacturing plant or qualified advanced 
        electric transmission property for which funds are provided 
        under this subsection.
            (4) Funding.--The Secretary shall use to carry out this 
        subsection not more than $10,000,000,000 for each fiscal year 
        from the Climate Fund.
    (b) Interstate Competitive Renewable Energy Zones.--The Federal 
Power Act is amended by inserting after section 216 (16 U.S.C. 824p) 
the following:

``SEC. 216A. INTERSTATE COMPETITIVE RENEWABLE ENERGY ZONES.

    ``(a) Purposes.--The purposes of this section are--
            ``(1) to provide greater certainty for--
                    ``(A) renewable energy project developers by 
                encouraging preconstruction capacity commitments by 
                transmitting utilities; and
                    ``(B) transmitting utilities by encouraging 
                preconstruction financial commitments from project 
                developers; and
            ``(2) to expedite transmission and renewable energy 
        generation projects through Federal permitting processes.
    ``(b) Definitions.--In this section:
            ``(1) Commission.--The term `Commission' means the Federal 
        Energy Regulatory Commission.
            ``(2) Renewable energy project developer.--The term 
        `renewable energy project developer' means an entity that is 
        responsible for siting renewable energy generation projects, as 
        identified by the Commission.
            ``(3) Secretary.--The term `Secretary' means the Secretary 
        of Energy.
            ``(4) Zone.--The term `zone' means an interstate 
        competitive renewable energy zone established under subsection 
        (c)(1).
    ``(c) Renewable Energy Zones.--
            ``(1) Establishment.--Not later than 180 days after the 
        date of conclusion of the consultation required under paragraph 
        (2), after providing public notice and an opportunity to 
        comment, the Commission, in coordination with the Secretary, 
        shall establish zones, to be known as `interstate competitive 
        renewable energy zones', in accordance with the purposes 
        described in subsection (a)--
                    ``(A) to expedite--
                            ``(i) the construction of interstate 
                        transmission facilities; and
                            ``(ii) transmission facilities crossing 2 
                        or more grid interconnections; and
                    ``(B) to facilitate the deployment of renewable 
                energy resources in areas in which renewable energy 
                resources and suitable land areas are sufficient to 
                develop generating capacity.
            ``(2) Consultation.--During the 2-year period beginning on 
        the date of enactment of this section, the Commission, in 
        coordination with the Secretary and the heads of other relevant 
        Federal agencies, shall carry out appropriate consultation with 
        States and Indian tribes (or any entity designated by a State 
        or Indian tribe), Federal power marketing agencies, 
        Transmission Organizations, transmitting utilities, and 
        renewable energy project developers with respect to identifying 
        appropriate locations for zones--
                    ``(A) in accordance with the purposes described in 
                paragraph (1);
                    ``(B) taking into consideration reliability, 
                congestion, cybersecurity, environmental impact, and 
                cost effectiveness; and
                    ``(C) in a manner that ensures that the processing 
                and permitting of renewable energy facilities and 
                transmission facilities comply with applicable 
                requirements of Federal law.
            ``(3) Identification of grid-planning entities.--Not later 
        than 90 days after the date of conclusion of the consultation 
        required under paragraph (2), any entity described in that 
        paragraph that intends to support the purposes described in 
        subsection (a) in the grid planning activities of the entity 
        shall submit to the Commission a notice of that intent.
    ``(d) Preconstruction Commitments.--Not later than 90 days after 
the date of establishment of the zones under subsection (c)(1), the 
Commission, in coordination with each relevant grid-planning entity 
identified under subsection (c)(3), shall solicit participation of, and 
convene, interested stakeholders within each zone for purposes of--
            ``(1) construction planning; and
            ``(2) encouraging--
                    ``(A) financial commitments by renewable energy 
                project developers to transmitting utilities; and
                    ``(B) commitments of transmission access by 
                transmitting utilities to renewable energy project 
                developers.
    ``(e) Construction Planning.--Not later than 180 days after the 
date of establishment of the zones under subsection (c)(1), the 
Commission, in coordination with each relevant grid-planning entity 
identified under subsection (c)(3), shall develop a plan for each zone 
relating to construction of the transmission capacity necessary to 
deliver to electric customers, in a manner that is most beneficial and 
cost-effective to the customers, the renewable electricity generation 
capacity within the zone.
    ``(f) Coordination With State and Regional Planning Processes.--The 
Commission shall provide support for, and may participate as requested 
in, State and regional grid planning processes that, as determined by 
the Commission, will expedite the construction of intrastate 
transmission lines to facilitate the deployment of renewable energy 
resources.''.

        Subtitle C--Making Clean and Renewable Energy Affordable

PART I--REDUCING CARBON POLLUTION AND CREATING JOBS BY TRANSITIONING TO 
                       SUSTAINABLE ENERGY SOURCES

SEC. 321. EXTENSION AND MODIFICATION OF CREDITS WITH RESPECT TO 
              FACILITIES PRODUCING ENERGY FROM CERTAIN RENEWABLE 
              RESOURCES.

    (a) Permanent Extension for Certain Facilities.--Section 45(d) of 
the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (4), by striking ``and which'' and all 
        that follows through the period and inserting the following: 
        ``and, in the case of a facility using solar energy, which is 
        placed in service before January 1, 2006.'',
            (2) in paragraph (6), by striking ``and the construction of 
        which begins before January 1, 2017'',
            (3) in paragraph (7), by striking ``and the construction of 
        which begins before January 1, 2017'',
            (4) in paragraph (9)(A)--
                    (A) in clause (i), by striking ``and before January 
                1, 2017'', and
                    (B) in clause (ii), by striking ``and the 
                construction of which begins before January 1, 2017'', 
                and
            (5) in paragraph (11)(B), by striking ``and the 
        construction of which begins before January 1, 2017''.
    (b) Extension for Wind Facilities.--
            (1) In general.--Section 45(d)(1) of the Internal Revenue 
        Code of 1986 is amended by striking ``January 1, 2020'' and 
        inserting ``January 1, 2034''.
            (2) Modification of phaseout.--Paragraph (5) of section 
        45(b) of such Code is amended--
                    (A) by striking ``and'' at the end of subparagraph 
                (B),
                    (B) by striking ``January 1, 2020, 60 percent.'' in 
                subparagraph (C) and inserting ``January 1, 2031, 60 
                percent, and'', and
                    (C) by adding at the end the following new 
                subparagraph:
                    ``(D) in the case of any facility the construction 
                of which begins after December 31, 2030, and before 
                January 1, 2034, 80 percent.''.
    (c) Extension of Election To Treat Qualified Facilities Other Than 
Biomass Facilities as Energy Property.--
            (1) In general.--Section 48(a)(5)(C) of the Internal 
        Revenue Code of 1986 is amended--
                    (A) by striking ``and the construction of which 
                begins before January 1, 2017 (January 1, 2020, in the 
                case of any facility which is described in paragraph 
                (1) of section 45(d))'' in clause (ii), and
                    (B) by adding at the end the following new flush 
                sentence:
                ``Such term shall not include any facility described in 
                section 45(d)(1) the construction of which begins after 
                December 31, 2033.''.
            (2) Exclusion of biomass facilities.--Clause (i) of section 
        48(a)(5)(C) of such Code is amended by striking ``(2), (3),''.
            (3) Modification of phaseout percentage for wind 
        facilities.--Subparagraph (E) of section 48(a)(5) of such Code 
        is amended--
                    (A) by striking ``and'' at the end of clause (ii),
                    (B) by striking ``January 1, 2020, 60 percent.'' in 
                clause (iii) and inserting ``January 1, 2031, 60 
                percent, and'', and
                    (C) by adding at the end the following new clause:
                            ``(d) in the case of any facility the 
                        construction of which begins after December 31, 
                        2030, and before January 1, 2034, 80 
                        percent.''.
    (d) Effective Dates.--The amendments made by this section shall 
take effect on January 1, 2017.

SEC. 322. EXTENSION AND MODIFICATION OF ENERGY CREDIT.

    (a) Permanent Extension for Certain Property.--Section 48 of the 
Internal Revenue Code of 1986 is amended--
            (1) in subsection (a)(3)(A)--
                    (A) in clause (ii), by striking ``but only with 
                respect to periods ending before January 1, 2017'', and
                    (B) in clause (vii), by striking ``, but only with 
                respect to periods ending before January 1, 2017'', and
            (2) in subsection (c)--
                    (A) in paragraph (1), by striking subparagraph (D),
                    (B) in paragraph (2), by striking subparagraph (D),
                    (C) in paragraph (3)(A), by inserting ``and'' at 
                the end of clause (ii), by striking ``, and'' at the 
                end of clause (iii) and inserting a period, and by 
                striking clause (iv), and
                    (D) in paragraph (4), by striking subparagraph (C).
    (b) Solar Energy Property.--
            (1) Extension.--Section 48(a)(2)(A)(i)(II) of the Internal 
        Revenue Code of 1986 is amended by striking ``January 1, 2022'' 
        and inserting ``January 1, 2034''.
            (2) Modification of phaseout.--Subparagraph (A) of section 
        48(a)(6) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 is amended--
                    (A) by striking ``and'' at the end of clause (i),
                    (B) by striking ``January 1, 2022, 22 percent.'' in 
                clause (ii) and inserting ``January 1, 2030, 22 
                percent'', and
                    (C) by adding at the end the following new clauses:
                            ``(i) in the case of any facility the 
                        construction of which begins after December 31, 
                        2030, and before January 1, 2032, 18 percent, 
                        and
                            ``(ii) in the case of any facility the 
                        construction of which begins after December 31, 
                        2031, and before January 1, 2034, 14 
                        percent.''.
    (c) Extension of 30-Percent Investment Credit for Offshore Wind 
Energy Facilities.--
            (1) In general.--
                    (A) In general.--Clause (i) of section 48(a)(2)(A) 
                of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 is amended by 
                striking ``and'' at the end of subclause (IV) and by 
                adding at the end the following new subclause:
                                    ``(V) qualified offshore wind 
                                energy property, and''.
                    (B) Qualified offshore wind energy property 
                defined.--Subsection (c) of section 48 of such Code is 
                amended by adding at the end the following new 
                paragraph:
            ``(5) Qualified offshore wind energy property.--
                    ``(A) In general.--The term `qualified offshore 
                wind energy property' means property which is part of a 
                qualified offshore wind facility.
                    ``(B) Qualified offshore wind facility.--For 
                purposes of subparagraph (A), the term `qualified 
                offshore wind facility' means any facility which--
                            ``(i) uses wind to generate electricity, 
                        and
                            ``(ii) is located in--
                                    ``(I) the inland navigable waters 
                                of the United States, including the 
                                Great Lakes, or
                                    ``(II) the coastal waters of the 
                                United States, including the 
                                territorial seas of the United States, 
                                the exclusive economic zone of the 
                                United States, and the outer 
                                Continental Shelf of the United 
                                States.''.
                    (C) Conforming amendment.--Subparagraph (A) of 
                section 48(a)(3) of such Code is amended by striking 
                ``or'' at the end of clause (vi), by inserting ``or'' 
                at the end of clause (vii), and by adding at the end 
                the following new clause:
                            ``(viii) qualified offshore wind energy 
                        property,''.
                    (D) Coordination with credit for other wind 
                facilities.--Section 48(a)(5)(C) of such Code is 
                amended by adding at the end the following new 
                sentence:
                ``Such term shall not include any facility which is a 
                qualified offshore wind facility (as defined in 
                subsection (c)(5)).''.
    (d) Limitation on Credit for Onshore Wind Facilities.--Subparagraph 
(A) of section 48(a)(5) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 is amended 
to read as follows:
                    ``(E) Limitation for onshore wind facilities.--In 
                the case of a qualified investment credit facility 
                described in section 45(d)(1), the credit otherwise 
                determined under the section with respect to qualified 
                property which is part of such facility shall not 
                exceed an amount equal to $200 for each kilowatt hour 
                of capacity of such facility.''.
    (e) Credit for Qualified Electrical Transmission Property.--
            (1) In general.--Section 48(a)(3)(A) of the Internal 
        Revenue Code of 1986 is amended by adding at the end the 
        following:
                            ``(viii) qualified electrical transmission 
                        property.''.
            (2) Qualified electrical transmission property.--Section 
        48(c) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended by 
        subsection (c), is amended by adding at the end the following 
        new paragraph:
            ``(6) Qualified electrical transmission property.--The term 
        `qualified electrical transmission property' means an 
        interstate electrical transmission system, including 
        technologies listed in section 1223 of the Energy Policy Act of 
        2005, which is capable of carrying or transmitting at least 69 
        kilovolts.''.
    (f) Effective Date.--The amendments made by this section shall 
apply to property placed in service in taxable year beginning after the 
date of the enactment of this Act.
    (g) Effective Date.--The amendments made by this section shall 
apply to periods after December 31, 2016, under rules similar to the 
rules of section 48(m) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 (as in 
effect on the day before the date of the enactment of the Revenue 
Reconciliation Act of 1990).

SEC. 323. PERMANENT EXTENSION OF QUALIFYING ADVANCED ENERGY PROJECT 
              CREDIT.

    (a) In General.--Section 48C(d)(1)(B) of the Internal Revenue Code 
of 1986 is amended--
            (1) by inserting ``in any calendar year'' after ``allocated 
        under the program'', and
            (2) by striking ``$2,300,000,000'' and inserting 
        ``$1,000,000,000''.
    (b) Conforming Amendments.--
            (1) Section 48C(d)(2)(A) of such Code is amended by 
        striking ``during the 2-year period beginning on the date the 
        Secretary establishes the program under paragraph (1)''.
            (2) Section 48C(d)(4) of such Code is amended by striking 
        subparagraphs (A) and (B) and inserting the following:
                    ``(A) Review.--Not later than 4 years after the 
                close of any calendar year for which allocations were 
                made under this section, the Secretary shall review the 
                credits allocated under this section for such calendar 
                year.
                    ``(B) Redistribution.--The Secretary may reallocate 
                credits awarded under this section for a calendar year 
                if the Secretary determines that any certification made 
                pursuant to paragraph (2) has been revoked pursuant to 
                paragraph (2)(B) because the project subject to the 
                certification has been delayed as a result of third-
                party opposition or litigation to the proposed 
                project.''.
            (3) Section 48C(d)(4)(C) of such Code is amended by 
        striking ``the Secretary is authorized to conduct an additional 
        program for applications for certification'' and inserting 
        ``notwithstanding paragraph (2)(A), the Secretary is authorized 
        to accept additional applications for certification with 
        respect to such amounts.''.

SEC. 324. PROMOTING ACCESS TO RENEWABLE ENERGY AND ENERGY EFFICIENCY 
              FOR TAX-EXEMPT ORGANIZATIONS.

    (a) In General.--Upon application, the Secretary of the Treasury 
shall, subject to the requirements of this section, provide a grant to 
each eligible entity who places in service specified energy property to 
reimburse such person for a portion of the expense of such property as 
provided in subsection (b). No grant shall be made under this section 
with respect to any property unless such property is placed in service 
after 2016.
    (b) Grant Amount.--
            (1) In general.--The amount of the grant under subsection 
        (a) with respect to any specified energy property shall be the 
        applicable percentage of the basis of such property.
            (2) Applicable percentage.--For purposes of paragraph (1), 
        the term ``applicable percentage'' means--
                    (A) 30 percent in the case of any property 
                described in paragraphs (1) through (4) of subsection 
                (d), and
                    (B) 10 percent in the case of any other property.
            (3) Limitations.--In the case of property described in 
        paragraph (1), (2), (3), (6), or (7) of subsection (d), the 
        amount of any grant under this section with respect to such 
        property shall not exceed the limitation described in section 
        48(a)(5)(E), 48(a)(6), 48(c)(1)(B), 48(c)(2)(B), or 48(c)(3)(B) 
        of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, respectively, with 
        respect to such property.
    (c) Time for Payment of Grant.--The Secretary of the Treasury shall 
make payment of any grant under subsection (a) during the 60-day period 
beginning on the later of--
            (1) the date of the application for such grant, or
            (2) the date the specified energy property for which the 
        grant is being made is placed in service.
    (d) Specified Energy Property.--For purposes of this section, the 
term ``specified energy property'' means any of the following:
            (1) Qualified facilities.--Any qualified property (as 
        defined in section 48(a)(5)(D) of the Internal Revenue Code of 
        1986) which is part of a qualified facility (within the meaning 
        of section 45 of such Code) described in paragraph (1), (4), 
        (6), (7), (9), or (11) of section 45(d) of such Code.
            (2) Qualified fuel cell property.--Any qualified fuel cell 
        property (as defined in section 48(c)(1) of such Code).
            (3) Solar property.--Any property described in clause (i) 
        or (ii) of section 48(a)(3)(A) of such Code.
            (4) Qualified small wind energy property.--Any qualified 
        small wind energy property (as defined in section 48(c)(4) of 
        such Code).
            (5) Geothermal property.--Any property described in clause 
        (iii) of section 48(a)(3)(A) of such Code.
            (6) Qualified microturbine property.--Any qualified 
        microturbine property (as defined in section 48(c)(2) of such 
        Code).
            (7) Combined heat and power system property.--Any combined 
        heat and power system property (as defined in section 48(c)(3) 
        of such Code).
            (8) Geothermal heat pump property.--Any property described 
        in clause (vii) of section 48(a)(3)(A) of such Code.
Such term shall not include any property unless depreciation (or 
amortization in lieu of depreciation) is allowable with respect to such 
property.
    (e) Application of Certain Rules.--In making grants under this 
section, the Secretary of the Treasury shall apply rules similar to the 
rules of section 50 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 (other than 
subsection (b)(3) thereof). In applying such rules, if the property is 
disposed of, or otherwise ceases to be specified energy property, the 
Secretary of the Treasury shall provide for the recapture of the 
appropriate percentage of the grant amount in such manner as the 
Secretary of the Treasury determines appropriate.
    (f) Eligible Entity.--For purposes of this section, the term 
``eligible entity'' means any organization described in section 501(c) 
of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 and exempt from tax under section 
501(a) of such Code.
    (g) Definitions.--Terms used in this section which are also used in 
section 45 or 48 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 shall have the 
same meaning for purposes of this section as when used in such section 
45 or 48. Any reference in this section to the Secretary of the 
Treasury shall be treated as including the Secretary's delegate.
    (h) Appropriations.--There is hereby appropriated to the Secretary 
of the Treasury such sums as may be necessary to carry out this 
section.

  PART II--SAVING CONSUMERS AND BUSINESSES MONEY BY PROMOTING ENERGY 
                               EFFICIENCY

SEC. 326. PERMANENT EXTENSION OF ENERGY EFFICIENT COMMERCIAL BUILDINGS 
              DEDUCTION.

    (a) In General.--Section 179D of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 
is amended by striking subsection (h).
    (b) Update of Standard.--
            (1) In general.--Section 179D of the Internal Revenue Code 
        of 1986 is amended by striking ``Standard 90.1-2007'' each 
        place it appears and inserting ``the applicable ASHRAE 
        standard''.
            (2) Applicable ashrae standard.--Section 179D(c)(2) of such 
        Code is amended to read as follows:
            ``(2) Applicable ashrae standard.--The term `applicable 
        ASHRAE standard' means--
                    ``(A) Standard 90.1-2013 of the American Society of 
                Heating, Refrigerating, and Air Conditioning Engineers 
                and the Illuminating Engineering Society of North 
                America, or
                    ``(B) in the case of any subsequent standard 
                adopted by the American Society of Heating, 
                Refrigerating, and Air Conditioning Engineers which 
                supersedes the standard described in subparagraph (A), 
                such subsequent standard.''.
    (c) Effective Date.--The amendments made by this section shall 
apply to property placed in service after December 31, 2016.

SEC. 327. PERMANENT EXTENSION OF NEW ENERGY EFFICIENT HOME CREDIT.

    (a) In General.--Section 45L of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 
is amended by striking subsection (g).
    (b) Update of Standard.--
            (1) In general.--Section 45L of the Internal Revenue Code 
        of 1986 is amended by striking ``the standards of chapter 4 of 
        the 2006 International Energy Conservation Code, as such Code 
        (including supplements) is in effect on January 1, 2006'' each 
        place it appears and inserting ``the applicable standards''.
            (2) Applicable standards.--Section 45L of such Code, as 
        amended by subsection (a), is amended by adding at the end the 
        following new subsection:
    ``(g) Applicable Standards.--For purposes of this section, the term 
`applicable standards' means, with respect to any dwelling unit, the 
standards in effect for residential building energy efficiency under 
the International Energy Conservation Code on the first day of the 
taxable year in which construction for the dwelling unit commenced.''.
    (c) Effective Date.--The amendments made by this section shall 
apply to homes acquired after December 31, 2016.

SEC. 328. PERMANENT EXTENSION AND REFUNDABILITY OF CREDIT FOR 
              NONBUSINESS ENERGY PROPERTY.

    (a) Permanent Extension.--Section 25C of the Internal Revenue Code 
of 1986 is amended by striking subsection (g).
    (b) Update of Standards.--
            (1) Qualified energy efficiency improvements.--
                    (A) In general.--Section 25C(c)(2)(C) of the 
                Internal Revenue Code of 1986 is amended by striking 
                ``the prescriptive criteria for such component 
                established by the 2009 International Energy 
                Conservation Code, as such Code (including supplements) 
                is in effect on the date of the enactment of the 
                American Recovery and Reinvestment Tax Act of 2009'' 
                and inserting ``the applicable IECC standards''.
                    (B) Applicable iecc standards.--Section 25C(c) of 
                such Code is amended by adding at the end the following 
                new paragraph:
            ``(5) Applicable iecc standards.--For purposes of this 
        section, the term `applicable IECC standards' means, with 
        respect to any building envelope component, the prescriptive 
        criteria for such component in effect under the International 
        Energy Conservation Code on the first day of the taxable year 
        for which the credit is allowed.''.
            (2) Energy efficient property.--
                    (A) Heat pumps and air conditioners.--
                            (i) In general.--Section 25C(d)(3) of the 
                        Internal Revenue Code of 1986 is amended by 
                        striking ``the Consortium for Energy 
                        Efficiency, as in effect on January 1, 2009'' 
                        each place it appears and inserting ``the 
                        applicable CEE standards''.
                            (ii) Applicable cee standards.--Section 
                        25C(d) of such Code is amended by adding at the 
                        end the following new paragraph:
            ``(7) Applicable cee standards.--For purposes of this 
        section, the term `applicable CEE standards' means, with 
        respect to any property, the standards established by the 
        Consortium for Energy Efficiency that are in effect for such 
        property on the first day of the taxable year for which the 
        credit is allowed.''.
                    (B) Other energy efficient building property.--
                Paragraph (3) of section 25C(d) of such Code is 
                amended--
                            (i) in subparagraph (A), by inserting ``and 
                        meets Energy Star program certification 
                        requirements as of the first day of the taxable 
                        year in which the property placed in service'' 
                        after ``procedure'',
                            (ii) in subparagraph (C), by inserting 
                        ``and meets Energy Star program certification 
                        requirements as of the first day of the taxable 
                        year in which the property placed in service'' 
                        after ``90 percent'', and
                            (iii) in subparagraph (E)--
                                    (I) by striking ``and which'' and 
                                inserting ``which'', and
                                    (II) by inserting ``, and which 
                                meets Energy Star program certification 
                                requirements as of the first day of the 
                                taxable year in which the property 
                                placed in service'' after ``75 
                                percent''.
                    (C) Furnaces and hot water boilers.--Paragraph (4) 
                of section 25C(d) of such Code is amended by inserting 
                ``and meets Energy Star program certification 
                requirements as of the first day of the taxable year in 
                which the property placed in service'' after ``95''.
                    (D) Advanced main air circulating fans.--Paragraph 
                (5) of section 25C(d) of such Code is amended--
                            (i) by striking ``and which'' and inserting 
                        ``, which'', and
                            (ii) by inserting ``, and which meets 
                        Energy Star program certification requirements 
                        as of the first day of the taxable year in 
                        which the property placed in service'' after 
                        ``test procedures)''.
    (c) Credit Made Refundable.--
            (1) Credit moved to subpart relating to refundable 
        credits.--The Internal Revenue Code of 1986 is amended--
                    (A) by redesignating section 25C as section 36C, 
                and
                    (B) by moving section 36C (as amended by 
                subsections (a) and (b) and as redesignated by 
                subparagraph (A)) from subpart A of part IV of 
                subchapter A of chapter 1 to the location immediately 
                before section 37 in subpart C of part IV of subchapter 
                A of chapter 1.
            (2) Conforming amendments.--
                    (A) Section 1016(a)(33) of such Code is amended--
                            (i) by striking ``section 25C(f)'' and 
                        inserting ``section 36C(f)'', and
                            (ii) by striking ``under section 25C'' and 
                        inserting ``under section 36C''.
                    (B) The table of sections for subpart A of part IV 
                of subchapter A of chapter 1 of such Code is amended by 
                striking the item relating to section 25C.
                    (C) Paragraph (2) of section 1324(b) of title 31, 
                United States Code, is amended by inserting ``36C,'' 
                after ``36B,''.
                    (D) The table of sections for subpart C of part IV 
                of subchapter A of chapter 1 of the Internal Revenue 
                Code of 1986 is amended by inserting after the item 
                relating to section 36B the following new item:

``36C. Nonbusiness energy property.''.
    (d) Effective Date.--The amendments made by this section shall 
apply to property placed in service after December 31, 2016.

SEC. 329. PERMANENT EXTENSION, MODIFICATION, AND REFUNDABILITY OF 
              CREDIT FOR RESIDENTIAL ENERGY EFFICIENT PROPERTY.

    (a) Permanent Extension.--Section 25D of the Internal Revenue Code 
of 1986 is amended by striking subsection (h).
    (b) Maintenance of Phaseout Percentage for Certain Solar 
Property.--Paragraph (3) of section 25D(g) of the Internal Revenue Code 
of 1986 is amended by striking ``and before January 1, 2022,''.
    (c) Credit Allowed for Energy Storage Property.--
            (1) In general.--Section 25D(a) of the Internal Revenue 
        Code of 1986 is amended by adding at the end the following new 
        paragraph:
            ``(6) 30 percent of the qualified energy storage property 
        expenditures made by the taxpayer during the taxable year.''.
            (2) Qualified energy storage property expenditures.--
        Section 25D(d) of such Code is amended by adding at the end the 
        following new paragraph:
            ``(6) Qualified energy storage property expenditure.--The 
        term `qualified energy storage property expenditure' means an 
        expenditure for property--
                    ``(A) which is--
                            ``(i) located in a dwelling unit located in 
                        the United States and used by the taxpayer as a 
                        residence,
                            ``(ii) directly connected to the electrical 
                        grid, and
                            ``(iii) designed to receive electrical 
                        energy, to store such energy, and--
                                    ``(I) to convert such energy to 
                                electricity and deliver such 
                                electricity for sale, or
                                    ``(II) to use such energy to 
                                provide improved reliability or 
                                economic benefits to the grid, or
                    ``(B) which is--
                            ``(i) part of a dwelling unit located in 
                        the United States which is--
                                    ``(I) connected to the electrical 
                                grid, and
                                    ``(II) used by the taxpayer as a 
                                residence,
                            ``(ii) connected to--
                                    ``(I) qualified solar electric 
                                property, or
                                    ``(II) qualified small wind energy 
                                property, and
                            ``(iii) designed to receive electrical 
                        energy, store such energy, and to convert such 
                        energy to electricity for use by the 
                        taxpayer.''.
    (d) Credit Made Refundable.--
            (1) Credit moved to subpart relating to refundable 
        credits.--The Internal Revenue Code of 1986 is amended--
                    (A) by redesignating section 25D as section 36D, 
                and
                    (B) by moving section 36D (as amended by 
                subsections (a) and (b) and as redesignated by 
                subparagraph (A)) from subpart A of part IV of 
                subchapter A of chapter 1 to the location immediately 
                before section 37 in subpart C of part IV of subchapter 
                A of chapter 1 (as amended by section 323).
            (2) Conforming amendments.--
                    (A) Section 36C(e)(1) of the Internal Revenue Code 
                of 1986 (as redesignated by section 323) is amended by 
                striking ``25D(e)'' and inserting ``36D(e)''.
                    (B) Section 45(d)(1) of such Code is amended by 
                striking ``section 25D'' and inserting ``section 36D''.
                    (C) Section 1016(a)(34) of such Code is amended--
                            (i) by striking ``section 25D(f)'' and 
                        inserting ``section 36D(f)'', and
                            (ii) by striking ``under section 25D'' and 
                        inserting ``under section 36D''.
                    (D) The table of sections for subpart A of part IV 
                of subchapter A of chapter 1 of such Code is amended by 
                striking the item relating to section 25D.
                    (E) Paragraph (2) of section 1324(b) of title 31, 
                United States Code, as amended by this Act, is amended 
                by inserting ``36D,'' after ``36C,''.
                    (F) The table of sections for subpart C of part IV 
                of subchapter A of chapter 1 of the Internal Revenue 
                Code of 1986, as amended by this Act, is amended by 
                inserting after the item relating to section 36C the 
                following new item:

``36D. Residential energy efficient property.''.
    (e) Effective Date.--The amendments made by this section shall 
apply to property placed in service after December 31, 2016.

               TITLE IV--ELECTRIFYING THE ENERGY ECONOMY

                     Subtitle A--General Provisions

SEC. 401. NATIONAL ZERO-EMISSION VEHICLE STANDARD.

    (a) National Zero-Emission Vehicle Standard.--Part A of title II of 
the Clean Air Act (42 U.S.C. 7521 et seq.) is amended by adding at the 
end the following:

``SEC. 220. NATIONAL ZERO-EMISSION VEHICLE STANDARD.

    ``(a) Definitions.--In this section:
            ``(1) Base quantity of new motor vehicle sales.--The term 
        `base quantity of new motor vehicle sales' means the total 
        quantity of new motor vehicles sold by a vehicle manufacturer 
        during the most recent calendar year.
            ``(2) Hybrid electric vehicle.--The term `hybrid electric 
        vehicle' means a new qualified hybrid motor vehicle (as defined 
        in section 30B(d)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986).
            ``(3) Retire.--The term `retire', with respect to a zero-
        emission vehicle credit, means to disqualify the zero-emission 
        vehicle credit for any subsequent use under this section, 
        including sale, transfer, exchange, or submission in 
        satisfaction of a compliance obligation.
            ``(4) Vehicle manufacturer.--
                    ``(A) In general.--The term `vehicle manufacturer' 
                means an entity that--
                            ``(i) engaged in the manufacturing of new 
                        motor vehicles; and
                            ``(ii) sold not fewer than 100 new motor 
                        vehicles to ultimate purchasers, either 
                        directly or through an affiliate, such as a 
                        dealer.
                    ``(B) Exclusions.--The term `vehicle manufacturer' 
                does not include--
                            ``(i) a motor vehicle parts supplier; or
                            ``(ii) a dealer.
            ``(5) Zero-emission vehicle.--The term `zero-emission 
        vehicle' means a motor vehicle that produces zero exhaust 
        emissions of any criteria pollutant, precursor pollutant, or 
        greenhouse gas in any mode of operation or condition, as 
        determined by the Administrator.
    ``(b) Compliance.--For calendar year 2030 and each calendar year 
thereafter, each vehicle manufacturer shall meet the requirements of 
subsections (c) and (d) by submitting to the Administrator, not later 
than April 1 of the following calendar year, as applicable--
            ``(1) for a vehicle manufacturer that fails to meet the 
        minimum required percentage of new zero-emission vehicle sales 
        for the applicable calendar year, as determined under 
        subsection (c), a quantity of zero-emission vehicle credits 
        sufficient to offset that excess, as determined by the 
        Administrator; or
            ``(2) for a vehicle manufacturer that meets or exceeds the 
        minimum required percentage of new zero-emission vehicle sales 
        for the applicable calendar year, as determined under 
        subsection (c), a certification of that compliance, as the 
        Administrator determines to be appropriate.
    ``(c) Minimum Required Annual Percentage of New Zero-Emission 
Vehicle Sales.--For calendar years 2030 through 2040, in annual 
increments, the minimum annual percentage of the base quantity of new 
motor vehicle sales of a vehicle manufacturer that shall be zero-
emission vehicles, or otherwise credited towards the percentage 
requirement pursuant to subsection (e), shall be the applicable 
percentage specified in the following table:

 ``Minimum Required Annual Percentage of New Zero-Emission Vehicle Sales
------------------------------------------------------------------------
                       Calendar Year                          Percentage
------------------------------------------------------------------------
2030.......................................................         50.0
2031.......................................................         55.0
2032.......................................................         60.0
2033.......................................................         65.0
2034.......................................................         70.0
2035.......................................................         75.0
2036.......................................................         80.0
2037.......................................................         85.0
2038.......................................................         90.0
2039.......................................................         95.0
2040.......................................................       100.0.
------------------------------------------------------------------------

    ``(d) Requirement for 2040 and Thereafter.--For calendar year 2040 
and each calendar year thereafter, a vehicle manufacturer shall sell 
only zero-emission vehicles.
    ``(e) Zero-Emission Vehicle Credits.--
            ``(1) In general.--A vehicle manufacturer may satisfy the 
        requirements of subsection (b) through the submission of zero-
        emission vehicle credits--
                    ``(A) issued to the vehicle manufacturer under 
                subsection (f); or
                    ``(B) obtained by purchase, transfer, or exchange 
                under subsection (g).
            ``(2) Limitation.--A zero-emission vehicle credit may be 
        counted toward compliance with subsection (b) only once.
    ``(f) Issuance of Zero-Emission Vehicle Credits.--
            ``(1) In general.--Not later than 1 year after the date of 
        enactment of this section, the Administrator shall establish by 
        rule a program--
                    ``(A) to verify and issue zero-emission vehicle 
                credits to vehicle manufacturers;
                    ``(B) to track the sale, transfer, exchange, carry 
                over, and retirement of zero-emission vehicle credits; 
                and
                    ``(C) to enforce the requirements of this section.
            ``(2) Application.--
                    ``(A) In general.--A vehicle manufacturer that 
                sold, either directly or through an affiliate, such as 
                a dealer, a new zero-emission vehicle or a hybrid 
                electric vehicle in the United States may apply to the 
                Administrator for the issuance of a zero-emission 
                vehicle credit.
                    ``(B) Eligibility.--To be eligible for the issuance 
                of a zero-emission vehicle credit, a vehicle 
                manufacturer shall demonstrate to the Administrator 
                that the vehicle manufacturer sold 1 or more zero-
                emission vehicles or hybrid electric vehicles in the 
                previous calendar year.
                    ``(C) Contents.--The application shall indicate--
                            ``(i) the type of zero-emission vehicle or 
                        hybrid electric vehicle that was sold;
                            ``(ii) the State in which the zero-emission 
                        vehicle or hybrid electric vehicle was sold; 
                        and
                            ``(iii) any other information determined to 
                        be appropriate by the Administrator.
                    ``(D) Aggregation.--An application for a zero-
                emission vehicle credit under subparagraph (A) may 
                aggregate information on all zero-emission vehicles and 
                hybrid electric vehicles sold by the vehicle 
                manufacturer in the applicable calendar year.
            ``(3) Quantity of zero-emission vehicle credits.--
                    ``(A) Zero-emission vehicles.--The Administrator 
                shall issue to a vehicle manufacturer the application 
                under paragraph (2) of which is approved 1 zero-
                emission vehicle credit for each zero-emission vehicle 
                sold in the United States.
                    ``(B) Hybrid electric vehicles.--For a hybrid 
                electric vehicle sold by a vehicle manufacturer the 
                application under paragraph (2) of which is approved, 
                the Administrator shall issue a partial zero-emission 
                vehicle credit based on the estimated proportion of the 
                mileage driven on the battery of the hybrid electric 
                vehicle, as determined by the Administrator.
                    ``(C) Fuel-efficient vehicles.--The Administrator 
                may issue a partial zero-emission vehicle credit for a 
                motor vehicle that consumes less gasoline, as compared 
                to comparable motor vehicles (as identified by the 
                Administrator), based on the estimated proportion of 
                fuel savings, determined by the Administrator.
                    ``(D) Credit banking.--A zero-emission vehicle 
                credit issued for any calendar year that is not 
                submitted to comply with the minimum annual percentage 
                of new zero-emission vehicles requirement of subsection 
                (c) during that calendar year may be carried forward 
                for use pursuant to subsection (b)(1) within the next 5 
                years, but not later than 2040.
    ``(g) Zero-Emission Vehicle Credit Trading.--
            ``(1) In general.--A zero-emission vehicle credit for any 
        calendar year before 2040 that is not submitted to the 
        Administrator to comply with the minimum annual percentage of 
        new zero-emission vehicles requirement of subsection (c) for 
        that calendar year may be sold, transferred, or exchanged by 
        the vehicle manufacturer to which the credit is issued or by 
        any other entity that acquires the zero-emission vehicle 
        credit.
            ``(2) Delegation.--The Administrator may delegate to an 
        appropriate market-making entity the administration of a 
        national tradeable zero-emission vehicle credit market for 
        purposes of creating a transparent national market for the sale 
        or trade of zero-emission vehicle credits.
    ``(h) Zero-Emission Vehicle Credit Retirement.--
            ``(1) In general.--Any entity that obtains legal rights to 
        a zero-emission vehicle credit may retire the zero-emission 
        vehicle credit in any calendar year.
            ``(2) Use of retired zero-emission vehicle credit.--A zero-
        emission vehicle credit retired under paragraph (1) may not be 
        used for compliance with subsection (b) in--
                    ``(A) the calendar year in which the zero-emission 
                vehicle credit is retired; or
                    ``(B) any subsequent calendar year.
    ``(i) Information Collection.--The Administrator may collect the 
information necessary to verify and audit--
            ``(1) the annual sales of motor vehicles of any vehicle 
        manufacturer;
            ``(2) a zero-emission vehicle credit submitted by a vehicle 
        manufacturer pursuant to subsection (b)(1);
            ``(3) the validity of a zero-emission vehicle credit 
        submitted for compliance by a vehicle manufacturer to the 
        Administrator; and
            ``(4) the quantity of motor vehicle sales in the United 
        States of all vehicle manufacturers.
    ``(j) State Programs.--
            ``(1) In general.--Nothing in this section diminishes any 
        authority of a State or political subdivision of a State to 
        adopt or enforce any law (including regulations) relating to 
        motor vehicles.
            ``(2) Compliance with section.--No law or regulation of a 
        State or political subdivision of a State shall relieve any 
        vehicle manufacturer from compliance with any requirement 
        otherwise applicable under this section.
    ``(k) Regulations.--Not later than 1 year after the date of 
enactment of this section, the Administrator shall promulgate 
regulations to implement this section.
    ``(l) Enforcement.--
            ``(1) Civil penalty.--
                    ``(A) In general.--A vehicle manufacturer that 
                fails to comply with subsection (b) shall be liable for 
                a civil penalty, assessed by the Administrator, in an 
                amount that is equal to twice the average value of the 
                aggregate quantity of zero-emission vehicle credits 
                that the vehicle manufacturer failed to submit in 
                violation of that subsection, as determined by the 
                Administrator.
                    ``(B) Enforcement.--The Administrator shall assess 
                any civil penalty under subparagraph (A).
                    ``(C) Deposit.--With respect to any civil penalty 
                paid to the Administrator pursuant to subparagraph (A), 
                the Administrator shall deposit the amount in the 
                Climate Fund established by section 702(a) of the 100 
                by '50 Act.
            ``(2) Injunction.--After calendar year 2040, the 
        Administrator may issue an injunction on the manufacture of any 
        motor vehicles other than zero-emission vehicles by a vehicle 
        manufacturer.''.
    (b) Table of Contents Amendment.--The table of contents of the 
Clean Air Act (42 U.S.C. prec. 7401) is amended by adding at the end of 
the items relating to part A of title II the following:

``Sec. 220. Zero-emission vehicle standard.''.

SEC. 402. CARBON FEE FOR AVIATION, MARITIME TRANSPORTATION, AND RAIL.

    (a) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Carbon fee.--The term ``carbon fee'' means the carbon 
        fee imposed under subsection (b).
            (2) Carbon polluting substance.--The term ``carbon 
        polluting substance'' means coal (including lignite and peat), 
        petroleum and any petroleum product, or natural gas that, when 
        combusted or otherwise used, will release greenhouse gas 
        emissions.
            (3) Commercial aviation.--The term ``commercial aviation'' 
        means any aircraft operation involving the transportation of 
        passengers, cargo, or mail for hire.
            (4) Maritime transportation.--The term ``maritime 
        transportation'' means the shipment of goods, cargo, and people 
        by sea and other waterways.
    (b) Carbon Fee.--The Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation 
with the Council, shall impose a carbon fee, in accordance with this 
section, on any owner or operator of an entity within the eligible 
sectors listed in subsection (d) to transition those sectors away from 
fossil fuel usage.
    (c) Amount.--
            (1) In general.--The amount of the carbon fee shall be 
        assessed per ton of carbon dioxide equivalent (including carbon 
        dioxide equivalent content of methane) of the carbon polluting 
        substance used as fuel, as determined by the Council.
            (2) Fractional part of ton.--In the case of a fraction of a 
        ton of a carbon polluting substance, the carbon fee shall be 
        the same fraction of the amount of the fee imposed on a whole 
        ton of the carbon polluting substance.
            (3) Applicable amount.--For purposes of this subsection, 
        the amount of the carbon fee shall be not less than the social 
        cost of carbon, as determined by the Administrator.
    (d) Eligible Sectors.--An owner or operator of an entity shall be 
subject to a carbon fee if the entity is a part of--
            (1) commercial aviation;
            (2) maritime transportation; or
            (3) rail.
    (e) Use of Collected Carbon Fee.--Funds collected under this 
section shall be used, as determined by the Council, to establish or 
fund programs, including those established under section 406, to assist 
eligible sectors described in subsection (d) with transitioning away 
from fossil fuel usage.

SEC. 403. ACCELERATING THE DEPLOYMENT OF ZERO-EMISSION VEHICLES IN 
              COMMUNITIES.

    (a) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Charging infrastructure.--The term ``charging 
        infrastructure'' means any property (not including a building) 
        used for the recharging of a zero-emission vehicle, including 
        electrical panel upgrades, wiring, conduits, trenching, 
        pedestals, and related equipment.
            (2) Deployment community.--The term ``deployment 
        community'' means a community selected by the Secretary to be 
        part of the Program.
            (3) Federal-aid system of highways.--The term ``Federal-aid 
        system of highways'' means the National Highway System 
        described in section 103 of title 23, United States Code.
            (4) Program.--The term ``Program'' means the zero-emission 
        vehicle deployment community program established under 
        subsection (b)(1).
    (b) Establishment.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary shall establish a zero-
        emission vehicle deployment communities program.
            (2) Existing activities.--In carrying out the Program, the 
        Secretary shall coordinate and supplement, not supplant, any 
        ongoing zero-emission vehicle deployment activities under 
        section 131 of the Energy Independence and Security Act of 2007 
        (42 U.S.C. 17011).
            (3) Deployment.--
                    (A) In general.--The Secretary shall establish a 
                competitive process to select deployment communities 
                for the Program.
                    (B) Eligible entities.--In selecting participants 
                for the Program, the Secretary shall only consider 
                applications submitted by State, tribal, or local 
                government entities (or groups of State, tribal, or 
                local government entities).
                    (C) Selection.--Not later than 1 year after the 
                date of enactment of this Act and not later than 1 year 
                after the date on which any subsequent amounts are 
                appropriated for the Program, the Secretary shall 
                select the deployment communities under this paragraph.
    (c) Goals.--The goals of the Program are--
            (1) to facilitate the rapid deployment of zero-emission 
        vehicles in various regions and regulatory environments, 
        including--
                    (A) the deployment of 1,000,000 zero-emission 
                vehicles in the deployment communities selected under 
                subsection (d)(2);
                    (B) the near-term achievement of significant market 
                penetration in deployment communities; and
                    (C) supporting the achievement of significant 
                market penetration nationally;
            (2) to establish regionally appropriate, interoperable 
        models for the rapid deployment of zero-emission vehicles 
        nationally, including regionally appropriate approaches for the 
        cost-effective deployment of a sufficient quantity of single-
        family and multifamily residential, workplace, and publicly 
        available charging infrastructure or zero-emission vehicle-
        refueling infrastructure;
            (3) to increase consumer knowledge and acceptance of, and 
        exposure to, zero-emission vehicles;
            (4) to encourage the innovation and investment necessary to 
        achieve mass market deployment of zero-emission vehicles;
            (5) to demonstrate the integration of zero-emission 
        vehicles into electricity distribution systems and the larger 
        electric grid while maintaining or improving grid system 
        performance, security, and reliability;
            (6) to demonstrate protocols and communication standards 
        that facilitate vehicle integration into the grid and provide 
        seamless charging for consumers traveling through multiple 
        utility distribution systems;
            (7) to investigate differences among deployment communities 
        and to develop best practices for implementing vehicle 
        electrification in various communities, including best 
        practices for planning for and facilitating the construction of 
        residential, workplace, and publicly available infrastructure 
        to support zero-emission vehicles;
            (8) to collect comprehensive data on the purchase and use 
        of zero-emission vehicles, including charging or refueling 
        profile data at unit and aggregate levels, to inform best 
        practices for rapidly deploying zero-emission vehicles in other 
        locations, including for the installation of charging 
        infrastructure or zero-emission vehicle-refueling 
        infrastructure;
            (9) to reduce and displace petroleum use and reduce 
        greenhouse gas emissions by accelerating the deployment of 
        zero-emission vehicles in the United States; and
            (10) to increase domestic manufacturing capacity and 
        commercialization in a manner that will establish the United 
        States as a world leader in zero-emission vehicle technologies.
    (d) Deployment Community Selection Criteria.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary shall ensure, to the maximum 
        extent practicable, that selected deployment communities serve 
        as models of deployment for various communities across the 
        United States.
            (2) Selection.--In selecting communities under this 
        section, the Secretary--
                    (A) shall ensure, to the maximum extent 
                practicable, that--
                            (i) the combination of selected communities 
                        is diverse in population, population density, 
                        demographics, urban and suburban composition, 
                        typical commuting patterns, climate, and type 
                        of utility (including investor-owned, publicly 
                        owned, cooperatively owned, distribution-only, 
                        and vertically integrated utilities);
                            (ii) the combination of selected 
                        communities is diverse in geographical 
                        distribution, and at least 1 deployment 
                        community is located in each Petroleum 
                        Administration for Defense District;
                            (iii) at least 1 deployment community 
                        selected has a population of less than 500,000;
                            (iv) grants are of a sufficient amount such 
                        that each deployment community will achieve 
                        significant market penetration, particularly 
                        into the mainstream consumer market; and
                            (v) the deployment communities are 
                        representative of other communities across the 
                        United States;
                    (B) is encouraged to select a combination of 
                deployment communities that includes multiple models or 
                approaches for deploying zero-emission vehicles that 
                the Secretary believes are reasonably likely to be 
                effective, including multiple approaches to the 
                deployment of charging infrastructure or zero-emission 
                vehicle-refueling infrastructure;
                    (C) shall prioritize deployment communities that 
                demonstrate affordable modes of access to zero-emission 
                vehicles for low-income communities and disadvantaged 
                communities;
                    (D) in addition to the criteria described in 
                subparagraph (A), may give preference to applicants 
                proposing a greater non-Federal cost share; and
                    (E) when considering deployment community plans, 
                shall take into account previous Department of Energy 
                and other Federal investments to ensure that the 
                maximum domestic benefit from Federal investments is 
                realized.
            (3) Criteria.--
                    (A) In general.--Not later than 120 days after the 
                date of enactment of this Act, and not later than 90 
                days after the date on which any subsequent amounts are 
                appropriated for the Program, the Secretary shall 
                publish criteria for the selection of deployment 
                communities that include requirements that applications 
                be submitted by a State, tribal, or local government 
                entity (or groups of State, tribal, or local government 
                entities).
                    (B) Application requirements.--The criteria 
                published by the Secretary under subparagraph (A) shall 
                include application requirements that, at a minimum, 
                include--
                            (i) achievable goals and methodologies 
                        for--
                                    (I) the number of zero-emission 
                                vehicles to be deployed in the 
                                community;
                                    (II) the expected percentage of 
                                light-duty vehicle sales that would be 
                                sales of zero-emission vehicles;
                                    (III) the adoption of zero-emission 
                                vehicles (including medium- or heavy-
                                duty vehicles) in private and public 
                                fleets during the 3-year duration of 
                                the Program; and
                                    (IV) a method to generate revenue 
                                to maintain the infrastructure 
                                investments made by the Program after 
                                the termination of the Program;
                            (ii) data that demonstrate that--
                                    (I) the public is likely to embrace 
                                zero-emission vehicles, which may 
                                include--
                                            (aa) the quantity of zero-
                                        emission vehicles purchased;
                                            (bb) the number of 
                                        individuals on a waiting list 
                                        to purchase a zero-emission 
                                        vehicle;
                                            (cc) projections of the 
                                        quantity of zero-emission 
                                        vehicles supplied to dealers; 
                                        and
                                            (dd) any assessment of the 
                                        quantity of charging 
                                        infrastructure or zero-emission 
                                        vehicle-refueling 
                                        infrastructure installed or for 
                                        which permits have been issued; 
                                        and
                                    (II) automobile manufacturers and 
                                dealers will be able to provide and 
                                service the targeted number of zero-
                                emission vehicles in the community for 
                                the duration of the program;
                            (iii) clearly defined geographical 
                        boundaries of the proposed deployment area;
                            (iv) a community deployment plan for the 
                        deployment of zero-emission vehicles, charging 
                        infrastructure or zero-emission vehicle-
                        refueling infrastructure, and services in the 
                        community;
                            (v) assurances that a majority of the 
                        vehicle deployments anticipated in the plan 
                        will be personal vehicles authorized to travel 
                        on the Federal-aid system of highways, and 
                        secondarily, private or public sector zero-
                        emission fleet vehicles, but may also include--
                                    (I) private or public sector zero-
                                emission fleet vehicles;
                                    (II) medium- and heavy-duty zero-
                                emission vehicles; and
                                    (III) any other zero-emission 
                                vehicle authorized to travel on the 
                                Federal-aid system of highways; and
                            (vi) any other merit-based criteria, as 
                        determined by the Secretary.
            (4) Community deployment plans.--Plans for the deployment 
        of zero-emission vehicles shall include--
                    (A) a proposed level of cost sharing in accordance 
                with subsection (e)(2)(C);
                    (B) documentation demonstrating a deployment 
                community project involving relevant stakeholders, 
                including--
                            (i) a list of stakeholders that includes--
                                    (I) elected and appointed officials 
                                from each of the participating State, 
                                local, and tribal governments;
                                    (II) all relevant generators and 
                                distributors of electricity;
                                    (III) State utility regulatory 
                                authorities;
                                    (IV) departments of public works 
                                and transportation;
                                    (V) owners and operators of 
                                property that will be essential to the 
                                deployment of a sufficient level of 
                                publicly available charging 
                                infrastructure or zero-emission 
                                vehicle-refueling infrastructure 
                                (including privately owned parking lots 
                                or structures and commercial entities 
                                with public access locations);
                                    (VI) zero-emission vehicle 
                                manufacturers or retailers;
                                    (VII) third-party providers of 
                                residential, workplace, private, and 
                                publicly available charging 
                                infrastructure or zero-emission 
                                vehicle-refueling infrastructure or 
                                services;
                                    (VIII) owners of any major fleet 
                                that will participate in the applicable 
                                deployment community project;
                                    (IX) as appropriate, owners and 
                                operators of regional electric power 
                                distribution and transmission 
                                facilities; and
                                    (X) as appropriate, other existing 
                                deployment community coalitions 
                                recognized by the Department of Energy;
                            (ii) evidence of the commitment of the 
                        stakeholders to participate in the project;
                            (iii) a clear description of the role and 
                        responsibilities of each stakeholder; and
                            (iv) a plan for continuing the engagement 
                        and participation of the stakeholders, as 
                        appropriate, throughout the implementation of 
                        the deployment plan;
                    (C) a description of the number of zero-emission 
                vehicles anticipated to be zero-emission personal 
                vehicles and the number of zero-emission vehicles 
                anticipated to be privately owned fleet or public fleet 
                vehicles;
                    (D) a plan for deploying residential, workplace, 
                private, and publicly available charging infrastructure 
                or zero-emission vehicle-refueling infrastructure, 
                including--
                            (i) an assessment of the number of 
                        consumers who will have access to private 
                        residential charging infrastructure or zero-
                        emission vehicle-refueling infrastructure in 
                        single-family or multifamily residences;
                            (ii) options for accommodating zero-
                        emission vehicle owners who are not able to 
                        charge vehicles at their place of residence;
                            (iii) an assessment of the number of 
                        consumers who will have access to workplace 
                        charging infrastructure or zero-emission 
                        vehicle-refueling infrastructure;
                            (iv) a plan for ensuring that the charging 
                        infrastructure or zero-emission vehicle be able 
                        to send and receive the information needed to 
                        interact with the grid and be compatible with 
                        smart grid technologies to the extent feasible;
                            (v) an estimate of the number and 
                        distribution of publicly and privately owned 
                        charging or refueling stations that will be 
                        publicly or commercially available;
                            (vi) an estimate of the quantity of 
                        charging infrastructure or zero-emission 
                        vehicle-refueling infrastructure that will be 
                        privately funded or located on private 
                        property; and
                            (vii) a description of equipment to be 
                        deployed, including assurances that, to the 
                        maximum extent practicable, equipment to be 
                        deployed will meet open, nonproprietary 
                        standards for connecting to zero-emission 
                        vehicles that--
                                    (I) are commonly accepted by 
                                industry at the time the equipment is 
                                being acquired; or
                                    (II) meet the standards developed 
                                by the Director of the National 
                                Institute of Standards and Technology 
                                under section 1305 of the Energy 
                                Independence and Security Act of 2007 
                                (42 U.S.C. 17385);
                    (E) 1 or more plans for effective marketing of and 
                consumer education relating to zero-emission vehicles, 
                charging or refueling services, and charging 
                infrastructure;
                    (F) descriptions of updated building codes (or a 
                plan to update building codes before or during the 
                grant period) to include charging infrastructure or 
                dedicated circuits for charging infrastructure, as 
                appropriate, in new construction and major renovations;
                    (G) descriptions of updated construction permitting 
                or inspection processes (or a plan to update 
                construction permitting or inspection processes) to 
                allow for expedited installation of charging 
                infrastructure or zero-emission vehicle-refueling 
                infrastructure for purchasers of zero-emission 
                vehicles, including a permitting process that allows a 
                vehicle purchaser to have charging infrastructure or 
                zero-emission vehicle-refueling infrastructure 
                installed in a timely manner;
                    (H) descriptions of updated zoning, parking rules, 
                or other local ordinances as are necessary to 
                facilitate the installation of publicly available 
                charging infrastructure or zero-emission vehicle-
                refueling infrastructure and to allow for access to 
                publicly available charging infrastructure or zero-
                emission vehicle-refueling infrastructure, as 
                appropriate;
                    (I) descriptions of incentives for residents in a 
                deployment community who purchase and register a new 
                zero-emission vehicle, in addition to any Federal 
                incentives, including--
                            (i) a rebate of part of the purchase price 
                        of the zero-emission vehicle;
                            (ii) reductions in sales taxes or 
                        registration fees;
                            (iii) rebates or reductions in the costs of 
                        permitting, purchasing, or installing home 
                        zero-emission vehicle charging infrastructure 
                        or zero-emission vehicle-refueling 
                        infrastructure; and
                            (iv) rebates or reductions in State or 
                        local toll road access charges;
                    (J) additional consumer benefits, such as preferred 
                parking spaces or single-rider access to high-occupancy 
                vehicle lanes for zero-emission vehicles;
                    (K) a proposed plan for making necessary utility 
                and grid upgrades, including economically sound and 
                cybersecure information technology upgrades and 
                employee training, and a plan for recovering the cost 
                of the upgrades;
                    (L) a description of utility, grid operator, or (if 
                appropriate) competitive charging service providers, 
                policies, and plans for accommodating the deployment of 
                zero-emission vehicles, including--
                            (i) rate structures or competitive charging 
                        or refueling service provisions and billing 
                        protocols for the charging or refueling of 
                        zero-emission vehicles;
                            (ii) analysis of potential impacts to the 
                        grid;
                            (iii) plans for using information 
                        technology or third-party aggregators--
                                    (I) to minimize the effects of 
                                charging on peak loads;
                                    (II) to enhance reliability; and
                                    (III) to provide other grid 
                                benefits; and
                            (iv) plans for working with smart grid 
                        technologies or third-party aggregators for the 
                        purposes of smart charging and for allowing 2-
                        way communication;
                    (M) a plan for a sustainable business model that 
                will ensure cost effective maintenance, operation, and 
                expansion of the charging infrastructure or zero-
                emission vehicle-refueling infrastructure and charging 
                or refueling services;
                    (N) a deployment timeline;
                    (O) a plan for monitoring and evaluating the 
                implementation of the plan, including metrics for 
                assessing the success of the deployment and an approach 
                to updating the plan, as appropriate; and
                    (P) a description of the manner in which any grant 
                funds applied for under subsection (e) will be used and 
                the proposed local cost share for the funds.
    (e) Applications and Grants.--
            (1) Applications.--
                    (A) In general.--Not later than 150 days after the 
                date of publication by the Secretary of selection 
                criteria described in subsection (d)(3), any State, 
                tribal, or local government, or group of State, tribal, 
                or local governments may apply to the Secretary to 
                become a deployment community.
                    (B) Joint sponsorship.--
                            (i) In general.--An application submitted 
                        under subparagraph (A) may be jointly sponsored 
                        by electric utilities, automobile 
                        manufacturers, technology providers, carsharing 
                        companies or organizations, third-party zero-
                        emission vehicle service providers, or other 
                        appropriate entities.
                            (ii) Disbursement of grants.--A grant 
                        provided under this subsection shall only be 
                        disbursed to a State, tribal, or local 
                        government, or group of State, tribal, or local 
                        governments, regardless of whether the 
                        application is jointly sponsored under clause 
                        (i).
            (2) Grants.--
                    (A) In general.--In each application, the applicant 
                may request up to $250,000,000 in financial assistance 
                from the Secretary to fund projects in the deployment 
                community.
                    (B) Use of funds.--Funds provided through a grant 
                under this paragraph may be used to help implement the 
                plan for the deployment of zero-emission vehicles 
                included in the application, including--
                            (i) reducing the cost and increasing the 
                        consumer adoption of zero-emission vehicles 
                        through incentives as described in subsection 
                        (d)(4)(I);
                            (ii) planning for and installing charging 
                        infrastructure or zero-emission vehicle-
                        refueling infrastructure, including offering 
                        additional incentives as described in 
                        subsection (d)(4)(I);
                            (iii) updating building codes, zoning or 
                        parking rules, or permitting or inspection 
                        processes as described in subparagraphs (F), 
                        (G), and (H) of subsection (d)(4);
                            (iv) workforce training, including training 
                        of permitting officials;
                            (v) public education and marketing 
                        described in the proposed marketing plan;
                            (vi) supplementing (and not supplanting) 
                        the number of zero-emission vehicles that are 
                        purchased by State, local, and tribal 
                        governments; and
                            (vii) necessary utility and grid upgrades 
                        as described in subsection (d)(4)(K).
                    (C) Cost sharing.--
                            (i) In general.--A grant provided under 
                        this paragraph shall be subject to a minimum 
                        non-Federal cost-sharing requirement of 20 
                        percent.
                            (ii) Non-federal sources.--The Secretary 
                        shall--
                                    (I) determine the appropriate cost 
                                share for each selected applicant; and
                                    (II) require that not less than 20 
                                percent of the cost of an activity 
                                funded by a grant under this paragraph 
                                be provided by a non-Federal source.
                            (iii) Reduction.--The Secretary may reduce 
                        or eliminate the cost-sharing requirement 
                        described in clause (i), as the Secretary 
                        determines to be necessary.
                            (iv) Calculation of amount.--In calculating 
                        the amount of the non-Federal share under this 
                        section, the Secretary--
                                    (I) may include allowable costs in 
                                accordance with the applicable cost 
                                principles, including--
                                            (aa) cash;
                                            (bb) personnel costs;
                                            (cc) the value of a 
                                        service, other resource, or 
                                        third party in-kind 
                                        contribution determined in 
                                        accordance with the applicable 
                                        circular of the Office of 
                                        Management and Budget;
                                            (dd) indirect costs or 
                                        facilities and administrative 
                                        costs; or
                                            (ee) any funds received 
                                        under the power program of the 
                                        Tennessee Valley Authority or 
                                        any Power Marketing 
                                        Administration (except to the 
                                        extent that such funds are made 
                                        available under an annual 
                                        appropriations Act);
                                    (II) shall include contributions 
                                made by State, tribal, or local 
                                government entities and private 
                                entities; and
                                    (III) shall not include--
                                            (aa) revenues or royalties 
                                        from the prospective operation 
                                        of an activity beyond the time 
                                        considered in the grant;
                                            (bb) proceeds from the 
                                        prospective sale of an asset of 
                                        an activity; or
                                            (cc) other appropriated 
                                        Federal funds.
                            (v) Repayment of federal share.--The 
                        Secretary shall not require repayment of the 
                        Federal share of a cost-shared activity under 
                        this section as a condition of providing a 
                        grant.
                            (vi) Title to property.--The Secretary may 
                        vest title or other property interests acquired 
                        under projects funded under this Act in any 
                        entity, including the United States.
                    (D) Other federal assistance.--The Secretary shall 
                consider the receipt of other Federal funds received by 
                the applicant in determining the cost share of the 
                applicant.
            (3) Selection.--Not later than 120 days after an 
        application deadline has been established under paragraph (1), 
        the Secretary shall announce the names of the deployment 
        communities selected under this subsection.
    (f) Reporting Requirements.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary shall--
                    (A) determine what data will be required to be 
                collected by participants in deployment communities and 
                submitted to the Department of Energy to allow for 
                analysis of the deployment communities;
                    (B) provide for the protection of consumer privacy, 
                as appropriate; and
                    (C) develop metrics to evaluate the performance of 
                the deployment communities.
            (2) Provision of data.--As a condition of participation in 
        the Program, a deployment community shall provide any data 
        identified by the Secretary under paragraph (1).
            (3) Reports.--
                    (A) Interim report.--Not later than 3 years after 
                the date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall 
                submit to Congress an interim report that contains--
                            (i) a description of the status of--
                                    (I) the deployment communities and 
                                the implementation of the deployment 
                                plan of each deployment community;
                                    (II) the rate of vehicle 
                                manufacturing deployment and market 
                                penetration of zero-emission vehicles; 
                                and
                                    (III) the deployment of residential 
                                and publicly available infrastructure;
                            (ii) a description of the challenges 
                        experienced and lessons learned from the 
                        Program to date, including the activities 
                        described in clause (i); and
                            (iii) an analysis of the data collected 
                        under this subsection.
                    (B) Final report.--On completion of the Program, 
                the Secretary shall submit to Congress a final report 
                that contains--
                            (i) updates on the information described in 
                        subparagraph (A);
                            (ii) a description of the successes and 
                        failures of the Program;
                            (iii) recommendations on whether to promote 
                        further deployment of zero-emission vehicles; 
                        and
                            (iv) if additional deployment communities 
                        are recommended, information on--
                                    (I) the number of additional 
                                deployment communities that should be 
                                selected;
                                    (II) the manner in which criteria 
                                for selection should be updated;
                                    (III) the manner in which incentive 
                                structures for deployment should be 
                                changed; and
                                    (IV) whether other forms of onboard 
                                energy storage for zero-emission 
                                vehicles should be included.
    (g) Proprietary Information.--The Secretary shall, as appropriate, 
provide for the protection of proprietary information and intellectual 
property rights in carrying out the Program.
    (h) Funding.--The Secretary shall use to carry out this section not 
more than $12,500,000,000 for each fiscal year from the Climate Fund.

SEC. 404. ACCELERATING THE DEPLOYMENT OF ZERO-EMISSION VEHICLE FLEETS.

    (a) Establishment.--The Secretary shall establish a zero-emission 
vehicle private fleet upgrade program (referred to in this section as 
the ``Program'').
    (b) Competitive Grants.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary shall establish a 
        competitive process to select zero-emission vehicle fleets for 
        the Program to receive grants.
            (2) Eligible entities.--In selecting participants for the 
        Program under paragraph (1), the Secretary shall only consider 
        applications (including joint applications) submitted by 
        companies that--
                    (A) are private, nongovernmental entities;
                    (B) are headquartered in the United States; and
                    (C) plan to purchase, or enter into contracts for 
                hire, not fewer than 100 zero-emission vehicles.
            (3) Selection criteria.--Not later than 120 days after the 
        date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall publish a 
        set of selection criteria for the grant competition that 
        includes--
                    (A) offering the highest cost-share relative to the 
                value of the Federal grant offered under the Program;
                    (B) to the maximum extent practicable, serving as a 
                model of deployment for other private companies across 
                the United States; and
                    (C) meeting other criteria considered appropriate 
                by the Secretary.
            (4) Applications and grants.--
                    (A) In general.--Not later than 120 days after the 
                date of publication by the Secretary of the selection 
                criteria described in paragraph (3), any company that 
                meets the eligibility criteria described in paragraph 
                (2) may apply to the Secretary to receive a grant.
                    (B) Grants.--
                            (i) In general.--In each application, the 
                        applicant may apply for a grant of not more 
                        than $20,000,000.
                            (ii) Use of funds.--Funds provided through 
                        a grant under this subsection may be used--
                                    (I) to purchase zero-emission 
                                vehicles;
                                    (II) to plan for and install zero-
                                emission vehicle charging or refueling 
                                infrastructure; and
                                    (III) to carry out other activities 
                                considered appropriate by the 
                                Secretary.
                            (iii) Cost sharing.--
                                    (I) In general.--A grant provided 
                                under this subsection shall be subject 
                                to a minimum non-Federal cost-sharing 
                                requirement of 80 percent.
                                    (II) Non-federal sources.--The 
                                Secretary shall determine the 
                                appropriate cost share for each 
                                selected applicant.
                                    (III) Reduction.--The Secretary may 
                                reduce or eliminate the cost-sharing 
                                requirement described in subclause (I), 
                                as the Secretary determines to be 
                                necessary.
                                    (IV) Repayment of federal share.--
                                The Secretary shall not require 
                                repayment of the Federal share of a 
                                cost-shared activity under this section 
                                as a condition of providing a grant.
                                    (V) Title to property.--The receipt 
                                of Federal funds under this section 
                                shall not prohibit the purchaser of a 
                                vehicle, equipment, or other property 
                                from retaining sole, permanent title to 
                                the vehicle, equipment, or property at 
                                the conclusion of the Program.
                            (iv) Other federal assistance.--The 
                        Secretary shall consider the receipt of other 
                        Federal funds by the applicant in determining 
                        the cost share of the applicant.
                    (C) Selection.--Not later than 120 days after the 
                application deadline established under subparagraph 
                (A), the Secretary shall announce the names of the 
                applicants selected to receive grants under this 
                section.
            (5) Reporting requirements.--
                    (A) In general.--The Secretary shall--
                            (i) determine what data will be required to 
                        be collected by participants in the Program and 
                        submitted to the Secretary to permit analysis 
                        of the Program; and
                            (ii) develop metrics to determine the 
                        success of the deployment communities.
                    (B) Provision of data.--As a condition of 
                participation in the Program, an applicant shall 
                provide any data determined by the Secretary under 
                subparagraph (A).
                    (C) Proprietary information.--In carrying out this 
                paragraph, the Secretary shall, as appropriate, provide 
                for the protection of proprietary information and 
                intellectual property rights.
    (c) Funding.--The Secretary shall use to carry out this section not 
more than $12,500,000,000 for each fiscal year from the Climate Fund.

SEC. 405. DECARBONIZING AMERICA'S HIGHWAYS.

    (a) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Alternative fuel route.--The term ``alternative fuel 
        route'' means a highway corridor that has been designated under 
        section 151(a) of title 23, United States Code.
            (2) Decarbonization.--The term ``decarbonization'' means 
        reducing and eliminating the use of fossil fuels such as coal, 
        oil, or natural gas.
            (3) National highway system.--The term ``National Highway 
        System'' has the meaning given the term in section 101 of title 
        23, United States Code.
            (4) Program.--The term ``Program'' means the national 
        highway decarbonization program established under subsection 
        (b).
            (5) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary 
        of Transportation.
    (b) Establishment.--The Secretary shall establish a national 
highway decarbonization program.
    (c) Goals.--The goals of the Program are--
            (1) to accelerate the deployment of alternative fuel and 
        charging infrastructure along the National Highway System;
            (2) to reduce and displace fossil fuel use and greenhouse 
        gas emissions due to vehicles traveling on the National Highway 
        System; and
            (3) to encourage the innovation and investment necessary 
        for zero-emissions vehicles to travel long distances.
    (d) Competitive Grants.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary shall establish a 
        competitive process to select projects that lead to the 
        decarbonization of the National Highway System and alternative 
        fuel routes through research, development, and deployment of 
        the infrastructure and technologies necessary to support long-
        distance travel of zero-emissions vehicles.
            (2) Eligible entities.--In selecting participants for the 
        Program under paragraph (1), the Secretary shall only consider 
        applications (including joint applications) submitted by 
        entities that--
                    (A) are private nongovernmental entities; and
                    (B) are headquartered in the United States.
            (3) Selection criteria.--Not later than 120 days after the 
        date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall publish a 
        set of selection criteria for the grant competition that 
        includes--
                    (A) offering the highest cost-share relative to the 
                value of the Federal grant offered under the Program;
                    (B) to the maximum extent practicable, serving as a 
                model of deployment for other private entities across 
                the United States; and
                    (C) such other criteria as the Secretary determines 
                to be appropriate.
            (4) Applications and grants.--
                    (A) In general.--Not later than 120 days after the 
                date of publication by the Secretary of the selection 
                criteria described in paragraph (3), any eligible 
                entity under paragraph (2) may apply to the Secretary 
                to receive a grant.
                    (B) Grants.--
                            (i) In general.--In each application, the 
                        applicant may apply for a grant of not more 
                        than $50,000,000.
                            (ii) Use of funds.--Funds provided by a 
                        grant under this subsection may be used--
                                    (I) to deploy technologies and 
                                infrastructure that support long-
                                distance travel of zero-emissions 
                                vehicles, including--
                                            (aa) battery-charging 
                                        stations;
                                            (bb) battery-swap 
                                        facilities;
                                            (cc) hydrogen refueling 
                                        stations;
                                            (dd) catenary systems; and
                                            (ee) second-generation 
                                        advanced biofuels refueling 
                                        stations; and
                                    (II) to carry such other activities 
                                as the Secretary determines to be 
                                appropriate.
                            (iii) Cost sharing.--
                                    (I) In general.--A grant provided 
                                under this subsection shall be subject 
                                to a minimum non-Federal cost-sharing 
                                requirement of 80 percent.
                                    (II) Non-federal sources.--The 
                                Secretary shall determine the 
                                appropriate cost share for each 
                                selected applicant.
                                    (III) Reduction.--The Secretary may 
                                reduce or eliminate the cost-sharing 
                                requirement described in subclause (I), 
                                as the Secretary determines to be 
                                necessary.
                                    (IV) Repayment of federal share.--
                                The Secretary shall not require 
                                repayment of the Federal share of a 
                                cost-shared activity under this section 
                                as a condition of providing a grant.
            (5) Reporting requirements.--
                    (A) In general.--The Secretary shall--
                            (i) determine what data will be required to 
                        be collected by participants in the Program and 
                        submitted to the Secretary to permit analysis 
                        of the Program; and
                            (ii) develop metrics to determine the 
                        success of the deployment communities.
                    (B) Provision of data.--As a condition of 
                participation in the Program, an applicant shall 
                provide any data determined by the Secretary under 
                subparagraph (A).
                    (C) Proprietary information.--In carrying out this 
                paragraph, the Secretary shall, as appropriate, provide 
                for the protection of proprietary information and 
                intellectual property rights.
    (e) Funding.--The Secretary shall use to carry out this section not 
more than $2,000,000,000 for each fiscal year from the Climate Fund.

SEC. 406. ACCELERATING THE DEPLOYMENT OF ZERO-EMISSION AVIATION, RAIL, 
              AND MARITIME TRANSPORTATION.

    (a) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Commercial aviation.--The term ``commercial aviation'' 
        means any aircraft operation involving the transportation of 
        passengers, cargo, or mail for hire.
            (2) Maritime transportation.--The term ``maritime 
        transportation'' means the shipment of goods, cargo, and people 
        by sea and other waterways.
            (3) Program.--The term ``Program'' means the national grant 
        program established under subsection (b).
            (4) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary 
        of Transportation.
    (b) Establishment.--The Secretary shall establish a national grant 
program to promote and accelerate the elimination of fossil fuel usage 
for the commercial aviation, maritime transportation, and rail sectors.
    (c) Goals.--The goals of the Program are--
            (1) to accelerate the development and deployment of low 
        carbon fuels and alternative fuel technologies for aircraft, 
        ships, and rail;
            (2) to reduce and displace fossil fuel use and greenhouse 
        gas emissions due to the commercial aviation, maritime 
        transportation and rail sectors; and
            (3) to encourage the innovation and investment necessary 
        for reaching the purpose of this section described in 
        subsection (d)(1) by 2050.
    (d) Competitive Grants.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary shall establish a 
        competitive process to select projects that lead to the 
        reduction of fossil fuels use in the commercial aviation, 
        maritime transportation, and rail sectors.
            (2) Eligible entities.--In selecting participants for the 
        Program under paragraph (1), the Secretary shall only consider 
        an application (including a joint application) submitted by an 
        applicant that is--
                    (A) a private, nongovernmental entity that is 
                headquartered in the United States;
                    (B) a State;
                    (C) a group of States;
                    (D) an Interstate Compact;
                    (E) a public agency established by 1 or more 
                States; or
                    (F) an Indian tribe or tribal organization.
            (3) Selection criteria.--Not later than 120 days after the 
        date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall publish a 
        set of selection criteria for the grant competition that 
        includes--
                    (A) offering the highest cost-share relative to the 
                value of the Federal grant offered under the Program;
                    (B) to the maximum extent practicable, serving as a 
                model of research, development, and deployment for 
                other private entities across the United States; and
                    (C) meeting such other criteria as the Secretary 
                determines to be appropriate.
            (4) Applications and grants.--
                    (A) In general.--Not later than 120 days after the 
                date of publication by the Secretary of the selection 
                criteria described in paragraph (3), any entity that 
                meets the eligibility criteria described in paragraph 
                (2) may apply to the Secretary to receive a grant.
                    (B) Grants.--
                            (i) In general.--In each application, the 
                        applicant may apply for a grant of not more 
                        than $100,000,000.
                            (ii) Use of funds.--Funds provided by a 
                        grant under this subsection may be used--
                                    (I) primarily to deploy zero 
                                emissions and alternative fuel 
                                technologies for commercial aviation, 
                                maritime transportation, and rail 
                                including--
                                            (aa) electrification;
                                            (bb) hydrogen fuel cells;
                                            (cc) second-generation 
                                        advanced biofuels; and
                                            (dd) fuel efficiency; and
                                    (II) to carry out other activities 
                                considered appropriate by the 
                                Secretary.
                            (iii) Cost sharing.--
                                    (I) In general.--A grant provided 
                                under this subsection shall be subject 
                                to a minimum non-Federal cost-sharing 
                                requirement of 80 percent.
                                    (II) Non-federal sources.--The 
                                Secretary shall determine the 
                                appropriate cost share for each 
                                selected applicant.
                                    (III) Reduction.--The Secretary may 
                                reduce or eliminate the cost-sharing 
                                requirement described in subclause (I), 
                                as the Secretary determines to be 
                                necessary.
                                    (IV) Repayment of federal share.--
                                The Secretary shall not require 
                                repayment of the Federal share of a 
                                cost-shared activity under this section 
                                as a condition of providing a grant.
            (5) Reporting requirements.--
                    (A) In general.--The Secretary shall--
                            (i) determine what data will be required to 
                        be collected by participants in the Program and 
                        submitted to the Secretary to permit analysis 
                        of the Program; and
                            (ii) develop metrics to determine the 
                        success of the deployment communities.
                    (B) Provision of data.--As a condition of 
                participation in the Program, an applicant shall 
                provide any data determined by the Secretary under 
                subparagraph (A).
                    (C) Proprietary information.--In carrying out this 
                paragraph, the Secretary shall, as appropriate, provide 
                for the protection of proprietary information and 
                intellectual property rights.
    (e) Funding.--The Secretary shall use to carry out the Program--
            (1) climate fees imposed under section 402; and
            (2) not more than $12,000,000,000 for each fiscal year from 
        the Climate Fund.

SEC. 407. ACCELERATING THE DEPLOYMENT OF ZERO-EMISSION RESIDENTIAL AND 
              COMMERCIAL HEATING.

    (a) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Fossil fuel heating system.--The term ``fossil fuel 
        heating system'' means any boiler, furnace, hot water heater, 
        or forced air system that uses coal, oil, natural gas, propane, 
        or any other fossil fuel, as determined by the Secretary.
            (2) Program.--The term ``Program'' means the zero-emission 
        residential and commercial heating program established under 
        subsection (b).
            (3) Retail electric supplier.--The term ``retail electric 
        supplier'' means an entity that sold not less than 1,000 
        megawatt hours of electric energy to electric consumers for 
        purposes other than resale during the preceding calendar year.
            (4) Retail natural gas supplier.--The term ``retail natural 
        gas supplier'' means an entity that sold not less than 100,000 
        cubic feet of natural gas to natural gas customers for purposes 
        other than resale during the preceding calendar year.
    (b) Establishment.--The Secretary shall establish a zero-emission 
residential and commercial heating program.
    (c) Competitive Grants.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary shall establish a 
        competitive process for the Program to make grants.
            (2) Eligible entities.--In selecting participants for the 
        Program, the Secretary shall only consider applications 
        (including joint applications) submitted by--
                    (A) retail electric suppliers;
                    (B) retail natural gas suppliers;
                    (C) States; and
                    (D) Indian tribes.
            (3) Selection criteria.--
                    (A) In general.--Not later than 120 days after the 
                date of enactment of this Act, and not later than 90 
                days after the date on which any subsequent amounts are 
                made available for the Program, the Secretary shall 
                publish criteria for the selection of applicants, 
                including criteria prioritizing applications--
                            (i) with the highest non-Federal cost share 
                        relative to the value of the Federal grant 
                        offered under the Program;
                            (ii) that deliver the most rapid reductions 
                        in emissions due to fossil fuel heating energy; 
                        and
                            (iii) that meet other criteria considered 
                        appropriate by the Secretary.
                    (B) Application requirements.--The applications 
                submitted by eligible entities under paragraph (2) 
                shall describe how selection criteria under 
                subparagraph (A) are met, including a description of--
                            (i) the non-Federal cost-share; and
                            (ii) the manner in which the applicant will 
                        measure and verify the planned energy savings.
            (4) Applications and grants.--
                    (A) In general.--Not later than 120 days after the 
                date of publication by the Secretary of the selection 
                criteria described in paragraph (3), any entity that 
                meets the eligibility criteria described in paragraph 
                (2) may apply to the Secretary to receive a grant.
                    (B) Grants.--
                            (i) In general.--In each application, the 
                        applicant may apply for a grant of not more 
                        than $20,000,000.
                            (ii) Use of funds.--Funds provided by a 
                        grant under this subsection may be used--
                                    (I) to replace any fossil fuel 
                                heating system with a zero-emission 
                                heating system;
                                    (II) to provide incentives to 
                                owners to replace any fossil fuel 
                                heating system with a zero-emission 
                                heating system;
                                    (III) to reduce emissions in an 
                                existing natural gas distribution 
                                system; and
                                    (IV) to replace any fossil fuel 
                                heating system with a heating system 
                                that is at least 50 percent more energy 
                                efficient.
                            (iii) Cost sharing.--
                                    (I) In general.--A grant provided 
                                under this subsection to a private, 
                                for-profit entity shall be subject to a 
                                minimum non-Federal cost-sharing 
                                requirement of 50 percent.
                                    (II) Non-federal sources.--The 
                                Secretary shall determine the 
                                appropriate cost share for each 
                                selected applicant.
                                    (III) Reduction.--The Secretary may 
                                reduce or eliminate the cost-sharing 
                                requirement described in subclause (I), 
                                as the Secretary determines to be 
                                necessary.
                                    (IV) Repayment of federal share.--
                                The Secretary shall not require 
                                repayment of the Federal share of a 
                                cost-shared activity under this section 
                                as a condition of providing a grant.
                            (iv) Other federal assistance.--The 
                        Secretary shall consider the receipt of other 
                        Federal funds by the applicant in determining 
                        the cost share of the applicant.
                    (C) Selection.--Not later than 120 days after the 
                application deadline established under subparagraph 
                (A), the Secretary shall announce the applicants 
                selected to receive grants under this section.
            (5) Reporting requirements.--
                    (A) In general.--The Secretary shall determine what 
                data will be required to be collected by participants 
                in the Program and submitted to the Secretary to permit 
                analysis of the Program.
                    (B) Provision of data.--As a condition of 
                participation in the Program, an applicant shall 
                provide any data determined by the Secretary under 
                subparagraph (A).
                    (C) Proprietary information.--In carrying out this 
                paragraph, the Secretary shall, as appropriate, provide 
                for the protection of proprietary information and 
                intellectual property rights.
            (6) Additional authorities.--To ensure the transition to 
        100 percent clean and renewable energy by 2050, starting in 
        2035, the Secretary, in consultation with the Council, shall 
        have the authority to set standards for residential and 
        commercial heating systems that eliminate fossil fuel emissions 
        by 2050.
    (d) Funding.--The Secretary shall use to carry out this section not 
more than $10,000,000,000 for each fiscal year from the Climate Fund.

             Subtitle B--Helping Americans Move Beyond Oil

SEC. 411. PERMANENT EXTENSION, INCREASE, AND REFUNDABILITY OF CREDIT 
              FOR QUALIFIED NEW PLUG IN ELECTRIC DRIVE MOTOR VEHICLES.

    (a) Repeal of Phaseout.--Section 30D of the Internal Revenue Code 
of 1986 is amended by striking subsection (e).
    (b) Extension for 2-Wheeled Vehicles.--Subparagraph (E) of section 
30D(g)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 is amended to read as 
follows:
                    ``(E) is acquired--
                            ``(i) in the case of a vehicle that has 2 
                        wheels, after December 31, 2014, and
                            ``(ii) in the case of a vehicle that has 3 
                        wheels, after December 31, 2017.''.
    (c) Increase in Dollar Limitation for Battery Capacity.--Paragraph 
(3) of section 30D(b) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 is amended 
by striking ``$5,000'' and inserting ``$7,500''.
    (d) Personal Credit Made Refundable.--
            (1) In general.--Section 30D(c)(2) of the Internal Revenue 
        Code of 1986 is amended by striking ``subpart A'' and inserting 
        ``subpart C''.
            (2) Technical amendment.--Paragraph (2) of section 1324(b) 
        of title 31, United States Code, as amended by this Act, is 
        amended by inserting ``30D(c)(2),'' after ``36D,''.
    (e) Effective Date.--The amendments made by this section shall 
apply to vehicles acquired after December 31, 2016.

SEC. 412. PERMANENT EXTENSION OF CREDIT FOR HYBRID MEDIUM- AND HEAVY-
              DUTY TRUCKS.

    (a) In General.--Section 30B(k) of the Internal Revenue Code of 
1986 is amended--
            (1) by striking ``after'' in the matter before paragraph 
        (1),
            (2) by inserting ``after'' before ``December'' each place 
        it appears, and
            (3) in paragraph (3), by inserting ``and before the date of 
        the enactment of the Energy Policy Modernization Act of 2017'' 
        after ``December 31, 2009,''.
    (b) Effective Date.--The amendments made by this section shall 
apply to property purchased after the date of the enactment of this 
Act.

SEC. 413. EXTENSION OF SECOND GENERATION BIOFUEL PRODUCER CREDIT.

    (a) In General.--Clause (i) of section 40(b)(6)(J) of the Internal 
Revenue Code of 1986 is amended by striking ``January 1, 2017'' and 
inserting ``January 1, 2025''.
    (b) Effective Date.--The amendment made by this subsection shall 
apply to qualified second generation biofuel production after December 
31, 2016.

SEC. 414. EXTENSION OF SPECIAL ALLOWANCE FOR SECOND GENERATION BIOFUEL 
              PLANT PROPERTY.

    (a) In General.--Subparagraph (D) of section 168(l)(2) of the 
Internal Revenue Code of 1986 is amended to read as follows:
                    ``(D) the construction of which begins before 
                January 1, 2025.''.
    (b) Effective Date.--The amendment made by this section shall apply 
to property placed in service after December 31, 2016.

SEC. 415. EXTENSION AND MODIFICATION OF THE ALTERNATIVE FUEL VEHICLE 
              REFUELING PROPERTY CREDIT.

    (a) In General.--Section 30C of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 
is amended--
            (1) by amending subsection (c) to read as follows:
    ``(c) Qualified Alternative Fuel Vehicle Refueling Property.--For 
purposes of this section, the term `qualified alternative fuel vehicle 
refueling property' means any of the following:
            ``(1) A pump or blender pump that is capable of dispensing 
        a fuel mixture that is at least 50 percent ethanol.
            ``(2) A pump or blender pump that is capable of dispensing 
        a fuel mixture that is at least 50 percent biodiesel or 
        renewable diesel.
            ``(3) A pump that is capable of dispensing a biofuel and 
        petroleum blend, at least 50 percent of which is a renewable 
        fuel (as defined in section 211(o)(1) of the Clean Air Act (42 
        U.S.C. 7545(o)(1))).
            ``(4) A direct current electric charging station with a 
        power rating of at least 40 kilowatts.
            ``(5) An alternating current electric charging station with 
        a voltage rating between 208 volts and 240 volts and a power 
        rating between 2.5 kilowatts and 20 kilowatts.
            ``(6) Hydrogen fuel-cell refilling infrastructure.
            ``(7) Any other infrastructure that the Administrator may 
        prescribe by regulation that is capable of dispensing a fuel 
        that is not less than a 50-percent mixture of a renewable fuel 
        (as defined in section 211(o)(1) of the Clean Air Act (42 
        U.S.C. 7545(o)(1))).'',
            (2) in subsection (e)--
                    (A) by striking paragraphs (5) through (7), and
                    (B) by inserting after paragraph (4) the following 
                new paragraph:
            ``(5) Recapture rules.--The Secretary shall, by 
        regulations, provide for recapturing the benefit of any credit 
        allowable under subsection (a) with respect to any property 
        which ceases to be property eligible for such credit.'', and
            (3) by amending subsection (g) to read as follows:
    ``(g) Termination.--This section shall not apply to any property 
placed in service after December 31, 2024.''.
            (4) Effective date.--The amendments made by this section 
        shall apply to property placed in service after December 31, 
        2016.

              TITLE V--ENDING NEW FOSSIL FUEL INVESTMENTS

             Subtitle A--Ending New Fossil Fuel Investments

SEC. 501. MORATORIUM ON NEW MAJOR FOSSIL FUEL PROJECTS.

    (a) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Fossil fuel energy.--The term ``fossil fuel energy'' 
        means electric energy generated, in whole or in part, by a 
        fossil fuel resource.
            (2) Fossil fuel resource.--
                    (A) In general.--The term ``fossil fuel resource'' 
                means all forms of coal, oil, and gas.
                    (B) Inclusions.--The term ``fossil fuel resource'' 
                includes--
                            (i) bitumen from oil sands;
                            (ii) kerogen from oil shale;
                            (iii) liquids manufactured from coal;
                            (iv) coal bed methane;
                            (v) methane hydrates;
                            (vi) light oil derived from shale or other 
                        formations;
                            (vii) natural gas liquids; and
                            (viii) all conventionally and 
                        unconventionally produced hydrocarbons.
            (3) Gathering line.--The term ``gathering line'' has the 
        meaning given the term in section 195.2 of title 49, Code of 
        Federal Regulations (as in effect on the date of enactment of 
        this Act).
            (4) Interstate pipeline.--The term ``interstate pipeline'' 
        has the meaning given the term in section 195.2 of title 49, 
        Code of Federal Regulations (as in effect on the date of 
        enactment of this Act).
    (b) Moratorium.--Subject to subsection (e), beginning on January 1, 
2021, there shall be a moratorium on Federal permit approval for--
            (1) any new electric generating facility that generates 
        fossil fuel energy through the combustion of any fossil fuel 
        resource;
            (2) any new gathering line or interstate pipeline for the 
        transport of any fossil fuel resource that--
                    (A) crosses Federal land or navigable water; or
                    (B) requires the use of eminent domain on private 
                property;
            (3) any maintenance activity relating to an existing 
        gathering line or interstate pipeline for the transport of a 
        fossil fuel resource that expands the carrying capacity of the 
        gathering line or interstate pipeline by more than 5 percent;
            (4) any new import or export terminal for fossil fuel 
        resources;
            (5) any maintenance activity relating to an existing import 
        or export terminal for a fossil fuel resource that expands the 
        import or export capacity for a fossil fuel resource; and
            (6) any new refinery of a fossil fuel resource.
    (c) Enforcement.--The Administrator may seek an injunction on the 
construction of any facility described in subsection (b) that begins on 
or after January 1, 2021.
    (d) Federal Permits.--The Administrator, in coordination with the 
head of the applicable Federal agency, shall deny any application 
submitted to the head of that Federal agency on or after January 1, 
2021, for a permit for any facility described in subsection (b).
    (e) Exemption.--During the period beginning on January 1, 2021, and 
ending on December 31, 2029, any entity seeking to construct a new 
electric generating facility that generates fossil fuel energy through 
the combustion of natural gas may submit to the Administrator an 
application for a waiver of the moratorium under this section, 
including a demonstration by the entity that--
            (1) the electricity will primarily be used to balance 
        nonfossil fuel resources; and
            (2) nonfossil fuel resources will not be available to 
        maintain reliability while achieving compliance with the 
        applicable requirements of section 220 of the Clean Air Act (42 
        U.S.C. 7401 et seq.) (as added by section 401(a)).
    (f) Tribal Consultation.--
            (1) In general.--If an application for routing or siting 
        approval, or permit or right-of-way was granted, approved, or 
        issued on or after February 8, 2017, for any facility described 
        in subsection (b) without the consultation required under 
        Executive Order 13175 (25 U.S.C. 5301 note; relating to tribal 
        consultation), or without the informed and express consent of 
        the applicable Indian tribe, the Administrator or appropriate 
        agency head shall order an immediate suspension of any 
        preconstruction, construction, or any other activity within, 
        on, under, or through the approved route or right-of-way or 
        permitted area.
            (2) Duration.--The suspension described in paragraph (1) 
        shall remain in full force and effect until conclusion of the 
        appropriate administrative proceeding.
    (g) Eminent Domain.--Any application, permit, or right-of-way 
granted or issued for any facility described in subsection (b) that, on 
or after February 8, 2017, triggers the use of eminent domain shall be 
null and void.

SEC. 502. ENDING FOSSIL FUEL SUBSIDIES.

    (a) Fossil Fuel.--In this section, the term ``fossil fuel'' means 
coal, petroleum, natural gas, or any derivative of coal, petroleum, or 
natural gas that is used for fuel.
    (b) Royalty Relief.--
            (1) Outer continental shelf lands act.--Section 8(a)(3) of 
        the Outer Continental Shelf Lands Act (43 U.S.C. 1337(a)(3)) is 
        amended--
                    (A) by striking subparagraph (B); and
                    (B) by redesignating subparagraph (C) as 
                subparagraph (B).
            (2) Energy policy act of 2005.--
                    (A) Incentives for natural gas production from deep 
                wells in the shallow waters of the gulf of mexico.--
                Section 344 of the Energy Policy Act of 2005 (42 U.S.C. 
                15904) is repealed.
                    (B) Deep water production.--Section 345 of the 
                Energy Policy Act of 2005 (42 U.S.C. 15905) is 
                repealed.
            (3) Future provisions.--Notwithstanding any other provision 
        of law (including regulations), royalty relief shall not be 
        permitted under a lease issued under section 8 of the Outer 
        Continental Shelf Lands Act (43 U.S.C. 1337).
    (c) Royalties Under Mineral Leasing Act.--
            (1) Coal leases.--Section 7(a) of the Mineral Leasing Act 
        (30 U.S.C. 207(a)) is amended in the fourth sentence by 
        striking ``12\1/2\ per centum'' and inserting ``18\3/4\ 
        percent''.
            (2) Leases on land on which oil or natural gas is 
        discovered.--Section 14 of the Mineral Leasing Act (30 U.S.C. 
        223) is amended in the fourth sentence by striking ``12\1/2\ 
        per centum'' and inserting ``18\3/4\ percent''.
            (3) Leases on land known or believed to contain oil or 
        natural gas.--Section 17 of the Mineral Leasing Act (30 U.S.C. 
        226) is amended--
                    (A) in subsection (b)--
                            (i) in paragraph (1)(A), in the fifth 
                        sentence, by striking ``12.5 percent'' and 
                        inserting ``18\3/4\ percent''; and
                            (ii) in paragraph (2)(A)(ii), by striking 
                        ``12\1/2\ per centum'' and inserting ``18\3/4\ 
                        percent'';
                    (B) in subsection (c)(1), in the second sentence, 
                by striking ``12.5 percent'' and inserting ``18\3/4\ 
                percent'';
                    (C) in subsection (l), by striking ``12\1/2\ per 
                centum'' each place it appears and inserting ``18\3/4\ 
                percent''; and
                    (D) in subsection (n)(1)(C), by striking ``12\1/2\ 
                per centum'' and inserting ``18\3/4\ percent''.
    (d) Elimination of Interest Payments for Royalty Overpayments.--
Section 111 of the Federal Oil and Gas Royalty Management Act of 1982 
(30 U.S.C. 1721) is amended by adding at the end the following:
    ``(k) Payment of Interest.--Interest shall not be paid on any 
overpayment.''.
    (e) Offshore Facilitates and Pipeline Operators.--Section 1004(a) 
of the Oil Pollution Act of 1990 (33 U.S.C. 2704(a)) is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (3), by striking ``plus $75,000,000; and'' 
        and inserting ``and the liability of the responsible party 
        under section 1002;'';
            (2) in paragraph (4)--
                    (A) by inserting ``(except an onshore pipeline 
                transporting diluted bitumen, bituminous mixtures, or 
                any oil manufactured from bitumen)'' after ``for any 
                onshore facility''; and
                    (B) by striking the period at the end and inserting 
                ``; and''; and
            (3) by adding at the end the following:
            ``(5) for any onshore facility transporting diluted 
        bitumen, bituminous mixtures, or any oil manufactured from 
        bitumen, the liability of the responsible party under section 
        1002.''.
    (f) Limitation on International Financial Institution Funding of 
Fossil Fuel Projects.--
            (1) Rescission of funds.--Except as provided in paragraph 
        (3), effective on the date of enactment of this Act, there are 
        rescinded all unobligated balances of amounts made available by 
        the United States--
                    (A) to the International Bank for Reconstruction 
                and Development and the International Development 
                Association (collectively known as the ``World Bank'') 
                or any other international financial institution (as 
                defined in section 1701(c)(2) of the International 
                Financial Institutions Act (22 U.S.C. 262r(c)(2))); and
                    (B) to carry out any project that supports the 
                construction of new fossil-fueled power plants.
            (2) Limitation on use of future funds.--Except as provided 
        in paragraph (3), and notwithstanding any other provision of 
        law, any amounts made available by the United States to the 
        World Bank or any other international financial institution on 
        or after the date of enactment of this Act may not be used to 
        carry out any project that facilitates additional consumption 
        or production of fossil-fuel based energy.
            (3) Exception.--Paragraphs (1) and (2) shall not apply to a 
        fossil-fueled power plant project located in a least developed 
        country (as that term is defined by the United Nations) if--
                    (A) no other economically feasible alternative 
                exists; and
                    (B) the project uses the most efficient technology 
                available.
    (g) Incentives for Innovative Technologies.--
            (1) In general.--Section 1703 of the Energy Policy Act of 
        2005 (42 U.S.C. 16513) is amended--
                    (A) in subsection (b)--
                            (i) by striking paragraph (2);
                            (ii) by redesignating paragraphs (3) 
                        through (9) as paragraphs (2) through (8), 
                        respectively; and
                            (iii) by striking paragraph (10);
                    (B) by striking subsection (c); and
                    (C) by redesignating subsections (d) and (e) as 
                subsections (c) and (d), respectively.
            (2) Conforming amendment.--Section 1704 of the Energy 
        Policy Act of 2005 (42 U.S.C. 16514) is amended--
                    (A) by striking the section designation and heading 
                and all that follows through ``There are'' in 
                subsection (a) and inserting the following:

``SEC. 1704. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.

    ``There are''; and
                    (B) by striking subsection (b).
    (h) Rural Utility Service Loan Guarantees.--Notwithstanding any 
other provision of law, the Secretary of Agriculture may not make a 
loan under title III of the Rural Electrification Act of 1936 (7 U.S.C. 
931 et seq.) to an applicant for the purpose of carrying out any 
project that will use fossil fuel.
    (i) Limitation on Funds to the Overseas Private Investment 
Corporation or the Export-Import Bank of the United States for 
Financing Projects, Transactions, or Other Activities That Support 
Fossil Fuel.--
            (1) Rescission of funds.--Except as provided in paragraph 
        (3), effective on the date of enactment of this Act, there are 
        rescinded all unobligated balances of amounts made available to 
        the Overseas Private Investment Corporation or the Export-
        Import Bank of the United States to carry out any project, 
        transaction, or other activity that supports the production or 
        use of fossil fuels.
            (2) Limitation on use of future funds.--Except as provided 
        in paragraph (3), and notwithstanding any other provision of 
        law, any amounts made available to the Overseas Private 
        Investment Corporation or the Export-Import Bank of the United 
        States on or after the date of enactment of this Act may not be 
        used to carry out any project, transaction, or other activity 
        that facilitates additional consumption or production of 
        fossil-fuel based energy.
            (3) Exception.--Paragraphs (1) and (2) shall not apply to a 
        fossil-fueled power plant project located in a least developed 
        country (as that term is defined by the United Nations) if--
                    (A) no other economically feasible alternative 
                exists; and
                    (B) the project uses the most efficient technology 
                available.
    (j) Transportation Funds for Grants, Loans, Loan Guarantees, and 
Other Direct Assistance.--Notwithstanding any other provision of law, 
any amounts made available to the Department of Transportation may not 
be used to award any grant, loan, loan guarantee, or provide any other 
direct assistance to any rail or port project that transports fossil 
fuel.
    (k) Powder River Basin.--
            (1) Designation of the powder river basin as a coal 
        producing region.--Not later than 90 days after the date of 
        enactment of this Act, the Director of the Bureau of Land 
        Management shall designate the Powder River Basin as a coal 
        producing region.
            (2) Report.--Not later than 1 year after the date of 
        enactment of this Act, the Director of the Bureau of Land 
        Management shall submit to Congress a report that includes--
                    (A) a study of the fair market value and the amount 
                of royalties paid on coal leases in the Powder River 
                Basin compared to other national and international coal 
                markets; and
                    (B) any policy recommendations to capture the 
                future market value of the coal leases in the Powder 
                River Basin.
    (l) Reports.--
            (1) Definition of fossil fuel production subsidy.--In this 
        subsection, the term ``subsidy for fossil fuel production'' 
        means any direct funding, tax treatment or incentive, risk-
        reduction benefit, financing assistance or guarantee, royalty 
        relief, or other provision that provides a financial benefit to 
        a fossil fuel company for the production of fossil fuels.
            (2) Report to congress.--Not later than 1 year after the 
        date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary of the Treasury, 
        in coordination with the Secretary, shall submit to Congress a 
        report detailing each Federal law (including regulations), 
        other than those amended by this Act, as in effect on the date 
        on which the report is submitted, that includes a subsidy for 
        fossil-fuel production.
            (3) Report on modified recovery period.--
                    (A) In general.--Not later than 1 year after the 
                date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary, in 
                coordination with the Commissioner of Internal Revenue, 
                shall submit to Congress a report on the applicable 
                recovery period under the accelerated cost recovery 
                system provided in section 168 of the Internal Revenue 
                Code of 1986 for each type of property involved in 
                fossil fuel production, including pipelines, power 
                generation property, refineries, and drilling 
                equipment, to determine if any assets are receiving a 
                subsidy for fossil fuel production.
                    (B) Elimination of subsidy.--In the case of any 
                type of property that the Commissioner of Internal 
                Revenue determines is receiving a subsidy for fossil 
                fuel production under such section 168, for property 
                placed in service in taxable years beginning after the 
                date of such determination, such section 168 shall not 
                apply. The preceding sentence shall not apply to any 
                property with respect to a taxable year unless such 
                determination is published before the first day of such 
                taxable year.

                Subtitle B--Ending Fossil Fuel Subsidies

SEC. 511. TERMINATION OF VARIOUS TAX EXPENDITURES RELATING TO FOSSIL 
              FUELS.

    (a) In General.--Subchapter C of chapter 80 of the Internal Revenue 
Code of 1986 is amended by adding at the end the following new section:

``SEC. 7875. TERMINATION OF CERTAIN PROVISIONS RELATING TO FOSSIL-FUEL 
              INCENTIVES.

    ``(a) In General.--The following provisions shall not apply to 
taxable years beginning after the date of the enactment of this 
section:
            ``(1) Section 43 (relating to enhanced oil recovery 
        credit).
            ``(2) Section 45I (relating to credit for producing oil and 
        natural gas from marginal wells).
            ``(3) Section 45K (relating to credit for producing fuel 
        from a nonconventional source).
            ``(4) Section 193 (relating to tertiary injectants).
            ``(5) Section 199(d)(9) (relating to special rule for 
        taxpayers with oil related qualified production activities 
        income).
            ``(6) Section 461(i)(2) (relating to special rule for 
        spudding of oil or natural gas wells).
            ``(7) Section 469(c)(3) (relating to working interests in 
        oil and natural gas property).
            ``(8) Section 613A (relating to limitations on percentage 
        depletion in case of oil and natural gas wells).
            ``(9) Section 617 (relating to deduction and recapture of 
        certain mining exploration expenditures).
    ``(b) Provisions Relating to Property.--The following provisions 
shall not apply to property placed in service after the date of the 
enactment of this section:
            ``(1) Subparagraph (C)(iii) of section 168(e)(3) (relating 
        to classification of certain property).
            ``(2) Section 169 (relating to amortization of pollution 
        control facilities) with respect to any atmospheric pollution 
        control facility.
    ``(c) Provisions Relating to Costs and Expenses.--The following 
provisions shall not apply to costs or expenses paid or incurred after 
the date of the enactment of this section:
            ``(1) Section 179B (relating to deduction for capital costs 
        incurred in complying with Environmental Protection Agency 
        sulfur regulations).
            ``(2) Section 263(c) (relating to intangible drilling and 
        development costs) with respect to costs in the case of oil and 
        natural gas wells.
            ``(3) Section 468 (relating to special rules for mining and 
        solid waste reclamation and closing costs).
    ``(d) 5-Year Carryback for Marginal Oil and Natural Gas Well 
Production Credit.--Section 39(a)(3) (relating to 5-year carryback for 
marginal oil and natural gas well production credit) shall not apply to 
credits determined in taxable years beginning after the date of the 
enactment of the this section.
    ``(e) Credit for Carbon Dioxide Sequestration.--Section 45Q 
(relating to credit for carbon dioxide sequestration) shall not apply 
to carbon dioxide captured after the date of the enactment of this 
section.
    ``(f) Allocated Credits.--No new credits shall be certified under 
section 48A (relating to qualifying advanced coal project credit) or 
section 48B (relating to qualifying gasification project credit) after 
the date of the enactment of this section.
    ``(g) Arbitrage Bonds.--Section 148(b)(4) (relating to safe harbor 
for prepaid natural gas) shall not apply to obligations issued after 
the date of the enactment of this section.''.
    (b) Conforming Amendment.--The table of sections for subchapter C 
of chapter 90 is amended by adding at the end the following new item:

``Sec. 7875. Termination of certain provisions.''.

SEC. 512. UNIFORM 7-YEAR AMORTIZATION FOR GEOLOGICAL AND GEOPHYSICAL 
              EXPENDITURES.

    (a) In General.--Section 167(h) of the Internal Revenue Code of 
1986 is amended--
            (1) by striking ``24-month period'' each place it appears 
        in paragraphs (1) and (4) and inserting ``7-year period'', and
            (2) by striking paragraph (5).
    (b) Effective Date.--The amendments made by this section shall 
apply to amounts paid or incurred after the date of the enactment of 
this Act.

SEC. 513. NATURAL GAS GATHERING LINES TREATED AS 15-YEAR PROPERTY.

    (a) In General.--Subparagraph (E) of section 168(e)(3) of the 
Internal Revenue Code of 1986 is amended by striking ``and'' at the end 
of clause (viii), by striking the period at the end of clause (ix) and 
inserting ``, and'', and by adding at the end the following new clause:
                            ``(x) any natural gas gathering line the 
                        original use of which commences with the 
                        taxpayer after the date of the enactment of 
                        this clause.''.
    (b) Alternative System.--The table contained in section 
168(g)(3)(B) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 is amended by 
inserting after the item relating to subparagraph (E)(ix) the following 
new item:

``(E)(x) ...................................................      22''.
    (c) Conforming Amendment.--Clause (iv) of section 168(e)(3)(C) of 
the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 is amended by inserting ``and on or 
before the date of the enactment of subparagraph (E)(x)'' after ``April 
11, 2005''.
    (d) Effective Date.--
            (1) In general.--The amendments made by this section shall 
        apply to property placed in service on and after the date of 
        the enactment of this Act.
            (2) Exception.--The amendments made by this section shall 
        not apply to any property with respect to which the taxpayer or 
        a related party has entered into a binding contract for the 
        construction thereof on or before the date of the enactment of 
        this Act, or, in the case of self-constructed property, has 
        started construction on or before such date.

SEC. 514. REPEAL OF DOMESTIC MANUFACTURING DEDUCTION FOR HARD MINERAL 
              MINING.

    (a) In General.--Subparagraph (B) of section 199(c)(4) of the 
Internal Revenue Code of 1986 is amended by striking ``or'' at the end 
of clause (ii), by striking the period at the end of clause (iii) and 
inserting ``, or'', and by adding at the end the following new clause:
                            ``(iv) the mining of any hard mineral.''.
    (b) Effective Date.--The amendments made by this section shall 
apply to taxable years beginning after the date of the enactment of 
this Act.

SEC. 515. LIMITATION ON DEDUCTION FOR INCOME ATTRIBUTABLE TO DOMESTIC 
              PRODUCTION OF OIL, NATURAL GAS, OR PRIMARY PRODUCTS 
              THEREOF.

    (a) Denial of Deduction.--Paragraph (4) of section 199(c) of the 
Internal Revenue Code of 1986 is amended by adding at the end the 
following new subparagraph:
                    ``(E) Special rule for oil, natural gas, and coal 
                income.--The term `domestic production gross receipts' 
                shall not include gross receipts from the production, 
                refining, processing, transportation, or distribution 
                of oil, natural gas, or coal, or any primary product 
                (within the meaning of subsection (d)(9)) thereof.''.
    (b) Effective Date.--The amendment made by this section shall apply 
to taxable years beginning after the date of the enactment of this Act.

SEC. 516. TERMINATION OF LAST-IN, FIRST-OUT METHOD OF INVENTORY FOR 
              OIL, NATURAL GAS, AND COAL COMPANIES.

    (a) In General.--Section 472 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 
is amended by adding at the end the following new subsection:
    ``(h) Termination for Oil, Natural Gas, and Coal Companies.--
Subsection (a) shall not apply to any taxpayer that is in the trade or 
business of the production, refining, processing, transportation, or 
distribution of oil, natural gas, or coal for any taxable year 
beginning after the date of enactment of this subsection.''.
    (b) Additional Termination.--Section 473 of the Internal Revenue 
Code of 1986 is amended by adding at the end the following new 
subsection:
    ``(h) Termination for Oil, Natural Gas, and Coal Companies.--This 
section shall not apply to any taxpayer that is in the trade or 
business of the production, refining, processing, transportation, or 
distribution of oil, natural gas, or coal for any taxable year 
beginning after the date of enactment of this subsection.''.
    (c) Effective Date.--The amendments made by this section shall 
apply to taxable years beginning after the date of enactment of this 
Act.

SEC. 517. REPEAL OF PERCENTAGE DEPLETION FOR COAL AND HARD MINERAL 
              FOSSIL FUELS.

    (a) In General.--Section 613 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 
is amended by adding at the end the following new subsection:
    ``(f) Termination With Respect to Coal and Hard Mineral Fossil 
Fuels.--In the case of coal, lignite, and oil shale (other than oil 
shale described in subsection (b)(5)), the allowance for depletion 
shall be computed without reference to this section for any taxable 
year beginning after the date of the enactment of this subsection.''.
    (b) Conforming Amendments.--
            (1) Coal and lignite.--Section 613(b)(4) of the Internal 
        Revenue Code of 1986 is amended by striking ``coal, lignite,''.
            (2) Oil shale.--Section 613(b)(2) of such Code is amended 
        to read as follows:
            ``(2) 15 percent.--If, from deposits in the United States, 
        gold, silver, copper, and iron ore.''.
    (c) Effective Date.--The amendments made by this section shall 
apply to taxable years beginning after the date of the enactment of 
this Act.

SEC. 518. TERMINATION OF CAPITAL GAINS TREATMENT FOR ROYALTIES FROM 
              COAL.

    (a) In General.--Subsection (c) of section 631 of the Internal 
Revenue Code of 1986 is amended--
            (1) by striking ``coal (including lignite), or iron ore'' 
        and inserting ``iron ore'',
            (2) by striking ``coal or iron ore'' each place it appears 
        and inserting ``iron ore'',
            (3) by striking ``iron ore or coal'' each place it appears 
        and inserting ``iron ore'', and
            (4) by striking ``Coal or'' in the heading.
    (b) Conforming Amendment.--The heading of section 631 of the 
Internal Revenue Code of 1986 is amended by striking ``, coal,''.
    (c) Effective Date.--The amendments made by this section shall 
apply to dispositions after the date of the enactment of this Act.

SEC. 519. MODIFICATIONS OF FOREIGN TAX CREDIT RULES APPLICABLE TO OIL, 
              NATURAL GAS, AND COAL COMPANIES WHICH ARE DUAL CAPACITY 
              TAXPAYERS.

    (a) In General.--Section 901 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 
is amended by redesignating subsection (n) as subsection (o) and by 
inserting after subsection (m) the following new subsection:
    ``(n) Special Rules Relating to Oil, Natural Gas, and Coal 
Companies Which Are Dual Capacity Taxpayers.--
            ``(1) General rule.--Notwithstanding any other provision of 
        this chapter, any amount paid or accrued to a foreign country 
        or possession of the United States for any period by a dual 
        capacity taxpayer which is in the trade or business of the 
        production, refining, processing, transportation, or 
        distribution of oil, natural gas, or coal shall not be 
        considered a tax--
                    ``(A) if, for such period, the foreign country or 
                possession does not impose a generally applicable 
                income tax, or
                    ``(B) to the extent such amount exceeds the amount 
                (determined in accordance with regulations) which--
                            ``(i) is paid by such dual capacity 
                        taxpayer pursuant to the generally applicable 
                        income tax imposed by the country or 
                        possession, or
                            ``(ii) would be paid if the generally 
                        applicable income tax imposed by the country or 
                        possession were applicable to such dual 
                        capacity taxpayer.
        Nothing in this paragraph shall be construed to imply the 
        proper treatment of any such amount not in excess of the amount 
        determined under subparagraph (B).
            ``(2) Dual capacity taxpayer.--For purposes of this 
        subsection, the term `dual capacity taxpayer' means, with 
        respect to any foreign country or possession of the United 
        States, a person who--
                    ``(A) is subject to a levy of such country or 
                possession, and
                    ``(B) receives (or will receive) directly or 
                indirectly a specific economic benefit (as determined 
                in accordance with regulations) from such country or 
                possession.
            ``(3) Generally applicable income tax.--For purposes of 
        this subsection--
                    ``(A) In general.--The term `generally applicable 
                income tax' means an income tax (or a series of income 
                taxes) which is generally imposed under the laws of a 
                foreign country or possession on income derived from 
                the conduct of a trade or business within such country 
                or possession.
                    ``(B) Exceptions.--Such term shall not include a 
                tax unless it has substantial application, by its terms 
                and in practice, to--
                            ``(i) persons who are not dual capacity 
                        taxpayers, and
                            ``(ii) persons who are citizens or 
                        residents of the foreign country or 
                        possession.''.
    (b) Effective Date.--
            (1) In general.--The amendments made by this section shall 
        apply to taxes paid or accrued in taxable years beginning after 
        the date of the enactment of this Act.
            (2) Contrary treaty obligations upheld.--The amendments 
        made by this section shall not apply to the extent contrary to 
        any treaty obligation of the United States.

SEC. 520. INCREASE IN OIL SPILL LIABILITY TRUST FUND FINANCING RATE.

    (a) In General.--Subparagraph (B) of section 4611(c)(2) of the 
Internal Revenue Code of 1986 is amended--
            (1) by striking ``and'' at the end of clause (i),
            (2) in clause (ii)--
                    (A) by inserting ``and before January 1, 2018,'' 
                after ``December 31, 2016,'', and
                    (B) by striking the period and inserting ``, and'', 
                and
            (3) by adding at the end the following new clause:
                            ``(iii) in the case of crude oil received 
                        or petroleum products entered after December 
                        31, 2017, 10 cents a barrel.''.
    (b) Effective Date.--The amendments made by this section shall 
apply to crude oil received and petroleum products entered after the 
date of the enactment of this Act.

SEC. 521. APPLICATION OF CERTAIN ENVIRONMENTAL TAXES TO SYNTHETIC CRUDE 
              OIL.

    (a) In General.--Paragraph (1) of section 4612(a) of the Internal 
Revenue Code of 1986 is amended to read as follows:
            ``(1) Crude oil.--
                    ``(A) In general.--The term `crude oil' includes 
                crude oil condensates, natural gasoline, and synthetic 
                crude oil.
                    ``(B) Synthetic crude oil.--For purposes of 
                subparagraph (A), the term `synthetic crude oil' means 
                any bitumen and bituminous mixtures, any oil 
                manufactured from bitumen and bituminous mixtures, and 
                any liquid fuel manufactured from coal.''.
    (b) Effective Date.--The amendment made by this section shall apply 
to oil and petroleum products received or entered during calendar 
quarters beginning more than 60 days after the date of the enactment of 
this Act.

SEC. 522. DENIAL OF DEDUCTION FOR REMOVAL COSTS AND DAMAGES FOR CERTAIN 
              OIL SPILLS.

    (a) In General.--Part IX of subchapter B of chapter 1 of the 
Internal Revenue Code of 1986 is amended by adding at the end the 
following new section:

``SEC. 280I. EXPENSES FOR REMOVAL COSTS AND DAMAGES RELATING TO CERTAIN 
              OIL SPILL LIABILITY.

    ``No deduction shall be allowed under this chapter for any amount 
paid or incurred with respect to any costs or damages for which the 
taxpayer is liable under section 1002 of the Oil Pollution Act of 1990 
(33 U.S.C. 2702).''.
    (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of sections for part IX of 
subchapter B of chapter 1 of such Code is amended by adding at the end 
the following new item:

``Sec. 280I. Expenses for removal costs and damages relating to certain 
                            oil spill liability.''.
    (c) Effective Date.--The amendments made by this section shall 
apply with respect to any liability arising in taxable years ending 
after the date of the enactment of this Act.

SEC. 523. TAX ON CRUDE OIL AND NATURAL GAS PRODUCED FROM THE OUTER 
              CONTINENTAL SHELF IN THE GULF OF MEXICO.

    (a) In General.--Subtitle E of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 is 
amended by adding at the end the following new chapter:

 ``CHAPTER 56--TAX ON SEVERANCE OF CRUDE OIL AND NATURAL GAS FROM THE 
             OUTER CONTINENTAL SHELF IN THE GULF OF MEXICO

``Sec. 5901. Imposition of tax.
``Sec. 5902. Taxable crude oil or natural gas and removal price.
``Sec. 5903. Special rules and definitions.

``SEC. 5901. IMPOSITION OF TAX.

    ``(a) In General.--In addition to any other tax imposed under this 
title, there is hereby imposed a tax equal to 13 percent of the removal 
price of any taxable crude oil or natural gas removed from the premises 
during any taxable period.
    ``(b) Credit for Federal Royalties Paid.--
            ``(1) In general.--There shall be allowed as a credit 
        against the tax imposed by subsection (a) with respect to the 
        production of any taxable crude oil or natural gas an amount 
        equal to the aggregate amount of royalties paid under Federal 
        law with respect to such production.
            ``(2) Limitation.--The aggregate amount of credits allowed 
        under paragraph (1) to any taxpayer for any taxable period 
        shall not exceed the amount of tax imposed by subsection (a) 
        for such taxable period.
    ``(c) Tax Paid by Producer.--The tax imposed by this section shall 
be paid by the producer of the taxable crude oil or natural gas.

``SEC. 5902. TAXABLE CRUDE OIL OR NATURAL GAS AND REMOVAL PRICE.

    ``(a) Taxable Crude Oil or Natural Gas.--For purposes of this 
chapter, the term `taxable crude oil or natural gas' means crude oil or 
natural gas which is produced from Federal submerged lands on the outer 
Continental Shelf in the Gulf of Mexico pursuant to a lease entered 
into with the United States which authorizes the production.
    ``(b) Removal Price.--For purposes of this chapter--
            ``(1) In general.--Except as otherwise provided in this 
        subsection, the term `removal price' means--
                    ``(A) in the case of taxable crude oil, the amount 
                for which a barrel of such crude oil is sold, and
                    ``(B) in the case of taxable natural gas, the 
                amount per 1,000 cubic feet for which such natural gas 
                is sold.
            ``(2) Sales between related persons.--In the case of a sale 
        between related persons, the removal price shall not be less 
        than the constructive sales price for purposes of determining 
        gross income from the property under section 613.
            ``(3) Oil or natural gas removed from property before 
        sale.--If crude oil or natural gas is removed from the property 
        before it is sold, the removal price shall be the constructive 
        sales price for purposes of determining gross income from the 
        property under section 613.
            ``(4) Refining begun on property.--If the manufacture or 
        conversion of crude oil into refined products begins before 
        such oil is removed from the property--
                    ``(A) such oil shall be treated as removed on the 
                day such manufacture or conversion begins, and
                    ``(B) the removal price shall be the constructive 
                sales price for purposes of determining gross income 
                from the property under section 613.
            ``(5) Property.--The term `property' has the meaning given 
        such term by section 614.

``SEC. 5903. SPECIAL RULES AND DEFINITIONS.

    ``(a) Administrative Requirements.--
            ``(1) Withholding and deposit of tax.--The Secretary shall 
        provide for the withholding and deposit of the tax imposed 
        under section 5901 on a quarterly basis.
            ``(2) Records and information.--Each taxpayer liable for 
        tax under section 5901 shall keep such records, make such 
        returns, and furnish such information (to the Secretary and to 
        other persons having an interest in the taxable crude oil or 
        natural gas) with respect to such oil as the Secretary may by 
        regulations prescribe.
            ``(3) Taxable periods; return of tax.--
                    ``(A) Taxable period.--Except as provided by the 
                Secretary, each calendar year shall constitute a 
                taxable period.
                    ``(B) Returns.--The Secretary shall provide for the 
                filing, and the time for filing, of the return of the 
                tax imposed under section 5901.
    ``(b) Definitions.--For purposes of this chapter--
            ``(1) Producer.--The term `producer' means the holder of 
        the economic interest with respect to the crude oil or natural 
        gas.
            ``(2) Crude oil.--The term `crude oil' includes crude oil 
        condensates and natural gasoline.
            ``(3) Premises and crude oil product.--The terms `premises' 
        and `crude oil product' have the same meanings as when used for 
        purposes of determining gross income from the property under 
        section 613.
    ``(c) Adjustment of Removal Price.--In determining the removal 
price of oil or natural gas from a property in the case of any 
transaction, the Secretary may adjust the removal price to reflect 
clearly the fair market value of oil or natural gas removed.
    ``(d) Regulations.--The Secretary shall prescribe such regulations 
as may be necessary or appropriate to carry out the purposes of this 
chapter.''.
    (b) Deductibility of Tax.--The first sentence of section 164(a) of 
the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 is amended by inserting after 
paragraph (4) the following new paragraph:
            ``(5) The tax imposed by section 5901(a) (after application 
        of section 5901(b)) on the severance of crude oil or natural 
        gas from the outer Continental Shelf in the Gulf of Mexico.''.
    (c) Clerical Amendment.--The table of chapters for subtitle E is 
amended by adding at the end the following new item:

                              ``Chapter 56. Tax on severance of crude 
                                        oil and natural gas from the 
                                        outer Continental Shelf in the 
                                        Gulf of Mexico.''.
    (d) Effective Date.--The amendments made by this section shall 
apply to crude oil or natural gas removed after December 31, 2017.

SEC. 524. REPEAL OF CORPORATE INCOME TAX EXEMPTION FOR PUBLICLY TRADED 
              PARTNERSHIPS WITH QUALIFYING INCOME AND GAINS FROM 
              ACTIVITIES RELATING TO FOSSIL FUELS.

    (a) In General.--Section 7704(d)(1) of the Internal Revenue Code of 
1986 is amended--
            (1) by striking subparagraph (E),
            (2) by redesignating subparagraphs (F) and (G) as 
        subparagraphs (E) and (F), respectively, and
            (3) by striking the flush matter at the end.
    (b) Conforming Amendment.--Section 988(c)(1)(E)(iii)(III) of the 
Internal Revenue Code of 1986 is amended by striking ``or (G)'' and 
inserting ``or (F)''.
    (c) Effective Date.--The amendments made by this section shall 
apply to taxable years beginning after the date of the enactment of 
this Act.

             TITLE VI--MAINTAINING AMERICAN COMPETITIVENESS

SEC. 601. PURPOSES; DEFINITIONS.

    (a) Purposes.--The purposes of this title are--
            (1) to ensure that the shift to a clean energy economy in 
        the United States is not eroded by the transition to foreign 
        countries of the manufacturing of goods in energy-intensive 
        industrial sectors;
            (2) to ensure the competitiveness of United States 
        manufacturing and industry;
            (3) to make trade a tool for the mitigation of emissions, 
        rather than the source of a substantial increase, as determined 
        by the National Climate Change Council, in greenhouse gas 
        emissions by industrial entities located in foreign countries 
        caused by an increased cost of production in the United States 
        resulting from the implementation of this Act;
            (4) to provide an incentive for high-emissions foreign 
        countries to strengthen the climate regulations and address the 
        greenhouse gas emissions of those countries; and
            (5) to prevent an increase in greenhouse gas emissions from 
        foreign countries as a result of direct and indirect compliance 
        costs incurred under this title.
    (b) Definitions.--In this title:
            (1) Climate duty.--The term ``climate duty'' means a duty 
        assessed by the United States on the importation into the 
        customs territory of the United States of a covered good.
            (2) Covered good.--The term ``covered good'' means a good 
        that is entered under a heading or subheading of the Harmonized 
        Tariff Schedule of the United States that corresponds to the 
        North American Industrial Classification System code for an 
        eligible industrial sector, as established in the concordance 
        between North American Industrial Classification System codes 
        and the Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the United States 
        prepared by the United States Census Bureau.
            (3) Eligible industrial sector.--The term ``eligible 
        industrial sector'' means an industrial sector in the United 
        States that is subject to a climate duty, as determined under 
        section 602(a).
            (4) Energy-intensive.--The term ``energy-intensive'', with 
        respect to an industrial sector, means that the industrial 
        sector has an energy intensity of not less than 5 percent, as 
        calculated based on the quotient obtained by dividing, as 
        determined using the average of the 3 most recent calendar 
        years for which data are available--
                    (A) the cost of the electricity and fuel purchased 
                by the industrial sector; by
                    (B) the total value of the sales of the industrial 
                sector.
            (5) Incremental cost.--The term ``incremental cost'' means 
        the increased cost of production of a covered good due to 
        compliance with applicable energy and climate laws (including 
        regulations) and subsidies of--
                    (A) the United States; or
                    (B) a foreign country.
            (6) Industrial sector.--
                    (A) In general.--The term ``industrial sector'' 
                means any sector that--
                            (i) is in the manufacturing sector (as 
                        defined in North American Industrial 
                        Classification System codes 31, 32, and 33); or
                            (ii) beneficiates or otherwise processes 
                        (including through agglomeration) a metal ore, 
                        including--
                                    (I) iron or copper ore;
                                    (II) soda ash; and
                                    (III) phosphate.
                    (B) Exclusion.--The term ``industrial sector'' does 
                not include any sector involving only the extraction 
                of--
                            (i) a metal ore;
                            (ii) soda ash; or
                            (iii) phosphate.
            (7) Trade-intensive.--The term ``trade-intensive'', with 
        respect to an industrial sector, means that not less than 15 
        percent of domestic consumption from the industrial sector is a 
        result of importation, as calculated based on the quotient 
        obtained by dividing, as determined using the average of the 3 
        most recent calendar years for which data are available--
                    (A) the value of the total imports of the 
                industrial sector; by
                    (B) the number equal to the sum of--
                            (i) the number equal to the difference 
                        between--
                                    (I) the domestic production of the 
                                industrial sector; and
                                    (II) the exports of the industrial 
                                sector; and
                            (ii) the value of the imports of the 
                        industrial sector.

SEC. 602. LEVELING PLAYING FIELD FOR DOMESTIC MANUFACTURERS.

    (a) Eligible Industrial Sectors.--
            (1) Designation.--Not later than 1 year after the date of 
        enactment of this Act, the Administrator, by regulation, shall 
        designate, in accordance with paragraph (2) and with the advice 
        of the Council, each eligible industrial sector that is subject 
        to a climate duty under this section.
            (2) Determination.--An industrial sector shall be an 
        eligible industrial sector if the industrial sector--
                    (A) is--
                            (i) energy-intensive; and
                            (ii) trade-intensive; or
                    (B) has an energy intensity of not less than 20 
                percent, as determined by the Council, based on the 
                quotient obtained by dividing, as determined using the 
                average of the 3 most recent calendar years for which 
                data are available--
                            (i) the cost of electricity and fuel 
                        purchased by the industrial sector; by
                            (ii) the value of the sales of the 
                        industrial sector.
            (3) Publication and updating of list.--Not later than 1 
        year after the date of enactment of this Act, and not less 
        frequently than once every 3 years thereafter, the 
        Administrator shall publish or update, as applicable, in the 
        Federal Register a list of eligible industrial sectors 
        designated under paragraph (1).
    (b) Regulations.--
            (1) In general.--The President, in consultation with the 
        Administrator, with the concurrence of the Council and the 
        Commissioner of U.S. Customs and Border Protection, shall 
        promulgate regulations that--
                    (A) establish--
                            (i) a list of countries from which the 
                        United States imports covered goods;
                            (ii) a methodology for calculating--
                                    (I) the incremental cost of 
                                producing covered goods in--
                                            (aa) the United States; and
                                            (bb) each foreign country 
                                        included on the list under 
                                        clause (i); and
                                    (II) subject to subsection 
                                (c)(3)(A), the amount of the climate 
                                duty to be imposed on imports of 
                                covered goods from each eligible 
                                industrial sector;
                            (iii) a list of the climate duties to be 
                        applied to imports from each eligible 
                        industrial sector, as determined in accordance 
                        with the methodology under clause (ii)(II); and
                            (iv) procedures to prevent circumvention of 
                        the climate duty for a covered good that is 
                        manufactured or processed in more than 1 
                        foreign country;
                    (B) subject to subsection (c)(3)(B), require the 
                payment of an appropriate climate duty for the 
                importation into the customs territory of the United 
                States of covered goods; and
                    (C) describe the procedures to be applied by U.S. 
                Customs and Border Protection relating to the 
                declaration and entry of covered goods into the customs 
                territory of the United States.
            (2) Revisions.--Not less frequently than once every 3 
        years, the President, with the advice of the Council, shall 
        publish in the Federal Register revised incremental cost 
        calculations for the United States and foreign countries, to be 
        determined in accordance with paragraph (1)(A)(ii)(I), as 
        necessary to account for any modifications during the preceding 
        3 calendar years to applicable climate- and energy-related laws 
        (including regulations).
    (c) Imposition of Climate Duty on Imported Covered Goods.--
            (1) In general.--The owner or operator of an entity that 
        imports a covered good shall pay to the Commissioner of U.S. 
        Customs and Border Protection the climate duty required under 
        subsection (b) with respect to the applicable eligible 
        industrial sector.
            (2) Waivers.--
                    (A) Petition.--The owner or operator of an entity 
                that imports a covered good may submit to the President 
                a petition for a waiver of the climate duty required 
                for the covered good under this subsection.
                    (B) Approval.--The President shall provide to an 
                owner or operator the waiver requested in a petition 
                submitted under subparagraph (A), if the owner or 
                operator demonstrates to the satisfaction of the 
                President that the covered good imported by the owner 
                or operator has an energy intensity or trade intensity, 
                as calculated in accordance with paragraph (5) or (8), 
                respectively, of section 601(b), equal to less than the 
                energy intensity or trade intensity calculated for the 
                overall eligible industrial sector in which the covered 
                good is classified.
            (3) Limitations.--
                    (A) Maximum amount.--A climate duty imposed on the 
                importation of a covered good pursuant to this 
                subsection shall not exceed an amount equal to the 
                incremental cost of domestic production of the covered 
                good, as determined in accordance with subsection 
                (b)(1)(A)(ii)(I).
                    (B) Exempted foreign countries.--A product that 
                originates from a foreign country that meets any of the 
                following criteria shall be exempt from a climate duty 
                under this subsection:
                            (i) The United Nations has identified the 
                        country as among the least developed of 
                        developing countries.
                            (ii) The country has been determined to be 
                        responsible for less than 0.5 percent of total 
                        global greenhouse gas emissions.
                            (iii) The country has been determined to be 
                        responsible for less than 5 percent of United 
                        States imports for an eligible industrial 
                        sector.
                            (iv) The country is a party to an 
                        international agreement to which the United 
                        States is also a party that includes a 
                        nationally enforceable and economywide 
                        greenhouse gas emissions reduction commitment 
                        for that country, which is at least as 
                        stringent as the commitment of the United 
                        States.
                            (v) The country is party to a multilateral 
                        or bilateral emissions reduction agreement to 
                        which the United States is also a party 
                        relating to an applicable eligible industrial 
                        sector.
                            (vi) The country has an annual energy 
                        intensity, as calculated in accordance with 
                        section 601(b)(5), for an eligible industrial 
                        sector that is not greater than the energy 
                        intensity for the eligible industrial sector in 
                        the United States during the most recent 3-
                        calendar-year period for which data are 
                        available.

SEC. 603. MAKING AMERICAN MANUFACTURING ENERGY EFFICIENT.

    (a) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Eligible entity.--The term ``eligible entity'' means an 
        energy-intensive manufacturer that--
                    (A) is a nongovernmental entity; and
                    (B) is headquartered in the United States.
            (2) Energy-intensive manufacturer.--
                    (A) In general.--The term ``energy-intensive 
                manufacturer'' means a private entity operating in an 
                industrial sector that uses an onsite fossil fuel 
                heating system in a manufacturing process.
                    (B) Inclusions.--The term ``energy-intensive 
                manufacturer'' includes an entity described in 
                subparagraph (A) that--
                            (i) manufactures steel or cement;
                            (ii) is a pulp or paper mill; or
                            (iii) operates in an energy-intensive 
                        industrial sector.
            (3) Fossil fuel heating system.--The term ``fossil fuel 
        heating system'' means a boiler, furnace, hot water heater, or 
        forced air system that uses coal, oil, natural gas, propane, or 
        any other fossil fuel, as determined by the Secretary.
            (4) Program.--The term ``Program'' means the energy-
        efficient manufacturing program established under subsection 
        (b)(1).
    (b) Energy Efficient Manufacturing Program.--
            (1) Establishment.--The Secretary shall establish program, 
        to be known as an ``energy-efficient manufacturing program''.
            (2) Competitive grants.--
                    (A) In general.--In carrying out the Program, the 
                Secretary shall provide grants, on a competitive basis, 
                to eligible entities to implement energy efficiency 
                improvements at facilities in the United States.
                    (B) Selection criteria.--Not later than 120 days 
                after the date of enactment of this Act, and not later 
                than 90 days after the date on which any subsequent 
                amounts are appropriated to carry out the Program, the 
                Secretary shall publish criteria for the selection of 
                eligible entities to receive grants under the Program, 
                including criteria prioritizing the applications 
                submitted under subparagraph (C) based on--
                            (i) the non-Federal cost-share, relative to 
                        the value of the grant;
                            (ii) the rapidity of the achievement of 
                        reductions in emissions due to the replacement 
                        of a fossil fuel heating system as described in 
                        subparagraph (F)(i);
                            (iii) the ability to use the energy 
                        efficiency improvements funded by the grant as 
                        a model of deployment of zero-emission heating 
                        technologies across the United States; and
                            (iv) such other achievements as the 
                        Secretary considers to be appropriate.
                    (C) Applications.--
                            (i) In general.--To be eligible to receive 
                        a grant under this paragraph, an eligible 
                        entity or consortium of eligible entities shall 
                        submit to the Secretary an application or joint 
                        application, respectively, in accordance with 
                        clause (ii), by not later than 120 days after 
                        the date of publication by the Secretary of the 
                        selection criteria under subparagraph (B).
                            (ii) Inclusions.--An application submitted 
                        under this subparagraph shall include a 
                        description of the means by which--
                                    (I) the eligible entity or 
                                consortium, as applicable, will--
                                            (aa) achieve compliance 
                                        with any applicable selection 
                                        criteria under subparagraph 
                                        (B); and
                                            (bb) measure and verify 
                                        proposed energy savings; and
                                    (II) to the maximum extent 
                                practicable, the energy efficiency 
                                improvements proposed to be achieved 
                                using the grant could be used as a 
                                model of deployment for other 
                                manufacturers across the United States.
                    (D) Selection.--Not later than 120 days after the 
                deadline described in subparagraph (C)(i), the 
                Secretary shall select eligible entities to receive 
                grants under the Program.
                    (E) Maximum amount.--The amount of a grant provided 
                under the Program shall not exceed $100,000,000.
                    (F) Use of funds.--An eligible entity or 
                consortium, as applicable, shall use a grant provided 
                under the Program--
                            (i) to replace a fossil fuel heating system 
                        with--
                                    (I) a zero-emission heating system; 
                                or
                                    (II) a heating system that is at 
                                least 50 percent more energy efficient; 
                                or
                            (ii) to make energy efficiency improvements 
                        that reduce the total electricity usage of each 
                        applicable eligible entity by not less than 10 
                        percent.
            (3) Cost sharing.--
                    (A) In general.--The non-Federal share of the cost 
                of each activity carried out using a grant provided 
                under the Program shall be--
                            (i) determined by the Secretary, taking 
                        into consideration the receipt of any other 
                        Federal funds by the applicable eligible 
                        entity; but
                            (ii) not less than 20 percent.
                    (B) No repayment of federal share.--The Secretary 
                shall not require repayment of the Federal share of an 
                activity carried out using a grant provided under the 
                Program as a condition of providing the grant.
            (4) Reports.--
                    (A) In general.--For purposes of analyzing the 
                Program, the Secretary shall determine the data 
                required to be submitted to the Secretary by eligible 
                entities as a condition of receiving grants under the 
                Program.
                    (B) Proprietary information.--In carrying out this 
                paragraph, the Secretary shall provide appropriate 
                protections for--
                            (i) proprietary information; and
                            (ii) intellectual property rights.
    (c) Funding.--The Secretary shall use to carry out this section not 
more than $2,000,000,000 for each fiscal year from the Climate Fund.

                TITLE VII--MOBILIZING AMERICAN RESOURCES

SEC. 701. NATIONAL CLIMATE CHANGE COUNCIL.

    (a) Definition of Fossil Fuel.--In this section, the term ``fossil 
fuel'' has the meaning given the term ``fossil fuel resource'' in 
section 610(a) of the Public Utility Regulatory Policies Act of 1978.
    (b) Establishment.--There is established in the Executive Office of 
the President a council, to be known as the ``National Climate Change 
Council'', to coordinate all activities and programs of the Federal 
Government relating to the transition from fossil fuels by January 1, 
2050.
    (c) Membership.--The membership of the Council shall consist of--
            (1) the Secretary;
            (2) the Secretary of Education;
            (3) the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development;
            (4) the Secretary of Labor;
            (5) the Secretary of Transportation;
            (6) the Secretary of the Treasury;
            (7) the Administrator;
            (8) the Chair of the Council on Environmental Quality;
            (9) the Director of the National Economic Council; and
            (10) the Director of the Office of Science and Technology 
        Policy.
    (d) Duties.--
            (1) 2050 plans.--
                    (A) In general.--The Council shall develop plans to 
                ensure that each sector in the United States that 
                combusts fossil fuels transitions away from fossil fuel 
                emissions by January 1, 2050, in accordance with this 
                subsection.
                    (B) Proposed plans.--Not later than 1 year after 
                the date of enactment of this Act, the Council shall--
                            (i) identify each sector in the United 
                        States economy that combusts fossil fuels; and
                            (ii) publish in the Federal Register a 
                        proposed plan to transition that sector away 
                        from fossil fuels.
                    (C) Final plans.--Not later than 2 years after the 
                date of enactment of this Act, the Council shall 
                publish in the Federal Register the final plan 
                developed under this paragraph for each sector.
                    (D) Requirements.--
                            (i) Use of existing authorities.--The 
                        Council shall--
                                    (I) to the maximum extent 
                                practicable, use existing authorities 
                                to execute each plan developed under 
                                this paragraph; and
                                    (II) identify any new statutory 
                                authority necessary to execute each 
                                plan.
                            (ii) Public comment.--The Council shall 
                        provide notice and an opportunity for public 
                        comment for a period of not less than 90 days 
                        for each plan developed under this paragraph.
            (2) Submission to congress.--Not later than 60 days after 
        the date of publication of a final plan under paragraph (1)(C) 
        with respect to which the Council identifies under paragraph 
        (1)(D)(i)(II) a new statutory authority necessary to execute 
        the plan, the Council shall submit to Congress draft 
        legislative text for that new authority.
            (3) 5-year reviews.--Not less frequently than once every 5 
        years, the Council shall review and update, as necessary, each 
        plan developed under this subsection, taking into 
        consideration--
                    (A) new market conditions;
                    (B) advances in technology; and
                    (C) such other factors as the Council determines to 
                be appropriate.
            (4) 2040 review.--Not later than January 1, 2040, the 
        Council shall--
                    (A) identify any sector that is not expected to 
                achieve compliance with the targets established for the 
                sector in an applicable plan under this subsection by 
                December 31, 2040; and
                    (B) establish a program to reduce emissions from 
                that sector through investment in international clean 
                and renewable energy projects.
    (e) New Grant Program Authority.--
            (1) In general.--The Council may establish such new 
        programs as the Council determines to be appropriate to provide 
        grants for not more than 20 percent of the costs incurred in 
        connection with the acquisition of components for, or the 
        development, construction, or engineering of, activities and 
        programs described in a plan developed under subsection (d).
            (2) Funding.--The Council may use to carry out this 
        subsection such amounts in the Climate Fund as are not 
        otherwise expended to carry out this Act and the amendments 
        made by this Act.
    (f) Carbon Fees.--If, in conducting the 2040 review under 
subsection (d)(4) for any sector (other than sectors covered under 
section 101 and title II), the Council determines that new authority is 
necessary to meet a target established under subsection (d), the 
Secretary of the Treasury may, in consultation with the Council, assess 
the fees necessary to meet the target under subsection (d).

SEC. 702. CLIMATE FUND; CLIMATE BONDS.

    (a) Climate Fund.--
            (1) Establishment.--There is established in the Treasury of 
        the United States a fund, to be known as the ``Climate Fund''.
            (2) Responsibility of secretary.--The Secretary of the 
        Treasury (or a designee) (referred to in this section as the 
        ``Secretary'') shall take such actions as the Secretary 
        determines to be necessary to assist in implementing the 
        establishment of the Climate Fund in accordance with this Act.
            (3) Use of funds.--
                    (A) In general.--Any amounts deposited in the 
                Climate Fund shall only be used to carry out this Act 
                and the amendments made by this Act.
                    (B) Allocation.--Not later than the date that is 14 
                days before the first day of each applicable fiscal 
                year, the Council shall make a determination regarding 
                the allocation of funds pursuant to subparagraph (A) 
                for the following fiscal year.
                    (C) Minimum allocation.--For each fiscal year, at 
                least 40 percent of the funds deposited in the Climate 
                Fund shall be used to carry out title I, the amendments 
                made by title I, and section 704.
    (b) Climate Bonds.--
            (1) Initial capitalization.--During the 1-year period 
        beginning on the date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary 
        shall issue climate bonds in an amount not to exceed 
        $150,000,000,000 on the credit of the United States, the 
        proceeds of which shall be deposited in the Climate Fund.
            (2) Future capitalization.--After the expiration of the 1-
        year period described in paragraph (1), the Secretary may issue 
        additional climate bonds on the credit of the United States in 
        excess of the limitation established under that paragraph, in 
        an amount not to exceed $150,000,000,000 for each fiscal year.
    (c) Interest.--A climate bond shall bear interest at the rate the 
Secretary sets for Treasury bonds.
    (d) Promotion.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary shall take such actions, 
        independently and in conjunction with financial institutions 
        offering climate bonds, to promote the purchase of climate 
        bonds, including campaigns describing the financial and social 
        benefits of purchasing climate bonds.
            (2) Promotional activities.--The promotional activities 
        under paragraph (1) may include advertisements, pamphlets, or 
        other promotional materials--
                    (A) in periodicals;
                    (B) on billboards and other outdoor venues;
                    (C) on television;
                    (D) on radio;
                    (E) on the Internet;
                    (F) within financial institutions that offer 
                climate bonds; or
                    (G) any other venues or outlets the Secretary may 
                identify.
            (3) Limitation.--There are authorized to be appropriated 
        for the promotional activities under this subsection not more 
        than--
                    (A) $10,000,000 for the first fiscal year beginning 
                after the date of enactment of this Act; and
                    (B) $2,000,000 for each fiscal year thereafter.
    (e) Fair Working Wages and Davis-Bacon Compliance.--
            (1) In general.--All laborers and mechanics employed on 
        projects funded directly by or assisted in whole or in part by 
        the Climate Fund under this Act shall be paid wages at rates 
        not less than those prevailing on projects of a character 
        similar in the locality as determined by the Secretary of Labor 
        in accordance with subchapter IV of chapter 31 of part A of 
        subtitle II of title 40, United States Code (commonly referred 
        to as the ``Davis-Bacon Act'').
            (2) Authority.--With respect to the labor standards 
        specified in this subsection, the Secretary of Labor shall have 
        the authority and functions set forth in Reorganization Plan 
        Numbered 14 of 1950 (64 Stat. 1267; 5 U.S.C. App.) and section 
        3145 of title 40, United States Code.

SEC. 703. ACCELERATING 100 PERCENT LOCALLY.

    (a) Establishment of Grant Program.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary shall establish a program 
        under which the Secretary shall provide grants, on a 
        competitive basis, to units of tribal and local government or 
        consortia of those units to plan and implement a transition to 
        100-percent clean and renewable energy.
            (2) Goals.--The goals of the program under this subsection 
        are--
                    (A) to facilitate the rapid transition to 100-
                percent clean and renewable energy at the municipal and 
                regional levels throughout the United States by 
                providing--
                            (i) planning grants to support necessary 
                        activities to transition to 100-percent clean 
                        and renewable energy; and
                            (ii) implementation grants for communities 
                        that--
                                    (I) have completed the planning 
                                process; and
                                    (II) are ready to begin 
                                implementing 100-percent clean and 
                                renewable energy plans;
                    (B) to encourage the adoption of clean and 
                renewable energy resources at the local and regional 
                levels, while increasing the access that low-income 
                communities and disadvantaged communities have to the 
                many benefits of clean energy, most notably--
                            (i) improved environmental quality;
                            (ii) healthier living conditions; and
                            (iii) lower energy costs;
                    (C) to increase knowledge and acceptance of, and 
                exposure to, clean and renewable energy practices for 
                consumers, businesses, and local elected officials and 
                planning staff;
                    (D) to encourage the innovation and investment 
                necessary to achieve large-scale deployment of clean 
                and renewable energy;
                    (E) to investigate differences in energy use among 
                communities and develop best practices for 
                transitioning to clean and renewable energy in various 
                communities and regions throughout the United States; 
                and
                    (F) to reduce and displace petroleum use and reduce 
                greenhouse gas emissions by accelerating the transition 
                to clean and renewable energy at the local and regional 
                levels in the United States.
    (b) Applications.--
            (1) In general.--To be eligible to receive a grant under 
        this subsection, a unit of tribal or local government, or a 
        consortium of 1 or more such units, shall submit to the 
        Secretary an application in such manner and containing such 
        information as the Secretary determines to be appropriate, by 
        not later than 150 days after the date of publication by the 
        Secretary of selection criteria under subsection (c)(3).
            (2) Joint sponsorship.--
                    (A) In general.--Subject to subparagraph (B), an 
                application submitted under paragraph (1) may be 
                jointly sponsored by--
                            (i) electric utilities;
                            (ii) clean energy equipment manufacturers;
                            (iii) technology providers; or
                            (iv) such other entities as the Secretary 
                        determines to be appropriate.
                    (B) Disbursement of grants.--A grant provided under 
                this section shall only be disbursed to a unit of 
                tribal or local government, or a consortium of those 
                units, regardless of whether the application is jointly 
                sponsored under subparagraph (A).
    (c) Selection.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 1 year after the date of 
        enactment of this Act, and not later than 1 year after the date 
        on which any subsequent amounts are made available to carry out 
        this section, the Secretary shall select the units of tribal or 
        local government and consortia of those units to receive grants 
        under this section, taking into consideration the factors and 
        criteria described in paragraphs (2) and (3).
            (2) Factors for consideration.--In selecting units of 
        government and consortia to receive grants under this 
        subsection, the Secretary--
                    (A) shall ensure, to the maximum extent 
                practicable, that--
                            (i) the combination of selected units is 
                        diverse with respect to--
                                    (I) population, population density, 
                                and demographics;
                                    (II) urban and suburban 
                                composition;
                                    (III) typical commuting patterns;
                                    (IV) climate;
                                    (V) geographical distribution; and
                                    (VI) applicable types of utilities 
                                (including investor-owned, publicly 
                                owned, cooperatively owned, 
                                distribution-only, and vertically 
                                integrated utilities); and
                            (ii) at least 1 unit of government selected 
                        serves a population of less than 500,000;
                    (B) in addition to the factors described in 
                subparagraph (A), may give preference to applicants 
                proposing a greater non-Federal cost-share;
                    (C) shall prioritize the provision of grants for 
                communities that demonstrate affordable modes of 
                transitioning to clean and renewable energy for 
                residents of low-income communities and disadvantaged 
                communities; and
                    (D) shall take into consideration previous 
                investments by the Department of Energy and other 
                Federal departments and agencies to ensure that the 
                maximum domestic benefit from Federal investments is 
                realized.
            (3) Selection criteria.--
                    (A) In general.--Not later than 120 days after the 
                date of enactment of this Act, and not later than 90 
                days after the date on which any subsequent amounts are 
                made available to carry out this section, the Secretary 
                shall publish criteria for the selection of units of 
                tribal and local government to receive grants under 
                this section.
                    (B) Application requirements.--The criteria 
                published by the Secretary under subparagraph (A) shall 
                include the following application requirements:
                            (i) A proposed level of cost sharing, in 
                        accordance with subsection (f)(2).
                            (ii) A description of the relevant 
                        stakeholders that the applicant will involve, 
                        including--
                                    (I) elected and appointed 
                                officials;
                                    (II) all relevant generators and 
                                distributors of electricity;
                                    (III) State utility regulatory 
                                authorities;
                                    (IV) departments of public works 
                                and affordable housing;
                                    (V) community groups or individuals 
                                that can provide expertise regarding 
                                environmental justice considerations;
                                    (VI) entities representing low-
                                income communities and disadvantaged 
                                communities; and
                                    (VII) third-party providers of 
                                renewable energy and energy efficiency 
                                services.
                            (iii) A cost proposal describing funds that 
                        would be used to support and ensure the 
                        participation of community groups from all 
                        economic levels in stakeholder meetings.
                            (iv) A description of the means by which 
                        the planning process will take into 
                        consideration the needs of environmental 
                        justice populations, low-income communities, 
                        and disadvantaged communities.
                            (v) For planning grants, a proposed 
                        schedule for the planning process.
                            (vi) For implementation grants--
                                    (I) a proposed implementation 
                                schedule;
                                    (II) a description of--
                                            (aa) the role that energy 
                                        efficiency improvements will 
                                        play in the implementation 
                                        process;
                                            (bb) any technical 
                                        assistance the applicant will 
                                        seek as part of the 
                                        implementation process;
                                            (cc) updated construction 
                                        permitting or inspection 
                                        processes (or a plan to update 
                                        construction permitting or 
                                        inspection processes) to allow 
                                        for expedited installation of 
                                        renewable energy equipment;
                                            (dd) the means by which 
                                        local women-owned, minority-
                                        owned, or veteran-owned 
                                        businesses will be involved in 
                                        the implementation process; and
                                            (ee) any workforce 
                                        development and professional 
                                        development activities that 
                                        will be incorporated into the 
                                        implementation process;
                                    (III) a proposed plan for--
                                            (aa) making necessary 
                                        utility and grid upgrades, 
                                        including a plan for recovering 
                                        the cost of the upgrades; and
                                            (bb) monitoring and 
                                        evaluating the implementation 
                                        of the applicable plan, 
                                        including metrics for assessing 
                                        the success of implementation 
                                        and an approach to updating the 
                                        plan, as appropriate; and
                                    (IV) such other merit-based 
                                criteria as the Secretary determines to 
                                be appropriate.
    (d) Maximum Amount.--The amount of a grant provided under this 
section shall not exceed $1,000,000.
    (e) Use of Funds.--A recipient of a grant provided under this 
section shall use the grant to design or implement a plan for 
transition by the community served by the recipient to 100-percent 
clean and renewable energy.
    (f) Cost Sharing.--
            (1) In general.--The non-Federal share of the cost of each 
        activity carried out using a grant provided under this 
        section--
                    (A) shall be determined by the Secretary in 
                accordance with paragraph (2), taking into 
                consideration the receipt of any other Federal funds by 
                the applicant;
                    (B) shall be not less than 60 percent; and
                    (C) may be reduced or eliminated by the Secretary, 
                as the Secretary determines to be necessary.
            (2) Calculation of amount.--In calculating the amount of 
        the non-Federal share under this section, the Secretary--
                    (A) may include allowable costs in accordance with 
                applicable cost principles, including--
                            (i) cash;
                            (ii) personnel costs;
                            (iii) the value of a service, other 
                        resource, or third-party in-kind contribution 
                        determined in accordance with the applicable 
                        circular of the Office of Management and 
                        Budget;
                            (iv) indirect costs or facilities and 
                        administrative costs; or
                            (v) any funds received under the power 
                        program of the Tennessee Valley Authority or 
                        any Power Marketing Administration (except to 
                        the extent that such funds are made available 
                        under an annual appropriations Act);
                    (B) shall include contributions made by State, 
                tribal, or local government entities and private 
                entities; and
                    (C) shall not include--
                            (i) revenues or royalties from the 
                        prospective operation of an activity beyond the 
                        period covered by the grant; or
                            (ii) proceeds from the prospective sale of 
                        an asset of an activity.
            (3) No repayment of federal share.--The Secretary shall not 
        require repayment of the Federal share of an activity carried 
        out using a grant provided under this section as a condition of 
        providing the grant.
    (g) Reports.--
            (1) In general.--For purposes of analyzing the grant 
        program under this section, the Secretary shall--
                    (A) determine the data required to be submitted to 
                the Secretary by grant recipients as a condition of 
                receiving grants; and
                    (B) develop metrics to evaluate the performance of 
                the grant recipients.
            (2) Privacy protections.--In carrying out this subsection, 
        the Secretary shall provide appropriate protections for 
        consumer privacy.
    (h) Funding.--The Secretary shall use to carry out this section not 
more than $1,000,000,000 for each fiscal year from the Climate Fund.

SEC. 704. CLIMATE JUSTICE RESILIENCY.

    (a) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Climate impacts.--
                    (A) In general.--The term ``climate impacts'' means 
                the damage to the health of human and natural 
                environments, habitats, and the economy caused by 
                factors such as erratic climate and weather extremes 
                due to excess carbon pollution in the atmosphere.
                    (B) Inclusions.--The term ``climate impacts'' 
                includes--
                            (i) the increased frequency of--
                                    (I) extreme weather, such as 
                                hurricanes, tornadoes, and snowstorms;
                                    (II) floods;
                                    (III) wildfires;
                                    (IV) droughts;
                                    (V) disease; and
                                    (VI) heatwaves;
                            (ii) sea level rise;
                            (iii) ocean acidification; and
                            (iv) altered--
                                    (I) ecosystems and habitats; and
                                    (II) soil health and crop 
                                availability.
            (2) Climate justice resiliency project.--The term ``climate 
        justice resiliency project'' means a project, plan, fund, or 
        other proposal to mitigate climate impacts on a climate 
        resiliency hotspot community.
            (3) Climate resiliency hotspot community.--The term 
        ``climate resiliency hotspot community'' means a community that 
        is--
                    (A) likely to experience climate impacts;
                    (B) traditionally unable to afford the management 
                or mitigation of climate impacts; and
                    (C) likely to receive a high score in the report 
                described in subsection (i).
            (4) Eligible entity.--The term ``eligible entity'' means--
                    (A) a State;
                    (B) an Indian tribe;
                    (C) a territory;
                    (D) a municipality;
                    (E) a county;
                    (F) a locality;
                    (G) a native Hawaiian community; and
                    (H) a nonprofit community organization.
    (b) Establishment.--The Administrator, in consultation with the 
Council, shall establish a Climate Justice Resiliency Grant Program to 
provide block grants to eligible entities to promote climate justice 
resiliency projects described in subsection (g).
    (c) Environmental Justice Study.--
            (1) In general.--To facilitate administration of grants 
        under this section, not later than 1 year after the date of 
        enactment of this Act, the Council shall conduct a county-by-
        county or equivalent regional or tribal environmental justice 
        study to identify climate resiliency hotspot communities.
            (2) Requirements.--The study described in paragraph (1)--
                    (A) shall be conducted in consultation with--
                            (i) climate resiliency hotspot communities; 
                        and
                            (ii) communities that are likely to receive 
                        a high score in the report described in 
                        subsection (i);
                    (B) shall identify localities based on geographical 
                proximity to climate impacts, socioeconomic, public 
                health, and environmental hazard criteria; and
                    (C) may include an area--
                            (i) that is disproportionately affected by 
                        climate impacts or other hazards that lead to 
                        negative public health effects, exposure, or 
                        environmental degradation;
                            (ii) with a concentration of individuals 
                        who have--
                                    (I) a low income;
                                    (II) high unemployment;
                                    (III) a low level of homeownership;
                                    (IV) a high rent burden;
                                    (V) a low level of educational 
                                attainment; or
                                    (VI) a disproportionate health 
                                burden; or
                            (iii) with a climate-sensitive population.
    (d) Eligibility for Grant Funds.--
            (1) In general.--To be eligible to receive a grant under 
        this section, an eligible entity shall submit to the Council a 
        plan for a climate justice resiliency investment for not less 
        than 5 years that describes climate justice resiliency projects 
        prioritized based on the study carried out under subsection 
        (c).
            (2) Contents.--The multiyear plan described in paragraph 
        (1) shall include--
                    (A) a description of--
                            (i) the proposed climate justice resiliency 
                        project; and
                            (ii) the climate resiliency hotspot 
                        communities intended to benefit from the 
                        proposed climate justice resiliency project;
                    (B) the expected climate resiliency improvement 
                benefits; and
                    (C) a funding level request.
    (e) Application Process.--The Council shall establish application 
requirements for participation in the Climate Justice Resiliency Grant 
Program established under subsection (b).
    (f) Grant Funds.--The Administrator, in consultation with the 
Council, shall award to eligible entities grant funds commensurate with 
the duration and scope of the proposed climate justice resiliency 
project.
    (g) Climate Justice Resiliency Projects.--
            (1) In general.--Subject to paragraph (2), an eligible 
        entity may use grant funds made available under this section to 
        carry out a climate justice resiliency project, including--
                    (A) a project related to--
                            (i) climate impact disaster adaptation and 
                        planning;
                            (ii) wetland restoration;
                            (iii) mine reclamation;
                            (iv) a seawall, levee, or other coastal 
                        flood mitigation effort;
                            (v) the development of--
                                    (I) a community evacuation plan;
                                    (II) resources for safe and 
                                complete evacuation;
                                    (III) a community plan for 
                                returning after an evacuation; or
                                    (IV) a plan for funding for the 
                                relocation of Indian tribes in the 
                                event of a climate impact disaster;
                            (vi) brownfields redevelopment;
                            (vii) rural water and waste disposal;
                            (viii) lead and asbestos hazard reduction 
                        in homes with high flood, hurricane, or sea 
                        level rise exposure risk;
                            (ix) flood and wildfire mapping, planning, 
                        and adaptation;
                            (x) public transportation;
                            (xi) vehicle traffic emissions exposure 
                        reduction;
                            (xii) a road or bridge that facilitates 
                        disaster evacuation;
                            (xiii) a local food cooperative or market;
                            (xiv) public sewage;
                            (xv) broadband Internet;
                            (xvi) a microgrid;
                            (xvii) air conditioning units for low-
                        income housing; or
                            (xviii) emergency communication 
                        infrastructure;
                    (B) a fund established to assist evacuees to return 
                home after an evacuation; or
                    (C) a disaster loan.
            (2) Exclusions.--An eligible entity shall not use funds 
        made available under this section to carry out an activity 
        relating to--
                    (A) the generation of electricity;
                    (B) carbon capture or sequestration; or
                    (C) a highway.
    (h) Cost-Sharing Requirement.--The Council--
            (1) shall require eligible entities that receive funds 
        under this section to enter into a cost-sharing agreement for, 
        at a minimum, 20 percent of the total cost of the proposed 
        climate justice resiliency project; and
            (2) may, at the discretion of the Council, waive the cost-
        sharing requirement described in paragraph (1).
    (i) Report to Congress.--Not later than 180 days after the date of 
enactment of this Act, the Council shall submit to the appropriate 
committees of Congress a report that describes--
            (1) in detail the manner in which this section will be 
        carried out; and
            (2) the results of the study required under subsection (c), 
        including a score for each locality studied based on the level 
        of climate impacts experienced by the locality.
    (j) Regulations.--The Administrator, in consultation with the 
Council, may promulgate regulations to carry out this section.
    (k) Funding.--The Administrator shall use to carry out this section 
from the Climate Fund not more than--
            (1) $2,000,000,000 for the first fiscal year beginning 
        after the date of enactment of this Act through fiscal year 
        2030; and
            (2) $10,000,000 for each fiscal year thereafter.

                       TITLE VIII--MISCELLANEOUS

SEC. 801. TAX AMENDMENTS REVIEW.

    Not later than December 31, 2035, the Secretary, in consultation 
with the Secretary of the Treasury, shall--
            (1) review the amendments to the Internal Revenue Code of 
        1986 made by this Act to determine if the amendments are 
        effective and should continue; and
            (2) report to Congress any recommended modifications to the 
        amendments.
                                 &lt;all&gt;
</pre></body></html>
