<html><body><pre>
[Congressional Bills 112th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H.R. 2330 Introduced in House (IH)]

112th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                H. R. 2330

  To establish a National Flood Research and Education Consortium to 
   plan, coordinate, conduct, and share research on flooding, flood 
  prevention, and other flood-related issues, and for other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                             June 23, 2011

 Mr. Loebsack introduced the following bill; which was referred to the 
  Committee on Science, Space, and Technology, and in addition to the 
  Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, for a period to be 
subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for consideration 
  of such provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the committee 
                               concerned

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
  To establish a National Flood Research and Education Consortium to 
   plan, coordinate, conduct, and share research on flooding, flood 
  prevention, and other flood-related issues, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``National Flood Research and 
Education Act of 2011''.

SEC. 2. FINDINGS.

    Congress finds the following:
            (1) According to the National Oceanic and Atmospheric 
        Administration (NOAA) three-fourths of all presidential 
        disaster declarations are associated with flooding.
            (2) According to NOAA, in most years flooding causes more 
        damage in the United States than any other severe weather 
        related event, an average of $5.3 billion a year for the 30-
        year period, 1975-2004.
            (3) Flooding, flood prevention, and flood-related socio-
        economic, environmental, health and policy issues are highly 
        complex with implications for loss of life and billions in 
        damage to all sectors of our economy.
            (4) There is not currently a national-level comprehensive 
        effort to research flooding, flood prevention, and flood-
        related issues.
            (5) Flooding, flood prevention, and flood-related issues 
        require a national-level comprehensive and collaborative 
        research effort to help advance understanding of the variety of 
        issues on causes of flooding, and implementation of prediction 
        methods as well as policies that would help prevent future 
        damage and natural disasters.
            (6) A national-level effort should include partnerships 
        between the Federal Government and institutions of higher 
        education all with expertise in the areas of physical and 
        environmental science, including hydrology, hydraulics, 
        hydrometeorology, climate, as well as in engineering, sociology 
        and economics.
            (7) A national-level effort should include research on 
        climate and weather and any other area related to flooding, 
        flood prevention, and other flood-related issues, including--
                    (A) analysis of the economic effects of flooding;
                    (B) evaluation and development of strategies, 
                techniques, and technologies to reduce, manage, 
                monitor, and prevent flooding;
                    (C) analysis of Federal, State, regional, and local 
                flood policy;
                    (D) and development of risk-assessment tools, 
                methods, and models.
            (8) A national-level effort should also include development 
        of recommendations and identification of best practices for 
        predicting, preventing, and minimizing flooding and its 
        effects, including--
                    (A) risk-assessment tools, methods, and models;
                    (B) strategies and techniques for monitoring and 
                predicting flooding;
                    (C) strategies and techniques for flood management 
                and prevention;
                    (D) the adoption and use of relevant technologies;
                    (E) Federal, State, regional, and local flood 
                policies; and
                    (F) coordination and cooperation among local, 
                State, and Federal flood-related efforts.
            (9) Research, recommendations, and best practices should be 
        developed by taking into account regional differences in 
        hydrology, weather, geography, economy, and population density 
        while ensuring inland and non-oceanic flooding situations, 
        among others, are represented.
            (10) Demonstration projects should be used to test the 
        efficacy of new strategies, techniques and technologies for 
        assessing flood risk, monitoring, and predicting and provide 
        local governments the opportunity to participate in areas where 
        new strategies are needed.
            (11) There are multiple areas of Federal, State, and local 
        government responsibility for flooding and water-related 
        issues. Thus, a national-level research effort should involve 
        the development of collaborative networks on regional flooding, 
        flood prevention, and flood-related issues, including the 
        following entities--
                    (A) relevant Federal departments and agencies, 
                including water-research efforts within NOAA and other 
                Federal entities;
                    (B) State, county, and local governments;
                    (C) local Councils of Governments or regional and 
                Metropolitan Planning Organizations;
                    (D) State agriculture, natural resource, 
                environment, economic development, homeland security, 
                and water agencies;
                    (E) county disaster recovery coordinators, 
                emergency management personnel, and first responders;
                    (F) public or private colleges and universities;
                    (G) floodplain managers;
                    (H) watershed organizations and boards;
                    (I) agriculture and commodity Organizations;
                    (J) resource, conservation, preservation and 
                environmental organizations;
                    (K) homeowners associations and organizations; and
                    (L) business and development organizations.

SEC. 3. OFFICE OF FLOOD RESEARCH AND POLICY.

    (a) Establishment.--
            (1) In general.--There is hereby established within the 
        National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) an 
        Office of Flood Research and Policy.
            (2) Director.--
                    (A) In general.--The Office shall be headed by a 
                Director, who shall be appointed by the Administrator 
                of NOAA.
                    (B) Salary.--The rate of pay for the Director shall 
                not exceed the rate payable for level IV of the 
                Executive Schedule under section 5316 of title 5, 
                United States Code.
            (3) Staff.--
                    (A) In general.--The Director may appoint and fix 
                the pay of personnel as the Director considers 
                appropriate.
                    (B) Detail of government employees.--Upon request 
                of the Director, the head of any Federal department or 
                agency may detail, on a reimbursable basis, any of the 
                personnel of that department or agency to the Office to 
                assist the Director in carrying out his duties under 
                this Act.
                    (C) Experts and consultants.--The Director may 
                procure temporary and intermittent services under 
                section 3109(b) of title 5, United States Code.
    (b) Duties.--The Director shall--
            (1) establish and oversee the National Flood Research and 
        Education Consortium described in section 4;
            (2) make recommendations and identify best practices for 
        predicting, preventing, and minimizing flooding and its effects 
        in accordance with subsection (c);
            (3) submit to Congress an annual report in accordance with 
        subsection (d);
            (4) establish and maintain a page on the public NOAA Web 
        site in accordance with subsection (e); and
            (5) review applications that have been approved by the Lead 
        Partner Institution (LPI) and award grants for demonstration 
        projects in accordance with section 6.
    (c) Recommendations and Best Practices.--
            (1) In general.--The Director, in consultation with the 
        Director of the United States Geological Survey, the Commanding 
        General of the United States Army Corps of Engineers, and the 
        heads of other relevant Federal agencies, shall develop 
        recommendations and identify best practices for predicting, 
        preventing, and minimizing flooding and its effects, 
        including--
                    (A) risk-assessment tools, methods, and models;
                    (B) strategies and techniques for monitoring and 
                predicting flooding;
                    (C) strategies and techniques for flood management 
                and prevention;
                    (D) the adoption and use of relevant technologies;
                    (E) Federal, State, regional, and local flood 
                policies; and
                    (F) coordination and cooperation among local, 
                State, and Federal flood-related efforts.
            (2) Additional considerations.--In developing the 
        recommendations and best practices described in paragraph (1), 
        the Director shall consider--
                    (A) the annual report submitted by the LPI in 
                accordance with section 4(f); and
                    (B) regional differences in hydrology, weather, 
                geography, economy, and population density.
    (d) Report.--The Director shall submit to Congress an annual report 
on the activities of the Office and the Consortium.
    (e) Web Site.--The Director shall establish and maintain a page on 
the public NOAA Web site on which the Director shall publish--
            (1) the recommendations and best practices described in 
        subsection (c); and
            (2) the annual report described in subsection (d).
    (f) Oversight.--
            (1) Research.--The Director shall establish procedures to 
        ensure that there is full and effective review of the research 
        conducted by the Consortium.
            (2) Periodic review.--Periodically (and not less than every 
        year), the Director shall review the activities of the 
        Consortium to ensure that--
                    (A) Consortium members are fulfilling their duties 
                under section 3; and
                    (B) funds received under this Act are used solely 
                for such purposes.
            (3) Information.--Consortium members shall provide the 
        Director with any information that the Director considers 
        necessary to carry out his responsibilities under this section.

SEC. 4. NATIONAL FLOOD RESEARCH AND EDUCATION CONSORTIUM.

    (a) Establishment.--
            (1) In general.--The Director shall establish a National 
        Flood Research and Education Consortium.
            (2) Members.--
                    (A) Composition.--The Consortium shall consist of--
                            (i) a LPI selected by the Director as 
                        described in section 5(a); and
                            (ii) additional partner institutions 
                        selected by the Director and LPI as described 
                        in section 5(b).
                    (B) Limitation to institutions of higher 
                education.--Members of the Consortium shall be 
                institutions of higher education.
    (b) Duties of Consortium Members.--Each Consortium member shall--
            (1) conduct research on flooding, flood prevention, and 
        other flood-related issues, including--
                    (A) analysis of the economic effects of flooding;
                    (B) evaluation and development of strategies, 
                techniques, and technology to reduce, manage, monitor, 
                and prevent flooding;
                    (C) analysis of Federal, State, regional, and local 
                flood policy; and
                    (D) development of risk-assessment tools, methods, 
                and models; and
            (2) develop undergraduate and graduate courses on flooding, 
        flooding prevention, and other flood-related issues.
    (c) Additional Duties of Lead Partner Institution.--In addition to 
fulfilling the duties described in subsection (b), the LPI shall--
            (1) establish a center to plan, coordinate, and facilitate 
        research and information sharing among the Consortium members;
            (2) review and approve applications for grants under 
        section 6;
            (3) oversee demonstration projects funded by grands awarded 
        under section 6;
            (4) submit to the Director an annual report in accordance 
        with subsection (f); and
            (5) establish and maintain an Internet Web site in 
        accordance with subsection (g).
    (d) Improvement of Lead Partner Institution Facilities.--
            (1) In general.--Subject to the requirements of paragraph 
        (2), the LPI may use funds authorized pursuant to section 
        7(a)(2) to improve facilities used by the LPI in carrying out 
        its duties under this section.
            (2) Requirements.--In order for the LPI to be eligible to 
        receive funds under this subsection--
                    (A) the LPI shall submit to the Director a plan 
                detailing the proposed improvements, including--
                            (i) the projected cost of such 
                        improvements;
                            (ii) a description of engineering, design, 
                        staffing, and equipment needs; and
                            (iii) such additional information as the 
                        Director shall require; and
                    (B) the Director shall approve such plan.
    (e) Annual Report.--
            (1) Contents.--For each fiscal year in which the Consortium 
        is funded under this Act, the LPI shall prepare a report that 
        includes--
                    (A) a summary of the research and activities--
                            (i) conducted by each Consortium member 
                        during the fiscal year in accordance with this 
                        Act; and
                            (ii) planned by each Consortium member for 
                        the next fiscal year in accordance with this 
                        Act;
                    (B) a detailed accounting of the amounts--
                            (i) expended by each Consortium member 
                        during the fiscal year in carrying out this 
                        Act; and
                            (ii) planned to be expended by each 
                        Consortium member for the next fiscal year in 
                        carrying out this Act;
                    (C) the number of applications for grants under 
                section 5 received during the fiscal year, a list of 
                such grants awarded during the fiscal year, and the 
                status of demonstration projects funded by such grants; 
                and
                    (D) such additional information as the Director 
                shall require.
            (2) Final report.--In the case of the final annual report, 
        the LPI may exclude the information described in paragraph 
        (1)(A)(ii) and paragraph (1)(B)(ii).
            (3) Timing.--The LPI shall submit the report described in 
        paragraph (1) to the Director no later than 30 days after the 
        end of the fiscal year.
    (f) Web Site.--The LPI shall establish and maintain an Internet Web 
site for the Consortium on which the LPI shall publish--
            (1) information about the purpose of the Consortium;
            (2) the location and contact information of Consortium 
        members;
            (3) a link to the page of the Office on the public NOAA Web 
        site;
            (4) a detailed description of all research conducted by 
        Consortium members in accordance with this Act;
            (5) articles on flooding, flood prevention, and flood-
        related issues published in peer-reviewed academic journals by 
        professors of Consortium members;
            (6) information about the grant program described in 
        section 6, including the application and criteria for 
        selection;
            (7) the status of demonstration projects funded by the 
        grant program described in section 6; and
            (8) such additional information as the Director shall 
        require.
    (g) Information.--Consortium members shall provide the LPI with any 
information the LPI considers relevant to carry out its 
responsibilities under this section.

SEC. 5. SELECTION OF CONSORTIUM MEMBERS.

    (a) Lead Partner Institution.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 90 days after the date of 
        enactment of this Act, the Director shall select an institution 
        of higher education to serve as the lead partner institution to 
        head the Consortium.
            (2) Application.--An institution of higher education 
        desiring to be selected as the LPI of the Consortium shall 
        submit an application to the Director at such time, in such 
        form, and containing such information and assurances as the 
        Director shall reasonably require. Such application shall 
        include--
                    (A) a comprehensive prospectus for the operation of 
                the Consortium;
                    (B) a research proposal;
                    (C) a description of relevant current and past 
                research conducted by the institution;
                    (D) a plan to develop undergraduate and graduate 
                courses on flooding, flooding prevention, and other 
                flood-related issues;
                    (E) a plan to incorporate undergraduate and 
                graduate students in the work of the Consortium;
                    (F) a proposed budget; and
                    (G) a certification that the applicant will provide 
                non-Federal matching funds in an amount that is at 
                least equal to 20 percent of any funds received under 
                this Act.
            (3) Priority.--In selecting the LPI, the Director shall 
        give priority to an applicant that--
                    (A) has significant research expertise in the areas 
                of physical and environmental science, flooding, 
                hydraulics, hydroscience, engineering, and meteorology;
                    (B) is located in a State that frequently 
                experiences non-oceanic and inland flooding;
                    (C) has previously partnered with or received funds 
                from the Federal Government to research flooding, 
                hydrology, and watershed issues;
                    (D) has experience operating a flood research 
                center serving the State or region in which the 
                institution is located;
                    (E) has the capability to take a leading role in 
                coordinating and fulfilling the purposes of the 
                Consortium; and
                    (F) has the capacity to administer the 
                demonstration project grant program described in 
                section 6.
    (b) Additional Members.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 90 days after the selection 
        of the LPI, the Director, in coordination with the LPI, shall 
        select additional institutions of higher education to 
        participate in the Consortium.
            (2) Application.--An institution of higher education 
        desiring to be selected as a member of the Consortium shall 
        submit an application to the Director at such time, in such 
        form, and containing such information and assurances as the 
        Director shall reasonably require. Such application shall 
        include--
                    (A) a research proposal;
                    (B) a description of relevant current and past 
                research conducted by the institution;
                    (C) a plan to develop undergraduate and graduate 
                courses on flooding, flooding prevention, and other 
                flood-related issues;
                    (D) a plan to incorporate undergraduate and 
                graduate students in the work of the Consortium;
                    (E) a proposed budget; and
                    (F) a certification that the applicant will provide 
                non-Federal matching funds in an amount that is at 
                least equal to 20 percent of any funds received under 
                this Act.
            (3) Priority.--In selecting additional members of the 
        Consortium, the Director shall give priority to an applicant 
        that--
                    (A) has demonstrated research expertise in an area 
                or areas related to flooding; and
                    (B) has the ability to plan, coordinate, and 
                conduct research related to flooding, flood prevention, 
                and flood-related issues.

SEC. 6. GRANT PROGRAM FOR DEMONSTRATION PROJECTS.

    (a) Establishment.--From funds made available under section 7(a), 
the Director shall award grants to States and units of local government 
for the purpose of funding eligible demonstration projects.
    (b) Application.--To be eligible to receive a grant under this 
section, a State or unit of local government shall submit an 
application to the LPI at such time and in such manner as the LPI, in 
consultation with the Director, shall reasonably require.
    (c) Approval of Grant.--
            (1) In general.--The award of a grant under subsection (a) 
        shall require the approval of both the LPI and the Director.
            (2) Timing.--
                    (A) LPI.--The LPI shall approve or reject an 
                application for a grant under subsection (a) not later 
                than 60 days after receiving the completed application.
                    (B) Director.--If the LPI approves an application 
                for a grant under subsection (a), the Director shall 
                approve or reject such application not later than 30 
                days after approval by the LPI.
    (d) Eligible Demonstration Projects.--A State or unit of local 
government that receives a grant under subsection (a) shall use such 
grant to fund demonstration projects that--
            (1) implement the recommendations and best practices 
        described in section 3(c); or
            (2) test new or improved techniques, strategies, 
        technologies, methods, tools, and models for predicting, 
        preventing, and minimizing flooding and its effects.
    (e) Grant Amount.--
            (1) Limit.--Except as provided in paragraph (2), a grant 
        under this section shall not exceed $250,000.
            (2) Exception.--A grant under this section may exceed 
        $250,000 if--
                    (A) all Consortium members waive the limitation of 
                paragraph (1);
                    (B) the Director waives the limitation of paragraph 
                (1); and
                    (C) the demonstration project involves multiple 
                watersheds or jurisdictions and benefits multiple 
                communities.
            (3) Matching funds.--States and units of local government 
        that receive funds under this section shall contribute non-
        Federal funds in an amount equal to or greater than 20 percent 
        of the amount received.

SEC. 7. FUNDING.

    (a) Authorization of Appropriations.--
            (1) In general.--In addition to the funds authorized to be 
        appropriated under paragraph (2), for each of the fiscal years 
        2012 through 2017, there is authorized to be appropriated to 
        the Administrator of NOAA $11,000,000 to carry out this Act.
            (2) Improvement of lpi facilities.--There is authorized to 
        be appropriated to the Administrator of NOAA such sums as may 
        be necessary for payments to the LPI for the purposes described 
        in section 4(e).
    (b) Availability of Funds.--
            (1) Office of flood research and policy.--Of the amounts 
        made available under subsection (a)(1) for a fiscal year, not 
        more than $2,000,000 may be used to fund the activities of the 
        Office.
            (2) Lead partner institution.--Of the amounts made 
        available under subsection (a)(1) for a fiscal year, not more 
        than $3,000,000 may be used to fund the activities of the LPI.
            (3) Additional members of the consortium.--
                    (A) In general.--Of the amounts made available 
                under subsection (a)(1) for a fiscal year, not more 
                than $3,000,000 may be used to fund the activities of 
                the members of the Consortium other than the LPI.
                    (B) Limit per member.--Of the amounts made 
                available under subparagraph (A), not more than 
                $500,000 may be used to fund the activities of a member 
                of the Consortium other than the LPI.
            (4) Grant program.--Of the amounts made available under 
        subsection (a)(1) for a fiscal year, not more than $3,000,000 
        may be used to fund the grant program described in section 6.

SEC. 8. DEFINITIONS.

    In this Act:
            (1) Consortium.--The term ``Consortium'' means the National 
        Flood Research and Education Consortium established in section 
        3.
            (2) Director.--The term ``Director'' means the Director of 
        the Office of Flood Research and Policy established within NOAA 
        in section 2.
            (3) Institution of higher education.--The term 
        ``institution of higher education'' has the meaning given such 
        term in section 101(a) of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (20 
        U.S.C. 1001(a)).
            (4) LPI.--The term ``LPI'' means the Lead Partner 
        Institution described in section 4(a).
            (5) Office.--The term ``Office'' means the Office of Flood 
        Research and Policy established in section 2.
                                 &lt;all&gt;
</pre></body></html>
