<html><body><pre>
[Congressional Bills 111th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[S. 3610 Introduced in Senate (IS)]

111th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                S. 3610

           To require a study on spectrum occupancy and use.


_______________________________________________________________________


                   IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

                             July 19, 2010

 Ms. Snowe (for herself and Mr. Kerry) introduced the following bill; 
    which was read twice and referred to the Committee on Commerce, 
                      Science, and Transportation

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
           To require a study on spectrum occupancy and use.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Spectrum Measurement and Policy 
Reform Act''.

SEC. 2. DEFINITIONS.

    As used in this Act--
            (1) the term ``Administration'' means the National 
        Telecommunications and Information Administration;
            (2) the term ``Commission'' means the Federal 
        Communications Commission;
            (3) the term ``National Academies'' means the National 
        Academy of Sciences, the National Academy of Engineering, the 
        Institute of Medicine; and the National Research Council;
            (4) the term ``spectrum sharing'' means the temporary use 
        by a secondary user of unused spectrum in a band at a 
        geographical location licensed to a primary user during idle 
        periods of the primary license use;
            (5) the term ``spectrum reuse'' means the temporary use by 
        a secondary user of unused spectrum in a band at a geographical 
        location where there is no primary licensed user;
            (6) the term ``temporary dynamic short-term use''--
                    (A) means the assignment of a temporary spectrum 
                license to a user that is not the incumbent licensee 
                for the use of spectrum in a given band and specified 
                location for a short period of time in which the 
                spectrum will be unoccupied or in which the incumbent 
                licensee temporarily relinquishes rights to use; and
                    (B) includes short-term spectrum sharing and short-
                term spectrum reuse; and
            (7) the term ``spectrum layering'' means the temporary use 
        by a secondary user of unused spectrum in a band at an 
        altitudinal level where there is no primary user or during idle 
        periods of the primary license use.

SEC. 3. SPECTRUM SURVEY AND MEASUREMENT STUDY.

    (a) Survey and Study.--
            (1) In general.--The Commission and the Administration 
        shall jointly conduct a study of occupancy on the 
        electromagnetic spectrum based on the extent of the use of such 
        spectrum, including the amount and percentage of spectrum used 
        in the band and the duration and percentage of time such 
        spectrum is in use.
            (2) Expert consultation.--In carrying out the study 
        required under paragraph (1), the Commission and the 
        Administration may consult with the National Academies, other 
        agencies, or nongovernmental organizations with relevant 
        expertise in developing appropriate measurement procedures and 
        systems, data analysis methodologies, or another other aspect 
        related to the surveying and measurement of electromagnetic 
        spectrum.
            (3) Required content.--The study required under paragraph 
        (1) shall--
                    (A) examine occupancy measurements and usage 
                patterns on the electromagnetic spectrum between, at 
                least, 100 megahertz and 10 gigahertz;
                    (B) record occupancy measurements on the 
                electromagnetic spectrum in several diverse 
                geographical locations across the nation over an 
                appropriate period of time, as determined jointly by 
                the Commission and the Administration.
                    (C) provide band-by-band commentary as appropriate; 
                and
                    (D) predict occupancy and usage patterns from 
                existing licensee and government user spectrum data, 
                and correlate such predictions with the findings made 
                under subparagraphs (A) and (B) in order to determine 
                the accuracy of the data from each agencies' databases 
                or an inventory of the electromagnetic spectrum and 
                what additional data, if any, would be beneficial to 
                collect in the future.
    (b) National Security; Classified Information.--
            (1) In general.--If the head of a Federal agency determines 
        that disclosure of information to the Commission and the 
        Administration as part of the study required by subsection (a) 
        would be harmful to the national security of the United States, 
        the agency shall--
                    (A) notify the Commission and the Administration of 
                its determination; and
                    (B) provide to the Commission and the 
                Administration--
                            (i) the other publicly releasable 
                        information required by subsection (a);
                            (ii) to the maximum extent practicable, a 
                        summary description of the information with 
                        respect to which the determination was made; 
                        and
                            (iii) an annex containing the information 
                        with respect to which the determination was 
                        made.
            (2) Classified information.--If the head of a Federal 
        agency determines that any information required to be disclosed 
        as part of the study required by subsection (a) is classified 
        in accordance with Executive Order 13526 of December 29, 2009, 
        or any successor Executive Order establishing or modifying the 
        uniform system for classifying, safeguarding, and declassifying 
        national security information, the agency shall--
                    (A) notify the Commission and the Administration of 
                its determination; and
                    (B) provide to the Commission and the 
                Administration--
                            (i) the information required by subsection 
                        (a)(3) that is not classified;
                            (ii) to the maximum extent practicable, a 
                        summary description of the information that is 
                        classified; and
                            (iii) an annex containing the information 
                        that is classified.
            (3) Annex restriction.--Neither the Administration nor the 
        Commission may make any annex under this subsection available 
        to the public pursuant to subsection (d)(3) or to any 
        unauthorized person through any other means.
    (c) Public Safety Nondisclosure.--
            (1) In general.--If a licensee of non-Federal spectrum 
        determines that public disclosure of certain information held 
        by that licensee and required to be included in the study under 
        subsection (a) would reveal information for which public 
        disclosure would be detrimental to public safety, or that the 
        licensee is otherwise prohibited by law from disclosing, the 
        licensee may petition the Commission and the Administration for 
        a partial or total exemption from inclusion in the public 
        report required under subsection (d)(3).
            (2) Burden.--A licensee seeking an exemption under this 
        subsection bears the burden of justifying the exemption and 
        shall provide clear and convincing evidence to support the 
        requested exemption.
            (3) Information required.--If the Commission and the 
        Administration grant an exemption under this subsection, the 
        licensee shall provide to the Commission and the 
        Administration--
                    (A) the publicly releasable information required by 
                subsection (a)(3);
                    (B) to the maximum extent practicable, a summary 
                description, suitable for public release, of the 
                information for which public disclosure would be 
                detrimental to public safety or that the licensee is 
                prohibited by law from disclosing; and
                    (C) an annex, under appropriate cover, containing 
                the information that the Commission and the 
                Administration has determined should be withheld from 
                public disclosure.
    (d) Report.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 2 years after the date of 
        enactment of this Act, the Commission and the Administration 
        shall jointly submit a report to the Committee on Commerce, 
        Science, and Transportation of the Senate and the Committee on 
        Energy and Commerce of the House of Representatives that 
        includes--
                    (A) the findings of the study required under 
                subsection (a); and
                    (B) recommendations on the feasibility of promoting 
                alternative types of services or systems that result in 
                more effective and efficient use of the electromagnetic 
                spectrum.
            (2) Nondisclosure of annexes.--The report required under 
        paragraph (1) shall be submitted in unclassified form, but may 
        include 1 or more annexes as provided for by subsections 
        (b)(1)(B)(iii), (b)(2)(B)(iii), and (c)(3)(C). Notwithstanding 
        paragraph (3), no Congressional committee may make any such 
        annex available to the public or to any unauthorized person.
            (3) Public availability.--Subject to paragraph (2), the 
        Commission and the Administration shall make publicly available 
        on the Web site of each agency the report required under 
        paragraph (1).
    (e) Authorization of Appropriations.--There are authorized to be 
appropriated to the Chairman of the Federal Communications Commission 
and the Assistant Secretary at the National Telecommunications and 
Information Administration for carrying out this section $5,000,000 for 
fiscal year 2011 and $5,000,000 for fiscal year 2012.

SEC. 4. SPECTRUM ANALYSIS AND UTILIZATION STUDY.

    (a) Determination of Utilization Definition.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 1 year after the date of 
        enactment of this Act, the Commission and the Administration, 
        in consultation with the Office of Science and Technology 
        Policy and the National Security Council as needed on 
        frequencies or bands related to national security, shall 
        determine appropriate benchmarks for assessing--
                    (A) the utilization of each electromagnetic 
                spectrum band based on the occupancy, activities, 
                capabilities, functions, and missions supported in that 
                band, as well as any additional factors the Commission 
                and the Administration deem appropriate; and
                    (B) the availability of similar services operating 
                in other bands capable of offering substitutable 
                services.
            (2) Use of common metrics.--The benchmarks developed under 
        paragraph (1) shall include a set of common metrics that apply 
        to respective broad classes of services, allowing comparison of 
        measurements and analysis in multiple bands providing similar 
        classes of services across the electromagnetic spectrum.
    (b) Identify Spectrum Sharing and Reuse Opportunities Pilot 
Program.--
            (1) Identification.--Not later than 1 year after the 
        completion of electromagnetic spectrum survey and measurement 
        study required under section 3, the Commission and the 
        Administration shall identify, based on an analysis of 
        utilization using such benchmarks and with the benefit of 
        public comment--
                    (A) 120 megahertz below 4 gigahertz worth of close 
                proximity electromagnetic spectrum that is most 
                feasible for spectrum sharing opportunities for 
                commercial and government users;
                    (B) 120 megahertz below 4 gigahertz worth of close 
                proximity electromagnetic spectrum that is most 
                feasible for spectrum reuse opportunities for 
                commercial and government users;
                    (C) 120 megahertz below 4 gigahertz worth of 
                electromagnetic spectrum that is most feasible for 
                temporary or dynamic short-term assignment and use; and
                    (D) 120 megahertz below 4 gigahertz worth of close 
                proximity electromagnetic spectrum that is most 
                feasible for spectrum layering opportunities for 
                commercial and government users.
            (2) Sharing and reuse opportunities pilot program.--Not 
        later than 12 months after the time period set forth in 
        paragraph (1), the Commission and the Administration shall 
        jointly establish and implement pilot programs to advance and 
        promote spectrum sharing and reuse activities for the bands of 
        spectrum identified under paragraph (1).
            (3) Pilot program report and recommendation.--Not later 
        than 8 months after the conclusion of the sharing and reuse 
        opportunities pilot program established under paragraph (2), 
        the Commission and the Administration shall jointly submit a 
        report to the Committee on Commerce, Science, and 
        Transportation of the Senate and the Committee on Energy and 
        Commerce of the House of Representatives that summarizes the 
        feasibility of such programs. If the Commission and the 
        Administration jointly deem such programs viable, each agency 
        shall begin to implement similar permanent programs within 18 
        months after the date on which the report is submitted.
    (c) Identification of Spectrum Reallocation.--Not later than 12 
months after the adoption of the utilization benchmarks described under 
subsection (a), the Commission and the Administration shall, based on 
an analysis of utilization using such benchmarks and after notice and 
opportunity for public comment on such utilization analysis--
            (1) jointly prepare and submit to the President and the 
        Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the 
        Senate and the Committee on Energy and Commerce of the House of 
        Representatives a report that identifies, by relevant 
        geographic area, not less than 200 megahertz of spectrum below 
        4 gigahertz of the least utilized or most appropriate blocks of 
        electromagnetic spectrum and an explanation of the basis for 
        that identification; and
            (2) develop a plan, taking into consideration whether the 
        primary service on a band may be deemed essential to national 
        security or public safety, or otherwise determined to serve the 
        public interest, convenience, and necessity, for reallocation 
        of any entities or services currently operating in the spectrum 
        described under paragraph (1), along with an estimate for the 
        costs of relocating such entities or services to an alternative 
        band of such spectrum.

SEC. 5. RELOCATION COST-BENEFIT ANALYSIS.

    (a) In General.--The Commission and the Administration, in 
consultation with the Office of Management and Budget, the Office of 
Science and Technology Policy, and the National Security Council, shall 
perform a cost-benefit analysis on electromagnetic spectrum relocation 
opportunities to move certain Federal users and services currently 
operating in a specific band of the spectrum to more efficient spectrum 
bands.
    (b) Required Considerations.--The relocation analysis required 
under subsection (a) shall--
            (1) include projected overall costs and timeframes of any 
        potential move; and
            (2) be consistent with the processes set forth in the 
        Commercial Spectrum Enhancement Act (47 U.S.C. 901 note).
    (c) System Upgrades.--In bands determined to be necessary and 
appropriate for continued primary Federal use, the Administration, in 
consultation with the Commission, shall determine what, if any, radio 
system or service upgrades or other changes could be implemented to 
enhance spectrum efficiency or the ability to share unused capacity on 
the spectrum with other agencies or private sector users.

SEC. 6. GENERAL SPECTRUM MANAGEMENT.

    (a) Spectrum Coordination.--Section 112 of the National 
Telecommunications and Information Administration Organization Act (47 
U.S.C. 922) is amended--
            (1) by striking ``The Assistant Secretary'' and inserting 
        ``(a) Joint Spectrum Planning.--The Assistant Secretary''; and
            (2) by adding at the end the following new subsection:
    ``(b) Reporting Requirement.--
            ``(1) In general.--The Assistant Secretary and the Chairman 
        shall, on an annual basis, submit a report to the Committee on 
        Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate and the 
        Committee on Energy and Commerce of the House of 
        Representatives that provides a summary of the biannual 
        meetings required under this section, as well as the action 
        items, deliverables, and the status of such action items and 
        deliverables related to the issues identified in subsection 
        (a).
            ``(2) Contents.--The report required under paragraph (1) 
        shall include--
                    ``(A) an identification of emerging technologies 
                and ideas for test-bed programs that expand 
                opportunities for spectrum sharing by Federal and non-
                Federal users, increased public transparency into 
                spectrum databases, and a progress report on 
                reallocation and sharing efforts required by the 
                Spectrum Measurement and Policy Reform Act;
                    ``(B) a list of any recommendations made by the 
                Commerce Spectrum Management Advisory Committee and the 
                status of each such recommendation; and
                    ``(C) a score card that includes the amount of 
                spectrum shared by Federal and non-Federal users, the 
                geographical extent of coverage, as well as the number 
                of requests for sharing and their geographical 
                locations that were rejected and the reasons for such 
                rejections.''.
    (b) Spectrum Efficiency.--
            (1) NTIA authority.--Section 104(d)(2) of the National 
        Telecommunications and Information Administration Organization 
        Act (47 U.S.C. 903(d)(2)) is amended to read as follows:
            ``(2) Ensuring efficient use of spectrum.--
                    ``(A) In general.--In order to further the goal of 
                making efficient and cost-effective use of the 
                spectrum, the Secretary of Commerce shall have the 
                authority to--
                            ``(i) withhold or refuse to assign 
                        frequencies for mobile radio service or other 
                        radio service;
                            ``(ii) assess and collect from each Federal 
                        user an annual fee for the spectrum assigned to 
                        such Federal user that is based on the fair 
                        market commercial value of that spectrum, using 
                        a methodology adopted by the Secretary, after 
                        providing notice and opportunity for public 
                        comment; and
                            ``(iii) develop an auction revenue sharing 
                        plan where in exchange for relinquishing 
                        spectrum usage rights, Federal users currently 
                        operating in an assigned spectrum band would 
                        receive as an auction incentive award under 
                        section 118 a percentage of the auction revenue 
                        from any resulting auction, provided that only 
                        spectrum assigned to a Federal user prior to 
                        the date of the enactment of the Spectrum 
                        Measurement and Policy Reform Act would be 
                        eligible to participate in any such sharing 
                        plan.
                    ``(B) Disposition of proceeds to spectrum 
                relocation and efficiency fund.--Sixty percent of all 
                fees collected under subparagraph (A)(ii) shall be 
                deposited in the Spectrum Relocation and Efficiency 
                Fund established under section 118, and shall be 
                available in accordance with such section.''.
            (2) FCC authority.--Section 309(j)(8) of the Communications 
        Act of 1934 (47 U.S.C. 309(j)(8)) is amended by adding at the 
        end the following:
                    ``(F) Auction revenue sharing plan.--
                Notwithstanding subparagraph (A), if the Commission 
                determines that it is consistent with the public 
                interest in utilization of the spectrum for a licensee 
                to relinquish some or all of its licensed spectrum 
                usage rights in order to permit the assignment of new 
                initial licenses or the allocation of spectrum for 
                unlicensed use subject to new service rules, the 
                proceeds from the use of a competitive bidding system 
                under this subsection may be shared, in an amount or 
                percentage determined in the discretion of the 
                Commission, with any licensee who agreed to participate 
                in relinquishing such auction usage rights.
                    ``(G) Spectrum license fee.--
                            ``(i) In general.--The Commission shall 
                        have the authority to assess and collect from 
                        each licensee an annual fee for the spectrum 
                        assigned to such licensee that is based on the 
                        fair market commercial value of that spectrum 
                        and the public interest of the service the 
                        spectrum is being used for, using a methodology 
                        adopted by the Commission, after providing 
                        notice and opportunity for public comment.
                            ``(ii) Disposition of proceeds to spectrum 
                        relocation and efficiency fund.--Thirty percent 
                        of all fees collected under clause (i) shall be 
                        deposited in the Spectrum Relocation and 
                        Efficiency Fund established under section 118 
                        of the National Telecommunications and 
                        Information Administration Organization Act (47 
                        U.S.C. 928), and shall be available in 
                        accordance with such section.''.
    (c) Amendments to Spectrum Relocation and Efficiency Fund.--Section 
118 of the National Telecommunications and Information Administration 
Organization Act (47 U.S.C. 928) is amended--
            (1) in subsection (c)--
                    (A) by amending the heading to read as follows: 
                ``(c) Uses of Fund.--'';
                    (B) by striking the period and inserting the 
                following: ``, and to pay auction incentive rewards as 
                provided in subsection (e)(3).''; and
                    (C) by adding at the end the following: ``Amounts 
                in the Fund may also be used to fund planning and 
                research in order to improve the efficiency of Federal 
                use of spectrum, and to cover the costs of eligible 
                Federal entities to upgrade their equipment and 
                facilities as long as such upgrades including but not 
                limited to spectrum sharing, reuse, and layering, 
                result in more efficient use of spectrum by such 
                entities.'';
            (2) in subsection (d)(1), by striking the period and 
        inserting the following: ``and auction incentive awards as 
        provided in subsection (e)(3).'';
            (3) in subsection (d)(2), after ``subsection'' by inserting 
        ``to pay relocation costs'';
            (4) in subsection (d)(3), after ``relocation costs'' by 
        inserting the following: ``and auction incentive awards''; and
            (5) in subsection (e), by adding at the end the following 
        new paragraph:
            ``(3) Auction incentive awards.--
                    ``(A) In general.--In addition to the transfers 
                described in paragraphs (1) and (2), any eligible 
                Federal entity that voluntarily relinquishes eligible 
                frequencies for non-Federal use shall receive a one-
                time transfer from the Fund of an amount (in this 
                section referred to as an `auction incentive award') 
                equal to a percentage of the proceeds from the auction 
                of licenses covering such frequencies to be determined 
                by the Secretary of Commerce in consultation with the 
                Federal Communications Commission.
                    ``(B) Credit.--Any amounts transferred pursuant to 
                subparagraph (A) shall be credited to the 
                appropriations account of the eligible Federal entity 
                that voluntarily relinquished such frequencies.''.
    (d) Modifications to Spectrum Relocation and Efficiency Fund.--
            (1) In general.--Section 118(d)(3) of the National 
        Telecommunications and Information Administration Organization 
        Act (47 U.S.C. 928(d)(3)), as amended by subsection (c), is 
        further amended in subsection (d)(3), by striking ``8 years'' 
        and inserting ``20 years''.
            (2) Technical and conforming amendments.--
                    (A) National telecommunications and information 
                administration organization act.--The National 
                Telecommunications and Information Administration 
                Organization Act is amended--
                            (i) in section 113(g)(1), by inserting 
                        ``and Efficiency'' after ``Relocation''; and
                            (ii) in section 118--
                                    (I) in the section heading, by 
                                inserting ``and efficiency'' after 
                                ``relocation''; and
                                    (II) in subsection (a)--
                                            (aa) in the heading, by 
                                        inserting ``and Efficiency'' 
                                        after ``Relocation''; and
                                            (bb) by inserting ``and 
                                        Efficiency'' after 
                                        ``Relocation''.
                    (B) Communications act of 1934.--Section 
                309(j)(8)(D) of the Communications Act of 1934 (47 
                U.S.C. 309(j)(8)(D)) is amended by inserting ``and 
                Efficiency'' after ``Relocation''.
    (e) National Strategic Spectrum Plan.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 18 months after the date of 
        enactment of this Act, and every 3 years thereafter, the 
        Assistant Secretary of Commerce for Communications and 
        Information and the Chairman of the Commission assisted by the 
        Radio Spectrum Advisory Committee, shall develop an initial 10-
        year National Strategic Spectrum Plan that includes the 
        following:
                    (A) Long-range spectrum planning of both 
                commercial, State and local government, and Federal 
                users.
                    (B) New technologies or expanded services requiring 
                spectrum.
                    (C) The nature and characteristics of the new radio 
                communication systems required and the nature and 
                characteristics of the spectrum required.
                    (D) Efficient approaches to meeting the future 
                spectrum requirements of all users, including--
                            (i) requiring certain standards-based 
                        technologies that improve spectrum 
                        efficiencies;
                            (ii) spectrum sharing and reuse 
                        opportunities;
                            (iii) possible reallocation; and
                            (iv) any other approaches that promote 
                        efficient use of spectrum.
                    (E) An evaluation of current auction processes to 
                determine their effectiveness in the promotion of 
                competition and spectrum use efficiency.
            (2) Submission of the plan.--The Assistant Secretary of 
        Commerce for Communications and Information and the Chairman of 
        the Commission shall, on an annual basis, jointly submit, after 
        notice and opportunity for public comment on, to the President 
        and the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of 
        the Senate and the Committee on Energy and Commerce of the 
        House of Representatives a report summarizing the progress made 
        with respect to the National Strategic Spectrum Plan required 
        under paragraph (1).
    (f) Radio Spectrum Advisory Committee.--
            (1) Establishment.--Not later than 60 days after the date 
        of enactment of this Act, the Chairman of the Commission and 
        the Administrator of the Administration shall establish a 
        working group, to be known as the Spectrum Advisory Committee.
            (2) Membership.--
                    (A) Appointment; co-chairs.--The Chairman of the 
                Commission and the Administrator of the Administration 
                shall appoint an equal number of members of the Working 
                Group as soon as practicable after the date of 
                enactment of this Act and shall serve as its co-chair. 
                In appointing members of the Working Group, the co-
                chairs shall ensure that the number of members 
                appointed provides appropriate and adequate 
                representation for all stakeholders and interested and 
                affected parties.
            (3) Meetings.--
                    (A) Initial meeting.--The initial meeting of the 
                Working Group shall take place not later than 60 days 
                after the date of the enactment of this Act.
                    (B) Other meetings.--After the initial meeting, the 
                Working Group shall meet at the call of the co-chairs.
                    (C) Notice; open meetings.--Any meetings held by 
                the Working Group shall be duly noticed at least 14 
                days in advance and shall be open to the public.
            (4) Resources.--
                    (A) Federal agencies.--The Working Group shall have 
                reasonable access to--
                            (i) materials, resources, data, and other 
                        information from the National Institute of 
                        Standards and Technology, the Department of 
                        Commerce and its agencies, and the Federal 
                        Communications Commission; and
                            (ii) the facilities of any such agency for 
                        purposes of conducting meetings.
                    (B) Gifts and grants.--The Working Group may 
                accept, use, and dispose of gifts or grants of services 
                or property, both real and personal, for purposes of 
                aiding or facilitating the work of the Working Group. 
                Gifts or grants not used at the expiration of the 
                Working Group shall be returned to the donor or 
                grantor.
            (5) Rules.--
                    (A) Quorum.--One-third of the members of the 
                Working Group shall constitute a quorum for conducting 
                business of the Working Group.
                    (B) Subcommittees.--To assist the Working Group in 
                carrying out its functions, the co-chairs may establish 
                appropriate subcommittees composed of members of the 
                Working Group and other subject matter experts as 
                deemed necessary.
                    (C) Additional rules.--The Working Group may adopt 
                other rules as needed.
            (6) Federal advisory committee act.--Neither the Federal 
        Advisory Committee Act (5 U.S.C. App.) nor any rule, order, or 
        regulation promulgated under that Act shall apply to the 
        Working Group.
    (g) IRAC Shot Clock.--Section 104(b) of the National 
Telecommunications and Information Administration Organization Act (47 
U.S.C. 903(b)) is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (4), by striking ``; and'' and inserting a 
        semicolon;
            (2) in paragraph (5), by striking the period at the end and 
        inserting ``; and''; and
            (3) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
            ``(6) in the event that a spectrum related project is 
        referred to the Interdepartmental Radio Advisory Committee from 
        the Commission, require that a public notice detailing the 
        project be provided, and that the Committee shall act within 30 
        days to complete the item, provided that a 30-day extension may 
        be provided upon a finding of extraordinary circumstances by 
        NTIA.''.

SEC. 7. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.

    Except as otherwise specifically provided for under section 1, 
there are authorized to be appropriated, in addition to amounts 
otherwise available for such purposes, such sums as may be necessary 
for each fiscal year to carry out the purposes and duties of this Act.
                                 &lt;all&gt;
</pre></body></html>
