<html><body><pre>
[Congressional Bills 118th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[S. 1227 Introduced in Senate (IS)]

&lt;DOC&gt;






118th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                S. 1227

 To combat illegal, unreported, and unregulated fishing at its sources 
                               globally.


_______________________________________________________________________


                   IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

                             April 20, 2023

 Mr. Sullivan (for himself, Mr. Whitehouse, Ms. Murkowski, Mr. Wicker, 
and Mr. Schatz) introduced the following bill; which was read twice and 
   referred to the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
 To combat illegal, unreported, and unregulated fishing at its sources 
                               globally.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Fighting Foreign Illegal Seafood 
Harvests Act of 2023'' or the ``FISH Act of 2023''.

SEC. 2. DEFINITIONS.

    In this Act:
            (1) Administrator.--Unless otherwise provided, the term 
        ``Administrator'' means the Administrator of the National 
        Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration.
            (2) IUU fishing.--The term ``IUU fishing'' means activities 
        described as illegal fishing, unreported fishing, and 
        unregulated fishing in paragraph 3 of the International Plan of 
        Action to Prevent, Deter, and Eliminate Illegal, Unreported and 
        Unregulated Fishing, adopted at the 24th Session of the 
        Committee on Fisheries in Rome on March 2, 2001.
            (3) Regional fisheries management organization.--The terms 
        ``regional fisheries management organization'' and ``RFMO'' 
        have the meaning given the terms in section 303 of the Port 
        State Measures Agreement Act of 2015 (16 U.S.C. 7402).

SEC. 3. STATEMENT OF POLICY.

    It is the policy of the United States to partner, consult, and 
coordinate with foreign governments (at the national and subnational 
levels), civil society, international organizations, international 
financial institutions, subnational coastal communities, commercial and 
recreational fishing industry leaders, communities that engage in 
artisanal or subsistence fishing, fishers, and the private sector, in a 
concerted effort--
            (1) to continue the broad effort across the Federal 
        Government to counter IUU fishing, including any potential 
        links to forced labor, and related threats to maritime 
        security, as outlined in sections 3533 and 3534 of the Maritime 
        SAFE Act (16 U.S.C. 8002 and 8003); and
            (2) to, additionally--
                    (A) prioritize efforts to prevent IUU fishing at 
                its sources; and
                    (B) support continued implementation of the Central 
                Arctic Ocean Fisheries agreement, as well as joint 
                research and follow-on actions that ensure 
                sustainability of fish stocks in Arctic international 
                waters.

SEC. 4. IUU VESSEL LIST OR BLACK LIST.

    (a) In General.--
            (1) Establishment.--The Administrator, in coordination with 
        the Secretary of State and the Commissioner of U.S. Customs and 
        Border Protection, shall establish, publish, and put vessels on 
        a United States IUU vessel list (referred to in this Act as the 
        ``black list'') that denies benefits such as port privileges, 
        certain travel through, delivery or receipt of supplies or 
        services, or transshipment in waters within the jurisdiction of 
        the United States, in accordance with customary international 
        law, for vessels that have conducted IUU fishing and vessels 
        that have the same owner as a vessel on the black list.
            (2) Coordination.--In carrying out this section, the 
        Administrator shall coordinate with the Secretary of Commerce 
        to ensure actions taken under this section add to and do not 
        duplicate actions taken pursuant to the High Seas Driftnet 
        Fishing Moratorium Protection Act (16 U.S.C. 1826d et seq.) or 
        the Port State Measures Agreement Act of 2015 (16 U.S.C. 7401 
        et seq.)
    (b) Regulations and Process.--Not later than 6 months after the 
date of enactment of this Act, the Administrator shall issue 
regulations to set a process for establishing, maintaining, 
implementing, and publishing the black list. The Administrator may add 
or remove a vessel to or from the black list on the date the vessel 
becomes eligible for such addition or removal.
    (c) Basis To Be Put on Black List.--The Administrator shall put a 
vessel on the black list expeditiously if the Administrator 
demonstrates that there is a reasonable basis to believe that a vessel 
is any of the following (even if the Administrator has only partial 
information regarding the vessel):
            (1) A vessel listed on an IUU vessel list of an RFMO.
            (2) A vessel taking part in fishing that undermines the 
        effectiveness of RFMO management measures on the high seas, 
        including a foreign vessel (defined in section 110 of title 46, 
        United States Code)--
                    (A) exceeding applicable RFMO catch limits; or
                    (B) that is operating inconsistent with relevant 
                catch allocation arrangements of the RFMO even if 
                operating under the authority of a foreign country that 
                is not a member of the RFMO.
            (3) A vessel, either on the high seas or in the exclusive 
        economic zone of another country, identified and reported by 
        United States authorities to an RFMO to be conducting IUU 
        fishing when the United States has reason to believe the 
        foreign country to which the vessel is registered or documented 
        is not addressing the allegation.
            (4) A vessel on the high seas identified and reported by 
        United States authorities to be conducting fishing that 
        involves the use of forced labor.
            (5) A vessel that provides services (excluding emergency or 
        enforcement services) to a vessel that is on the black list, 
        including transshipment, resupply, refueling, or pilotage.
            (6) A foreign vessel (defined in section 110 of title 46, 
        United States Code) that is a fishing vessel engaged in 
        commercial fishing without a permit issued under title II of 
        the Magnuson-Stevens Fishery Conservation and Management Act 
        (16 U.S.C. 1821 et seq.).
            (7) A vessel found by U.S. Customs and Border Protection to 
        have had a withhold release order issued pursuant to section 
        307 of the Tariff Act of 1930 (19 U.S.C. 1307), provided that 
        the withhold release order has not been subsequently revoked.
            (8) A vessel that has the same owner as a vessel on the 
        black list at the time of the infraction.
            (9) A vessel subject to economic sanctions administered by 
        the Department of the Treasury Office of Foreign Assets Control 
        for transnational criminal activity associated with IUU fishing 
        under Executive Order 13581 (76 Fed. Reg. 44757, 84 Fed. Reg. 
        10255; relating to blocking property of transnational criminal 
        organizations), or any other applicable economic sanctions 
        program.
            (10) A vessel listed under section 608(c) of the High Seas 
        Driftnet Fishing Moratorium Protection Act (16 U.S.C. 
        1826i(c)).
    (d) Nominations To Be Put on Black List.--
            (1) In general.--The Administrator may accept nominations 
        for putting a vessel on the black list from--
                    (A) the head of an executive branch agency that is 
                a member of the Interagency Working Group on IUU 
                Fishing established under section 3551 of the Maritime 
                SAFE Act (16 U.S.C. 8031); or
                    (B) a country that is a member of the Combined 
                Maritime Forces.
            (2) Procedures for addition.--The Administrator may put a 
        vessel on the black list only after notification to the 
        vessel's owner and a review of any information that the owner 
        provides within 90 days of the notification.
    (e) Public Information.--The Administrator shall publish the black 
list in the Federal Register and on a website and include the following 
information (as much as is available and confirmed) for each vessel on 
the list:
            (1) The name of the vessel.
            (2) The International Maritime Organization (IMO) number of 
        the vessel.
            (3) The call sign of the vessel.
            (4) Each beneficial owner's address of the vessel.
            (5) The country where the vessel is registered or 
        documented, and where it was previously registered if known.
            (6) The date of inclusion on the black list of the vessel.
            (7) The Food and Agriculture Organization's global record 
        of the vessel's unique vessel identification, if applicable.
            (8) Any other identifying information on the vessel, as 
        determined appropriate by the Administrator.
    (f) Consequences of Being Black Listed.--
            (1) In general.--Except for the purposes of inspection and 
        enforcement or in case of force majeure, a vessel on the black 
        list is prohibited from--
                    (A) accessing United States ports and using port 
                services;
                    (B) traveling through the United States territorial 
                sea unless it is conducting innocent passage in 
                accordance with customary international law; and
                    (C) delivering supplies, delivering services, or 
                transshipment within waters subject to the jurisdiction 
                of the United States, in accordance with customary 
                international law.
            (2) Servicing prohibited.--No vessel of the United States 
        (defined in section 116 of title 46, United States Code) may 
        service a vessel that is on the black list, except in an 
        emergency involving life and safety and for enforcement 
        services.
    (g) Enforcement of Black List.--
            (1) In general.--Except as provided in paragraph (2), a 
        vessel subject to the jurisdiction of the United States on the 
        black list and the cargo of such vessel shall be subject to 
        seizure and forfeiture to the United States in the same manner 
        as merchandise is forfeited for violation of the customs 
        revenue laws.
            (2) Exception.--The cargo of seafood of a vessel subject to 
        the jurisdiction of the United States on the black list shall 
        not be subject to seizure and forfeiture to the United States 
        if the cargo of seafood is in the possession of an importer who 
        has paid for the cargo of seafood and did not know, or did not 
        have any reason to know, that the seafood was the product of 
        IUU fishing.
    (h) Permanency of Black List.--
            (1) In general.--Except as provided in paragraphs (2) 
        through (4), a vessel that is put on the black list shall 
        remain on the black list.
            (2) Revocation of wro.--The Administrator shall remove a 
        vessel from the black list if the vessel was added to the black 
        list because it was found by U.S. Customs and Border Protection 
        to have had a withhold release order issued pursuant to section 
        307 of the Tariff Act of 1930 (19 U.S.C. 1307) and the withhold 
        release order was subsequently revoked.
            (3) Potential removal.--
                    (A) In general.--With the concurrence of the 
                Secretary of State and consultation with U.S. Customs 
                and Border Protection, the Administrator may remove a 
                vessel from the black list if the owner of the vessel 
                submits an application for removal to the Administrator 
                that meets the standards that the Administrator has set 
                out for removal.
                    (B) Standards.--The Administrator shall include in 
                the standards set out for removal a determination that 
                the vessel or vessel owner has not engaged in IUU 
                fishing or forced labor during the 5-year period 
                preceding the date of the application for removal.
                    (C) Consideration of relevant information.--In 
                considering an application for removal, the 
                Administrator shall consider relevant information from 
                all sources.
            (4) Removal due to rfmo action.--The Administrator may 
        remove a vessel from the black list if the vessel was put on 
        the black list because it was a vessel listed on an IUU vessel 
        list of an RFMO, pursuant to subsection (c)(1), and the RFMO 
        removed the vessel from its IUU vessel list.
    (i) Authorization of Appropriations.--There are authorized to be 
appropriated to the Department of Commerce to carry out this section 
$20,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2023 through 2028.

SEC. 5. IMPOSITION OF SANCTIONS WITH RESPECT TO BENEFICIAL OWNERS OF 
              VESSELS ON BLACK LIST.

    (a) In General.--The President shall impose the sanctions described 
in subsection (b) with respect to each foreign person that the 
President determines, on or after the date of the enactment of this 
Act, is the beneficial owner of a vessel identified on the black list 
under section 4.
    (b) Sanctions Described.--The sanctions to be imposed under 
subsection (a) are the following:
            (1) Blocking of property.--The exercise of all powers 
        granted to the President by the International Emergency 
        Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.) to the extent 
        necessary to block and prohibit all transactions in all 
        property and interests in property of a foreign person 
        described in subsection (a), including, to the extent 
        appropriate, the vessel of which the person is the beneficial 
        owner, if such property and interests in property are in the 
        United States, come within the United States, or are or come 
        within the possession or control of a United States person.
            (2) Ineligibility for visas, admission, or parole.--
                    (A) Visas, admission, or parole.--A foreign person 
                described in subsection (a) is--
                            (i) inadmissible to the United States;
                            (ii) ineligible to receive a visa or other 
                        documentation to enter the United States; and
                            (iii) otherwise ineligible to be admitted 
                        or paroled into the United States or to receive 
                        any other benefit under the Immigration and 
                        Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1101 et seq.).
                    (B) Current visas revoked.--
                            (i) In general.--The visa or other entry 
                        documentation of a foreign person described in 
                        subsection (a) shall be revoked, regardless of 
                        when such visa or other entry documentation is 
                        or was issued.
                            (ii) Immediate effect.--A revocation under 
                        clause (i) shall, in accordance with section 
                        221(i) of the Immigration and Nationality Act 
                        (8 U.S.C. 1201(i))--
                                    (I) take effect; and
                                    (II) cancel any other valid visa or 
                                entry documentation that is in the 
                                person's possession.
    (c) Implementation; Penalties.--
            (1) Implementation.--The President may exercise all 
        authorities provided under sections 203 and 205 of the 
        International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1702 and 
        1704) to carry out this section.
            (2) Penalties.--A person that violates, attempts to 
        violate, conspires to violate, or causes a violation of this 
        section or any regulation, license, or order issued to carry 
        out this section shall be subject to the penalties set forth in 
        subsections (b) and (c) of section 206 of the International 
        Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1705) to the same 
        extent as a person that commits an unlawful act described in 
        subsection (a) of that section.
    (d) National Interest Waiver.--The President may waive the 
imposition of sanctions under this section with respect to a person if 
the President--
            (1) determines that such a waiver is in the national 
        interests of the United States; and
            (2) submits to Congress a notification on the waiver and 
        the reasons for the waiver.
    (e) Exceptions.--
            (1) Exceptions for authorized intelligence and law 
        enforcement activities.--This section shall not apply with 
        respect to activities subject to the reporting requirements 
        under title V of the National Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 
        3091 et seq.) or any authorized intelligence, law enforcement, 
        or national security activities of the United States.
            (2) Exception to comply with international agreements.--
        Sanctions under subsection (b)(2) shall not apply with respect 
        to the admission of an alien to the United States if such 
        admission is necessary to comply with the obligations of the 
        United States under the Agreement regarding the Headquarters of 
        the United Nations, signed at Lake Success June 26, 1947, and 
        entered into force November 21, 1947, between the United 
        Nations and the United States, or the Convention on Consular 
        Relations, done at Vienna April 24, 1963, and entered into 
        force March 19, 1967, or other international obligations.
    (f) Lifting of Sanctions.--The President shall lift the sanctions 
imposed under this section with respect to a foreign person if the 
foreign person is no longer the beneficial owner of a vessel identified 
on the black list under section 4.
    (g) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Admission; admitted; alien; lawfully admitted for 
        permanent residence.--The terms ``admission'', ``admitted'', 
        ``alien'', and ``lawfully admitted for permanent residence'' 
        have the meanings given those terms in section 101 of the 
        Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1101).
            (2) Beneficial owner.--The term ``beneficial owner'' means, 
        with respect to a vessel, a person that, directly or 
        indirectly, through any contract, arrangement, understanding, 
        relationship, or otherwise--
                    (A) exercises substantial control over the vessel; 
                or
                    (B) owns not less than 50 percent of the ownership 
                interests in the vessel.
            (3) Foreign person.--The term ``foreign person'' means an 
        individual or entity that is not a United States person.
            (4) United states person.--The term ``United States 
        person'' means--
                    (A) a United States citizen or an alien lawfully 
                admitted for permanent residence to the United States; 
                or
                    (B) an entity organized under the laws of the 
                United States or any jurisdiction within the United 
                States, including a foreign branch of such an entity.

SEC. 6. AGREEMENTS.

    (a) Presidential Negotiation.--In negotiating any relevant 
agreement with a foreign nation or nations after the date of enactment 
of this Act, the President is encouraged to consider the impacts on or 
to IUU fishing and strive to ensure that the agreement strengthens 
efforts to combat IUU fishing.
    (b) Secretary of State Encouragement.--Together with other 
government partners if appropriate, the Secretary of State should 
encourage other nations to ratify treaties and agreements that address 
IUU fishing to which the United States is a party, including the UN 
Fish Stocks Agreement, the Port State Measures Agreement, and other 
applicable agreements, and pursue bilateral and multilateral 
initiatives to raise international ambition to combat IUU fishing, 
including in the G7 and G20, the United Nations, the International 
Labor Organization (ILO), and the International Maritime Organization 
(IMO), and through voluntary multilateral efforts.

SEC. 7. COAST GUARD PROVISIONS.

    (a) Increase Boarding of Vessels Suspected of IUU Fishing.--The 
Commandant of the Coast Guard shall, in accordance with the UN Fish 
Stocks Agreement, increase, from year to year, its observation of 
vessels on the high seas that are suspected of IUU fishing and related 
harmful practices, and is encouraged to consider boarding these vessels 
to the greatest extent practicable.
    (b) Follow Up.--The Commandant of the Coast Guard shall, in 
consultation with the Secretary of State and the Administrator, 
coordinate regularly with regional fisheries management organizations 
to determine what corrective measures each country has taken after 
vessels that are registered or documented by the country have been 
boarded for suspected IUU fishing.
    (c) Report.--Not later than 1 year after the date of the enactment 
of this Act and in accordance with information management rules of the 
relevant regional fisheries management organizations, the Commandant of 
the Coast Guard shall submit a report to Congress on--
            (1) the total number of bilateral agreements utilized or 
        enacted during Coast Guard counter-IUU patrols and future 
        patrol plans for operations with partner nations where 
        bilateral agreements are required to effectively execute the 
        counter-IUU mission and any changes to IUU provisions in 
        bilateral agreements;
            (2) incidents of IUU fishing observed while conducting High 
        Seas Boarding and Inspections (HSBI), how the conduct is 
        tracked after referral to the respective country where the 
        vessel is registered or documented, and what actions are taken 
        to document or otherwise act on the enforcement, or lack 
        thereof, taken by the country;
            (3) the country where the vessel is registered or 
        documented, the country where the vessel was previously 
        registered and documented if known, and status of a vessel 
        interdicted or observed to be engaged in IUU fishing on the 
        high seas by the Coast Guard;
            (4) incident details on vessels observed to be engaged in 
        IUU fishing on the high seas, boarding refusals, and what 
        action was taken; and
            (5) any other potential enforcement actions that could 
        decrease IUU fishing on the high seas.

SEC. 8. IMPROVED MANAGEMENT AT THE REGIONAL FISHERIES MANAGEMENT 
              ORGANIZATIONS.

    (a) Interagency Working Group on IUU Fishing.--Section 3551(c) of 
the Maritime SAFE Act (16 U.S.C. 8031(c)) is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (13), by striking ``and'' after the 
        semicolon;
            (2) in paragraph (14), by striking the period at the end 
        and inserting a semicolon; and
            (3) by adding at the end the following:
            ``(15) developing a strategy for leveraging enforcement 
        capacity against IUU fishing, particularly focusing on nations 
        identified under section 609(a) of the High Seas Driftnet 
        Fishing Moratorium Protection Act (16 U.S.C. 1826j(a)); and
            ``(16) developing a strategy for leveraging enforcement 
        capacity against associated crimes, such forced labor and other 
        illegal labor practices, and increasing enforcement and other 
        actions across relevant import control and assessment programs, 
        using as resources--
                    ``(A) the List of Goods Produced by Child Labor or 
                Forced Labor produced pursuant to section 105 of the 
                Trafficking Victims Protection Reauthorization Act of 
                2005 (22 U.S.C. 7112);
                    ``(B) the Trafficking in Persons Report required 
                under section 110 of the Trafficking Victims Protection 
                Act of 2000 (22 U.S.C. 7107); and
                    ``(C) United States Customs and Border Protection's 
                Forced Labor Division and enforcement activities and 
                regulations authorized under section 307 of the Tariff 
                Act of 1930 (19 U.S.C. 1307).''.
    (b) Secretary of State Identification.--The Secretary of State, in 
coordination with the Commandant of the Coast Guard and the 
Administrator, shall--
            (1) identify regional fisheries management organizations 
        that the United States is party to that do not have a high seas 
        boarding and inspection program; and
            (2) identify obstacles, needed authorities, or existing 
        efforts to increase implementation of these programs, and take 
        action as appropriate.

SEC. 9. STRATEGIES TO OPTIMIZE DATA COLLECTION, SHARING AND ANALYSIS.

    Section 3552 of the Maritime SAFE Act (16 U.S.C. 8032) is amended 
by adding at the end:
    ``(c) Strategies To Optimize Data Collection, Sharing, and 
Analysis.--Not later than 2 years after the publication of the 
strategic plan submitted under subsection (a), the Working Group shall 
identify information and resources to prevent fish and fish products 
from IUU fishing from entering United States commerce without 
increasing burden or trade barriers on seafood not produced from IUU 
fishing. The report shall include the following:
            ``(1) Identification of relevant data streams collected by 
        Working Group members.
            ``(2) Identification of legal, jurisdictional, or other 
        barriers to the sharing of such data.
            ``(3) In consultation with the Secretary of Defense, 
        recommendations for joint enforcement protocols, collaboration, 
        and information sharing between Federal agencies and States.
            ``(4) Recommendations for sharing and developing forensic 
        resources between Federal agencies and States.
            ``(5) Recommendations for enhancing capacity for United 
        States Customs and Border Protection and National Oceanic and 
        Atmospheric Administration to conduct more effective field 
        investigations and enforcement efforts with State enforcement 
        officials.
            ``(6) Recommendations for the dissemination of IUU fishing 
        analysis and information to those entities that could use it 
        for action and awareness, with the aim to establish an IUU 
        fishing information sharing center.
            ``(7) Recommendations for an implementation strategy, 
        including measures for ensuring that trade in seafood not 
        linked to IUU fishing is not impeded.''.

SEC. 10. INVESTMENT AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE IN THE FISHERIES SECTOR.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary of State, the Administrator of the 
United States Agency for International Development, and the Secretary 
of Commerce, in consultation with the heads of relevant agencies, the 
Millennium Challenge Corporation, and multilateral institutions such as 
the World Bank, is encouraged to increase support to programs that 
provide technical assistance and investment to nations' fisheries 
sectors for sustainable fisheries management and combating IUU fishing. 
The focus of such support is encouraged to be on priority regions and 
priority flag states identified under section 3552(b) of the Maritime 
SAFE Act (16 U.S.C. 8032(b)).
    (b) Authorization of Appropriations.--There are authorized to be 
appropriated to the Department of State and the United States Agency 
for International Development to carry out subsection (a) $20,000,000 
for each of fiscal years 2023 through 2028.

SEC. 11. PREVENTING IMPORTATION OF SEAFOOD AND SEAFOOD PRODUCTS FROM 
              FOREIGN VESSELS USING FORCED LABOR.

    (a) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Forced labor.--The term ``forced labor'' has the 
        meaning given that term in section 307 of the Tariff Act of 
        1930 (19 U.S.C. 1307).
            (2) Seafood.--The term ``seafood'' means fish, shellfish, 
        processed fish, fish meal, shellfish products, and all other 
        forms of marine animal and plant life other than marine mammals 
        and birds.
            (3) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary 
        of Commerce, acting through the Administrator of the National 
        Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration or the designee of the 
        Administrator.
    (b) Forced Labor on Foreign Fishing Vessels.--
            (1) Rulemaking.--Not later than 1 year after the date of 
        enactment of this Act, the Commissioner of U.S. Customs and 
        Border Protection, in coordination with the Secretary and the 
        Forced Labor Enforcement Task Force, established pursuant to 
        section 741 of the United States-Mexico-Canada Agreement 
        Implementation Act (19 U.S.C. 4681), shall issue regulations 
        regarding the verification of seafood imports to ensure that no 
        seafood or seafood product harvested on foreign vessels using 
        forced labor is entered into the United States in violation of 
        section 307 of the Tariff Act of 1930 (19 U.S.C. 1307).
            (2) Strategy.--The Commissioner of U.S. Customs and Border 
        Protection, in coordination with the Secretary shall--
                    (A) develop a strategy for utilizing relevant 
                United States Government data to identify imports of 
                seafood or seafood products harvested on foreign 
                vessels using forced labor; and
                    (B) publish information regarding the strategy 
                developed under subparagraph (A) on the website of U.S. 
                Customs and Border Protection.

SEC. 12. REPORTS.

    (a) Impact of New Technology.--Not later than 1 year after the date 
of enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Homeland Security, in 
coordination with the Administrator and the Working Group established 
under section 3551 of the Maritime SAFE Act (16 U.S.C. 8031), shall 
conduct a study to assess the impact of new technology (such as remote 
observing, the use of drones, development of risk assessment tools and 
data-sharing software, immediate containerization of fish on fishing 
vessels, and other technology-enhanced new fishing practices) on IUU 
fishing and propose ways to integrate these technologies into global 
fisheries enforcement and management.
    (b) Russian and Chinese Fishing Industries' Influence on Each Other 
and on the United States Seafood and Fishing Industry.--Not later than 
2 years after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of 
State, with support from the Secretary of Commerce and the Office of 
the United States Trade Representative, shall--
            (1) conduct a study on the collaboration between the 
        Russian and Chinese fishing industries and on the role of 
        seafood reprocessing in China (including that of raw materials 
        originating in Russia) in global seafood markets and its impact 
        on United States seafood importers, processors, and consumers; 
        and
            (2) complete a report on the study that includes classified 
        and unclassified portions, as the Secretary of State determines 
        necessary.
    (c) Fishermen Conducting Unlawful Fishing in the Economic Exclusion 
Zone.--Section 3551 of the Maritime SAFE Act (16 U.S.C. 8031) is 
amended by adding at the end the following:
    ``(d) The Impacts of IUU Fishing.--
            ``(1) In general.--The Administrator, in consultation with 
        relevant members of the Working Group, shall seek to enter into 
        an arrangement with the National Academies of Sciences, 
        Engineering, and Medicine under which the National Academies 
        will undertake a multifaceted study that includes the 
        following:
                    ``(A) An analysis that quantifies the occurrence 
                and extent of IUU fishing among flag states.
                    ``(B) An evaluation of the costs to the United 
                States economy of IUU fishing.
                    ``(C) An assessment of the costs to the global 
                economy of IUU fishing.
            ``(2) Authorization of appropriations.--There is authorized 
        to be appropriated to carry out this subsection $2,000,000.''.
    (d) Report.--Not later than 24 months after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Administrator shall submit to Congress a 
report on the study conducted under subsection (d) of section 3551 of 
the Maritime SAFE Act that includes--
            (1) the findings of the National Academies; and
            (2) recommendations on knowledge gaps that warrant further 
        scientific inquiry.
                                 &lt;all&gt;
</pre></body></html>
