<html><body><pre>
[Congressional Bills 116th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[S. 3288 Introduced in Senate (IS)]

&lt;DOC&gt;






116th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                S. 3288

To provide for the protection of and investment in certain Federal land 
          in the State of California, and for other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                   IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

                           February 12, 2020

 Ms. Harris (for herself and Mrs. Feinstein) introduced the following 
bill; which was read twice and referred to the Committee on Energy and 
                           Natural Resources

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
To provide for the protection of and investment in certain Federal land 
          in the State of California, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE; TABLE OF CONTENTS.

    (a) Short Title.--This Act may be cited as the ``Protecting Unique 
and Beautiful Landscapes by Investing in California Lands Act'' or the 
``PUBLIC Lands Act''.
    (b) Table of Contents.--The table of contents for this Act is as 
follows:

Sec. 1. Short title; table of contents.
   TITLE I--NORTHWEST CALIFORNIA WILDERNESS, RECREATION, AND WORKING 
                                FORESTS

Sec. 101. Short title; table of contents.
Sec. 102. Definitions.
            Subtitle A--Restoration and Economic Development

Sec. 111. South Fork Trinity-Mad River Restoration Area.
Sec. 112. Redwood National and State Parks restoration.
Sec. 113. California Public Lands Remediation Partnership.
Sec. 114. Trinity Lake visitor center.
Sec. 115. Del Norte County visitor center.
Sec. 116. Management plans.
Sec. 117. Study; partnerships related to overnight accommodations.
                         Subtitle B--Recreation

Sec. 121. Horse Mountain Special Management Area.
Sec. 122. Bigfoot National Recreation Trail.
Sec. 123. Elk Camp Ridge Recreation Trail.
Sec. 124. Trinity Lake Trail.
Sec. 125. Trails study.
Sec. 126. Construction of mountain bicycling routes.
Sec. 127. Partnerships.
                        Subtitle C--Conservation

Sec. 131. Designation of wilderness.
Sec. 132. Administration of wilderness.
Sec. 133. Designation of potential wilderness.
Sec. 134. Designation of wild and scenic rivers.
Sec. 135. Sanhedrin Special Conservation Management Area.
                       Subtitle D--Miscellaneous

Sec. 141. Maps and legal descriptions.
Sec. 142. Updates to land and resource management plans.
Sec. 143. Pacific Gas and Electric Company Utility facilities and 
                            rights-of-way.
              TITLE II--CENTRAL COAST HERITAGE PROTECTION

Sec. 201. Short title; table of contents.
Sec. 202. Definitions.
Sec. 203. Designation of wilderness.
Sec. 204. Designation of the Machesna Mountain Potential Wilderness.
Sec. 205. Administration of wilderness.
Sec. 206. Designation of wild and scenic rivers.
Sec. 207. Designation of the Fox Mountain Potential Wilderness.
Sec. 208. Designation of scenic areas.
Sec. 209. Condor National Scenic Trail.
Sec. 210. Forest service study.
Sec. 211. Nonmotorized recreation opportunities.
Sec. 212. Use by members of Tribes.
    TITLE III--SAN GABRIEL MOUNTAINS FOOTHILLS AND RIVERS PROTECTION

Sec. 301. Short title; table of contents.
Sec. 302. Definition of State.
            Subtitle A--San Gabriel National Recreation Area

Sec. 311. Purposes.
Sec. 312. Definitions.
Sec. 313. San Gabriel National Recreation Area.
Sec. 314. Management.
Sec. 315. Acquisition of non-Federal land within Recreation Area.
Sec. 316. Water rights; water resource facilities; public roads; 
                            utility facilities.
Sec. 317. San Gabriel National Recreation Area Public Advisory Council.
Sec. 318. San Gabriel National Recreation Area Partnership.
Sec. 319. Visitor services and facilities.
                   Subtitle B--San Gabriel Mountains

Sec. 321. Definitions.
Sec. 322. National monument boundary modification.
Sec. 323. Designation of wilderness areas and additions.
Sec. 324. Administration of wilderness areas and additions.
Sec. 325. Designation of wild and scenic rivers.
Sec. 326. Water rights.

   TITLE I--NORTHWEST CALIFORNIA WILDERNESS, RECREATION, AND WORKING 
                                FORESTS

SEC. 101. SHORT TITLE; TABLE OF CONTENTS.

    This title may be cited as the ``Northwest California Wilderness, 
Recreation, and Working Forests Act''.

SEC. 102. DEFINITIONS.

    In this title:
            (1) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means--
                    (A) with respect to land under the jurisdiction of 
                the Secretary of Agriculture, the Secretary of 
                Agriculture; and
                    (B) with respect to land under the jurisdiction of 
                the Secretary of the Interior, the Secretary of the 
                Interior.
            (2) State.--The term ``State'' means the State of 
        California.

            Subtitle A--Restoration and Economic Development

SEC. 111. SOUTH FORK TRINITY-MAD RIVER RESTORATION AREA.

    (a) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Collaboratively developed.--The term ``collaboratively 
        developed'' means projects that are developed and implemented 
        through a collaborative process that--
                    (A) includes--
                            (i) appropriate Federal, State, and local 
                        agencies; and
                            (ii) multiple interested persons 
                        representing diverse interests; and
                    (B) is transparent and nonexclusive.
            (2) Plantation.--The term ``plantation'' means a forested 
        area that has been artificially established by planting or 
        seeding.
            (3) Restoration.--The term ``restoration'' means the 
        process of assisting the recovery of an ecosystem that has been 
        degraded, damaged, or destroyed by establishing the 
        composition, structure, pattern, and ecological processes 
        necessary to facilitate terrestrial and aquatic ecosystem 
        sustainability, resilience, and health under current and future 
        conditions.
            (4) Restoration area.--The term ``restoration area'' means 
        the South Fork Trinity-Mad River Restoration Area, established 
        by subsection (b).
            (5) Shaded fuel break.--The term ``shaded fuel break'' 
        means a vegetation treatment that effectively addresses all 
        project-generated slash and that retains: adequate canopy cover 
        to suppress plant regrowth in the forest understory following 
        treatment; the longest lived trees that provide the most shade 
        over the longest period of time; the healthiest and most 
        vigorous trees with the greatest potential for crown-growth in 
        plantations and in natural stands adjacent to plantations; and 
        all mature hardwoods, when practicable.
            (6) Stewardship contract.--The term ``stewardship 
        contract'' means an agreement or contract entered into under 
        section 604 of the Healthy Forests Restoration Act of 2003 (16 
        U.S.C. 6591c).
            (7) Wildland-urban interface.--The term ``wildland-urban 
        interface'' has the meaning given the term by section 101 of 
        the Healthy Forests Restoration Act of 2003 (16 U.S.C. 6511).
    (b) Establishment.--Subject to valid existing rights, there is 
established the South Fork Trinity-Mad River Restoration Area, 
comprising approximately 729,089 acres of Federal land administered by 
the Forest Service and approximately 1,280 acres of Federal land 
administered by the Bureau of Land Management, as generally depicted on 
the map entitled ``South Fork Trinity-Mad River Restoration Area--
Proposed'' and dated July 3, 2018, to be known as the South Fork 
Trinity-Mad River Restoration Area.
    (c) Purposes.--The purposes of the restoration area are to--
            (1) establish, restore, and maintain fire-resilient forest 
        structures containing late successional forest structure 
        characterized by large trees and multistoried canopies, as 
        ecologically appropriate;
            (2) protect late successional reserves;
            (3) enhance the restoration of Federal lands within the 
        restoration area;
            (4) reduce the threat posed by wildfires to communities 
        within the restoration area;
            (5) protect and restore aquatic habitat and anadromous 
        fisheries;
            (6) protect the quality of water within the restoration 
        area; and
            (7) allow visitors to enjoy the scenic, recreational, 
        natural, cultural, and wildlife values of the restoration area.
    (d) Management.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary shall manage the restoration 
        area--
                    (A) in a manner consistent with the purposes 
                described in subsection (c);
                    (B) in a manner that--
                            (i) in the case of the Forest Service, 
                        prioritizes restoration of the restoration area 
                        over other nonemergency vegetation management 
                        projects on the portions of the Six Rivers and 
                        Shasta-Trinity National Forests in Humboldt and 
                        Trinity Counties; and
                            (ii) in the case of the United States Fish 
                        and Wildlife Service, establishes with the 
                        Forest Service an agreement for cooperation to 
                        ensure timely completion of consultation 
                        required by section 7 of the Endangered Species 
                        Act (15 U.S.C. 1536) on restoration projects 
                        within the restoration area and agreement to 
                        maintain and exchange information on planning 
                        schedules and priorities on a regular basis;
                    (C) in accordance with--
                            (i) the laws (including regulations) and 
                        rules applicable to the National Forest System 
                        for land managed by the Forest Service;
                            (ii) the Federal Land Policy and Management 
                        Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.) for land 
                        managed by the Bureau of Land Management;
                            (iii) this title; and
                            (iv) any other applicable law (including 
                        regulations); and
                    (D) in a manner consistent with congressional 
                intent that consultation for restoration projects 
                within the restoration area is completed in a timely 
                and efficient manner.
            (2) Conflict of laws.--
                    (A) In general.--The establishment of the 
                restoration area shall not change the management status 
                of any land or water that is designated wilderness or 
                as a wild and scenic river, including lands and waters 
                designated by this title.
                    (B) Resolution of conflict.--If there is a conflict 
                between the laws applicable to the areas described in 
                subparagraph (A) and this section, the more restrictive 
                provision shall control.
            (3) Uses.--
                    (A) In general.--The Secretary shall only allow 
                uses of the restoration area that the Secretary 
                determines would further the purposes described in 
                subsection (c).
                    (B) Priority.--The Secretary shall prioritize 
                restoration activities within the restoration area.
                    (C) Limitation.--Nothing in this section shall 
                limit the Secretary's ability to plan, approve, or 
                prioritize activities outside of the restoration area.
            (4) Wildland fire.--
                    (A) In general.--Nothing in this section prohibits 
                the Secretary, in cooperation with other Federal, 
                State, and local agencies, as appropriate, from 
                conducting wildland fire operations in the restoration 
                area, consistent with the purposes of this section.
                    (B) Priority.--The Secretary may use prescribed 
                burning and managed wildland fire to the fullest extent 
                practicable to achieve the purposes of this section.
            (5) Road decommissioning.--
                    (A) In general.--To the extent practicable, the 
                Secretary shall decommission unneeded National Forest 
                System roads identified for decommissioning and 
                unauthorized roads identified for decommissioning 
                within the restoration area--
                            (i) subject to appropriations;
                            (ii) consistent with the analysis required 
                        by subparts A and B of part 212 of title 36, 
                        Code of Federal Regulations; and
                            (iii) in accordance with existing law.
                    (B) Additional requirement.--In making 
                determinations regarding road decommissioning under 
                subparagraph (A), the Secretary shall consult with--
                            (i) appropriate State, Tribal, and local 
                        governmental entities; and
                            (ii) members of the public.
                    (C) Definition.--As used in subparagraph (A), the 
                term ``decommission'' means--
                            (i) to reestablish vegetation on a road; 
                        and
                            (ii) to restore any natural drainage, 
                        watershed function, or other ecological 
                        processes that are disrupted or adversely 
                        impacted by the road by removing or 
                        hydrologically disconnecting the road prism.
            (6) Vegetation management.--
                    (A) In general.--Subject to subparagraphs (B), (C), 
                and (D), the Secretary may conduct vegetation 
                management projects in the restoration area only where 
                necessary to--
                            (i) maintain or restore the characteristics 
                        of ecosystem composition and structure;
                            (ii) reduce wildfire risk to communities by 
                        promoting forests that are fire resilient;
                            (iii) improve the habitat of threatened, 
                        endangered, or sensitive species;
                            (iv) protect or improve water quality; or
                            (v) enhance the restoration of lands within 
                        the restoration area.
                    (B) Additional requirements.--
                            (i) Shaded fuel breaks.--In carrying out 
                        subparagraph (A), the Secretary shall 
                        prioritize, as practicable, the establishment 
                        of a network of shaded fuel breaks within--
                                    (I) the portions of the wildland-
                                urban interface that are within 150 
                                feet from private property contiguous 
                                to Federal land;
                                    (II) one hundred and fifty feet 
                                from any road that is open to motorized 
                                vehicles as of the date of enactment of 
                                this Act--
                                            (aa) except that, where 
                                        topography or other conditions 
                                        require, the Secretary may 
                                        establish shaded fuel breaks up 
                                        to 275 feet from a road so long 
                                        as the combined total width of 
                                        the shaded fuel breaks for both 
                                        sides of the road does not 
                                        exceed 300 feet; and
                                            (bb) provided that the 
                                        Secretary shall include 
                                        vegetation treatments within a 
                                        minimum of 25 feet of the road 
                                        where practicable, feasible, 
                                        and appropriate as part of any 
                                        shaded fuel break; or
                                    (III) one hundred and fifty feet of 
                                any plantation.
                            (ii) Plantations; riparian reserves.--The 
                        Secretary may undertake vegetation management 
                        projects--
                                    (I) in areas within the restoration 
                                area in which fish and wildlife habitat 
                                is significantly compromised as a 
                                result of past management practices 
                                (including plantations); and
                                    (II) within designated riparian 
                                reserves only where necessary to 
                                maintain the integrity of fuel breaks 
                                and to enhance fire resilience.
                    (C) Compliance.--The Secretary shall carry out 
                vegetation management projects within the restoration 
                area--
                            (i) in accordance with--
                                    (I) this section; and
                                    (II) existing law (including 
                                regulations);
                            (ii) after providing an opportunity for 
                        public comment; and
                            (iii) subject to appropriations.
                    (D) Best available science.--The Secretary shall 
                use the best available science in planning and 
                implementing vegetation management projects within the 
                restoration area.
            (7) Grazing.--
                    (A) Existing grazing.--The grazing of livestock in 
                the restoration area, where established before the date 
                of enactment of this Act, shall be permitted to 
                continue--
                            (i) subject to--
                                    (I) such reasonable regulations, 
                                policies, and practices as the 
                                Secretary considers necessary; and
                                    (II) applicable law (including 
                                regulations); and
                            (ii) in a manner consistent with the 
                        purposes described in subsection (c).
                    (B) Targeted new grazing.--The Secretary may issue 
                annual targeted grazing permits for the grazing of 
                livestock in the restoration area, where not 
                established before the date of the enactment of this 
                Act, to control noxious weeds, aid in the control of 
                wildfire within the wildland-urban interface, or to 
                provide other ecological benefits subject to--
                            (i) such reasonable regulations, policies, 
                        and practices as the Secretary considers 
                        necessary; and
                            (ii) a manner consistent with the purposes 
                        described in subsection (c).
                    (C) Best available science.--The Secretary shall 
                use the best available science when determining whether 
                to issue targeted grazing permits within the 
                restoration area.
    (e) Withdrawal.--Subject to valid existing rights, the restoration 
area is withdrawn from--
            (1) all forms of entry, appropriation, and disposal under 
        the public land laws;
            (2) location, entry, and patent under the mining laws; and
            (3) disposition under all laws relating to mineral and 
        geothermal leasing or mineral materials.
    (f) Use of Stewardship Contracts.--To the maximum extent 
practicable, the Secretary shall--
            (1) use stewardship contracts to implement this section; 
        and
            (2) use revenue derived from such stewardship contracts for 
        restoration and other activities within the restoration area 
        which shall include staff and administrative costs to support 
        timely consultation activities for restoration projects.
    (g) Collaboration.--In developing and implementing restoration 
projects in the restoration area, the Secretary shall consult with 
collaborative groups with an interest in the restoration area.
    (h) Environmental Review.--A collaboratively developed restoration 
project within the restoration area may be carried out in accordance 
with the provisions for hazardous fuel reduction projects set forth in 
sections 214, 215, and 216 of the Healthy Forests Restoration Act of 
2003 (16 U.S.C. 6514-6516), as applicable.
    (i) Multiparty Monitoring.--The Secretary of Agriculture shall--
            (1) in collaboration with the Secretary of the Interior and 
        interested persons, use a multiparty monitoring, evaluation, 
        and accountability process to assess the positive or negative 
        ecological, social, and economic effects of restoration 
        projects within the restoration area; and
            (2) incorporate the monitoring results into the management 
        of the restoration area.
    (j) Funding.--The Secretary shall use all existing authorities to 
secure as much funding as necessary to fulfill the purposes of the 
restoration area.
    (k) Forest Residues Utilization.--
            (1) In general.--In accordance with applicable law, 
        including regulations, and this section, the Secretary may 
        utilize forest residues from restoration projects, including 
        shaded fuel breaks, in the restoration area for research and 
        development of biobased products that result in net carbon 
        sequestration.
            (2) Partnerships.--In carrying out paragraph (1), the 
        Secretary may enter into partnerships with universities, 
        nongovernmental organizations, industry, Tribes, and Federal, 
        State, and local governmental agencies.

SEC. 112. REDWOOD NATIONAL AND STATE PARKS RESTORATION.

    (a) Partnership Agreements.--The Secretary of the Interior is 
authorized to undertake initiatives to restore degraded redwood forest 
ecosystems in Redwood National and State Parks in partnership with the 
State of California, local agencies, and nongovernmental organizations.
    (b) Compliance.--In carrying out any initiative authorized by 
subsection (a), the Secretary of the Interior shall comply with all 
applicable law.

SEC. 113. CALIFORNIA PUBLIC LANDS REMEDIATION PARTNERSHIP.

    (a) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Partnership.--The term ``partnership'' means the 
        California Public Lands Remediation Partnership, established by 
        subsection (b).
            (2) Priority lands.--The term ``priority lands'' means 
        Federal land within the State that is determined by the 
        partnership to be a high priority for remediation.
            (3) Remediation.--The term ``remediation'' means to 
        facilitate the recovery of lands and waters that have been 
        degraded, damaged, or destroyed by illegal marijuana 
        cultivation or another illegal activity. Remediation includes 
        but is not limited to removal of trash, debris, and other 
        material, and establishing the composition, structure, pattern, 
        and ecological processes necessary to facilitate terrestrial 
        and aquatic ecosystem sustainability, resilience, and health 
        under current and future conditions.
    (b) Establishment.--There is hereby established a California Public 
Lands Remediation Partnership.
    (c) Purposes.--The purposes of the partnership are to--
            (1) coordinate the activities of Federal, State, Tribal, 
        and local authorities, and the private sector, in the 
        remediation of priority lands in the State affected by illegal 
        marijuana cultivation or other illegal activities; and
            (2) use the resources and expertise of each agency, 
        authority, or entity in implementing remediation activities on 
        priority lands in the State.
    (d) Membership.--The members of the partnership shall include the 
following:
            (1) The Secretary of Agriculture, or a designee of the 
        Secretary of Agriculture to represent the Forest Service.
            (2) The Secretary of the Interior, or a designee of the 
        Secretary of the Interior, to represent the United States Fish 
        and Wildlife Service, Bureau of Land Management, and National 
        Park Service.
            (3) The Director of the Office of National Drug Control 
        Policy, or a designee of the Director.
            (4) The Secretary of the State Natural Resources Agency, or 
        a designee of the Secretary, to represent the California 
        Department of Fish and Wildlife.
            (5) A designee of the California State Water Resources 
        Control Board.
            (6) A designee of the California State Sheriffs' 
        Association.
            (7) One member to represent federally recognized Indian 
        Tribes, to be appointed by the Secretary of Agriculture.
            (8) One member to represent nongovernmental organizations 
        with an interest in Federal land remediation, to be appointed 
        by the Secretary of Agriculture.
            (9) One member to represent local governmental interests, 
        to be appointed by the Secretary of Agriculture.
            (10) A law enforcement official from each of the following:
                    (A) The Department of the Interior.
                    (B) The Department of Agriculture.
            (11) A scientist to provide expertise and advise on methods 
        needed for remediation efforts, to be appointed by the 
        Secretary of Agriculture.
            (12) A designee of the National Guard Counter Drug Program.
    (e) Duties.--To further the purposes of this section, the 
partnership shall--
            (1) identify priority lands for remediation in the State;
            (2) secure resources from Federal and non-Federal sources 
        to apply to remediation of priority lands in the State;
            (3) support efforts by Federal, State, Tribal, and local 
        agencies, and nongovernmental organizations in carrying out 
        remediation of priority lands in the State;
            (4) support research and education on the impacts of, and 
        solutions to, illegal marijuana cultivation and other illegal 
        activities on priority lands in the State;
            (5) involve other Federal, State, Tribal, and local 
        agencies, nongovernmental organizations, and the public in 
        remediation efforts, to the extent practicable; and
            (6) take any other administrative or advisory actions as 
        necessary to address remediation of priority lands in the 
        State.
    (f) Authorities.--To implement this section, the partnership may, 
subject to the prior approval of the Secretary of Agriculture--
            (1) make grants to the State, political subdivisions of the 
        State, nonprofit organizations, and other persons;
            (2) enter into cooperative agreements with, or provide 
        grants or technical assistance to, the State, political 
        subdivisions of the State, nonprofit organizations, Federal 
        agencies, and other interested parties;
            (3) hire and compensate staff;
            (4) obtain funds or services from any source, including 
        Federal and non-Federal funds, and funds and services provided 
        under any other Federal law or program;
            (5) contract for goods or services; and
            (6) support activities of partners and any other activities 
        that further the purposes of this section.
    (g) Procedures.--The partnership shall establish such rules and 
procedures as it deems necessary or desirable.
    (h) Local Hiring.--The partnership shall, to the maximum extent 
practicable and in accordance with existing law, give preference to 
local entities and persons when carrying out this section.
    (i) Service Without Compensation.--Members of the partnership shall 
serve without pay.
    (j) Duties and Authorities of the Secretary of Agriculture.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary of Agriculture shall convene 
        the partnership on a regular basis to carry out this section.
            (2) Technical and financial assistance.--The Secretary of 
        Agriculture and Secretary of the Interior may provide technical 
        and financial assistance, on a reimbursable or nonreimbursable 
        basis, as determined by the appropriate Secretary, to the 
        partnership or any members of the partnership to carry out this 
        title.
            (3) Cooperative agreements.--The Secretary of Agriculture 
        and Secretary of the Interior may enter into cooperative 
        agreements with the partnership, any members of the 
        partnership, or other public or private entities to provide 
        technical, financial, or other assistance to carry out this 
        title.

SEC. 114. TRINITY LAKE VISITOR CENTER.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary of Agriculture, acting through the 
Chief of the Forest Service, may establish, in cooperation with any 
other public or private entities that the Secretary may determine to be 
appropriate, a visitor center in Weaverville, California--
            (1) to serve visitors; and
            (2) to assist in fulfilling the purposes of the 
        Whiskeytown-Shasta-Trinity National Recreation Area.
    (b) Requirements.--The Secretary shall ensure that the visitor 
center authorized under subsection (a) is designed to interpret the 
scenic, biological, natural, historical, scientific, paleontological, 
recreational, ecological, wilderness, and cultural resources of the 
Whiskeytown-Shasta-Trinity National Recreation Area and other nearby 
Federal lands.
    (c) Cooperative Agreements.--The Secretary of Agriculture may, in a 
manner consistent with this title, enter into cooperative agreements 
with the State and any other appropriate institutions and organizations 
to carry out the purposes of this section.

SEC. 115. DEL NORTE COUNTY VISITOR CENTER.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary of Agriculture and Secretary of the 
Interior, acting jointly or separately, may establish, in cooperation 
with any other public or private entities that the Secretaries 
determine to be appropriate, a visitor center in Del Norte County, 
California--
            (1) to serve visitors; and
            (2) to assist in fulfilling the purposes of Redwood 
        National and State Parks, the Smith River National Recreation 
        Area, and other nearby Federal lands.
    (b) Requirements.--The Secretaries shall ensure that the visitor 
center authorized under subsection (a) is designed to interpret the 
scenic, biological, natural, historical, scientific, paleontological, 
recreational, ecological, wilderness, and cultural resources of Redwood 
National and State Parks, the Smith River National Recreation Area, and 
other nearby Federal lands.

SEC. 116. MANAGEMENT PLANS.

    (a) In General.--In revising the land and resource management plan 
for the Shasta-Trinity, Six Rivers, Klamath, and Mendocino National 
Forests, the Secretary shall--
            (1) consider the purposes of the South Fork Trinity-Mad 
        River Restoration Area established by section 111; and
            (2) include or update the fire management plan for the 
        wilderness areas and wilderness additions established by this 
        title.
    (b) Requirement.--In carrying out the revisions required by 
subsection (a), the Secretary shall--
            (1) develop spatial fire management plans in accordance 
        with--
                    (A) the Guidance for Implementation of Federal 
                Wildland Fire Management Policy dated February 13, 
                2009, including any amendments to that guidance; and
                    (B) other appropriate policies;
            (2) ensure that a fire management plan--
                    (A) considers how prescribed or managed fire can be 
                used to achieve ecological management objectives of 
                wilderness and other natural or primitive areas; and
                    (B) in the case of a wilderness area expanded by 
                section 131, provides consistent direction regarding 
                fire management to the entire wilderness area, 
                including the addition;
            (3) consult with--
                    (A) appropriate State, Tribal, and local 
                governmental entities; and
                    (B) members of the public; and
            (4) comply with applicable laws (including regulations).

SEC. 117. STUDY; PARTNERSHIPS RELATED TO OVERNIGHT ACCOMMODATIONS.

    (a) Study.--The Secretary of the Interior, in consultation with 
interested Federal, State, Tribal, and local entities, and private and 
nonprofit organizations, shall conduct a study to evaluate the 
feasibility and suitability of establishing overnight accommodations 
near Redwood National and State Parks on--
            (1) Federal land at the northern boundary or on land within 
        20 miles of the northern boundary; and
            (2) Federal land at the southern boundary or on land within 
        20 miles of the southern boundary.
    (b) Partnerships.--
            (1) Agreements authorized.--If the study conducted under 
        subsection (a) determines that establishing the described 
        accommodations is suitable and feasible, the Secretary may 
        enter into agreements with qualified private and nonprofit 
        organizations for the development, operation, and maintenance 
        of overnight accommodations.
            (2) Contents.--Any agreements entered into under paragraph 
        (1) shall clearly define the role and responsibility of the 
        Secretary and the private or nonprofit organization.
            (3) Compliance.--The Secretary shall enter agreements under 
        paragraph (1) in accordance with existing law.
            (4) Effect.--Nothing in this subsection--
                    (A) reduces or diminishes the authority of the 
                Secretary to manage land and resources under the 
                jurisdiction of the Secretary; or
                    (B) amends or modifies the application of any 
                existing law (including regulations) applicable to land 
                under the jurisdiction of the Secretary.

                         Subtitle B--Recreation

SEC. 121. HORSE MOUNTAIN SPECIAL MANAGEMENT AREA.

    (a) Establishment.--Subject to valid existing rights, there is 
established the Horse Mountain Special Management Area (referred to in 
this section as the ``special management area'') comprising 
approximately 7,399 acres of Federal land administered by the Forest 
Service in Humboldt County, California, as generally depicted on the 
map entitled ``Horse Mountain Special Management Area--Proposed'' and 
dated April 13, 2017.
    (b) Purposes.--The purpose of the special management area is to 
enhance the recreational and scenic values of the special management 
area while conserving the plants, wildlife, and other natural resource 
values of the area.
    (c) Management Plan.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 3 years after the date of 
        enactment of this Act and in accordance with paragraph (2), the 
        Secretary shall develop a comprehensive plan for the long-term 
        management of the special management area.
            (2) Consultation.--In developing the management plan 
        required under paragraph (1), the Secretary shall consult 
        with--
                    (A) appropriate State, Tribal, and local 
                governmental entities; and
                    (B) members of the public.
            (3) Additional requirement.--The management plan required 
        under paragraph (1) shall ensure that recreational use within 
        the special management area does not cause significant adverse 
        impacts on the plants and wildlife of the special management 
        area.
    (d) Management.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary shall manage the special 
        management area--
                    (A) in furtherance of the purposes described in 
                subsection (b); and
                    (B) in accordance with--
                            (i) the laws (including regulations) 
                        generally applicable to the National Forest 
                        System;
                            (ii) this section; and
                            (iii) any other applicable law (including 
                        regulations).
            (2) Recreation.--The Secretary shall continue to authorize, 
        maintain, and enhance the recreational use of the special 
        management area, including hunting, fishing, camping, hiking, 
        hang gliding, sightseeing, nature study, horseback riding, 
        rafting, mountain biking, and motorized recreation on 
        authorized routes, and other recreational activities, so long 
        as such recreational use is consistent with the purposes of the 
        special management area, this section, other applicable law 
        (including regulations), and applicable management plans.
            (3) Motorized vehicles.--
                    (A) In general.--Except as provided in subparagraph 
                (B), the use of motorized vehicles in the special 
                management area shall be permitted only on roads and 
                trails designated for the use of motorized vehicles.
                    (B) Use of snowmobiles.--The winter use of 
                snowmobiles shall be allowed in the special management 
                area--
                            (i) during periods of adequate snow 
                        coverage during the winter season; and
                            (ii) subject to any terms and conditions 
                        determined to be necessary by the Secretary.
            (4) New trails.--
                    (A) In general.--The Secretary may construct new 
                trails for motorized or nonmotorized recreation within 
                the special management area in accordance with--
                            (i) the laws (including regulations) 
                        generally applicable to the National Forest 
                        System;
                            (ii) this section; and
                            (iii) any other applicable law (including 
                        regulations).
                    (B) Priority.--In establishing new trails within 
                the special management area, the Secretary shall--
                            (i) prioritize the establishment of loops 
                        that provide high-quality, diverse recreational 
                        experiences; and
                            (ii) consult with members of the public.
    (e) Withdrawal.--Subject to valid existing rights, the special 
management area is withdrawn from--
            (1) all forms of appropriation or disposal under the public 
        land laws;
            (2) location, entry, and patent under the mining laws; and
            (3) disposition under laws relating to mineral and 
        geothermal leasing.

SEC. 122. BIGFOOT NATIONAL RECREATION TRAIL.

    (a) Feasibility Study.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 3 years after the date of 
        the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Agriculture, in 
        cooperation with the Secretary of the Interior, shall submit to 
        the Committee on Natural Resources of the House of 
        Representatives and Committee on Energy and Natural Resources 
        of the Senate a study that describes the feasibility of 
        establishing a nonmotorized Bigfoot National Recreation Trail 
        that follows the route described in paragraph (2).
            (2) Route.--The trail described in paragraph (1) shall 
        extend from the Ides Cove Trailhead in the Mendocino National 
        Forest to Crescent City, California, by roughly following the 
        route as generally depicted on the map entitled ``Bigfoot 
        National Recreation Trail--Proposed'' and dated July 25, 2018.
            (3) Additional requirement.--In completing the study 
        required by subsection (a), the Secretary of Agriculture shall 
        consult with--
                    (A) appropriate Federal, State, Tribal, regional, 
                and local agencies;
                    (B) private landowners;
                    (C) nongovernmental organizations; and
                    (D) members of the public.
    (b) Designation.--
            (1) In general.--Upon a determination that the Bigfoot 
        National Recreation Trail is feasible and meets the 
        requirements for a National Recreation Trail in section 1243 of 
        title 16, United States Code, the Secretary of Agriculture 
        shall designate the Bigfoot National Recreation Trail in 
        accordance with--
                    (A) the National Trails System Act (Public Law 90-
                543);
                    (B) this title; and
                    (C) other applicable law (including regulations).
            (2) Administration.--Upon designation by the Secretary of 
        Agriculture, the Bigfoot National Recreation Trail (referred to 
        in this section as the ``trail'') shall be administered by the 
        Secretary of Agriculture, in consultation with--
                    (A) other Federal, State, Tribal, regional, and 
                local agencies;
                    (B) private landowners; and
                    (C) other interested organizations.
            (3) Private property rights.--
                    (A) In general.--No portions of the trail may be 
                located on non-Federal land without the written consent 
                of the landowner.
                    (B) Prohibition.--The Secretary of Agriculture 
                shall not acquire for the trail any land or interest in 
                land outside the exterior boundary of any federally 
                managed area without the consent of the owner of the 
                land or interest in the land.
                    (C) Effect.--Nothing in this section--
                            (i) requires any private property owner to 
                        allow public access (including Federal, State, 
                        or local government access) to private 
                        property; or
                            (ii) modifies any provision of Federal, 
                        State, or local law with respect to public 
                        access to or use of private land.
    (c) Cooperative Agreements.--In carrying out this section, the 
Secretary of Agriculture may enter into cooperative agreements with 
State, Tribal, and local government entities and private entities to 
complete needed trail construction, reconstruction, realignment, 
maintenance, or education projects related to the Bigfoot National 
Recreation Trail.
    (d) Map.--
            (1) Map required.--Upon designation of the Bigfoot National 
        Recreation Trail, the Secretary of Agriculture shall prepare a 
        map of the trail.
            (2) Public availability.--The map referred to in paragraph 
        (1) shall be on file and available for public inspection in the 
        appropriate offices of the Forest Service.

SEC. 123. ELK CAMP RIDGE RECREATION TRAIL.

    (a) Designation.--
            (1) In general.--In accordance with paragraph (2), the 
        Secretary of Agriculture after an opportunity for public 
        comment, shall designate a trail (which may include a system of 
        trails)--
                    (A) for use by off-highway vehicles or mountain 
                bicycles, or both; and
                    (B) to be known as the Elk Camp Ridge Recreation 
                Trail.
            (2) Requirements.--In designating the Elk Camp Ridge 
        Recreation Trail (referred to in this section as the 
        ``trail''), the Secretary shall only include trails that are--
                    (A) as of the date of enactment of this Act, 
                authorized for use by off-highway vehicles or mountain 
                bikes, or both; and
                    (B) located on land that is managed by the Forest 
                Service in Del Norte County.
            (3) Map.--A map that depicts the trail shall be on file and 
        available for public inspection in the appropriate offices of 
        the Forest Service.
    (b) Management.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary shall manage the trail--
                    (A) in accordance with applicable laws (including 
                regulations);
                    (B) to ensure the safety of citizens who use the 
                trail; and
                    (C) in a manner by which to minimize any damage to 
                sensitive habitat or cultural resources.
            (2) Monitoring; evaluation.--To minimize the impacts of the 
        use of the trail on environmental and cultural resources, the 
        Secretary shall annually assess the effects of the use of off-
        highway vehicles and mountain bicycles on--
                    (A) the trail;
                    (B) land located in proximity to the trail; and
                    (C) plants, wildlife, and wildlife habitat.
            (3) Closure.--The Secretary, in consultation with the State 
        and Del Norte County, and subject to paragraph (4), may 
        temporarily close or permanently reroute a portion of the trail 
        if the Secretary determines that--
                    (A) the trail is having an adverse impact on--
                            (i) wildlife habitats;
                            (ii) natural resources;
                            (iii) cultural resources; or
                            (iv) traditional uses;
                    (B) the trail threatens public safety; or
                    (C) closure of the trail is necessary--
                            (i) to repair damage to the trail; or
                            (ii) to repair resource damage.
            (4) Rerouting.--Any portion of the trail that is 
        temporarily closed by the Secretary under paragraph (3) may be 
        permanently rerouted along any road or trail--
                    (A) that is--
                            (i) in existence as of the date of the 
                        closure of the portion of the trail;
                            (ii) located on public land; and
                            (iii) open to motorized or mechanized use; 
                        and
                    (B) if the Secretary determines that rerouting the 
                portion of the trail would not significantly increase 
                or decrease the length of the trail.
            (5) Notice of available routes.--The Secretary shall ensure 
        that visitors to the trail have access to adequate notice 
        relating to the availability of trail routes through--
                    (A) the placement of appropriate signage along the 
                trail; and
                    (B) the distribution of maps, safety education 
                materials, and other information that the Secretary 
                concerned determines to be appropriate.
    (c) Effect.--Nothing in this section affects the ownership, 
management, or other rights relating to any non-Federal land (including 
any interest in any non-Federal land).

SEC. 124. TRINITY LAKE TRAIL.

    (a) Trail Construction.--
            (1) Feasibility study.--Not later than 18 months after the 
        date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall study the 
        feasibility and public interest of constructing a recreational 
        trail for nonmotorized uses around Trinity Lake.
            (2) Construction.--
                    (A) Construction authorized.--Subject to 
                appropriations, and in accordance with paragraph (3), 
                if the Secretary determines under paragraph (1) that 
                the construction of the trail described in such 
                paragraph is feasible and in the public interest, the 
                Secretary may provide for the construction of the 
                trail.
                    (B) Use of volunteer services and contributions.--
                The trail may be constructed under this section through 
                the acceptance of volunteer services and contributions 
                from non-Federal sources to reduce or eliminate the 
                need for Federal expenditures to construct the trail.
            (3) Compliance.--In carrying out this section, the 
        Secretary shall comply with--
                    (A) the laws (including regulations) generally 
                applicable to the National Forest System; and
                    (B) this title.
    (b) Effect.--Nothing in this section affects the ownership, 
management, or other rights relating to any non-Federal land (including 
any interest in any non-Federal land).

SEC. 125. TRAILS STUDY.

    (a) In General.--Not later than 2 years after the date of enactment 
of this Act, the Secretary of Agriculture, in accordance with 
subsection (b) and in consultation with interested parties, shall 
conduct a study to improve motorized and nonmotorized recreation trail 
opportunities (including mountain bicycling) on land not designated as 
wilderness within the portions of the Six Rivers, Shasta-Trinity, and 
Mendocino National Forests located in Del Norte, Humboldt, Trinity, and 
Mendocino Counties.
    (b) Consultation.--In carrying out the study required by subsection 
(a), the Secretary of Agriculture shall consult with the Secretary of 
the Interior regarding opportunities to improve, through increased 
coordination, recreation trail opportunities on land under the 
jurisdiction of the Secretary of the Interior that shares a boundary 
with the national forest land described in subsection (a).

SEC. 126. CONSTRUCTION OF MOUNTAIN BICYCLING ROUTES.

    (a) Trail Construction.--
            (1) Feasibility study.--Not later than 18 months after the 
        date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Agriculture 
        shall study the feasibility and public interest of constructing 
        recreational trails for mountain bicycling and other 
        nonmotorized uses on the routes as generally depicted in the 
        report entitled ``Trail Study for Smith River National 
        Recreation Area Six Rivers National Forest'' and dated 2016.
            (2) Construction.--
                    (A) Construction authorized.--Subject to 
                appropriations, and in accordance with paragraph (3), 
                if the Secretary determines under paragraph (1) that 
                the construction of one or more routes described in 
                such paragraph is feasible and in the public interest, 
                the Secretary may provide for the construction of the 
                routes.
                    (B) Modifications.--The Secretary may modify the 
                routes as necessary in the opinion of the Secretary.
                    (C) Use of volunteer services and contributions.--
                Routes may be constructed under this section through 
                the acceptance of volunteer services and contributions 
                from non-Federal sources to reduce or eliminate the 
                need for Federal expenditures to construct the route.
            (3) Compliance.--In carrying out this section, the 
        Secretary shall comply with--
                    (A) the laws (including regulations) generally 
                applicable to the National Forest System; and
                    (B) this title.
    (b) Effect.--Nothing in this section affects the ownership, 
management, or other rights relating to any non-Federal land (including 
any interest in any non-Federal land).

SEC. 127. PARTNERSHIPS.

    (a) Agreements Authorized.--The Secretary is authorized to enter 
into agreements with qualified private and nonprofit organizations to 
undertake the following activities on Federal lands in Mendocino, 
Humboldt, Trinity, and Del Norte Counties--
            (1) trail and campground maintenance;
            (2) public education, visitor contacts, and outreach; and
            (3) visitor center staffing.
    (b) Contents.--Any agreements entered into under subsection (a) 
shall clearly define the role and responsibility of the Secretary and 
the private or nonprofit organization.
    (c) Compliance.--The Secretary shall enter into agreements under 
subsection (a) in accordance with existing law.
    (d) Effect.--Nothing in this section--
            (1) reduces or diminishes the authority of the Secretary to 
        manage land and resources under the jurisdiction of the 
        Secretary; or
            (2) amends or modifies the application of any existing law 
        (including regulations) applicable to land under the 
        jurisdiction of the Secretary.

                        Subtitle C--Conservation

SEC. 131. DESIGNATION OF WILDERNESS.

    (a) In General.--In accordance with the Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 
1131 et seq.), the following areas in the State are designated as 
wilderness areas and as components of the National Wilderness 
Preservation System:
            (1) Black butte river wilderness.--Certain Federal land 
        managed by the Forest Service in the State, comprising 
        approximately 11,117 acres, as generally depicted on the map 
        entitled ``Black Butte River Wilderness--Proposed'' and dated 
        April 13, 2017, which shall be known as the Black Butte River 
        Wilderness.
            (2) Chanchelulla wilderness additions.--Certain Federal 
        land managed by the Forest Service in the State, comprising 
        approximately 6,212 acres, as generally depicted on the map 
        entitled ``Chanchelulla Wilderness Additions--Proposed'' and 
        dated July 16, 2018, which is incorporated in, and considered 
        to be a part of, the Chanchelulla Wilderness, as designated by 
        section 101(a)(4) of the California Wilderness Act of 1984 (16 
        U.S.C. 1132 note; 98 Stat. 1619).
            (3) Chinquapin wilderness.--Certain Federal land managed by 
        the Forest Service in the State, comprising approximately 
        27,258 acres, as generally depicted on the map entitled 
        ``Chinquapin Wilderness--Proposed'' and dated January 15, 2020, 
        which shall be known as the Chinquapin Wilderness.
            (4) Elkhorn ridge wilderness addition.--Certain Federal 
        land managed by the Bureau of Land Management in the State, 
        comprising approximately 37 acres, as generally depicted on the 
        map entitled ``Proposed Elkhorn Ridge Wilderness Additions'' 
        and dated October 24, 2019, which is incorporated in, and 
        considered to be a part of, the Elkhorn Ridge Wilderness, as 
        designated by section 6(d) of Public Law 109-362 (16 U.S.C. 
        1132 note; 120 Stat. 2070).
            (5) English ridge wilderness.--Certain Federal land managed 
        by the Bureau of Land Management in the State, comprising 
        approximately 6,204 acres, as generally depicted on the map 
        entitled ``English Ridge Wilderness--Proposed'' and dated March 
        29, 2019, which shall be known as the English Ridge Wilderness.
            (6) Headwaters forest wilderness.--Certain Federal land 
        managed by the Bureau of Land Management in the State, 
        comprising approximately 4,360 acres, as generally depicted on 
        the map entitled ``Headwaters Forest Wilderness--Proposed'' and 
        dated October 15, 2019, which shall be known as the Headwaters 
        Forest Wilderness.
            (7) Mad river buttes wilderness.--Certain Federal land 
        managed by the Forest Service in the State, comprising 
        approximately 6,002 acres, as generally depicted on the map 
        entitled ``Mad River Buttes Wilderness--Proposed'' and dated 
        July 25, 2018, which shall be known as the Mad River Buttes 
        Wilderness.
            (8) Mount lassic wilderness addition.--Certain Federal land 
        managed by the Forest Service in the State, comprising 
        approximately 1,292 acres, as generally depicted on the map 
        entitled ``Mount Lassic Wilderness Additions--Proposed'' and 
        dated February 23, 2017, which is incorporated in, and 
        considered to be a part of, the Mount Lassic Wilderness, as 
        designated by section 3(6) of Public Law 109-362 (16 U.S.C. 
        1132 note; 120 Stat. 2065).
            (9) North fork eel wilderness addition.--Certain Federal 
        land managed by the Forest Service and the Bureau of Land 
        Management in the State, comprising approximately 16,274 acres, 
        as generally depicted on the map entitled ``North Fork 
        Wilderness Additions'' and dated January 15, 2020, which is 
        incorporated in, and considered to be a part of, the North Fork 
        Eel Wilderness, as designated by section 101(a)(19) of the 
        California Wilderness Act of 1984 (16 U.S.C. 1132 note; 98 
        Stat. 1621).
            (10) Pattison wilderness.--Certain Federal land managed by 
        the Forest Service in the State, comprising approximately 
        28,595 acres, as generally depicted on the map entitled 
        ``Pattison Wilderness--Proposed'' and dated July 16, 2018, 
        which shall be known as the Pattison Wilderness.
            (11) Sanhedrin wilderness addition.--Certain Federal land 
        managed by the Forest Service in the State, comprising 
        approximately 112 acres, as generally depicted on the map 
        entitled ``Sanhedrin Wilderness Addition--Proposed'' and dated 
        March 29, 2019, which is incorporated in, and considered to be 
        a part of, the Sanhedrin Wilderness, as designated by section 
        3(2) of Public Law 109-362 (16 U.S.C. 1132 note; 120 Stat. 
        2065).
            (12) Siskiyou wilderness addition.--Certain Federal land 
        managed by the Forest Service in the State, comprising 
        approximately 27,747 acres, as generally depicted on the map 
        entitled ``Siskiyou Wilderness Additions and Potential 
        Wildernesses--Proposed'' and dated July 24, 2018, which is 
        incorporated in, and considered to be a part of, the Siskiyou 
        Wilderness, as designated by section 101(a)(30) of the 
        California Wilderness Act of 1984 (16 U.S.C. 1132 note; 98 
        Stat. 1623) (as amended by section 3(5) of Public Law 109-362 
        (16 U.S.C. 1132 note; 120 Stat. 2065)).
            (13) South fork eel river wilderness addition.--Certain 
        Federal land managed by the Bureau of Land Management in the 
        State, comprising approximately 603 acres, as generally 
        depicted on the map entitled ``South Fork Eel River Wilderness 
        Additions--Proposed'' and dated October 24, 2019, which is 
        incorporated in, and considered to be a part of, the South Fork 
        Eel River Wilderness, as designated by section 3(10) of Public 
        Law 109-362 (16 U.S.C. 1132 note; 120 Stat. 2066).
            (14) South fork trinity river wilderness.--Certain Federal 
        land managed by the Forest Service in the State, comprising 
        approximately 26,446 acres, as generally depicted on the map 
        entitled ``South Fork Trinity River Wilderness and Potential 
        Wildernesses--Proposed'' and dated March 11, 2019, which shall 
        be known as the South Fork Trinity River Wilderness.
            (15) Trinity alps wilderness addition.--Certain Federal 
        land managed by the Forest Service in the State, comprising 
        approximately 60,826 acres, as generally depicted on the maps 
        entitled ``Trinity Alps Proposed Wilderness Additions EAST'' 
        and ``Trinity Alps Proposed Wilderness Additions WEST'' and 
        dated January 15, 2020, which is incorporated in, and 
        considered to be a part of, the Trinity Alps Wilderness, as 
        designated by section 101(a)(34) of the California Wilderness 
        Act of 1984 (16 U.S.C. 1132 note; 98 Stat. 1623) (as amended by 
        section 3(7) of Public Law 109-362 (16 U.S.C. 1132 note; 120 
        Stat. 2065)).
            (16) Underwood wilderness.--Certain Federal land managed by 
        the Forest Service in the State, comprising approximately 
        15,069 acres, as generally depicted on the map entitled 
        ``Underwood Wilderness--Proposed'' and dated January 15, 2020, 
        which shall be known as the Underwood Wilderness.
            (17) Yolla bolly-middle eel wilderness additions.--Certain 
        Federal land managed by the Forest Service and the Bureau of 
        Land Management in the State, comprising approximately 10,729 
        acres, as generally depicted on the map entitled ``Yolla Bolly 
        Middle Eel Wilderness Additions and Potential Wildernesses--
        Proposed'' and dated June 7, 2018, which is incorporated in, 
        and considered to be a part of, the Yolla Bolly-Middle Eel 
        Wilderness, as designated by section 3 of the Wilderness Act 
        (16 U.S.C. 1132) (as amended by section 3(4) of Public Law 109-
        362 (16 U.S.C. 1132 note; 120 Stat. 2065)).
            (18) Yuki wilderness addition.--Certain Federal land 
        managed by the Forest Service and the Bureau of Land Management 
        in the State, comprising approximately 11,076 acres, as 
        generally depicted on the map entitled ``Yuki Wilderness 
        Additions--Proposed'' and dated January 15, 2020, which is 
        incorporated in, and considered to be a part of, the Yuki 
        Wilderness, as designated by section 3(3) of Public Law 109-362 
        (16 U.S.C. 1132 note; 120 Stat. 2065).
    (b) Redesignation of North Fork Wilderness as North Fork Eel River 
Wilderness.--Section 101(a)(19) of Public Law 98-425 (16 U.S.C. 1132 
note; 98 Stat. 1621) is amended by striking ``North Fork Wilderness'' 
and inserting ``North Fork Eel River Wilderness''. Any reference in a 
law, map, regulation, document, paper, or other record of the United 
States to the North Fork Wilderness shall be deemed to be a reference 
to the North Fork Eel River Wilderness.
    (c) Elkhorn Ridge Wilderness Adjustments.--The boundary of the 
Elkhorn Ridge Wilderness established by section 6(d) of Public Law 109-
362 (16 U.S.C. 1132 note) is adjusted by deleting approximately 30 
acres of Federal land as generally depicted on the map entitled 
``Proposed Elkhorn Ridge Wilderness Additions'' and dated October 24, 
2019.

SEC. 132. ADMINISTRATION OF WILDERNESS.

    (a) In General.--Subject to valid existing rights, the wilderness 
areas and wilderness additions established by section 131 shall be 
administered by the Secretary in accordance with this subtitle and the 
Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1131 et seq.), except that--
            (1) any reference in the Wilderness Act to the effective 
        date of that Act shall be considered to be a reference to the 
        date of enactment of this Act; and
            (2) any reference in that Act to the Secretary of 
        Agriculture shall be considered to be a reference to the 
        Secretary.
    (b) Fire Management and Related Activities.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary may take such measures in a 
        wilderness area or wilderness addition designated by section 
        131 as are necessary for the control of fire, insects, and 
        diseases in accordance with section 4(d)(1) of the Wilderness 
        Act (16 U.S.C. 1133(d)(1)) and House Report 98-40 of the 98th 
        Congress.
            (2) Funding priorities.--Nothing in this subtitle limits 
        funding for fire and fuels management in the wilderness areas 
        or wilderness additions designated by this title.
            (3) Administration.--Consistent with paragraph (1) and 
        other applicable Federal law, to ensure a timely and efficient 
        response to fire emergencies in the wilderness additions 
        designated by this subtitle, the Secretary of Agriculture 
        shall--
                    (A) not later than 1 year after the date of 
                enactment of this Act, establish agency approval 
                procedures (including appropriate delegations of 
                authority to the Forest Supervisor, District Manager, 
                or other agency officials) for responding to fire 
                emergencies; and
                    (B) enter into agreements with appropriate State or 
                local firefighting agencies.
    (c) Grazing.--The grazing of livestock in the wilderness areas and 
wilderness additions designated by this title, if established before 
the date of enactment of this Act, shall be administered in accordance 
with--
            (1) section 4(d)(4) of the Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 
        1133(d)(4)); and
            (2)(A) for lands under the jurisdiction of the Secretary of 
        Agriculture, the guidelines set forth in the report of the 
        Committee on Interior and Insular Affairs of the House of 
        Representatives accompanying H.R. 5487 of the 96th Congress (H. 
        Rept. 96-617); or
            (B) for lands under the jurisdiction of the Secretary of 
        the Interior, the guidelines set forth in Appendix A of the 
        report of the Committee on Interior and Insular Affairs of the 
        House of Representatives accompanying H.R. 2570 of the 101st 
        Congress (H. Rept. 101-405).
    (d) Fish and Wildlife.--
            (1) In general.--In accordance with section 4(d)(7) of the 
        Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1133(d)(7)), nothing in this title 
        affects the jurisdiction or responsibilities of the State with 
        respect to fish and wildlife on public land in the State.
            (2) Management activities.--In furtherance of the purposes 
        and principles of the Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1131 et seq.), 
        the Secretary may conduct any management activities that are 
        necessary to maintain or restore fish, wildlife, and plant 
        populations and habitats in the wilderness areas or wilderness 
        additions designated by section 131, if the management 
        activities are--
                    (A) consistent with relevant wilderness management 
                plans; and
                    (B) conducted in accordance with--
                            (i) the Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1131 et 
                        seq.); and
                            (ii) appropriate policies, such as the 
                        policies established in Appendix B of House 
                        Report 101-405.
    (e) Buffer Zones.--
            (1) In general.--Congress does not intend for designation 
        of wilderness or wilderness additions by this title to lead to 
        the creation of protective perimeters or buffer zones around 
        each wilderness area or wilderness addition.
            (2) Activities or uses up to boundaries.--The fact that 
        nonwilderness activities or uses can be seen or heard from 
        within a wilderness area shall not, of itself, preclude the 
        activities or uses up to the boundary of the wilderness area.
    (f) Military Activities.--Nothing in this subtitle precludes--
            (1) low-level overflights of military aircraft over the 
        wilderness areas or wilderness additions designated by section 
        131;
            (2) the designation of new units of special airspace over 
        the wilderness areas or wilderness additions designated by 
        section 131; or
            (3) the use or establishment of military flight training 
        routes over the wilderness areas or wilderness additions 
        designated by section 131.
    (g) Horses.--Nothing in this subtitle precludes horseback riding 
in, or the entry of recreational or commercial saddle or pack stock 
into, an area designated as a wilderness area or wilderness addition by 
section 131--
            (1) in accordance with section 4(d)(5) of the Wilderness 
        Act (16 U.S.C. 1133(d)(5)); and
            (2) subject to any terms and conditions determined to be 
        necessary by the Secretary.
    (h) Withdrawal.--Subject to valid existing rights, the wilderness 
areas and wilderness additions designated by section 131 are withdrawn 
from--
            (1) all forms of entry, appropriation, and disposal under 
        the public land laws;
            (2) location, entry, and patent under the mining laws; and
            (3) operation of the mineral materials and geothermal 
        leasing laws.
    (i) Use by Members of Indian Tribes.--
            (1) Access.--In recognition of the past use of wilderness 
        areas and wilderness additions designated by this title by 
        members of Indian Tribes for traditional cultural and religious 
        purposes, the Secretary shall ensure that Indian Tribes have 
        access to the wilderness areas and wilderness additions 
        designated by section 131 for traditional cultural and 
        religious purposes.
            (2) Temporary closures.--
                    (A) In general.--In carrying out this section, the 
                Secretary, on request of an Indian Tribe, may 
                temporarily close to the general public one or more 
                specific portions of a wilderness area or wilderness 
                addition to protect the privacy of the members of the 
                Indian Tribe in the conduct of the traditional cultural 
                and religious activities in the wilderness area or 
                wilderness addition.
                    (B) Requirement.--Any closure under subparagraph 
                (A) shall be made in such a manner as to affect the 
                smallest practicable area for the minimum period of 
                time necessary for the activity to be carried out.
            (3) Applicable law.--Access to the wilderness areas and 
        wilderness additions under this subsection shall be in 
        accordance with--
                    (A) Public Law 95-341 (commonly known as the 
                American Indian Religious Freedom Act) (42 U.S.C. 1996 
                et seq.); and
                    (B) the Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1131 et seq.).
    (j) Incorporation of Acquired Land and Interests.--Any land within 
the boundary of a wilderness area or wilderness addition designated by 
section 131 that is acquired by the United States shall--
            (1) become part of the wilderness area in which the land is 
        located;
            (2) be withdrawn in accordance with subsection (h); and
            (3) be managed in accordance with this section, the 
        Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1131 et seq.), and any other 
        applicable law.
    (k) Climatological Data Collection.--In accordance with the 
Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1131 et seq.) and subject to such terms and 
conditions as the Secretary may prescribe, the Secretary may authorize 
the installation and maintenance of hydrologic, meteorologic, or 
climatological collection devices in the wilderness areas and 
wilderness additions designated by section 131 if the Secretary 
determines that the facilities and access to the facilities are 
essential to flood warning, flood control, or water reservoir operation 
activities.
    (l) Authorized Events.--The Secretary may continue to authorize the 
competitive equestrian event permitted since 2012 in the Chinquapin 
Wilderness established by section 131 in a manner compatible with the 
preservation of the area as wilderness.
    (m) Recreational Climbing.--Nothing in this title prohibits 
recreational rock climbing activities in the wilderness areas, such as 
the placement, use, and maintenance of fixed anchors, including any 
fixed anchor established before the date of the enactment of this Act--
            (1) in accordance with the Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1131 
        et seq.); and
            (2) subject to any terms and conditions determined to be 
        necessary by the Secretary.

SEC. 133. DESIGNATION OF POTENTIAL WILDERNESS.

    (a) Designation.--In furtherance of the purposes of the Wilderness 
Act (16 U.S.C. 1131 et seq.), the following areas in the State are 
designated as potential wilderness areas:
            (1) Certain Federal land managed by the Forest Service, 
        comprising approximately 3,797 acres, as generally depicted on 
        the map entitled ``Chinquapin Proposed Potential Wilderness'' 
        and dated January 15, 2020.
            (2) Certain Federal land administered by the National Park 
        Service, compromising approximately 31,000 acres, as generally 
        depicted on the map entitled ``Redwood National Park - 
        Potential Wilderness'' and dated October 9, 2019.
            (3) Certain Federal land managed by the Forest Service, 
        comprising approximately 8,961 acres, as generally depicted on 
        the map entitled ``Siskiyou Wilderness Additions and Potential 
        Wildernesses--Proposed'' and dated July 24, 2018.
            (4) Certain Federal land managed by the Forest Service, 
        comprising approximately 405 acres, as generally depicted on 
        the map entitled ``South Fork Trinity River Wilderness and 
        Potential Wildernesses--Proposed'' and dated March 11, 2019.
            (5) Certain Federal land managed by the Forest Service, 
        comprising approximately 1,256 acres, as generally depicted on 
        the map entitled ``Trinity Alps Proposed Potential Wilderness'' 
        and dated January 15, 2020.
            (6) Certain Federal land managed by the Forest Service, 
        comprising approximately 4,282 acres, as generally depicted on 
        the map entitled ``Yolla Bolly Middle Eel Wilderness Additions 
        and Potential Wildernesses--Proposed'' and dated June 7, 2018.
            (7) Certain Federal land managed by the Forest Service, 
        comprising approximately 2,909 acres, as generally depicted on 
        the map entitled ``Yuki Proposed Potential Wilderness'' and 
        dated January 15, 2020.
    (b) Management.--Except as provided in subsection (c) and subject 
to valid existing rights, the Secretary shall manage the potential 
wilderness areas designated by subsection (a) (referred to in this 
section as ``potential wilderness areas'') as wilderness until the 
potential wilderness areas are designated as wilderness under 
subsection (d).
    (c) Ecological Restoration.--
            (1) In general.--For purposes of ecological restoration 
        (including the elimination of nonnative species, removal of 
        illegal, unused, or decommissioned roads, repair of skid 
        tracks, and any other activities necessary to restore the 
        natural ecosystems in a potential wilderness area and 
        consistent with paragraph (2)), the Secretary may use motorized 
        equipment and mechanized transport in a potential wilderness 
        area until the potential wilderness area is designated as 
        wilderness under subsection (d).
            (2) Limitation.--To the maximum extent practicable, the 
        Secretary shall use the minimum tool or administrative practice 
        necessary to accomplish ecological restoration with the least 
        amount of adverse impact on wilderness character and resources.
    (d) Eventual Wilderness Designation.--The potential wilderness 
areas shall be designated as wilderness and as a component of the 
National Wilderness Preservation System on the earlier of--
            (1) the date on which the Secretary publishes in the 
        Federal Register notice that the conditions in a potential 
        wilderness area that are incompatible with the Wilderness Act 
        (16 U.S.C. 1131 et seq.) have been removed; or
            (2) the date that is 10 years after the date of enactment 
        of this Act for potential wilderness areas located on lands 
        managed by the Forest Service.
    (e) Administration as Wilderness.--
            (1) In general.--On its designation as wilderness under 
        subsection (d), a potential wilderness area shall be 
        administered in accordance with section 132 and the Wilderness 
        Act (16 U.S.C. 1131 et seq.).
            (2) Designation.--On its designation as wilderness under 
        subsection (d)--
                    (A) the land described in subsection (a)(1) shall 
                be incorporated in, and considered to be a part of, the 
                Chinquapin Wilderness established by section 131(a)(3);
                    (B) the land described in subsection (a)(3) shall 
                be incorporated in, and considered to be a part of, the 
                Siskiyou Wilderness as designated by section 231(a)(30) 
                of the California Wilderness Act of 1984 (16 U.S.C. 
                1132 note; 98 Stat. 1623) (as amended by section 3(5) 
                of Public Law 109-362 (16 U.S.C. 1132 note; 120 Stat. 
                2065) and expanded by section 131(a)(12));
                    (C) the land described in subsection (a)(4) shall 
                be incorporated in, and considered to be a part of, the 
                South Fork Trinity River Wilderness established by 
                section 131(a)(14);
                    (D) the land described in subsection (a)(5) shall 
                be incorporated in, and considered to be a part of, the 
                Trinity Alps Wilderness as designated by section 
                101(a)(34) of the California Wilderness Act of 1984 (16 
                U.S.C. 1132 note; 98 Stat. 1623) (as amended by section 
                3(7) of Public Law 109-362 (16 U.S.C. 1132 note; 120 
                Stat. 2065) and expanded by section 131(a)(15));
                    (E) the land described in subsection (a)(6) shall 
                be incorporated in, and considered to be a part of, the 
                Yolla Bolly-Middle Eel Wilderness as designated by 
                section 3 of the Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1132) (as 
                amended by section 3(4) of Public Law 109-362 (16 
                U.S.C. 1132 note; 120 Stat. 2065) and expanded by 
                section 131(a)(17)); and
                    (F) the land described in subsection (a)(7) shall 
                be incorporated in, and considered to be a part of, the 
                Yuki Wilderness as designated by section 3(3) of Public 
                Law 109-362 (16 U.S.C. 1132 note; 120 Stat. 2065) and 
                expanded by section 131(a)(18).
    (f) Report.--Within 3 years after the date of enactment of this 
Act, and every 3 years thereafter until the date upon which the 
potential wilderness is designated wilderness under subsection (d), the 
Secretary shall submit a report to the Committee on Natural Resources 
of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Energy and Natural 
Resources of the Senate on the status of ecological restoration within 
the potential wilderness area and the progress toward the potential 
wilderness area's eventual wilderness designation under subsection (d).

SEC. 134. DESIGNATION OF WILD AND SCENIC RIVERS.

    Section 3(a) of the Wild and Scenic Rivers Act (16 U.S.C. 1274(a)) 
is amended by adding at the end the following:
            ``(231) South fork trinity river.--The following segments 
        from the source tributaries in the Yolla Bolly-Middle Eel 
        Wilderness, to be administered by the Secretary of Agriculture:
                    ``(A) The 18.3-mile segment from its multiple 
                source springs in the Cedar Basin of the Yolla Bolly-
                Middle Eel Wilderness in section 15, T. 27 N., R. 10 W. 
                to .25 miles upstream of the Wild Mad Road, as a wild 
                river.
                    ``(B) The .65-mile segment from .25 miles upstream 
                of Wild Mad Road to the confluence with the unnamed 
                tributary approximately .4 miles downstream of the Wild 
                Mad Road in section 29, T. 28 N., R. 11 W., as a scenic 
                river.
                    ``(C) The 9.8-mile segment from .75 miles 
                downstream of Wild Mad Road to Silver Creek, as a wild 
                river.
                    ``(D) The 5.4-mile segment from Silver Creek 
                confluence to Farley Creek, as a scenic river.
                    ``(E) The 3.6-mile segment from Farley Creek to 
                Cave Creek, as a recreational river.
                    ``(F) The 5.6-mile segment from Cave Creek to the 
                confluence of the unnamed creek upstream of Hidden 
                Valley Ranch in section 5, T. 15, R. 7 E., as a wild 
                river.
                    ``(G) The 2.5-mile segment from unnamed creek 
                confluence upstream of Hidden Valley Ranch to the 
                confluence with the unnamed creek flowing west from 
                Bear Wallow Mountain in section 29, T. 1 N., R. 7 E., 
                as a scenic river.
                    ``(H) The 3.8-mile segment from the unnamed creek 
                confluence in section 29, T. 1 N., R. 7 E. to Plummer 
                Creek, as a wild river.
                    ``(I) The 1.8-mile segment from Plummer Creek to 
                the confluence with the unnamed tributary north of 
                McClellan Place in section 6, T. 1 N., R. 7 E., as a 
                scenic river.
                    ``(J) The 5.4-mile segment from the unnamed 
                tributary confluence in section 6, T. 1 N., R. 7 E. to 
                Hitchcock Creek, as a wild river.
                    ``(K) The 7-mile segment from Eltapom Creek to the 
                Grouse Creek, as a scenic river.
                    ``(L) The 5-mile segment from Grouse Creek to Coon 
                Creek, as a wild river.
            ``(232) East fork south fork trinity river.--The following 
        segments to be administered by the Secretary of Agriculture:
                    ``(A) The 8.4-mile segment from its source in the 
                Pettijohn Basin in the Yolla Bolly-Middle Eel 
                Wilderness in section 10, T. 3 S., R. 10 W. to .25 
                miles upstream of the Wild Mad Road, as a wild river.
                    ``(B) The 3.4-mile segment from .25 miles upstream 
                of the Wild Mad Road to the South Fork Trinity River, 
                as a recreational river.
            ``(233) Rattlesnake creek.--The 5.9-mile segment from the 
        confluence with the unnamed tributary in the southeast corner 
        of section 5, T. 1 S., R. 12 W. to the South Fork Trinity 
        River, to be administered by the Secretary of Agriculture as a 
        recreational river.
            ``(234) Butter creek.--The 7-mile segment from .25 miles 
        downstream of the Road 3N08 crossing to the South Fork Trinity 
        River, to be administered by the Secretary of Agriculture as a 
        scenic river.
            ``(235) Hayfork creek.--The following segments to be 
        administered by the Secretary of Agriculture:
                    ``(A) The 3.2-mile segment from Little Creek to 
                Bear Creek, as a recreational river.
                    ``(B) The 13.2-mile segment from Bear Creek to the 
                northern boundary of section 19, T. 3 N., R. 7 E., as a 
                scenic river.
            ``(236) Olsen creek.--The 2.8-mile segment from the 
        confluence of its source tributaries in section 5, T. 3 N., R. 
        7 E. to the northern boundary of section 24, T. 3 N., R. 6 E., 
        to be administered by the Secretary of the Interior as a scenic 
        river.
            ``(237) Rusch creek.--The 3.2-mile segment from .25 miles 
        downstream of the 32N11 Road crossing to Hayfork Creek, to be 
        administered by the Secretary of Agriculture as a recreational 
        river.
            ``(238) Eltapom creek.--The 3.4-mile segment from Buckhorn 
        Creek to the South Fork Trinity River, to be administered by 
        the Secretary of Agriculture as a wild river.
            ``(239) Grouse creek.--The following segments to be 
        administered by the Secretary of Agriculture:
                    ``(A) The 3.9-mile segment from Carson Creek to Cow 
                Creek, as a scenic river.
                    ``(B) The 7.4-mile segment from Cow Creek to the 
                South Fork Trinity River, as a recreational river.
            ``(240) Madden creek.--The following segments to be 
        administered by the Secretary of Agriculture:
                    ``(A) The 6.8-mile segment from the confluence of 
                Madden Creek and its unnamed tributary in section 18, 
                T. 5 N., R. 5 E. to Fourmile Creek, as a wild river.
                    ``(B) The 1.6-mile segment from Fourmile Creek to 
                the South Fork Trinity River, as a recreational river.
            ``(241) Canyon creek.--The following segments to be 
        administered by the Secretary of Agriculture and the Secretary 
        of the Interior:
                    ``(A) The 6.6-mile segment from the outlet of lower 
                Canyon Creek Lake to Bear Creek upstream of Ripstein, 
                as a wild river.
                    ``(B) The 11.2-mile segment from Bear Creek 
                upstream of Ripstein to the southern boundary of 
                section 25, T. 34 N., R. 11 W., as a recreational 
                river.
            ``(242) North fork trinity river.--The following segments 
        to be administered by the Secretary of Agriculture:
                    ``(A) The 12-mile segment from the confluence of 
                source tributaries in section 24, T. 8 N., R. 12 W. to 
                the Trinity Alps Wilderness boundary upstream of Hobo 
                Gulch, as a wild river.
                    ``(B) The .5-mile segment from where the river 
                leaves the Trinity Alps Wilderness to where it fully 
                reenters the Trinity Alps Wilderness downstream of Hobo 
                Gulch, as a scenic river.
                    ``(C) The 13.9-mile segment from where the river 
                fully reenters the Trinity Alps Wilderness downstream 
                of Hobo Gulch to the Trinity Alps Wilderness boundary 
                upstream of the County Road 421 crossing, as a wild 
                river.
                    ``(D) The 1.3-mile segment from the Trinity Alps 
                Wilderness boundary upstream of the County Road 421 
                crossing to the Trinity River, as a recreational river.
            ``(243) East fork north fork trinity river.--The following 
        segments to be administered by the Secretary of Agriculture:
                    ``(A) The 9.5-mile segment from the river's source 
                north of Mt. Hilton in section 19, T. 36 N., R. 10 W. 
                to the end of Road 35N20 approximately .5 miles 
                downstream of the confluence with the East Branch East 
                Fork North Fork Trinity River, as a wild river.
                    ``(B) The 3.25-mile segment from the end of Road 
                35N20 to .25 miles upstream of Coleridge, as a scenic 
                river.
                    ``(C) The 4.6-mile segment from .25 miles upstream 
                of Coleridge to the confluence of Fox Gulch, as a 
                recreational river.
            ``(244) New river.--The following segments to be 
        administered by the Secretary of Agriculture:
                    ``(A) The 12.7-mile segment of Virgin Creek from 
                its source spring in section 22, T. 9 N., R. 7 E. to 
                Slide Creek, as a wild river.
                    ``(B) The 2.3-mile segment of the New River where 
                it begins at the confluence of Virgin and Slide Creeks 
                to Barron Creek, as a wild river.
            ``(245) Middle eel river.--The following segment, to be 
        administered by the Secretary of Agriculture:
                    ``(A) The 37.7-mile segment from its source in 
                Frying Pan Meadow to Rose Creek, as a wild river.
                    ``(B) The 1.5-mile segment from Rose Creek to the 
                Black Butte River, as a recreational river.
                    ``(C) The 10.5-mile segment of Balm of Gilead Creek 
                from its source in Hopkins Hollow to the Middle Eel 
                River, as a wild river.
                    ``(D) The 13-mile segment of the North Fork Middle 
                Fork Eel River from the source on Dead Puppy Ridge in 
                section 11, T. 26 N., R. 11 W. to the confluence of the 
                Middle Eel River, as a wild river.
            ``(246) North fork eel river, ca.--The 14.3-mile segment 
        from the confluence with Gilman Creek to the Six Rivers 
        National Forest boundary, to be administered by the Secretary 
        of Agriculture as a wild river.
            ``(247) Red mountain creek, ca.--The following segments to 
        be administered by the Secretary of Agriculture:
                    ``(A) The 5.25-mile segment from its source west of 
                Mike's Rock in section 23, T. 26 N., R. 12 E. to the 
                confluence with Littlefield Creek, as a wild river.
                    ``(B) The 1.6-mile segment from the confluence with 
                Littlefield Creek to the confluence with the unnamed 
                tributary in section 32, T. 26 N., R. 8 E., as a scenic 
                river.
                    ``(C) The 1.25-mile segment from the confluence 
                with the unnamed tributary in section 32, T. 4 S., R. 8 
                E. to the confluence with the North Fork Eel River, as 
                a wild river.
            ``(248) Redwood creek.--The following segments to be 
        administered by the Secretary of the Interior:
                    ``(A) The 6.2-mile segment from the confluence with 
                Lacks Creek to the confluence with Coyote Creek as a 
                scenic river on publication by the Secretary of a 
                notice in the Federal Register that sufficient 
                inholdings within the boundaries of the segments have 
                been acquired in fee title to establish a manageable 
                addition to the system.
                    ``(B) The 19.1-mile segment from the confluence 
                with Coyote Creek in section 2, T. 8 N., R. 2 E. to the 
                Redwood National Park boundary upstream of Orick in 
                section 34, T. 11 N., R. 1 E. as a scenic river.
                    ``(C) The 2.3-mile segment of Emerald Creek (also 
                known as Harry Weir Creek) from its source in section 
                29, T. 10 N., R. 2 E. to the confluence with Redwood 
                Creek as a scenic river.
            ``(249) Lacks creek.--The following segments to be 
        administered by the Secretary of the Interior:
                    ``(A) The 5.1-mile segment from the confluence with 
                two unnamed tributaries in section 14, T. 7 N., R. 3 E. 
                to Kings Crossing in section 27, T. 8 N., R. 3 E. as a 
                wild river.
                    ``(B) The 2.7-mile segment from Kings Crossing to 
                the confluence with Redwood Creek as a scenic river 
                upon publication by the Secretary of a notice in the 
                Federal Register that sufficient inholdings within the 
                segment have been acquired in fee title or as scenic 
                easements to establish a manageable addition to the 
                system.
            ``(250) Lost man creek.--The following segments to be 
        administered by the Secretary of the Interior:
                    ``(A) The 6.4-mile segment of Lost Man Creek from 
                its source in section 5, T. 10 N., R. 2 E. to .25 miles 
                upstream of the Prairie Creek confluence, as a 
                recreational river.
                    ``(B) The 2.3-mile segment of Larry Damm Creek from 
                its source in section 8, T. 11 N., R. 2 E. to the 
                confluence with Lost Man Creek, as a recreational 
                river.
            ``(251) Little lost man creek.--The 3.6-mile segment of 
        Little Lost Man Creek from its source in section 6, T. 10 N., 
        R. 2 E. to .25 miles upstream of the Lost Man Creek road 
        crossing, to be administered by the Secretary of the Interior 
        as a wild river.
            ``(252) South fork elk river.--The following segments to be 
        administered by the Secretary of the Interior through a 
        cooperative management agreement with the State of California:
                    ``(A) The 3.6-mile segment of the Little South Fork 
                Elk River from the source in section 21, T. 3 N., R. 1 
                E. to the confluence with the South Fork Elk River, as 
                a wild river.
                    ``(B) The 2.2-mile segment of the unnamed tributary 
                of the Little South Fork Elk River from its source in 
                section 15, T. 3 N., R. 1 E. to the confluence with the 
                Little South Fork Elk River, as a wild river.
                    ``(C) The 3.6-mile segment of the South Fork Elk 
                River from the confluence of the Little South Fork Elk 
                River to the confluence with Tom Gulch, as a 
                recreational river.
            ``(253) Salmon creek.--The 4.6-mile segment from its source 
        in section 27, T. 3 N., R. 1 E. to the Headwaters Forest 
        Reserve boundary in section 18, T. 3 N., R. 1 E. to be 
        administered by the Secretary of the Interior as a wild river 
        through a cooperative management agreement with the State of 
        California.
            ``(254) South fork eel river.--The following segments to be 
        administered by the Secretary of the Interior:
                    ``(A) The 6.2-mile segment from the confluence with 
                Jack of Hearts Creek to the southern boundary of the 
                South Fork Eel Wilderness in section 8, T. 22 N., R. 16 
                W., as a recreational river to be administered by the 
                Secretary through a cooperative management agreement 
                with the State of California.
                    ``(B) The 6.1-mile segment from the southern 
                boundary of the South Fork Eel Wilderness to the 
                northern boundary of the South Fork Eel Wilderness in 
                section 29, T. 23 N., R. 16 W., as a wild river.
            ``(255) Elder creek.--The following segments to be 
        administered by the Secretary of the Interior through a 
        cooperative management agreement with the State of California:
                    ``(A) The 3.6-mile segment from its source north of 
                Signal Peak in section 6, T. 21 N., R. 15 W. to the 
                confluence with the unnamed tributary near the center 
                of section 28, T. 22 N., R. 16 W., as a wild river.
                    ``(B) The 1.3-mile segment from the confluence with 
                the unnamed tributary near the center of section 28, T. 
                22 N., R. 15 W. to the confluence with the South Fork 
                Eel River, as a recreational river.
                    ``(C) The 2.1-mile segment of Paralyze Canyon from 
                its source south of Signal Peak in section 7, T. 21 N., 
                R. 15 W. to the confluence with Elder Creek, as a wild 
                river.
            ``(256) Cedar creek.--The following segments to be 
        administered as a wild river by the Secretary of the Interior:
                    ``(A) The 7.7-mile segment from its source in 
                section 22, T. 24 N., R. 16 W. to the southern boundary 
                of the Red Mountain unit of the South Fork Eel 
                Wilderness.
                    ``(B) The 1.9-mile segment of North Fork Cedar 
                Creek from its source in section 28, T. 24 N., R. 16 E. 
                to the confluence with Cedar Creek.
            ``(257) East branch south fork eel river.--The following 
        segments to be administered by the Secretary of the Interior as 
        a scenic river on publication by the Secretary of a notice in 
        the Federal Register that sufficient inholdings within the 
        boundaries of the segments have been acquired in fee title or 
        as scenic easements to establish a manageable addition to the 
        system:
                    ``(A) The 2.3-mile segment of Cruso Cabin Creek 
                from the confluence of two unnamed tributaries in 
                section 18, T. 24 N., R. 15 W. to the confluence with 
                Elkhorn Creek.
                    ``(B) The 1.8-mile segment of Elkhorn Creek from 
                the confluence of two unnamed tributaries in section 
                22, T. 24 N., R. 16 W. to the confluence with Cruso 
                Cabin Creek.
                    ``(C) The 14.2-mile segment of the East Branch 
                South Fork Eel River from the confluence of Cruso Cabin 
                and Elkhorn Creeks to the confluence with Rays Creek.
                    ``(D) The 1.7-mile segment of the unnamed tributary 
                from its source on the north flank of Red Mountain's 
                north ridge in section 2, T. 24 N., R. 17 W. to the 
                confluence with the East Branch South Fork Eel River.
                    ``(E) The 1.3-mile segment of the unnamed tributary 
                from its source on the north flank of Red Mountain's 
                north ridge in section 1, T. 24 N., R. 17 W. to the 
                confluence with the East Branch South Fork Eel River.
                    ``(F) The 1.8-mile segment of Tom Long Creek from 
                the confluence with the unnamed tributary in section 
                12, T. 5 S., R. 4 E. to the confluence with the East 
                Branch South Fork Eel River.
            ``(258) Mattole river estuary.--The 1.5-mile segment from 
        the confluence of Stansberry Creek to the Pacific Ocean, to be 
        administered as a recreational river by the Secretary of the 
        Interior.
            ``(259) Honeydew creek.--The following segments to be 
        administered as a wild river by the Secretary of the Interior:
                    ``(A) The 5.1-mile segment of Honeydew Creek from 
                its source in the southwest corner of section 25, T. 3 
                S., R. 1 W. to the eastern boundary of the King Range 
                National Conservation Area in section 18, T. 3 S., R. 1 
                E.
                    ``(B) The 2.8-mile segment of West Fork Honeydew 
                Creek from its source west of North Slide Peak to the 
                confluence with Honeydew Creek.
                    ``(C) The 2.7-mile segment of Upper East Fork 
                Honeydew Creek from its source in section 23, T. 3 S., 
                R. 1 W. to the confluence with Honeydew Creek.
            ``(260) Bear creek.--The following segments to be 
        administered by the Secretary of the Interior:
                    ``(A) The 1.9-mile segment of North Fork Bear Creek 
                from the confluence with the unnamed tributary 
                immediately downstream of the Horse Mountain Road 
                crossing to the confluence with the South Fork, as a 
                scenic river.
                    ``(B) The 6.1-mile segment of South Fork Bear Creek 
                from the confluence in section 2, T. 5 S., R. 1 W. with 
                the unnamed tributary flowing from the southwest flank 
                of Queen Peak to the confluence with the North Fork, as 
                a scenic river.
                    ``(C) The 3-mile segment of Bear Creek from the 
                confluence of the North and South Forks to the southern 
                boundary of section 11, T. 4 S., R. 1 E., as a wild 
                river.
            ``(261) Gitchell creek.--The 3-mile segment of Gitchell 
        Creek from its source near Saddle Mountain to the Pacific Ocean 
        to be administered by the Secretary of the Interior as a wild 
        river.
            ``(262) Big flat creek.--The following segments to be 
        administered by the Secretary of the Interior as a wild river:
                    ``(A) The 4-mile segment of Big Flat Creek from its 
                source near King Peak in section 36, T. 3 S., R. 1 W. 
                to the Pacific Ocean.
                    ``(B) The .8-mile segment of the unnamed tributary 
                from its source in section 35, T. 3 S., R. 1 W. to the 
                confluence with Big Flat Creek.
                    ``(C) The 2.7-mile segment of North Fork Big Flat 
                Creek from the source in section 34, T. 3 S., R. 1 W. 
                to the confluence with Big Flat Creek.
            ``(263) Big creek.--The following segments to be 
        administered by the Secretary of the Interior as wild rivers:
                    ``(A) The 2.7-mile segment of Big Creek from its 
                source in section 26, T. 3 S., R. 1 W. to the Pacific 
                Ocean.
                    ``(B) The 1.9-mile unnamed southern tributary from 
                its source in section 25, T. 3 S., R. 1 W. to the 
                confluence with Big Creek.
            ``(264) Elk creek.--The 11.4-mile segment from its 
        confluence with Lookout Creek to its confluence with Deep Hole 
        Creek, to be jointly administered by the Secretaries of 
        Agriculture and the Interior, as a wild river.
            ``(265) Eden creek.--The 2.7-mile segment from the private 
        property boundary in the northwest quarter of section 27, T. 21 
        N., R. 12 W. to the eastern boundary of section 23, T. 21 N., 
        R. 12 W., to be administered by the Secretary of the Interior 
        as a wild river.
            ``(266) Deep hole creek.--The 4.3-mile segment from the 
        private property boundary in the southwest quarter of section 
        13, T. 20 N., R. 12 W. to the confluence with Elk Creek, to be 
        administered by the Secretary of the Interior as a wild river.
            ``(267) Indian creek.--The 3.3-mile segment from 300 feet 
        downstream of the jeep trail in section 13, T. 20 N., R. 13 W. 
        to the confluence with the Eel River, to be administered by the 
        Secretary of the Interior as a wild river.
            ``(268) Fish creek.--The 4.2-mile segment from the source 
        at Buckhorn Spring to the confluence with the Eel River, to be 
        administered by the Secretary of the Interior as a wild 
        river.''.

SEC. 135. SANHEDRIN SPECIAL CONSERVATION MANAGEMENT AREA.

    (a) Establishment.--Subject to valid existing rights, there is 
established the Sanhedrin Special Conservation Management Area 
(referred to in this section as the ``conservation management area''), 
comprising approximately 14,177 acres of Federal land administered by 
the Forest Service in Mendocino County, California, as generally 
depicted on the map entitled ``Sanhedrin Special Conservation 
Management Area--Proposed'' and dated April 12, 2017.
    (b) Purposes.--The purposes of the conservation management area are 
to--
            (1) conserve, protect, and enhance for the benefit and 
        enjoyment of present and future generations the ecological, 
        scenic, wildlife, recreational, roadless, cultural, historical, 
        natural, educational, and scientific resources of the 
        conservation management area;
            (2) protect and restore late-successional forest structure, 
        oak woodlands and grasslands, aquatic habitat, and anadromous 
        fisheries within the conservation management area;
            (3) protect and restore the wilderness character of the 
        conservation management area; and
            (4) allow visitors to enjoy the scenic, natural, cultural, 
        and wildlife values of the conservation management area.
    (c) Management.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary shall manage the 
        conservation management area--
                    (A) in a manner consistent with the purposes 
                described in subsection (b); and
                    (B) in accordance with--
                            (i) the laws (including regulations) 
                        generally applicable to the National Forest 
                        System;
                            (ii) this section; and
                            (iii) any other applicable law (including 
                        regulations).
            (2) Uses.--The Secretary shall only allow uses of the 
        conservation management area that the Secretary determines 
        would further the purposes described in subsection (b).
    (d) Motorized Vehicles.--
            (1) In general.--Except as provided in paragraph (3), the 
        use of motorized vehicles in the conservation management area 
        shall be permitted only on existing roads, trails, and areas 
        designated for use by such vehicles as of the date of enactment 
        of this Act.
            (2) New or temporary roads.--Except as provided in 
        paragraph (3), no new or temporary roads shall be constructed 
        within the conservation management area.
            (3) Exception.--Nothing in paragraph (1) or (2) prevents 
        the Secretary from--
                    (A) rerouting or closing an existing road or trail 
                to protect natural resources from degradation, or to 
                protect public safety, as determined to be appropriate 
                by the Secretary;
                    (B) designating routes of travel on lands acquired 
                by the Secretary and incorporated into the conservation 
                management area if the designations are--
                            (i) consistent with the purposes described 
                        in subsection (b); and
                            (ii) completed, to the maximum extent 
                        practicable, within 3 years of the date of 
                        acquisition;
                    (C) constructing a temporary road on which 
                motorized vehicles are permitted as part of a 
                vegetation management project carried out in accordance 
                with subsection (e);
                    (D) authorizing the use of motorized vehicles for 
                administrative purposes; or
                    (E) responding to an emergency.
            (4) Decommissioning of temporary roads.--
                    (A) Requirement.--The Secretary shall decommission 
                any temporary road constructed under paragraph (3)(C) 
                not later than 3 years after the date on which the 
                applicable vegetation management project is completed.
                    (B) Definition.--As used in subparagraph (A), the 
                term ``decommission'' means--
                            (i) to reestablish vegetation on a road; 
                        and
                            (ii) to restore any natural drainage, 
                        watershed function, or other ecological 
                        processes that are disrupted or adversely 
                        impacted by the road by removing or 
                        hydrologically disconnecting the road prism.
    (e) Timber Harvest.--
            (1) In general.--Except as provided in paragraph (2), no 
        harvesting of timber shall be allowed within the conservation 
        management area.
            (2) Exceptions.--The Secretary may authorize harvesting of 
        timber in the conservation management area--
                    (A) if the Secretary determines that the harvesting 
                is necessary to further the purposes of the 
                conservation management area;
                    (B) in a manner consistent with the purposes 
                described in subsection (b); and
                    (C) subject to--
                            (i) such reasonable regulations, policies, 
                        and practices as the Secretary determines 
                        appropriate; and
                            (ii) all applicable laws (including 
                        regulations).
    (f) Grazing.--The grazing of livestock in the conservation 
management area, where established before the date of enactment of this 
Act, shall be permitted to continue--
            (1) subject to--
                    (A) such reasonable regulations, policies, and 
                practices as the Secretary considers necessary; and
                    (B) applicable law (including regulations); and
            (2) in a manner consistent with the purposes described in 
        subsection (b).
    (g) Wildfire, Insect, and Disease Management.--Consistent with this 
section, the Secretary may take any measures within the conservation 
management area that the Secretary determines to be necessary to 
control fire, insects, and diseases, including the coordination of 
those activities with a State or local agency.
    (h) Acquisition and Incorporation of Land and Interests in Land.--
            (1) Acquisition authority.--In accordance with applicable 
        laws (including regulations), the Secretary may acquire any 
        land or interest in land within or adjacent to the boundaries 
        of the conservation management area by purchase from willing 
        sellers, donation, or exchange.
            (2) Incorporation.--Any land or interest in land acquired 
        by the Secretary under paragraph (1) shall be--
                    (A) incorporated into, and administered as part of, 
                the conservation management area; and
                    (B) withdrawn in accordance with subsection (i).
    (i) Withdrawal.--Subject to valid existing rights, all Federal land 
located in the conservation management area is withdrawn from--
            (1) all forms of entry, appropriation, and disposal under 
        the public land laws;
            (2) location, entry, and patenting under the mining laws; 
        and
            (3) operation of the mineral leasing, mineral materials, 
        and geothermal leasing laws.

                       Subtitle D--Miscellaneous

SEC. 141. MAPS AND LEGAL DESCRIPTIONS.

    (a) In General.--As soon as practicable after the date of enactment 
of this Act, the Secretary shall prepare maps and legal descriptions of 
the--
            (1) wilderness areas and wilderness additions designated by 
        section 131;
            (2) potential wilderness areas designated by section 133;
            (3) South Fork Trinity-Mad River Restoration Area;
            (4) Horse Mountain Special Management Area; and
            (5) Sanhedrin Special Conservation Management Area.
    (b) Submission of Maps and Legal Descriptions.--The Secretary shall 
file the maps and legal descriptions prepared under subsection (a) 
with--
            (1) the Committee on Natural Resources of the House of 
        Representatives; and
            (2) the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources of the 
        Senate.
    (c) Force of Law.--The maps and legal descriptions prepared under 
subsection (a) shall have the same force and effect as if included in 
this title, except that the Secretary may correct any clerical and 
typographical errors in the maps and legal descriptions.
    (d) Public Availability.--The maps and legal descriptions prepared 
under subsection (a) shall be on file and available for public 
inspection in the appropriate offices of the Forest Service, Bureau of 
Land Management, and National Park Service.

SEC. 142. UPDATES TO LAND AND RESOURCE MANAGEMENT PLANS.

    As soon as practicable, in accordance with applicable laws 
(including regulations), the Secretary shall incorporate the 
designations and studies required by this title into updated management 
plans for units covered by this title.

SEC. 143. PACIFIC GAS AND ELECTRIC COMPANY UTILITY FACILITIES AND 
              RIGHTS-OF-WAY.

    (a) Effect of Act.--Nothing in this title--
            (1) affects any validly issued right-of-way for the 
        customary operation, maintenance, upgrade, repair, relocation 
        within an existing right-of-way, replacement, or other 
        authorized activity (including the use of any mechanized 
        vehicle, helicopter, and other aerial device) in a right-of-way 
        acquired by or issued, granted, or permitted to Pacific Gas and 
        Electric Company (including any predecessor or successor in 
        interest or assign) that is located on land included in the 
        South Fork Trinity-Mad River Restoration Area, Bigfoot National 
        Recreation Trail, Sanhedrin Special Conservation Management 
        Area, and Horse Mountain Special Management Area; or
            (2) prohibits the upgrading or replacement of any--
                    (A) utility facilities of the Pacific Gas and 
                Electric Company, including those utility facilities 
                known on the date of enactment of this Act within the--
                            (i) South Fork Trinity-Mad River 
                        Restoration Area known as--
                                    (I) Gas Transmission Line 177A or 
                                rights-of-way;
                                    (II) Gas Transmission Line DFM 
                                1312-02 or rights-of-way;
                                    (III) Electric Transmission Line 
                                Bridgeville-Cottonwood 115 kV or 
                                rights-of-way;
                                    (IV) Electric Transmission Line 
                                Humboldt-Trinity 60 kV or rights-of-
                                way;
                                    (V) Electric Transmission Line 
                                Humboldt-Trinity 115 kV or rights-of-
                                way;
                                    (VI) Electric Transmission Line 
                                Maple Creek-Hoopa 60 kV or rights-of-
                                way;
                                    (VII) Electric Distribution Line-
                                Willow Creek 1101 12 kV or rights-of-
                                way;
                                    (VIII) Electric Distribution Line-
                                Willow Creek 1103 12 kV or rights-of-
                                way;
                                    (IX) Electric Distribution Line-Low 
                                Gap 1101 12 kV or rights-of-way;
                                    (X) Electric Distribution Line-Fort 
                                Seward 1121 12 kV or rights-of-way;
                                    (XI) Forest Glen Border District 
                                Regulator Station or rights-of-way;
                                    (XII) Durret District Gas Regulator 
                                Station or rights-of-way;
                                    (XIII) Gas Distribution Line 4269C 
                                or rights-of-way;
                                    (XIV) Gas Distribution Line 43991 
                                or rights-of-way;
                                    (XV) Gas Distribution Line 4993D or 
                                rights-of-way;
                                    (XVI) Sportsmans Club District Gas 
                                Regulator Station or rights-of-way;
                                    (XVII) Highway 36 and Zenia 
                                District Gas Regulator Station or 
                                rights-of-way;
                                    (XVIII) Dinsmore Lodge 2nd Stage 
                                Gas Regulator Station or rights-of-way;
                                    (XIX) Electric Distribution Line-
                                Wildwood 1101 12kV or rights-of-way;
                                    (XX) Low Gap Substation;
                                    (XXI) Hyampom Switching Station; or
                                    (XXII) Wildwood Substation;
                            (ii) Bigfoot National Recreation Trail 
                        known as--
                                    (I) Gas Transmission Line 177A or 
                                rights-of-way;
                                    (II) Electric Transmission Line 
                                Humboldt-Trinity 115 kV or rights-of-
                                way;
                                    (III) Electric Transmission Line 
                                Bridgeville-Cottonwood 115 kV or 
                                rights-of-way; or
                                    (IV) Electric Transmission Line 
                                Humboldt-Trinity 60 kV or rights-of-
                                way;
                            (iii) Sanhedrin Special Conservation 
                        Management Area known as, Electric Distribution 
                        Line-Willits 1103 12 kV or rights-of-way; or
                            (iv) Horse Mountain Special Management Area 
                        known as, Electric Distribution Line Willow 
                        Creek 1101 12 kV or rights-of-way; or
                    (B) utility facilities of the Pacific Gas and 
                Electric Company in rights-of-way issued, granted, or 
                permitted by the Secretary adjacent to a utility 
                facility referred to in paragraph (1).
    (b) Plans for Access.--Not later than 1 year after the date of 
enactment of this subtitle or the issuance of a new utility facility 
right-of-way within the South Fork Trinity-Mad River Restoration Area, 
Bigfoot National Recreation Trail, Sanhedrin Special Conservation 
Management Area, and Horse Mountain Special Management Area, whichever 
is later, the Secretary, in consultation with the Pacific Gas and 
Electric Company, shall publish plans for regular and emergency access 
by the Pacific Gas and Electric Company to the rights-of-way of the 
Pacific Gas and Electric Company.

              TITLE II--CENTRAL COAST HERITAGE PROTECTION

SEC. 201. SHORT TITLE; TABLE OF CONTENTS.

    This title may be cited as the ``Central Coast Heritage Protection 
Act''.

SEC. 202. DEFINITIONS.

    In this title:
            (1) Scenic areas.--The term ``scenic area'' means a scenic 
        area designated by section 208(a).
            (2) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means--
                    (A) with respect to land managed by the Bureau of 
                Land Management, the Secretary of the Interior; and
                    (B) with respect to land managed by the Forest 
                Service, the Secretary of Agriculture.
            (3) State.--The term ``State'' means the State of 
        California.
            (4) Wilderness area.--The term ``wilderness area'' means a 
        wilderness area or wilderness addition designated by section 
        203(a).

SEC. 203. DESIGNATION OF WILDERNESS.

    (a) In General.--In accordance with the Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 
1131 et seq.), the following areas in the State are designated as 
wilderness areas and as components of the National Wilderness 
Preservation System:
            (1) Certain land in the Bakersfield Field Office of the 
        Bureau of Land Management comprising approximately 35,116 
        acres, as generally depicted on the map entitled ``Proposed 
        Caliente Mountain Wilderness'' and dated November 13, 2019, 
        which shall be known as the ``Caliente Mountain Wilderness''.
            (2) Certain land in the Bakersfield Field Office of the 
        Bureau of Land Management comprising approximately 13,332 
        acres, as generally depicted on the map entitled ``Proposed 
        Soda Lake Wilderness'' and dated June 25, 2019, which shall be 
        known as the ``Soda Lake Wilderness''.
            (3) Certain land in the Bakersfield Field Office of the 
        Bureau of Land Management comprising approximately 12,585 
        acres, as generally depicted on the map entitled ``Proposed 
        Temblor Range Wilderness'' and dated June 25, 2019, which shall 
        be known as the ``Temblor Range Wilderness''.
            (4) Certain land in the Los Padres National Forest 
        comprising approximately 23,670 acres, as generally depicted on 
        the map entitled ``Chumash Wilderness Area Additions--
        Proposed'' and dated March 29, 2019, which shall be 
        incorporated into and managed as part of the Chumash Wilderness 
        as designated by the Los Padres Condor Range and River 
        Protection Act (Public Law 102-301; 106 Stat. 242).
            (5) Certain land in the Los Padres National Forest 
        comprising approximately 54,036 acres, as generally depicted on 
        the maps entitled ``Dick Smith Wilderness Area Additions--
        Proposed Map 1 of 2 (Bear Canyon and Cuyama Peak Units)'' and 
        ``Dick Smith Wilderness Area Additions--Proposed Map 2 of 2 
        (Buckhorn and Mono Units)'' and dated November 14, 2019, which 
        shall be incorporated into and managed as part of the Dick 
        Smith Wilderness as designated by the California Wilderness Act 
        of 1984 (Public Law 98-425; 16 U.S.C. 1132 note).
            (6) Certain land in the Los Padres National Forest and the 
        Bakersfield Field Office of the Bureau of Land Management 
        comprising approximately 7,289 acres, as generally depicted on 
        the map entitled ``Garcia Wilderness Area Additions--Proposed'' 
        and dated March 29, 2019, which shall be incorporated into and 
        managed as part of the Garcia Wilderness as designated by the 
        Los Padres Condor Range and River Protection Act (Public Law 
        102-301; 106 Stat. 242).
            (7) Certain land in the Los Padres National Forest and the 
        Bakersfield Field Office of the Bureau of Land Management 
        comprising approximately 8,774 acres, as generally depicted on 
        the map entitled ``Machesna Mountain Wilderness--Proposed 
        Additions'' and dated October 30, 2019, which shall be 
        incorporated into and managed as part of the Machesna Mountain 
        Wilderness as designated by the California Wilderness Act of 
        1984 (Public Law 98-425; 16 U.S.C. 1132 note).
            (8) Certain land in the Los Padres National Forest 
        comprising approximately 30,184 acres, as generally depicted on 
        the map entitled ``Matilija Wilderness Area Additions--
        Proposed'' and dated March 29, 2019, which shall be 
        incorporated into and managed as part of the Matilija 
        Wilderness as designated by the Los Padres Condor Range and 
        River Protection Act (Public Law 102-301; 106 Stat. 242).
            (9) Certain land in the Los Padres National Forest 
        comprising approximately 23,969 acres, as generally depicted on 
        the map entitled ``San Rafael Wilderness Area Additions--
        Proposed'' and dated March 29, 2019, which shall be 
        incorporated into and managed as part of the San Rafael 
        Wilderness as designated by Public Law 90-271 (82 Stat. 51), 
        the California Wilderness Act of 1984 (Public Law 98-425; 16 
        U.S.C. 1132 note), and the Los Padres Condor Range and River 
        Protection Act (Public Law 102-301; 106 Stat. 242).
            (10) Certain land in the Los Padres National Forest 
        comprising approximately 2,921 acres, as generally depicted on 
        the map entitled ``Santa Lucia Wilderness Area Additions--
        Proposed'' and dated March 29, 2019, which shall be 
        incorporated into and managed as part of the Santa Lucia 
        Wilderness as designated by the Endangered American Wilderness 
        Act of 1978 (Public Law 95-237; 16 U.S.C. 1132 note).
            (11) Certain land in the Los Padres National Forest 
        comprising approximately 14,313 acres, as generally depicted on 
        the map entitled ``Sespe Wilderness Area Additions--Proposed'' 
        and dated March 29, 2019, which shall be incorporated into and 
        managed as part of the Sespe Wilderness as designated by the 
        Los Padres Condor Range and River Protection Act (Public Law 
        102-301; 106 Stat. 242).
            (12) Certain land in the Los Padres National Forest 
        comprising approximately 17,870 acres, as generally depicted on 
        the map entitled ``Diablo Caliente Wilderness Area--Proposed'' 
        and dated March 29, 2019, which shall be known as the ``Diablo 
        Caliente Wilderness''.
    (b) Maps and Legal Descriptions.--
            (1) In general.--As soon as practicable after the date of 
        enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall file maps and legal 
        descriptions of the wilderness areas with--
                    (A) the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources 
                of the Senate; and
                    (B) the Committee on Natural Resources of the House 
                of Representatives.
            (2) Force of law.--The maps and legal descriptions filed 
        under paragraph (1) shall have the same force and effect as if 
        included in this title, except that the Secretary may correct 
        any clerical and typographical errors in the maps and legal 
        descriptions.
            (3) Public availability.--The maps and legal descriptions 
        filed under paragraph (1) shall be on file and available for 
        public inspection in the appropriate offices of the Forest 
        Service and Bureau of Land Management.

SEC. 204. DESIGNATION OF THE MACHESNA MOUNTAIN POTENTIAL WILDERNESS.

    (a) Designation.--In furtherance of the purposes of the Wilderness 
Act (16 U.S.C. 1131 et seq.), certain land in the Los Padres National 
Forest comprising approximately 2,359 acres, as generally depicted on 
the map entitled ``Machesna Mountain Potential Wilderness'' and dated 
March 29, 2019, is designated as the Machesna Mountain Potential 
Wilderness Area.
    (b) Map and Legal Description.--
            (1) In general.--As soon as practicable after the date of 
        enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall file a map and legal 
        description of the Machesna Mountain Potential Wilderness Area 
        (referred to in this section as the ``potential wilderness 
        area'') with--
                    (A) the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources 
                of the Senate; and
                    (B) the Committee on Natural Resources of the House 
                of Representatives.
            (2) Force of law.--The map and legal description filed 
        under paragraph (1) shall have the same force and effect as if 
        included in this title, except that the Secretary may correct 
        any clerical and typographical errors in the map and legal 
        description.
            (3) Public availability.--The map and legal description 
        filed under paragraph (1) shall be on file and available for 
        public inspection in the appropriate offices of the Forest 
        Service.
    (c) Management.--Except as provided in subsection (d) and subject 
to valid existing rights, the Secretary shall manage the potential 
wilderness area in accordance with the Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1131 
et seq.).
    (d) Trail Use, Construction, Reconstruction, and Realignment.--
            (1) In general.--In accordance with paragraph (2), the 
        Secretary may reconstruct, realign, or reroute the Pine 
        Mountain Trail.
            (2) Requirement.--In carrying out the reconstruction, 
        realignment, or rerouting under paragraph (1), the Secretary 
        shall--
                    (A) comply with all existing laws (including 
                regulations); and
                    (B) to the maximum extent practicable, use the 
                minimum tool or administrative practice necessary to 
                accomplish the reconstruction, realignment, or 
                rerouting with the least amount of adverse impact on 
                wilderness character and resources.
            (3) Motorized vehicles and machinery.--In accordance with 
        paragraph (2), the Secretary may use motorized vehicles and 
        machinery to carry out the trail reconstruction, realignment, 
        or rerouting authorized by this subsection.
            (4) Motorized and mechanized vehicles.--The Secretary may 
        permit the use of motorized and mechanized vehicles on the 
        existing Pine Mountain Trail in accordance with existing law 
        (including regulations) and this subsection until such date as 
        the potential wilderness area is designated as wilderness in 
        accordance with subsection (h).
    (e) Withdrawal.--Subject to valid existing rights, the Federal land 
in the potential wilderness area is withdrawn from all forms of--
            (1) entry, appropriation, or disposal under the public land 
        laws;
            (2) location, entry, and patent under the mining laws; and
            (3) disposition under all laws pertaining to mineral and 
        geothermal leasing or mineral materials.
    (f) Cooperative Agreements.--In carrying out this section, the 
Secretary may enter into cooperative agreements with State, Tribal, and 
local governmental entities and private entities to complete the trail 
reconstruction, realignment, or rerouting authorized by subsection (d).
    (g) Boundaries.--The Secretary shall modify the boundary of the 
potential wilderness area to exclude any area within 150 feet of the 
centerline of the new location of any trail that has been 
reconstructed, realigned, or rerouted under subsection (d).
    (h) Wilderness Designation.--
            (1) In general.--The potential wilderness area, as modified 
        under subsection (g), shall be designated as wilderness and as 
        a component of the National Wilderness Preservation System on 
        the earlier of--
                    (A) the date on which the Secretary publishes in 
                the Federal Register notice that the trail 
                reconstruction, realignment, or rerouting authorized by 
                subsection (d) has been completed; or
                    (B) the date that is 20 years after the date of 
                enactment of this Act.
            (2) Administration of wilderness.--On designation as 
        wilderness under this section, the potential wilderness area 
        shall be--
                    (A) incorporated into the Machesna Mountain 
                Wilderness Area, as designated by the California 
                Wilderness Act of 1984 (Public Law 98-425; 16 U.S.C. 
                1132 note) and expanded by section 203; and
                    (B) administered in accordance with section 205 and 
                the Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1131 et seq.).

SEC. 205. ADMINISTRATION OF WILDERNESS.

    (a) In General.--Subject to valid existing rights, the wilderness 
areas shall be administered by the Secretary in accordance with this 
title and the Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1131 et seq.), except that--
            (1) any reference in the Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1131 et 
        seq.) to the effective date of that Act shall be considered to 
        be a reference to the date of enactment of this Act; and
            (2) any reference in the Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1131 et 
        seq.) to the Secretary of Agriculture shall be considered to be 
        a reference to the Secretary that has jurisdiction over the 
        wilderness area.
    (b) Fire Management and Related Activities.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary may take any measures in a 
        wilderness area as are necessary for the control of fire, 
        insects, and diseases in accordance with section 4(d)(1) of the 
        Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1133(d)(1)) and House Report 98-40 of 
        the 98th Congress.
            (2) Funding priorities.--Nothing in this title limits 
        funding for fire and fuels management in the wilderness areas.
            (3) Revision and development of local fire management 
        plans.--As soon as practicable after the date of enactment of 
        this Act, the Secretary shall amend the local information in 
        the Fire Management Reference System or individual operational 
        plans that apply to the land designated as a wilderness area.
            (4) Administration.--Consistent with paragraph (1) and 
        other applicable Federal law, to ensure a timely and efficient 
        response to fire emergencies in the wilderness areas, the 
        Secretary shall enter into agreements with appropriate State or 
        local firefighting agencies.
    (c) Grazing.--The grazing of livestock in the wilderness areas, if 
established before the date of enactment of this Act, shall be 
permitted to continue, subject to any reasonable regulations as the 
Secretary considers necessary in accordance with--
            (1) section 4(d)(4) of the Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 
        1133(d)(4));
            (2) the guidelines set forth in Appendix A of House Report 
        101-405, accompanying H.R. 2570 of the 101st Congress for land 
        under the jurisdiction of the Secretary of the Interior;
            (3) the guidelines set forth in House Report 96-617, 
        accompanying H.R. 5487 of the 96th Congress for land under the 
        jurisdiction of the Secretary of Agriculture; and
            (4) all other laws governing livestock grazing on Federal 
        public land.
    (d) Fish and Wildlife.--
            (1) In general.--In accordance with section 4(d)(7) of the 
        Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1133(d)(7)), nothing in this title 
        affects the jurisdiction or responsibilities of the State with 
        respect to fish and wildlife on public land in the State.
            (2) Management activities.--In furtherance of the purposes 
        and principles of the Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1131 et seq.), 
        the Secretary may conduct any management activities that are 
        necessary to maintain or restore fish and wildlife populations 
        and habitats in the wilderness areas, if the management 
        activities are--
                    (A) consistent with relevant wilderness management 
                plans;
                    (B) conducted in accordance with appropriate 
                policies, such as the policies established in Appendix 
                B of House Report 101-405; and
                    (C) in accordance with memoranda of understanding 
                between the Federal agencies and the State Department 
                of Fish and Wildlife.
    (e) Buffer Zones.--
            (1) In general.--Congress does not intend for the 
        designation of wilderness areas by this title to lead to the 
        creation of protective perimeters or buffer zones around each 
        wilderness area.
            (2) Activities or uses up to boundaries.--The fact that 
        nonwilderness activities or uses can be seen or heard from 
        within a wilderness area shall not, of itself, preclude the 
        activities or uses up to the boundary of the wilderness area.
    (f) Military Activities.--Nothing in this title precludes--
            (1) low-level overflights of military aircraft over the 
        wilderness areas;
            (2) the designation of new units of special airspace over 
        the wilderness areas; or
            (3) the use or establishment of military flight training 
        routes over wilderness areas.
    (g) Horses.--Nothing in this title precludes horseback riding in, 
or the entry of recreational saddle or pack stock into, a wilderness 
area--
            (1) in accordance with section 4(d)(5) of the Wilderness 
        Act (16 U.S.C. 1133(d)(5)); and
            (2) subject to any terms and conditions determined to be 
        necessary by the Secretary.
    (h) Withdrawal.--Subject to valid existing rights, the wilderness 
areas are withdrawn from--
            (1) all forms of entry, appropriation, and disposal under 
        the public land laws;
            (2) location, entry, and patent under the mining laws; and
            (3) disposition under all laws pertaining to mineral and 
        geothermal leasing or mineral materials.
    (i) Incorporation of Acquired Land and Interests.--Any land within 
the boundary of a wilderness area that is acquired by the United States 
shall--
            (1) become part of the wilderness area in which the land is 
        located; and
            (2) be managed in accordance with--
                    (A) this section;
                    (B) the Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1131 et seq.); 
                and
                    (C) any other applicable law.
    (j) Climatological Data Collection.--In accordance with the 
Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1131 et seq.) and subject to terms and 
conditions as the Secretary may prescribe, the Secretary may authorize 
the installation and maintenance of hydrologic, meteorologic, or 
climatological collection devices in the wilderness areas if the 
Secretary determines that the facilities and access to the facilities 
are essential to flood warning, flood control, or water reservoir 
operation activities.

SEC. 206. DESIGNATION OF WILD AND SCENIC RIVERS.

    (a) Indian Creek, Mono Creek, and Matilija Creek, California.--
Section 3(a) of the Wild and Scenic Rivers Act (16 U.S.C. 1274(a)) (as 
amended by section 134) is amended by adding at the end the following:
            ``(269) Indian creek, california.--The following segments 
        of Indian Creek in the State of California, to be administered 
        by the Secretary of Agriculture:
                    ``(A) The 9.5-mile segment of Indian Creek from its 
                source in sec. 19, T. 7 N., R. 26 W., to the Dick Smith 
                Wilderness boundary, as a wild river.
                    ``(B) The 1-mile segment of Indian Creek from the 
                Dick Smith Wilderness boundary to 0.25 miles downstream 
                of Road 6N24, as a scenic river.
                    ``(C) The 3.9-mile segment of Indian Creek from 
                0.25 miles downstream of Road 6N24 to the southern 
                boundary of sec. 32, T. 6 N., R. 26 W., as a wild 
                river.
            ``(270) Mono creek, california.--The following segments of 
        Mono Creek in the State of California, to be administered by 
        the Secretary of Agriculture:
                    ``(A) The 4.2-mile segment of Mono Creek from its 
                source in sec. 1, T. 7 N., R. 26 W., to 0.25 miles 
                upstream of Don Victor Fire Road in sec. 28, T. 7 N., 
                R. 25 W., as a wild river.
                    ``(B) The 2.1-mile segment of Mono Creek from 0.25 
                miles upstream of the Don Victor Fire Road in sec. 28, 
                T. 7 N., R. 25 W., to 0.25 miles downstream of Don 
                Victor Fire Road in sec. 34, T. 7 N., R. 25 W., as a 
                recreational river.
                    ``(C) The 14.7-mile segment of Mono Creek from 0.25 
                miles downstream of Don Victor Fire Road in sec. 34, T. 
                7 N., R. 25 W., to the Ogilvy Ranch private property 
                boundary in sec. 22, T. 6 N., R. 26 W., as a wild 
                river.
                    ``(D) The 3.5-mile segment of Mono Creek from the 
                Ogilvy Ranch private property boundary to the southern 
                boundary of sec. 33, T. 6 N., R. 26 W., as a 
                recreational river.
            ``(271) Matilija creek, california.--The following segments 
        of Matilija Creek in the State of California, to be 
        administered by the Secretary of Agriculture:
                    ``(A) The 7.2-mile segment of the Matilija Creek 
                from its source in sec. 25, T. 6 N., R. 25 W., to the 
                private property boundary in sec. 9, T. 5 N., R. 24 W., 
                as a wild river.
                    ``(B) The 7.25-mile segment of the Upper North Fork 
                Matilija Creek from its source in sec. 36, T. 6 N., R. 
                24 W., to the Matilija Wilderness boundary, as a wild 
                river.''.
    (b) Sespe Creek, California.--Section 3(a) of the Wild and Scenic 
Rivers Act (16 U.S.C. 1274(a)) is amended by striking paragraph (142) 
and inserting the following:
            ``(142) Sespe creek, california.--The following segments of 
        Sespe Creek in the State of California, to be administered by 
        the Secretary of Agriculture:
                    ``(A) The 2.7-mile segment of Sespe Creek from the 
                private property boundary in sec. 10, T. 6 N., R. 24 
                W., to the Hartman Ranch private property boundary in 
                sec. 14, T. 6 N., R. 24 W., as a wild river.
                    ``(B) The 15-mile segment of Sespe Creek from the 
                Hartman Ranch private property boundary in sec. 14, T. 
                6 N., R. 24 W., to the western boundary of sec. 6, T. 5 
                N., R. 22 W., as a recreational river.
                    ``(C) The 6.1-mile segment of Sespe Creek from the 
                western boundary of sec. 6, T. 5 N., R. 22 W., to the 
                confluence with Trout Creek, as a scenic river.
                    ``(D) The 28.6-mile segment of Sespe Creek from the 
                confluence with Trout Creek to the southern boundary of 
                sec. 35, T. 5 N., R. 20 W., as a wild river.''.
    (c) Sisquoc River, California.--Section 3(a) of the Wild and Scenic 
Rivers Act (16 U.S.C. 1274(a)) is amended by striking paragraph (143) 
and inserting the following:
            ``(143) Sisquoc river, california.--The following segments 
        of the Sisquoc River and its tributaries in the State of 
        California, to be administered by the Secretary of Agriculture:
                    ``(A) The 33-mile segment of the main stem of the 
                Sisquoc River extending from its origin downstream to 
                the Los Padres Forest boundary, as a wild river.
                    ``(B) The 4.2-mile segment of the South Fork 
                Sisquoc River from its source northeast of San Rafael 
                Mountain in sec. 2, T. 7 N., R. 28 W., to its 
                confluence with the Sisquoc River, as a wild river.
                    ``(C) The 10.4-mile segment of Manzana Creek from 
                its source west of San Rafael Peak in sec. 4, T. 7 N., 
                R. 28 W., to the San Rafael Wilderness boundary 
                upstream of Nira Campground, as a wild river.
                    ``(D) The 0.6-mile segment of Manzana Creek from 
                the San Rafael Wilderness boundary upstream of the Nira 
                Campground to the San Rafael Wilderness boundary 
                downstream of the confluence of Davy Brown Creek, as a 
                recreational river.
                    ``(E) The 5.8-mile segment of Manzana Creek from 
                the San Rafael Wilderness boundary downstream of the 
                confluence of Davy Brown Creek to the private property 
                boundary in sec. 1, T. 8 N., R. 30 W., as a wild river.
                    ``(F) The 3.8-mile segment of Manzana Creek from 
                the private property boundary in sec. 1, T. 8 N., R. 30 
                W., to the confluence of the Sisquoc River, as a 
                recreational river.
                    ``(G) The 3.4-mile segment of Davy Brown Creek from 
                its source west of Ranger Peak in sec. 32, T. 8 N., R. 
                29 W., to 300 feet upstream of its confluence with 
                Munch Canyon, as a wild river.
                    ``(H) The 1.4-mile segment of Davy Brown Creek from 
                300 feet upstream of its confluence with Munch Canyon 
                to its confluence with Manzana Creek, as a recreational 
                river.
                    ``(I) The 2-mile segment of Munch Canyon from its 
                source north of Ranger Peak in sec. 33, T. 8 N., R. 29 
                W., to 300 feet upstream of its confluence with Sunset 
                Valley Creek, as a wild river.
                    ``(J) The 0.5-mile segment of Munch Canyon from 300 
                feet upstream of its confluence with Sunset Valley 
                Creek to its confluence with Davy Brown Creek, as a 
                recreational river.
                    ``(K) The 2.6-mile segment of Fish Creek from 500 
                feet downstream of Sunset Valley Road to its confluence 
                with Manzana Creek, as a wild river.
                    ``(L) The 1.5-mile segment of East Fork Fish Creek 
                from its source in sec. 26, T. 8 N., R. 29 W., to its 
                confluence with Fish Creek, as a wild river.''.
    (d) Piru Creek, California.--Section 3(a) of the Wild and Scenic 
Rivers Act (16 U.S.C. 1274(a)) is amended by striking paragraph (199) 
and inserting the following:
            ``(199) Piru creek, california.--The following segments of 
        Piru Creek in the State of California, to be administered by 
        the Secretary of Agriculture:
                    ``(A) The 9.1-mile segment of Piru Creek from its 
                source in sec. 3, T. 6 N., R. 22 W., to the private 
                property boundary in sec. 4, T. 6 N., R. 21 W., as a 
                wild river.
                    ``(B) The 17.2-mile segment of Piru Creek from the 
                private property boundary in sec. 4, T. 6 N., R. 21 W., 
                to 0.25 miles downstream of the Gold Hill Road, as a 
                scenic river.
                    ``(C) The 4.1-mile segment of Piru Creek from 0.25 
                miles downstream of Gold Hill Road to the confluence 
                with Trail Canyon, as a wild river.
                    ``(D) The 7.25-mile segment of Piru Creek from the 
                confluence with Trail Canyon to the confluence with 
                Buck Creek, as a scenic river.
                    ``(E) The 3-mile segment of Piru Creek from 0.5 
                miles downstream of Pyramid Dam at the first bridge 
                crossing to the boundary of the Sespe Wilderness, as a 
                recreational river.
                    ``(F) The 13-mile segment of Piru Creek from the 
                boundary of the Sespe Wilderness to the boundary of the 
                Sespe Wilderness, as a wild river.
                    ``(G) The 2.2-mile segment of Piru Creek from the 
                boundary of the Sespe Wilderness to the upper limit of 
                Piru Reservoir, as a recreational river.''.
    (e) Effect.--The designation of additional miles of Piru Creek 
under subsection (d) shall not affect valid water rights in existence 
on the date of enactment of this Act.
    (f) Motorized Use of Trails.--Nothing in this section (including 
the amendments made by this section) affects the motorized use of 
trails designated by the Forest Service for motorized use that are 
located adjacent to and crossing upper Piru Creek, if the use is 
consistent with the protection and enhancement of river values under 
the Wild and Scenic Rivers Act (16 U.S.C. 1271 et seq.).

SEC. 207. DESIGNATION OF THE FOX MOUNTAIN POTENTIAL WILDERNESS.

    (a) Designation.--In furtherance of the purposes of the Wilderness 
Act (16 U.S.C. 1131 et seq.), certain land in the Los Padres National 
Forest comprising approximately 41,082 acres, as generally depicted on 
the map entitled ``Fox Mountain Potential Wilderness Area'' and dated 
November 14, 2019, is designated as the Fox Mountain Potential 
Wilderness Area.
    (b) Map and Legal Description.--
            (1) In general.--As soon as practicable after the date of 
        enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Agriculture shall file 
        a map and a legal description of the Fox Mountain Potential 
        Wilderness Area (referred to in this section as the ``potential 
        wilderness area'') with--
                    (A) the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources 
                of the Senate; and
                    (B) the Committee on Natural Resources of the House 
                of Representatives.
            (2) Force of law.--The map and legal description filed 
        under paragraph (1) shall have the same force and effect as if 
        included in this title, except that the Secretary of 
        Agriculture may correct any clerical and typographical errors 
        in the map and legal description.
            (3) Public availability.--The map and legal description 
        filed under paragraph (1) shall be on file and available for 
        public inspection in the appropriate offices of the Forest 
        Service.
    (c) Management.--Except as provided in subsection (d) and subject 
to valid existing rights, the Secretary shall manage the potential 
wilderness area in accordance with the Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1131 
et seq.).
    (d) Trail Use Construction, Reconstruction, and Realignment.--
            (1) In general.--In accordance with paragraph (2), the 
        Secretary of Agriculture may--
                    (A) construct a new trail for use by hikers, 
                equestrians, and mechanized vehicles that connects the 
                Aliso Park Campground to the Bull Ridge Trail; and
                    (B) reconstruct or realign--
                            (i) the Bull Ridge Trail; and
                            (ii) the Rocky Ridge Trail.
            (2) Requirement.--In carrying out the construction, 
        reconstruction, or alignment under paragraph (1), the Secretary 
        shall--
                    (A) comply with all existing laws (including 
                regulations); and
                    (B) to the maximum extent practicable, use the 
                minimum tool or administrative practice necessary to 
                accomplish the construction, reconstruction, or 
                alignment with the least amount of adverse impact on 
                wilderness character and resources.
            (3) Motorized vehicles and machinery.--In accordance with 
        paragraph (2), the Secretary may use motorized vehicles and 
        machinery to carry out the trail construction, reconstruction, 
        or realignment authorized by this subsection.
            (4) Mechanized vehicles.--The Secretary may permit the use 
        of mechanized vehicles on the existing Bull Ridge Trail and 
        Rocky Ridge Trail in accordance with existing law (including 
        regulations) and this subsection until such date as the 
        potential wilderness area is designated as wilderness in 
        accordance with subsection (h).
    (e) Withdrawal.--Subject to valid existing rights, the Federal land 
in the potential wilderness area is withdrawn from all forms of--
            (1) entry, appropriation, or disposal under the public land 
        laws;
            (2) location, entry, and patent under the mining laws; and
            (3) disposition under all laws pertaining to mineral and 
        geothermal leasing or mineral materials.
    (f) Cooperative Agreements.--In carrying out this section, the 
Secretary may enter into cooperative agreements with State, Tribal, and 
local governmental entities and private entities to complete the trail 
construction, reconstruction, and realignment authorized by subsection 
(d).
    (g) Boundaries.--The Secretary shall modify the boundary of the 
potential wilderness area to exclude any area within 50 feet of the 
centerline of the new location of any trail that has been constructed, 
reconstructed, or realigned under subsection (d).
    (h) Wilderness Designation.--
            (1) In general.--The potential wilderness area, as modified 
        under subsection (g), shall be designated as wilderness and as 
        a component of the National Wilderness Preservation System on 
        the earlier of--
                    (A) the date on which the Secretary publishes in 
                the Federal Register notice that the trail 
                construction, reconstruction, or alignment authorized 
                by subsection (d) has been completed; or
                    (B) the date that is 20 years after the date of 
                enactment of this Act.
            (2) Administration of wilderness.--On designation as 
        wilderness under this section, the potential wilderness area 
        shall be--
                    (A) incorporated into the San Rafael Wilderness, as 
                designated by Public Law 90-271 (82 Stat. 51), the 
                California Wilderness Act of 1984 (Public Law 98-425; 
                16 U.S.C. 1132 note), and the Los Padres Condor Range 
                and River Protection Act (Public Law 102-301; 106 Stat. 
                242), and section 203; and
                    (B) administered in accordance with section 205 and 
                the Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1131 et seq.).

SEC. 208. DESIGNATION OF SCENIC AREAS.

    (a) In General.--Subject to valid existing rights, there are 
established the following scenic areas:
            (1) Condor ridge scenic area.--Certain land in the Los 
        Padres National Forest comprising approximately 18,666 acres, 
        as generally depicted on the map entitled ``Condor Ridge Scenic 
        Area--Proposed'' and dated March 29, 2019, which shall be known 
        as the ``Condor Ridge Scenic Area''.
            (2) Black mountain scenic area.--Certain land in the Los 
        Padres National Forest and the Bakersfield Field Office of the 
        Bureau of Land Management comprising approximately 16,216 
        acres, as generally depicted on the map entitled ``Black 
        Mountain Scenic Area--Proposed'' and dated March 29, 2019, 
        which shall be known as the ``Black Mountain Scenic Area''.
    (b) Maps and Legal Descriptions.--
            (1) In general.--As soon as practicable after the date of 
        enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Agriculture shall file 
        a map and legal description of the Condor Ridge Scenic Area and 
        Black Mountain Scenic Area with--
                    (A) the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources 
                of the Senate; and
                    (B) the Committee on Natural Resources of the House 
                of Representatives.
            (2) Force of law.--The maps and legal descriptions filed 
        under paragraph (1) shall have the same force and effect as if 
        included in this title, except that the Secretary of 
        Agriculture may correct any clerical and typographical errors 
        in the maps and legal descriptions.
            (3) Public availability.--The maps and legal descriptions 
        filed under paragraph (1) shall be on file and available for 
        public inspection in the appropriate offices of the Forest 
        Service and Bureau of Land Management.
    (c) Purpose.--The purpose of the scenic areas is to conserve, 
protect, and enhance for the benefit and enjoyment of present and 
future generations the ecological, scenic, wildlife, recreational, 
cultural, historical, natural, educational, and scientific resources of 
the scenic areas.
    (d) Management.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary shall administer the scenic 
        areas--
                    (A) in a manner that conserves, protects, and 
                enhances the resources of the scenic areas, and in 
                particular the scenic character attributes of the 
                scenic areas; and
                    (B) in accordance with--
                            (i) this section;
                            (ii) the Federal Land Policy and Management 
                        Act (43 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.) for land under the 
                        jurisdiction of the Secretary of the Interior;
                            (iii) any laws (including regulations) 
                        relating to the National Forest System, for 
                        land under the jurisdiction of the Secretary of 
                        Agriculture; and
                            (iv) any other applicable law (including 
                        regulations).
            (2) Uses.--The Secretary shall only allow those uses of the 
        scenic areas that the Secretary determines would further the 
        purposes described in subsection (c).
    (e) Withdrawal.--Subject to valid existing rights, the Federal land 
in the scenic areas is withdrawn from all forms of--
            (1) entry, appropriation, or disposal under the public land 
        laws;
            (2) location, entry, and patent under the mining laws; and
            (3) disposition under all laws pertaining to mineral and 
        geothermal leasing or mineral materials.
    (f) Prohibited Uses.--The following shall be prohibited on the 
Federal land within the scenic areas:
            (1) Permanent roads.
            (2) Permanent structures.
            (3) Timber harvesting except when necessary for the 
        purposes described in subsection (g).
            (4) Transmission lines.
            (5) Except as necessary to meet the minimum requirements 
        for the administration of the scenic areas and to protect 
        public health and safety--
                    (A) the use of motorized vehicles; or
                    (B) the establishment of temporary roads.
            (6) Commercial enterprises, except as necessary for 
        realizing the purposes of the scenic areas.
    (g) Wildfire, Insect, and Disease Management.--Consistent with this 
section, the Secretary may take any measures in the scenic areas that 
the Secretary determines to be necessary to control fire, insects, and 
diseases, including, as the Secretary determines to be appropriate, the 
coordination of those activities with the State or a local agency.
    (h) Adjacent Management.--The fact that an otherwise authorized 
activity or use can be seen or heard within a scenic area shall not 
preclude the activity or use outside the boundary of the scenic area.

SEC. 209. CONDOR NATIONAL SCENIC TRAIL.

    (a) In General.--The contiguous trail established pursuant to this 
section shall be known as the ``Condor National Scenic Trail'' named 
after the California condor, a critically endangered bird species that 
lives along the extent of the trail corridor.
    (b) Purpose.--The purposes of the Condor National Scenic Trail are 
to--
            (1) provide a continual extended hiking corridor that 
        connects the southern and northern portions of the Los Padres 
        National Forest, spanning the entire length of the forest along 
        the coastal mountains of southern and central California; and
            (2) provide for the public enjoyment of the nationally 
        significant scenic, historic, natural, and cultural qualities 
        of the Los Padres National Forest.
    (c) Amendment.--Section 5(a) of the National Trails System Act (16 
U.S.C. 1244(a)) is amended by adding at the end the following:
            ``(31) Condor national scenic trail.--
                    ``(A) In general.--The Condor National Scenic 
                Trail, a trail extending approximately 400 miles from 
                Lake Piru in the southern portion of the Los Padres 
                National Forest to the Bottchers Gap Campground in 
                northern portion of the Los Padres National Forest.
                    ``(B) Administration.--The trail shall be 
                administered by the Secretary of Agriculture, in 
                consultation with--
                            ``(i) other Federal, State, Tribal, 
                        regional, and local agencies;
                            ``(ii) private landowners; and
                            ``(iii) other interested organizations.
                    ``(C) Recreational uses.--Notwithstanding section 
                7(c), the use of motorized vehicles on roads or trails 
                included in the Condor National Scenic Trail on which 
                motorized vehicles are permitted as of the date of 
                enactment of this paragraph may be permitted.
                    ``(D) Private property rights.--
                            ``(i) Prohibition.--The Secretary shall not 
                        acquire for the trail any land or interest in 
                        land outside the exterior boundary of any 
                        federally managed area without the consent of 
                        the owner of land or interest in land.
                            ``(ii) Effect.--Nothing in this paragraph--
                                    ``(I) requires any private property 
                                owner to allow public access (including 
                                Federal, State, or local government 
                                access) to private property; or
                                    ``(II) modifies any provision of 
                                Federal, State, or local law with 
                                respect to public access to or use of 
                                private land.
                    ``(E) Realignment.--The Secretary of Agriculture 
                may realign segments of the Condor National Scenic 
                Trail as necessary to fulfill the purposes of the 
                trail.
                    ``(F) Map.--A map generally depicting the trail 
                described in subparagraph (A) shall be on file and 
                available for public inspection in the appropriate 
                offices of the Forest Service.''.
    (d) Study.--
            (1) Study required.--Not later than 3 years after the date 
        of enactment of this Act, in accordance with this section, the 
        Secretary of Agriculture shall conduct a study that--
                    (A) addresses the feasibility of, and alternatives 
                for, connecting the northern and southern portions of 
                the Los Padres National Forest by establishing a trail 
                across the applicable portions of the northern and 
                southern Santa Lucia Mountains of the southern 
                California Coastal Range; and
                    (B) considers realignment of the trail or 
                construction of new trail segments to avoid existing 
                trail segments that currently allow motorized vehicles.
            (2) Contents.--In carrying out the study required by 
        paragraph (1), the Secretary of Agriculture shall--
                    (A) conform to the requirements for national scenic 
                trail studies described in section 5(b) of the National 
                Trails System Act (16 U.S.C. 1244(b));
                    (B) provide for a continual hiking route through 
                and connecting the southern and northern sections of 
                the Los Padres National Forest;
                    (C) promote recreational, scenic, wilderness and 
                cultural values;
                    (D) enhance connectivity with the overall National 
                Forest trail system;
                    (E) consider new connectors and realignment of 
                existing trails;
                    (F) emphasize safe and continuous public access, 
                dispersal from high-use areas, and suitable water 
                sources; and
                    (G) to the extent practicable, provide all-year 
                use.
            (3) Additional requirement.--In completing the study 
        required by paragraph (1), the Secretary of Agriculture shall 
        consult with--
                    (A) appropriate Federal, State, Tribal, regional, 
                and local agencies;
                    (B) private landowners;
                    (C) nongovernmental organizations; and
                    (D) members of the public.
            (4) Submission.--The Secretary of Agriculture shall submit 
        the study required by paragraph (1) to--
                    (A) the Committee on Natural Resources of the House 
                of Representatives; and
                    (B) the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources 
                of the Senate.
            (5) Additions and alterations to the condor national scenic 
        trail.--
                    (A) In general.--Upon completion of the study 
                required by paragraph (1), if the Secretary of 
                Agriculture determines that additional or alternative 
                trail segments are feasible for inclusion in the Condor 
                National Scenic Trail, the Secretary of Agriculture 
                shall include those segments in the Condor National 
                Scenic Trail.
                    (B) Effective date.--Additions or alternations to 
                the Condor National Scenic Trail shall be effective on 
                the date the Secretary of Agriculture publishes in the 
                Federal Register notice that the additional or 
                alternative segments are included in the Condor 
                National Scenic Trail.
    (e) Cooperative Agreements.--In carrying out this section 
(including the amendments made by this section), the Secretary of 
Agriculture may enter into cooperative agreements with State, Tribal, 
and local government entities and private entities to complete needed 
trail construction, reconstruction, and realignment projects authorized 
by this section (including the amendments made by this section).

SEC. 210. FOREST SERVICE STUDY.

    Not later than 6 years after the date of enactment of this Act, the 
Secretary of Agriculture (acting through the Chief of the Forest 
Service) shall study the feasibility of opening a new trail, for 
vehicles measuring 50 inches or less, connecting Forest Service Highway 
95 to the existing off-highway vehicle trail system in the Ballinger 
Canyon off-highway vehicle area.

SEC. 211. NONMOTORIZED RECREATION OPPORTUNITIES.

    Not later than 6 years after the date of enactment of this Act, the 
Secretary of Agriculture, in consultation with interested parties, 
shall conduct a study to improve nonmotorized recreation trail 
opportunities (including mountain bicycling) on land not designated as 
wilderness within the Santa Barbara, Ojai, and Mt. Pinos ranger 
districts.

SEC. 212. USE BY MEMBERS OF TRIBES.

    (a) Access.--The Secretary shall ensure that Tribes have access, in 
accordance with the Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1131 et seq.), to the 
wilderness areas, scenic areas, and potential wilderness areas 
designated by this title for traditional cultural and religious 
purposes.
    (b) Temporary Closures.--
            (1) In general.--In carrying out this section, the 
        Secretary, on request of a Tribe, may temporarily close to the 
        general public one or more specific portions of a wilderness 
        area, scenic area, or potential wilderness area designated by 
        this title to protect the privacy of the members of the Tribe 
        in the conduct of traditional cultural and religious 
        activities.
            (2) Requirement.--Any closure under paragraph (1) shall 
        be--
                    (A) made in such a manner as to affect the smallest 
                practicable area for the minimum period of time 
                necessary for the activity to be carried out; and
                    (B) be consistent with the purpose and intent of 
                Public Law 95-341 (commonly known as the American 
                Indian Religious Freedom Act) (42 U.S.C. 1996) and the 
                Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1131 et seq.).

    TITLE III--SAN GABRIEL MOUNTAINS FOOTHILLS AND RIVERS PROTECTION

SEC. 301. SHORT TITLE; TABLE OF CONTENTS.

    This title may be cited as the ``San Gabriel Mountains Foothills 
and Rivers Protection Act''.

SEC. 302. DEFINITION OF STATE.

    In this title, the term ``State'' means the State of California.

            Subtitle A--San Gabriel National Recreation Area

SEC. 311. PURPOSES.

    The purposes of this subtitle are--
            (1) to conserve, protect, and enhance for the benefit and 
        enjoyment of present and future generations the ecological, 
        scenic, wildlife, recreational, cultural, historical, natural, 
        educational, and scientific resources of the Recreation Area;
            (2) to provide environmentally responsible, well-managed 
        recreational opportunities within the Recreation Area;
            (3) to improve access to and from the Recreation Area;
            (4) to provide expanded educational and interpretive 
        services to increase public understanding of, and appreciation 
        for, the natural and cultural resources of the Recreation Area;
            (5) to facilitate the cooperative management of the land 
        and resources within the Recreation Area, in collaboration with 
        the State and political subdivisions of the State, historical, 
        business, cultural, civic, recreational, tourism and other 
        nongovernmental organizations, and the public; and
            (6) to allow the continued use of the Recreation Area by 
        all individuals, entities, and local government agencies in 
        activities relating to integrated water management, flood 
        protection, water conservation, water quality, water rights, 
        water supply, groundwater recharge and monitoring, wastewater 
        treatment, public roads and bridges, and utilities within or 
        adjacent to the Recreation Area.

SEC. 312. DEFINITIONS.

    In this subtitle:
            (1) Adjudication.--The term ``adjudication'' means any 
        final judgment, order, ruling, or decree entered in any 
        judicial proceeding adjudicating or affecting water rights, 
        surface water management, or groundwater management.
            (2) Advisory council.--The term ``Advisory Council'' means 
        the San Gabriel National Recreation Area Public Advisory 
        Council established under section 317(a).
            (3) Federal lands.--The term ``Federal lands'' means--
                    (A) public lands under the jurisdiction of the 
                Secretary of the Interior; and
                    (B) lands under the jurisdiction of the Secretary 
                of Defense, acting through the Chief of Engineers.
            (4) Management plan.--The term ``management plan'' means 
        the management plan for the Recreation Area required under 
        section 314(d).
            (5) Partnership.--The term ``Partnership'' means the San 
        Gabriel National Recreation Area Partnership established by 
        section 318(a).
            (6) Public water system.--The term ``public water system'' 
        has the meaning given the term in 42 U.S.C. 300(f)(4) or in 
        section 116275 of the California Health and Safety Code.
            (7) Recreation area.--The term ``Recreation Area'' means 
        the San Gabriel National Recreation Area established by section 
        313(a).
            (8) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary 
        of the Interior.
            (9) Utility facility.--The term ``utility facility'' 
        means--
                    (A) any electric substations, communication 
                facilities, towers, poles, and lines, ground wires, 
                communication circuits, and other structures, and 
                related infrastructure; and
                    (B) any such facilities associated with a public 
                water system.
            (10) Water resource facility.--The term ``water resource 
        facility'' means irrigation and pumping facilities, dams and 
        reservoirs, flood control facilities, water conservation works, 
        including debris protection facilities, sediment placement 
        sites, rain gauges and stream gauges, water quality facilities, 
        recycled water facilities, water pumping, conveyance and 
        distribution systems, water storage tanks and reservoirs, and 
        water treatment facilities, aqueducts, canals, ditches, 
        pipelines, wells, hydropower projects, and transmission and 
        other ancillary facilities, groundwater recharge facilities, 
        water conservation, water filtration plants, and other water 
        diversion, conservation, groundwater recharge, storage, and 
        carriage structures.

SEC. 313. SAN GABRIEL NATIONAL RECREATION AREA.

    (a) Establishment; Boundaries.--Subject to valid existing rights, 
there is established as a unit of the National Park System in the State 
the San Gabriel National Recreation Area depicted as the ``Proposed San 
Gabriel National Recreation Area'' on the map entitled ``San Gabriel 
National Recreation Area Proposed Boundary,'' numbered 503/152,737, and 
dated July 2019.
    (b) Map and Legal Description.--
            (1) In general.--As soon as practicable after the date of 
        the enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall file a map and a 
        legal description of the Recreation Area with--
                    (A) the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources 
                of the Senate; and
                    (B) the Committee on Natural Resources of the House 
                of Representatives.
            (2) Force of law.--The map and legal description filed 
        under paragraph (1) shall have the same force and effect as if 
        included in this title, except that the Secretary may correct 
        any clerical or typographical error in the map or legal 
        description.
            (3) Public availability.--The map and legal description 
        filed under paragraph (1) shall be on file and available for 
        public inspection in the appropriate offices of the National 
        Park Service.
    (c) Administration and Jurisdiction.--
            (1) Public lands.--The public lands included in the 
        Recreation Area shall be administered by the Secretary, acting 
        through the Director of the National Park Service.
            (2) Department of defense land.--Although certain Federal 
        lands under the jurisdiction of the Secretary of Defense are 
        included in the recreation area, nothing in this subtitle 
        transfers administration jurisdiction of such Federal lands 
        from the Secretary of Defense or otherwise affects Federal 
        lands under the jurisdiction of the Secretary of Defense.
            (3) State and local jurisdiction.--Nothing in this subtitle 
        alters, modifies, or diminishes any right, responsibility, 
        power, authority, jurisdiction, or entitlement of the State, a 
        political subdivision of the State, including, but not limited 
        to courts of competent jurisdiction, regulatory commissions, 
        boards, and departments, or any State or local agency under any 
        applicable Federal, State, or local law (including 
        regulations).

SEC. 314. MANAGEMENT.

    (a) National Park System.--Subject to valid existing rights, the 
Secretary shall manage the public lands included in the Recreation Area 
in a manner that protects and enhances the natural resources and values 
of the public lands, in accordance with--
            (1) this subtitle;
            (2) section 100101(a), chapter 1003, and sections 
        100751(a), 100752, 100753 and 102101 of title 54, United States 
        Code (formerly known as the ``National Park Service Organic 
        Act'');
            (3) the laws generally applicable to units of the National 
        Park System; and
            (4) other applicable law, regulations, adjudications, and 
        orders.
    (b) Cooperation With Secretary of Defense.--The Secretary shall 
cooperate with the Secretary of Defense to develop opportunities for 
the management of the Federal land under the jurisdiction of the 
Secretary of Defense included in the Recreation Area in accordance with 
the purposes described in section 311, to the maximum extent 
practicable.
    (c) Treatment of Non-Federal Land.--
            (1) In general.--Nothing in this subtitle--
                    (A) authorizes the Secretary to take any action 
                that would affect the use of any land not owned by the 
                United States within the Recreation Area;
                    (B) affects the use of, or access to, any non-
                Federal land within the Recreation Area;
                    (C) modifies any provision of Federal, State, or 
                local law with respect to public access to, or use of, 
                non-Federal land;
                    (D) requires any owner of non-Federal land to allow 
                public access (including Federal, State, or local 
                government access) to private property or any other 
                non-Federal land;
                    (E) alters any duly adopted land use regulation, 
                approved land use plan, or any other regulatory 
                authority of any State or local agency or unit of 
                Tribal government;
                    (F) creates any liability, or affects any liability 
                under any other law, of any private property owner or 
                other owner of non-Federal land with respect to any 
                person injured on the private property or other non-
                Federal land;
                    (G) conveys to the Partnership any land use or 
                other regulatory authority;
                    (H) shall be construed to cause any Federal, State, 
                or local regulation or permit requirement intended to 
                apply to units of the National Park System to affect 
                the Federal lands under the jurisdiction of the 
                Secretary of Defense or non-Federal lands within the 
                boundaries of the recreation area; or
                    (I) requires any local government to participate in 
                any program administered by the Secretary.
            (2) Cooperation.--The Secretary is encouraged to work with 
        owners of non-Federal land who have agreed to cooperate with 
        the Secretary to advance the purposes of this subtitle.
            (3) Buffer zones.--
                    (A) In general.--Nothing in this subtitle 
                establishes any protective perimeter or buffer zone 
                around the Recreation Area.
                    (B) Activities or uses up to boundaries.--The fact 
                that an activity or use of land can be seen or heard 
                from within the Recreation Area shall not preclude the 
                activity or land use up to the boundary of the 
                Recreation Area.
            (4) Facilities.--Nothing in this subtitle affects the 
        operation, maintenance, modification, construction, 
        destruction, removal, relocation, improvement or expansion of 
        any water resource facility or public water system, or any 
        solid waste, sanitary sewer, water or waste-water treatment, 
        groundwater recharge or conservation, hydroelectric, conveyance 
        distribution system, recycled water facility, or utility 
        facility located within or adjacent to the Recreation Area.
            (5) Exemption.--Section 100903 of title 54, United States 
        Code, shall not apply to the Puente Hills landfill, materials 
        recovery facility, or intermodal facility.
    (d) Management Plan.--
            (1) Deadline.--Not later than 3 years after the date of the 
        enactment of this Act, the Secretary and the Advisory Council 
        shall establish a comprehensive management plan for the 
        Recreation Area that supports the purposes described in section 
        311.
            (2) Use of existing plans.--In developing the management 
        plan, to the extent consistent with this section, the Secretary 
        may incorporate any provision of a land use or other plan 
        applicable to the public lands included in the Recreation Area.
            (3) Incorporation of visitor services plan.--To the maximum 
        extent practicable, the Secretary shall incorporate into the 
        management plan the visitor services plan under section 
        319(a)(2).
            (4) Partnership.--In developing the management plan, the 
        Secretary shall consider recommendations of the Partnership. To 
        the maximum extent practicable, the Secretary shall incorporate 
        recommendations of the Partnership into the management plan if 
        the Secretary determines that the recommendations are feasible 
        and consistent with the purposes in section 311, this subtitle, 
        and applicable laws (including regulations).
    (e) Fish and Wildlife.--Nothing in this subtitle affects the 
jurisdiction of the State with respect to fish or wildlife located on 
public lands in the State.

SEC. 315. ACQUISITION OF NON-FEDERAL LAND WITHIN RECREATION AREA.

    (a) Limited Acquisition Authority.--
            (1) In general.--Subject to paragraph (2), the Secretary 
        may acquire non-Federal land within the boundaries of the 
        Recreation Area only through exchange, donation, or purchase 
        from a willing seller.
            (2) Additional requirement.--As a further condition on the 
        acquisition of land, the Secretary shall make a determination 
        that the land contains important biological, cultural, 
        historic, or recreational values.
    (b) Prohibition on Use of Eminent Domain.--Nothing in this subtitle 
authorizes the use of eminent domain to acquire land or an interest in 
land.
    (c) Treatment of Acquired Land.--Any land or interest in land 
acquired by the United States within the boundaries of the Recreation 
Area shall be--
            (1) included in the Recreation Area; and
            (2) administered by the Secretary in accordance with--
                    (A) this subtitle; and
                    (B) other applicable laws (including regulations).

SEC. 316. WATER RIGHTS; WATER RESOURCE FACILITIES; PUBLIC ROADS; 
              UTILITY FACILITIES.

    (a) No Effect on Water Rights.--Nothing in this subtitle or section 
322--
            (1) shall affect the use or allocation, as in existence on 
        the date of the enactment of this Act, of any water, water 
        right, or interest in water (including potable, recycled, 
        reclaimed, waste, imported, exported, banked, or stored water, 
        surface water, groundwater, and public trust interest);
            (2) shall affect any public or private contract in 
        existence on the date of the enactment of this Act for the 
        sale, lease, loan, or transfer of any water (including potable, 
        recycled, reclaimed, waste, imported, exported, banked, or 
        stored water, surface water, and groundwater);
            (3) shall be considered to be a relinquishment or reduction 
        of any water rights reserved or appropriated by the United 
        States in the State on or before the date of the enactment of 
        this Act;
            (4) authorizes or imposes any new reserved Federal water 
        right or expands water usage pursuant to any existing Federal 
        reserved, riparian or appropriative right;
            (5) shall be considered a relinquishment or reduction of 
        any water rights (including potable, recycled, reclaimed, 
        waste, imported, exported, banked, or stored water, surface 
        water, and groundwater) held, reserved, or appropriated by any 
        public entity or other persons or entities, on or before the 
        date of the enactment of this Act;
            (6) shall be construed to, or shall interfere or conflict 
        with the exercise of the powers or duties of any watermaster, 
        public agency, public water system, court of competent 
        jurisdiction, or other body or entity responsible for 
        groundwater or surface water management or groundwater 
        replenishment as designated or established pursuant to any 
        adjudication or Federal or State law, including the management 
        of the San Gabriel River watershed and basin, to provide water 
        supply or other environmental benefits;
            (7) shall be construed to impede or adversely impact any 
        previously adopted Los Angeles County Drainage Area project, as 
        described in the report of the Chief of Engineers dated June 
        30, 1992, including any supplement or addendum to that report, 
        or any maintenance agreement to operate that project;
            (8) shall interfere or conflict with any action by a 
        watermaster, water agency, public water system, court of 
        competent jurisdiction, or public agency pursuant to any 
        Federal or State law, water right, or adjudication, including 
        any action relating to water conservation, water quality, 
        surface water diversion or impoundment, groundwater recharge, 
        water treatment, conservation or storage of water, pollution, 
        waste discharge, the pumping of groundwater; the spreading, 
        injection, pumping, storage, or the use of water from local 
        sources, storm water flows, and runoff, or from imported or 
        recycled water, that is undertaken in connection with the 
        management or regulation of the San Gabriel River;
            (9) shall interfere with, obstruct, hinder, or delay the 
        exercise of, or access to, any water right by the owner of a 
        public water system or any other individual or entity, 
        including the construction, operation, maintenance, 
        replacement, removal, repair, location, or relocation of any 
        well; pipeline; or water pumping, treatment, diversion, 
        impoundment, or storage facility; or other facility or property 
        necessary or useful to access any water right or operate an 
        public water system;
            (10) shall require the initiation or reinitiation of 
        consultation with the United States Fish and Wildlife Service 
        under, or the application of any provision of, the Endangered 
        Species Act of 1973 (16 U.S.C. 1531 et seq.) relating to any 
        action affecting any water, water right, or water management or 
        water resource facility in the San Gabriel River watershed and 
        basin; or
            (11) authorizes any agency or employee of the United 
        States, or any other person, to take any action inconsistent 
        with any of paragraphs (1) through (10).
    (b) Water Resource Facilities.--
            (1) No effect on existing water resource facilities.--
        Nothing in this subtitle or section 322 shall affect--
                    (A) the use, operation, maintenance, repair, 
                construction, destruction, removal, reconfiguration, 
                expansion, improvement or replacement of a water 
                resource facility or public water system within or 
                adjacent to the Recreation Area or San Gabriel 
                Mountains National Monument; or
                    (B) access to a water resource facility within or 
                adjacent to the Recreation Area or San Gabriel 
                Mountains National Monument.
            (2) No effect on new water resource facilities.--Nothing in 
        this subtitle or section 322 shall preclude the establishment 
        of a new water resource facility (including instream sites, 
        routes, and areas) within the Recreation Area or San Gabriel 
        Mountains National Monument if the water resource facility or 
        public water system is necessary to preserve or enhance the 
        health, safety, reliability, quality or accessibility of water 
        supply, or utility services to residents of Los Angeles County.
            (3) Flood control.--Nothing in this subtitle or section 322 
        shall be construed to--
                    (A) impose any new restriction or requirement on 
                flood protection, water conservation, water supply, 
                groundwater recharge, water transfers, or water quality 
                operations and maintenance; or
                    (B) increase the liability of an agency or public 
                water system carrying out flood protection, water 
                conservation, water supply, groundwater recharge, water 
                transfers, or water quality operations.
            (4) Diversion or use of water.--Nothing in this subtitle or 
        section 322 shall authorize or require the use of water or 
        water rights in, or the diversion of water to, the Recreation 
        Area or San Gabriel Mountains National Monument.
    (c) Utility Facilities and Rights-of-Way.--Nothing in this subtitle 
or section 322 shall--
            (1) affect the use, operation, maintenance, repair, 
        construction, destruction, reconfiguration, expansion, 
        inspection, renewal, reconstruction, alteration, addition, 
        relocation, improvement, removal, or replacement of a utility 
        facility or appurtenant right-of-way within or adjacent to the 
        Recreation Area or San Gabriel Mountains National Monument;
            (2) affect access to a utility facility or right-of-way 
        within or adjacent to the Recreation Area or San Gabriel 
        Mountains National Monument; or
            (3) preclude the establishment of a new utility facility or 
        right-of-way (including instream sites, routes, and areas) 
        within the Recreation Area or San Gabriel Mountains National 
        Monument if such a facility or right-of-way is necessary for 
        public health and safety, electricity supply, or other utility 
        services.
    (d) Roads; Public Transit.--
            (1) Definitions.--In this subsection:
                    (A) Public road.--The term ``public road'' means 
                any paved road or bridge (including any appurtenant 
                structure and right-of-way) that is--
                            (i) operated or maintained by a non-Federal 
                        entity; and
                            (ii)(I) open to vehicular use by the 
                        public; or
                            (II) used by a public agency or utility for 
                        the operation, maintenance, improvement, 
                        repair, removal, relocation, construction, 
                        destruction or rehabilitation of 
                        infrastructure, a utility facility, or a right-
                        of-way.
                    (B) Public transit.--The term ``public transit'' 
                means any transit service (including operations and 
                rights-of-way) that is--
                            (i) operated or maintained by a non-Federal 
                        entity; and
                            (ii)(I) open to the public; or
                            (II) used by a public agency or contractor 
                        for the operation, maintenance, repair, 
                        construction, or rehabilitation of 
                        infrastructure, a utility facility, or a right-
                        of-way.
            (2) No effect on public roads or public transit.--Nothing 
        in this subtitle or section 322--
                    (A) authorizes the Secretary to take any action 
                that would affect the operation, maintenance, repair, 
                or rehabilitation of public roads or public transit 
                (including activities necessary to comply with Federal 
                or State safety or public transit standards); or
                    (B) creates any new liability, or increases any 
                existing liability, of an owner or operator of a public 
                road.

SEC. 317. SAN GABRIEL NATIONAL RECREATION AREA PUBLIC ADVISORY COUNCIL.

    (a) Establishment.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall establish an advisory 
council, to be known as the ``San Gabriel National Recreation Area 
Public Advisory Council''.
    (b) Duties.--The Advisory Council shall advise the Secretary 
regarding the development and implementation of the management plan and 
the visitor services plan.
    (c) Applicable Law.--The Advisory Council shall be subject to--
            (1) the Federal Advisory Committee Act (5 U.S.C. App.); and
            (2) all other applicable laws (including regulations).
    (d) Membership.--The Advisory Council shall consist of 22 members, 
to be appointed by the Secretary after taking into consideration 
recommendations of the Partnership, of whom--
            (1) 2 shall represent local, regional, or national 
        environmental organizations;
            (2) 2 shall represent the interests of outdoor recreation, 
        including off-highway vehicle recreation, within the Recreation 
        Area;
            (3) 2 shall represent the interests of community-based 
        organizations, the missions of which include expanding access 
        to the outdoors;
            (4) 2 shall represent business interests;
            (5) 1 shall represent Indian Tribes within or adjacent to 
        the Recreation Area;
            (6) 1 shall represent the interests of homeowners' 
        associations within the Recreation Area;
            (7) 3 shall represent the interests of holders of 
        adjudicated water rights, public water systems, water agencies, 
        wastewater and sewer agencies, recycled water facilities, and 
        water management and replenishment entities;
            (8) 1 shall represent energy and mineral development 
        interests;
            (9) 1 shall represent owners of Federal grazing permits or 
        other land use permits within the Recreation Area;
            (10) 1 shall represent archaeological and historical 
        interests;
            (11) 1 shall represent the interests of environmental 
        educators;
            (12) 1 shall represent cultural history interests;
            (13) 1 shall represent environmental justice interests;
            (14) 1 shall represent electrical utility interests; and
            (15) 2 shall represent the affected public at large.
    (e) Terms.--
            (1) Staggered terms.--A member of the Advisory Council 
        shall be appointed for a term of 3 years, except that, of the 
        members first appointed, 7 of the members shall be appointed 
        for a term of 1 year and 7 of the members shall be appointed 
        for a term of 2 years.
            (2) Reappointment.--A member may be reappointed to serve on 
        the Advisory Council on the expiration of the term of service 
        of the member.
            (3) Vacancy.--A vacancy on the Advisory Council shall be 
        filled in the same manner in which the original appointment was 
        made.
    (f) Quorum.--A quorum shall be ten members of the advisory council. 
The operations of the advisory council shall not be impaired by the 
fact that a member has not yet been appointed as long as a quorum has 
been attained.
    (g) Chairperson; Procedures.--The Advisory Council shall elect a 
chairperson and establish such rules and procedures as the advisory 
council considers necessary or desirable.
    (h) Service Without Compensation.--Members of the Advisory Council 
shall serve without pay.
    (i) Termination.--The Advisory Council shall cease to exist--
            (1) on the date that is 5 years after the date on which the 
        management plan is adopted by the Secretary; or
            (2) on such later date as the Secretary considers to be 
        appropriate.

SEC. 318. SAN GABRIEL NATIONAL RECREATION AREA PARTNERSHIP.

    (a) Establishment.--There is established a Partnership, to be known 
as the ``San Gabriel National Recreation Area Partnership''.
    (b) Purposes.--The purposes of the Partnership are to--
            (1) coordinate the activities of Federal, State, Tribal, 
        and local authorities and the private sector in advancing the 
        purposes of this subtitle; and
            (2) use the resources and expertise of each agency in 
        improving management and recreational opportunities within the 
        Recreation Area.
    (c) Membership.--The Partnership shall include the following:
            (1) The Secretary (or a designee) to represent the National 
        Park Service.
            (2) The Secretary of Defense (or a designee) to represent 
        the Corps of Engineers.
            (3) The Secretary of Agriculture (or a designee) to 
        represent the Forest Service.
            (4) The Secretary of the Natural Resources Agency of the 
        State (or a designee) to represent--
                    (A) the California Department of Parks and 
                Recreation; and
                    (B) the Rivers and Mountains Conservancy.
            (5) One designee of the Los Angeles County Board of 
        Supervisors.
            (6) One designee of the Puente Hills Habitat Preservation 
        Authority.
            (7) Four designees of the San Gabriel Council of 
        Governments, of whom 1 shall be selected from a local land 
        conservancy.
            (8) One designee of the San Gabriel Valley Economic 
        Partnership.
            (9) One designee of the Los Angeles County Flood Control 
        District.
            (10) One designee of the San Gabriel Valley Water 
        Association.
            (11) One designee of the Central Basin Water Association.
            (12) One designee of the Main San Gabriel Basin 
        Watermaster.
            (13) One designee of a public utility company, to be 
        appointed by the Secretary.
            (14) One designee of the Watershed Conservation Authority.
            (15) One designee of the Advisory Council for the period 
        during which the Advisory Council remains in effect.
            (16) One designee of San Gabriel Mountains National 
        Monument Community Collaborative.
    (d) Duties.--To advance the purposes described in section 311, the 
Partnership shall--
            (1) make recommendations to the Secretary regarding the 
        development and implementation of the management plan;
            (2) review and comment on the visitor services plan under 
        section 319(a)(2), and facilitate the implementation of that 
        plan;
            (3) assist units of local government, regional planning 
        organizations, and nonprofit organizations in advancing the 
        purposes of the Recreation Area by--
                    (A) carrying out programs and projects that 
                recognize, protect, and enhance important resource 
                values within the Recreation Area;
                    (B) establishing and maintaining interpretive 
                exhibits and programs within the Recreation Area;
                    (C) developing recreational and educational 
                opportunities in the Recreation Area in accordance with 
                the purposes of this subtitle;
                    (D) increasing public awareness of, and 
                appreciation for, natural, historic, scenic, and 
                cultural resources of the Recreation Area;
                    (E) ensuring that signs identifying points of 
                public access and sites of interest are posted 
                throughout the Recreation Area;
                    (F) promoting a wide range of partnerships among 
                governments, organizations, and individuals to advance 
                the purposes of the Recreation Area; and
                    (G) ensuring that management of the Recreation Area 
                takes into consideration--
                            (i) local ordinances and land-use plans; 
                        and
                            (ii) adjacent residents and property 
                        owners;
            (4) make recommendations to the Secretary regarding the 
        appointment of members to the Advisory Council; and
            (5) carry out any other actions necessary to achieve the 
        purposes of this subtitle.
    (e) Authorities.--Subject to approval by the Secretary, for the 
purposes of preparing and implementing the management plan, the 
Partnership may use Federal funds made available under this section--
            (1) to make grants to the State, political subdivisions of 
        the State, nonprofit organizations, and other persons;
            (2) to enter into cooperative agreements with, or provide 
        grants or technical assistance to, the State, political 
        subdivisions of the State, nonprofit organizations, Federal 
        agencies, and other interested parties;
            (3) to hire and compensate staff;
            (4) to obtain funds or services from any source, including 
        funds and services provided under any other Federal law or 
        program;
            (5) to contract for goods or services; and
            (6) to support activities of partners and any other 
        activities that--
                    (A) advance the purposes of the Recreation Area; 
                and
                    (B) are in accordance with the management plan.
    (f) Terms of Office; Reappointment; Vacancies.--
            (1) Terms.--A member of the Partnership shall be appointed 
        for a term of 3 years.
            (2) Reappointment.--A member may be reappointed to serve on 
        the Partnership on the expiration of the term of service of the 
        member.
            (3) Vacancy.--A vacancy on the Partnership shall be filled 
        in the same manner in which the original appointment was made.
    (g) Quorum.--A quorum shall be eleven members of the Partnership. 
The operations of the Partnership shall not be impaired by the fact 
that a member has not yet been appointed as long as a quorum has been 
attained.
    (h) Chairperson; Procedures.--The Partnership shall elect a 
chairperson and establish such rules and procedures as it deems 
necessary or desirable.
    (i) Service Without Compensation.--A member of the Partnership 
shall serve without compensation.
    (j) Duties and Authorities of Secretary.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary shall convene the 
        Partnership on a regular basis to carry out this subtitle.
            (2) Technical and financial assistance.--The Secretary may 
        provide to the Partnership or any member of the Partnership, on 
        a reimbursable or nonreimbursable basis, such technical and 
        financial assistance as the Secretary determines to be 
        appropriate to carry out this subtitle.
            (3) Cooperative agreements.--The Secretary may enter into a 
        cooperative agreement with the Partnership, a member of the 
        Partnership, or any other public or private entity to provide 
        technical, financial, or other assistance to carry out this 
        subtitle.
            (4) Construction of facilities on non-federal land.--
                    (A) In general.--In order to facilitate the 
                administration of the Recreation Area, the Secretary is 
                authorized, subject to valid existing rights, to 
                construct administrative or visitor use facilities on 
                land owned by a nonprofit organization, local agency, 
                or other public entity in accordance with this title 
                and applicable law (including regulations).
                    (B) Additional requirements.--A facility under this 
                paragraph may only be developed--
                            (i) with the consent of the owner of the 
                        non-Federal land; and
                            (ii) in accordance with applicable Federal, 
                        State, and local laws (including regulations) 
                        and plans.
            (5) Priority.--The Secretary shall give priority to actions 
        that--
                    (A) conserve the significant natural, historic, 
                cultural, and scenic resources of the Recreation Area; 
                and
                    (B) provide educational, interpretive, and 
                recreational opportunities consistent with the purposes 
                of the Recreation Area.
    (k) Committees.--The Partnership shall establish--
            (1) a Water Technical Advisory Committee to advise the 
        Secretary regarding water-related issues relating to the 
        Recreation Area; and
            (2) a Public Safety Advisory Committee to advise the 
        Secretary regarding public safety issues relating to the 
        Recreation Area.

SEC. 319. VISITOR SERVICES AND FACILITIES.

    (a) Visitor Services.--
            (1) Purpose.--The purpose of this subsection is to 
        facilitate the development of an integrated visitor services 
        plan to improve visitor experiences in the Recreation Area 
        through expanded recreational opportunities and increased 
        interpretation, education, resource protection, and 
        enforcement.
            (2) Visitor services plan.--
                    (A) In general.--Not later than 3 years after the 
                date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall 
                develop and carry out an integrated visitor services 
                plan for the Recreation Area in accordance with this 
                paragraph.
                    (B) Contents.--The visitor services plan shall--
                            (i) assess current and anticipated future 
                        visitation to the Recreation Area, including 
                        recreation destinations;
                            (ii) consider the demand for various types 
                        of recreation (including hiking, picnicking, 
                        horseback riding, and the use of motorized and 
                        mechanized vehicles), as permissible and 
                        appropriate;
                            (iii) evaluate the impacts of recreation on 
                        natural and cultural resources, water rights 
                        and water resource facilities, public roads, 
                        adjacent residents and property owners, and 
                        utilities within the Recreation Area, as well 
                        as the effectiveness of current enforcement and 
                        efforts;
                            (iv) assess the current level of 
                        interpretive and educational services and 
                        facilities;
                            (v) include recommendations to--
                                    (I) expand opportunities for high-
                                demand recreational activities, in 
                                accordance with the purposes described 
                                in section 311;
                                    (II) better manage Recreation Area 
                                resources and improve the experience of 
                                Recreation Area visitors through 
                                expanded interpretive and educational 
                                services and facilities, and improved 
                                enforcement; and
                                    (III) better manage Recreation Area 
                                resources to reduce negative impacts on 
                                the environment, ecology, and 
                                integrated water management activities 
                                in the Recreation Area;
                            (vi) in coordination and consultation with 
                        affected owners of non-Federal land, assess 
                        options to incorporate recreational 
                        opportunities on non-Federal land into the 
                        Recreation Area--
                                    (I) in manner consistent with the 
                                purposes and uses of the non-Federal 
                                land; and
                                    (II) with the consent of the non-
                                Federal landowner;
                            (vii) assess opportunities to provide 
                        recreational opportunities that connect with 
                        adjacent National Forest System land; and
                            (viii) be developed and carried out in 
                        accordance with applicable Federal, State, and 
                        local laws and ordinances.
                    (C) Consultation.--In developing the visitor 
                services plan, the Secretary shall--
                            (i) consult with--
                                    (I) the Partnership;
                                    (II) the Advisory Council;
                                    (III) appropriate State and local 
                                agencies; and
                                    (IV) interested nongovernmental 
                                organizations; and
                            (ii) involve members of the public.
    (b) Visitor Use Facilities.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary may construct visitor use 
        facilities in the Recreation Area.
            (2) Requirements.--Each facility under paragraph (1) shall 
        be developed in accordance with applicable Federal, State, and 
        local--
                    (A) laws (including regulations); and
                    (B) plans.
    (c) Donations.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary may accept and use donated 
        funds, property, in-kind contributions, and services to carry 
        out this subtitle.
            (2) Prohibition.--The Secretary may not use the authority 
        provided by paragraph (1) to accept non-Federal land that has 
        been acquired after the date of the enactment of this Act 
        through the use of eminent domain.
    (d) Cooperative Agreements.--In carrying out this subtitle, the 
Secretary may make grants to, or enter into cooperative agreements 
with, units of State, Tribal, and local governments and private 
entities to conduct research, develop scientific analyses, and carry 
out any other initiative relating to the management of, and visitation 
to, the Recreation Area.

                   Subtitle B--San Gabriel Mountains

SEC. 321. DEFINITIONS.

    In this subtitle:
            (1) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary 
        of Agriculture.
            (2) Wilderness area or addition.--The term ``wilderness 
        area or addition'' means any wilderness area or wilderness 
        addition designated by section 323(a).

SEC. 322. NATIONAL MONUMENT BOUNDARY MODIFICATION.

    (a) In General.--The San Gabriel Mountains National Monument 
established by Presidential Proclamation 9194 (54 U.S.C. 320301 note) 
(referred to in this section as the ``Monument'') is modified to 
include the approximately 109,167 acres of additional National Forest 
System land depicted as the ``Proposed San Gabriel Mountains National 
Monument Expansion'' on the map entitled ``Proposed San Gabriel 
Mountains National Monument Expansion'' and dated June 26, 2019.
    (b) Administration.--The Secretary shall administer the San Gabriel 
Mountains National Monument, including the lands added by subsection 
(a), in accordance with--
            (1) Presidential Proclamation 9194, as issued on October 
        10, 2014 (54 U.S.C. 320301 note);
            (2) the laws generally applicable to the Monument; and
            (3) this title.
    (c) Management Plan.--Within 3 years after the date of enactment of 
this Act, the Secretary shall consult with State and local governments 
and the interested public to update the existing San Gabriel Mountains 
National Monument Plan to provide management direction and protection 
for the lands added to the Monument by subsection (a).

SEC. 323. DESIGNATION OF WILDERNESS AREAS AND ADDITIONS.

    (a) Designation.--In accordance with the Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 
1131 et seq.), the following parcels of National Forest System land in 
the State are designated as wilderness and as components of the 
National Wilderness Preservation System:
            (1) Condor peak wilderness.--Certain Federal land in the 
        Angeles National Forest, comprising approximately 8,207 acres, 
        as generally depicted on the map entitled ``Condor Peak 
        Wilderness--Proposed'' and dated June 6, 2019, which shall be 
        known as the ``Condor Peak Wilderness''.
            (2) San gabriel wilderness additions.--Certain Federal land 
        in the Angeles National Forest, comprising approximately 2,032 
        acres, as generally depicted on the map entitled ``San Gabriel 
        Wilderness Additions'' and dated June 6, 2019, which is 
        incorporated in, and considered to be a part of, the San 
        Gabriel Wilderness designated by Public Law 90-318 (16 U.S.C. 
        1132 note; 82 Stat. 131).
            (3) Sheep mountain wilderness additions.--Certain Federal 
        land in the Angeles National Forest, comprising approximately 
        13,726 acres, as generally depicted on the map entitled ``Sheep 
        Mountain Wilderness Additions'' and dated June 6, 2019, which 
        is incorporated in, and considered to be a part of, the Sheep 
        Mountain Wilderness designated by section 101(a)(29) of the 
        California Wilderness Act of 1984 (16 U.S.C. 1132 note; 98 
        Stat. 1623; Public Law 98-425).
            (4) Yerba buena wilderness.--Certain Federal land in the 
        Angeles National Forest, comprising approximately 6,694 acres, 
        as generally depicted on the map entitled ``Yerba Buena 
        Wilderness--Proposed'' and dated June 6, 2019, which shall be 
        known as the ``Yerba Buena Wilderness''.
    (b) Map and Legal Description.--
            (1) In general.--As soon as practicable after the date of 
        the enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall file a map and a 
        legal description of the wilderness areas and additions with--
                    (A) the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources 
                of the Senate; and
                    (B) the Committee on Natural Resources of the House 
                of Representatives.
            (2) Force of law.--The map and legal description filed 
        under paragraph (1) shall have the same force and effect as if 
        included in this subtitle, except that the Secretary may 
        correct any clerical or typographical error in the map or legal 
        description.
            (3) Public availability.--The map and legal description 
        filed under paragraph (1) shall be on file and available for 
        public inspection in the appropriate offices of the Forest 
        Service.

SEC. 324. ADMINISTRATION OF WILDERNESS AREAS AND ADDITIONS.

    (a) In General.--Subject to valid existing rights, the wilderness 
areas and additions shall be administered by the Secretary in 
accordance with this section and the Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1131 et 
seq.), except that any reference in that Act to the effective date of 
that Act shall be considered to be a reference to the date of the 
enactment of this Act.
    (b) Fire Management and Related Activities.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary may take such measures in a 
        wilderness area or addition designated in section 323 as are 
        necessary for the control of fire, insects, or diseases in 
        accordance with--
                    (A) section 4(d)(1) of the Wilderness Act (16 
                U.S.C. 1133(d)(1)); and
                    (B) House Report 98-40 of the 98th Congress.
            (2) Funding priorities.--Nothing in this subtitle limits 
        funding for fire or fuels management in a wilderness area or 
        addition.
            (3) Revision and development of local fire management 
        plans.--As soon as practicable after the date of the enactment 
        of this Act, the Secretary shall amend, as applicable, any 
        local fire management plan that applies to a wilderness area or 
        addition designated in section 323.
            (4) Administration.--In accordance with paragraph (1) and 
        any other applicable Federal law, to ensure a timely and 
        efficient response to a fire emergency in a wilderness area or 
        addition, the Secretary shall--
                    (A) not later than 1 year after the date of the 
                enactment of this Act, establish agency approval 
                procedures (including appropriate delegations of 
                authority to the Forest Supervisor, District Manager, 
                or other agency officials) for responding to fire 
                emergencies; and
                    (B) enter into agreements with appropriate State or 
                local firefighting agencies.
    (c) Grazing.--The grazing of livestock in a wilderness area or 
addition, if established before the date of the enactment of this Act, 
shall be administered in accordance with--
            (1) section 4(d)(4) of the Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 
        1133(d)(4)); and
            (2) the guidelines contained in Appendix A of the report of 
        the Committee on Interior and Insular Affairs of the House of 
        Representatives accompanying H.R. 2570 of the 101st Congress 
        (H. Rept. 101-405).
    (d) Fish and Wildlife.--
            (1) In general.--In accordance with section 4(d)(7) of the 
        Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1133(d)(7)), nothing in this subtitle 
        affects the jurisdiction or responsibility of the State with 
        respect to fish or wildlife on public land in the State.
            (2) Management activities.--
                    (A) In general.--In furtherance of the purposes and 
                principles of the Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1131 et 
                seq.), the Secretary may conduct any management 
                activity that are necessary to maintain or restore fish 
                or wildlife populations or habitats in the wilderness 
                areas and wilderness additions designated in section 
                323, if the management activities are--
                            (i) consistent with relevant wilderness 
                        management plans; and
                            (ii) conducted in accordance with 
                        appropriate policies, such as the policies 
                        established in Appendix B of the report of the 
                        Committee on Interior and Insular Affairs of 
                        the House of Representatives accompanying H.R. 
                        2570 of the 101st Congress (H. Rept. 101-405).
                    (B) Inclusions.--A management activity under 
                subparagraph (A) may include the occasional and 
                temporary use of motorized vehicles, if the use, as 
                determined by the Secretary, would promote healthy, 
                viable, and more naturally distributed wildlife 
                populations that would enhance wilderness values while 
                causing the minimum impact necessary to accomplish 
                those tasks.
                    (C) Existing activities.--In accordance with 
                section 4(d)(1) of the Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 
                1133(d)(1)) and appropriate policies (such as the 
                policies established in Appendix B of House Report 101-
                405), the State may use aircraft (including 
                helicopters) in a wilderness area or addition to 
                survey, capture, transplant, monitor, or provide water 
                for a wildlife population, including bighorn sheep.
    (e) Buffer Zones.--
            (1) In general.--Congress does not intend for the 
        designation of wilderness areas or wilderness additions by 
        section 323 to lead to the creation of protective perimeters or 
        buffer zones around each wilderness area or wilderness 
        addition.
            (2) Activities or uses up to boundaries.--The fact that a 
        nonwilderness activities or uses can be seen or heard from 
        within a wilderness area or wilderness addition designated by 
        section 323 shall not, of itself, preclude the activities or 
        uses up to the boundary of the wilderness area or addition.
    (f) Military Activities.--Nothing in this title precludes--
            (1) low-level overflights of military aircraft over the 
        wilderness areas or wilderness additions designated by section 
        323;
            (2) the designation of new units of special airspace over 
        the wilderness areas or wilderness additions designated by 
        section 323; or
            (3) the use or establishment of military flight training 
        routes over wilderness areas or wilderness additions designated 
        by section 323.
    (g) Horses.--Nothing in this subtitle precludes horseback riding 
in, or the entry of recreational or commercial saddle or pack stock 
into, an area designated as a wilderness area or wilderness addition by 
section 323--
            (1) in accordance with section 4(d)(5) of the Wilderness 
        Act (16 U.S.C. 1133(d)(5)); and
            (2) subject to such terms and conditions as the Secretary 
        determines to be necessary.
    (h) Law Enforcement.--Nothing in this subtitle precludes any law 
enforcement or drug interdiction effort within the wilderness areas or 
wilderness additions designated by section 323 in accordance with the 
Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1131 et seq.).
    (i) Withdrawal.--Subject to valid existing rights, the wilderness 
areas and additions designated by section 323 are withdrawn from--
            (1) all forms of entry, appropriation, and disposal under 
        the public land laws;
            (2) location, entry, and patent under the mining laws; and
            (3) operation of the mineral materials and geothermal 
        leasing laws.
    (j) Incorporation of Acquired Land and Interests.--Any land within 
the boundary of a wilderness area or addition that is acquired by the 
United States shall--
            (1) become part of the wilderness area or addition in which 
        the land is located; and
            (2) be managed in accordance with this section, the 
        Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1131 et seq.), and any other 
        applicable laws (including regulations).
    (k) Climatological Data Collection.--In accordance with the 
Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1131 et seq.) and subject to such terms and 
conditions as the Secretary may prescribe, the Secretary may authorize 
the installation and maintenance of hydrologic, meteorologic, or 
climatological collection devices in a wilderness area or addition if 
the Secretary determines that the facilities and access to the 
facilities is essential to a flood warning, flood control, or water 
reservoir operation activity.
    (l) Authorized Events.--The Secretary of Agriculture may authorize 
the Angeles Crest 100 competitive running event to continue in 
substantially the same manner and degree in which this event was 
operated and permitted in 2015 within additions to the Sheep Mountain 
Wilderness in section 323 of this title and the Pleasant View Ridge 
Wilderness Area designated by section 1802 of the Omnibus Public Land 
Management Act of 2009, provided that the event is authorized and 
conducted in a manner compatible with the preservation of the areas as 
wilderness.

SEC. 325. DESIGNATION OF WILD AND SCENIC RIVERS.

    (a) Designation.--Section 3(a) of the Wild and Scenic Rivers Act 
(16 U.S.C. 1274(a)) (as amended by section 206(a)) is amended by adding 
at the end the following:
            ``(272) East fork san gabriel river, california.--The 
        following segments of the East Fork San Gabriel River, to be 
        administered by the Secretary of Agriculture in the following 
        classes:
                    ``(A) The 10-mile segment from the confluence of 
                the Prairie Fork and Vincent Gulch to 100 yards 
                upstream of the Heaton Flats trailhead and day use 
                area, as a wild river.
                    ``(B) The 2.7-mile segment from 100 yards upstream 
                of the Heaton Flats trailhead and day use area to 100 
                yards upstream of the confluence with Williams Canyon, 
                as a recreational river.
            ``(273) North fork san gabriel river, california.--The 4.3-
        mile segment of the North Fork San Gabriel River from the 
        confluence with Cloudburst Canyon to 0.25 miles upstream of the 
        confluence with the West Fork San Gabriel River, to be 
        administered by the Secretary of Agriculture as a recreational 
        river.
            ``(274) West fork san gabriel river, california.--The 
        following segments of the West Fork San Gabriel River, to be 
        administered by the Secretary of Agriculture in the following 
        classes:
                    ``(A) The 6.7-mile segment from 0.25 miles 
                downstream of its source near Red Box Gap in sec. 14, 
                T. 2 N., R. 12 W., to the confluence with the unnamed 
                tributary 0.25 miles downstream of the power lines in 
                sec. 22, T. 2 N., R. 11 W., as a recreational river.
                    ``(B) The 1.6-mile segment of the West Fork from 
                0.25 miles downstream of the powerlines in sec. 22, T. 
                2 N., R. 11 W., to the confluence with Bobcat Canyon, 
                as a wild river.
            ``(275) Little rock creek, california.--The following 
        segments of Little Rock Creek and tributaries, to be 
        administered by the Secretary of Agriculture in the following 
        classes:
                    ``(A) The 10.3-mile segment from its source on Mt. 
                Williamson in sec. 6, T. 3 N., R. 9 W., to 100 yards 
                upstream of the confluence with the South Fork Little 
                Rock Creek, as a wild river.
                    ``(B) The 6.6-mile segment from 100 yards upstream 
                of the confluence with the South Fork Little Rock Creek 
                to the confluence with Santiago Canyon, as a 
                recreational river.
                    ``(C) The 1-mile segment of Cooper Canyon Creek 
                from 0.25 miles downstream of Highway 2 to 100 yards 
                downstream of Cooper Canyon Campground, as a scenic 
                river.
                    ``(D) The 1.3-mile segment of Cooper Canyon Creek 
                from 100 yards downstream of Cooper Canyon Campground 
                to the confluence with Little Rock Creek, as a wild 
                river.
                    ``(E) The 1-mile segment of Buckhorn Creek from 100 
                yards downstream of the Buckhorn Campground to its 
                confluence with Cooper Canyon Creek, as a wild 
                river.''.
    (b) Water Resource Facilities; and Water Use.--
            (1) Water resource facilities.--
                    (A) Definition.--In this section, the term ``water 
                resource facility'' means irrigation and pumping 
                facilities, dams and reservoirs, flood control 
                facilities, water conservation works and facilities, 
                including debris protection facilities, sediment 
                placement sites, rain gauges and stream gauges, water 
                quality facilities, recycled water facilities and water 
                pumping, conveyance distribution systems, water storage 
                tanks and reservoirs, and water treatment facilities, 
                aqueducts, canals, ditches, pipelines, wells, 
                hydropower projects, and transmission and other 
                ancillary facilities, groundwater recharge facilities, 
                water conservation, water filtration plants, and other 
                water diversion, conservation, groundwater recharge, 
                storage, and carriage structures.
                    (B) No effect on existing water resource 
                facilities.--Nothing in this section shall alter, 
                modify, or affect--
                            (i) the use, operation, maintenance, 
                        repair, construction, destruction, 
                        reconfiguration, expansion, relocation or 
                        replacement of a water resource facility 
                        downstream of a wild and scenic river segment 
                        designated by this section, provided that the 
                        physical structures of such facilities or 
                        reservoirs shall not be located within the 
                        river areas designated in this section; or
                            (ii) access to a water resource facility 
                        downstream of a wild and scenic river segment 
                        designated by this section.
                    (C) No effect on new water resource facilities.--
                Nothing in this section shall preclude the 
                establishment of a new water resource facilities 
                (including instream sites, routes, and areas) 
                downstream of a wild and scenic river segment.
            (2) Limitation.--Any new reservation of water or new use of 
        water pursuant to existing water rights held by the United 
        States to advance the purposes of the Wild and Scenic Rivers 
        Act (16 U.S.C. 1271 et seq.) shall be for nonconsumptive 
        instream use only within the segments designated by this 
        section.
            (3) Existing law.--Nothing in this section affects the 
        implementation of the Endangered Species Act of 1973 (16 U.S.C. 
        1531 et seq.).

SEC. 326. WATER RIGHTS.

    (a) Statutory Construction.--Nothing in this title, and no action 
to implement this title--
            (1) shall constitute an express or implied reservation of 
        any water or water right, or authorizing an expansion of water 
        use pursuant to existing water rights held by the United 
        States, with respect to the San Gabriel Mountains National 
        Monument, the land designated as a wilderness area or 
        wilderness addition by section 323 or land adjacent to the wild 
        and scenic river segments designated by the amendment made by 
        section 325;
            (2) shall affect, alter, modify, or condition any water 
        rights in the State in existence on the date of the enactment 
        of this Act, including any water rights held by the United 
        States;
            (3) shall be construed as establishing a precedent with 
        regard to any future wilderness or wild and scenic river 
        designations;
            (4) shall affect, alter, or modify the interpretation of, 
        or any designation, decision, adjudication or action made 
        pursuant to, any other Act; or
            (5) shall be construed as limiting, altering, modifying, or 
        amending any of the interstate compacts or equitable 
        apportionment decrees that apportions water among or between 
        the State and any other State.
    (b) State Water Law.--The Secretary shall comply with applicable 
procedural and substantive requirements of the law of the State in 
order to obtain and hold any water rights not in existence on the date 
of the enactment of this Act with respect to the San Gabriel Mountains 
National Monument, wilderness areas and wilderness additions designated 
by section 323, and the wild and scenic rivers designated by amendment 
made by section 325.
                                 &lt;all&gt;
</pre></body></html>
