<html><body><pre>
[Congressional Bills 118th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H.R. 3700 Introduced in House (IH)]

&lt;DOC&gt;






118th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                H. R. 3700

   To provide for restoration, economic development, recreation, and 
  conservation on Federal lands in Northern California, and for other 
                               purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                              May 25, 2023

  Mr. Huffman (for himself, Mr. Carbajal, and Ms. Chu) introduced the 
    following bill; which was referred to the Committee on Natural 
                               Resources

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
   To provide for restoration, economic development, recreation, and 
  conservation on Federal lands in Northern California, and for other 
                               purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE; TABLE OF CONTENTS.

    (a) Short Title.--This Act may be cited as the ``Northwest 
California Wilderness, Recreation, and Working Forests Act''.
    (b) Table of Contents.--The table of contents for this Act is as 
follows:

Sec. 1. Short title; table of contents.
Sec. 2. Definitions.
             TITLE I--RESTORATION AND ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT

Sec. 101. South Fork Trinity-Mad River Restoration Area.
Sec. 102. Redwood National and State Parks restoration.
Sec. 103. California Public Land Remediation Partnership.
Sec. 104. Trinity Lake visitor center.
Sec. 105. Del Norte County visitor center.
Sec. 106. Land and resource management plans.
Sec. 107. Annual fire management plans.
Sec. 108. Study; partnerships related to overnight accommodations.
                          TITLE II--RECREATION

Sec. 201. Horse Mountain Special Management Area.
Sec. 202. Bigfoot National Recreation Trail.
Sec. 203. Elk Camp Ridge Recreation Trail.
Sec. 204. Trinity Lake Trail.
Sec. 205. Trails study.
Sec. 206. Construction of mountain bicycling routes.
Sec. 207. Partnerships.
                        TITLE III--CONSERVATION

Sec. 301. Designation of wilderness.
Sec. 302. Administration of wilderness.
Sec. 303. Designation of potential wilderness.
Sec. 304. Designation of wild and scenic rivers.
Sec. 305. Sanhedrin Special Conservation Management Area.
Sec. 306. Release of wilderness study area.
                        TITLE IV--MISCELLANEOUS

Sec. 401. Maps and legal descriptions.
Sec. 402. Updates to land and resource management plans.
Sec. 403. Pacific Gas and Electric Company utility facilities and 
                            rights-of-way.

SEC. 2. DEFINITIONS.

    In this Act:
            (1) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means--
                    (A) with respect to land under the jurisdiction of 
                the Secretary of Agriculture, the Secretary of 
                Agriculture; and
                    (B) with respect to land under the jurisdiction of 
                the Secretary of the Interior, the Secretary of the 
                Interior.
            (2) State.--The term ``State'' means the State of 
        California.

             TITLE I--RESTORATION AND ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT

SEC. 101. SOUTH FORK TRINITY-MAD RIVER RESTORATION AREA.

    (a) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Collaboratively developed.--The term ``collaboratively 
        developed'' means, with respect to a restoration project, the 
        development and implementation of the restoration project 
        through a collaborative process that--
                    (A) includes--
                            (i) appropriate Federal, State, and local 
                        agencies; and
                            (ii) multiple interested persons 
                        representing diverse interests; and
                    (B) is transparent and nonexclusive.
            (2) Plantation.--The term ``plantation'' means a forested 
        area that has been artificially established by planting or 
        seeding.
            (3) Restoration.--The term ``restoration'' means the 
        process of assisting the recovery of an ecosystem that has been 
        degraded, damaged, or destroyed by establishing the 
        composition, structure, pattern, and ecological processes 
        necessary to facilitate terrestrial and aquatic ecosystem 
        sustainability, resilience, and health under current and future 
        conditions.
            (4) Restoration area.--The term ``restoration area'' means 
        the South Fork Trinity-Mad River Restoration Area established 
        by subsection (b).
            (5) Shaded fuel break.--The term ``shaded fuel break'' 
        means a vegetation treatment that--
                    (A) effectively addresses all slash generated by a 
                project; and
                    (B) retains, to the maximum extent practicable--
                            (i) adequate canopy cover to suppress plant 
                        regrowth in the forest understory following 
                        treatment;
                            (ii) the longest living trees that provide 
                        the most shade over the longest period of time;
                            (iii) the healthiest and most vigorous 
                        trees with the greatest potential for crown 
                        growth in--
                                    (I) plantations; and
                                    (II) natural stands adjacent to 
                                plantations; and
                            (iv) mature hardwoods.
            (6) Stewardship contract.--The term ``stewardship 
        contract'' means an agreement or contract entered into under 
        section 604 of the Healthy Forests Restoration Act of 2003 (16 
        U.S.C. 6591c).
            (7) Wildland-urban interface.--The term ``wildland-urban 
        interface'' has the meaning given the term in section 101 of 
        the Healthy Forests Restoration Act of 2003 (16 U.S.C. 6511).
    (b) Establishment.--Subject to valid existing rights, there is 
established the South Fork Trinity-Mad River Restoration Area, 
comprising approximately 871,414 acres of Federal land administered by 
the Forest Service and the Bureau of Land Management, as generally 
depicted on the map entitled ``South Fork Trinity-Mad River Restoration 
Area'' and dated May 15, 2020.
    (c) Purposes.--The purposes of the restoration area are--
            (1) to establish, restore, and maintain fire-resilient late 
        successional forest structures characterized by large trees and 
        multistoried canopies, as ecologically appropriate, in the 
        restoration area;
            (2) to protect late successional reserves in the 
        restoration area;
            (3) to enhance the restoration of Federal land in the 
        restoration area;
            (4) to reduce the threat posed by wildfires to communities 
        in or in the vicinity of the restoration area;
            (5) to protect and restore aquatic habitat and anadromous 
        fisheries;
            (6) to protect the quality of water within the restoration 
        area; and
            (7) to allow visitors to enjoy the scenic, recreational, 
        natural, cultural, and wildlife values of the restoration area.
    (d) Management.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary shall manage the restoration 
        area--
                    (A) in a manner--
                            (i) consistent with the purposes described 
                        in subsection (c); and
                            (ii) in the case of the Forest Service, 
                        that prioritizes the restoration of the 
                        restoration area over other nonemergency 
                        vegetation management projects on the portions 
                        of the Six Rivers and Shasta-Trinity National 
                        Forests in Humboldt and Trinity Counties, 
                        California;
                    (B) in accordance with an agreement entered into by 
                the Chief of the Forest Service and the Director of the 
                United States Fish and Wildlife Service--
                            (i) for cooperation to ensure the timely 
                        consultation required under section 7 of the 
                        Endangered Species Act of 1973 (16 U.S.C. 1536) 
                        on restoration projects within the restoration 
                        area; and
                            (ii) to maintain and exchange information 
                        on planning schedules and priorities with 
                        respect to the restoration area on a regular 
                        basis;
                    (C) in accordance with--
                            (i) the laws (including regulations) and 
                        rules applicable to the National Forest System, 
                        with respect to land managed by the Forest 
                        Service;
                            (ii) the Federal Land Policy and Management 
                        Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.), with 
                        respect to land managed by the Bureau of Land 
                        Management;
                            (iii) this Act; and
                            (iv) any other applicable law (including 
                        regulations); and
                    (D) in a manner consistent with congressional 
                intent that consultation for restoration projects 
                within the restoration area be completed in a timely 
                and efficient manner.
            (2) Conflict of laws.--
                    (A) In general.--The establishment of the 
                restoration area shall not modify the management status 
                of any land or water that is designated as a component 
                of the National Wilderness Preservation System or the 
                National Wild and Scenic Rivers System, including land 
                or water designated as a component of the National 
                Wilderness Preservation System or the National Wild and 
                Scenic Rivers System by this Act (including an 
                amendment made by this Act).
                    (B) Resolution of conflict.--If there is a conflict 
                between a law applicable to a component described in 
                subparagraph (A) and this section, the more restrictive 
                provision shall control.
            (3) Uses.--
                    (A) In general.--The Secretary shall only allow 
                uses of the restoration area that the Secretary 
                determines would further the purposes described in 
                subsection (c).
                    (B) Priority.--The Secretary shall give priority to 
                restoration activities within the restoration area.
                    (C) Limitation.--Nothing in this section limits the 
                ability of the Secretary to plan, approve, or 
                prioritize activities outside of the restoration area.
            (4) Wildland fire.--
                    (A) In general.--Nothing in this section prohibits 
                the Secretary, in cooperation with Federal, State, and 
                local agencies, as appropriate, from conducting 
                wildland fire operations in the restoration area, 
                consistent with the purposes of this section.
                    (B) Priority.--To the maximum extent practicable, 
                the Secretary may use prescribed burning and managed 
                wildland fire to achieve the purposes of this section.
            (5) Road decommissioning.--
                    (A) Definition of decommission.--In this paragraph, 
                the term ``decommission'' means, with respect to a 
                road--
                            (i) to reestablish vegetation on the road; 
                        and
                            (ii) to restore any natural drainage, 
                        watershed function, or other ecological process 
                        that is disrupted or adversely impacted by the 
                        road by removing or hydrologically 
                        disconnecting the road prism.
                    (B) Decommissioning.--To the maximum extent 
                practicable, the Secretary shall decommission any 
                unneeded National Forest System road or any 
                unauthorized road identified for decommissioning within 
                the restoration area--
                            (i) subject to appropriations;
                            (ii) consistent with the analysis required 
                        under subparts A and B of part 212 of title 36, 
                        Code of Federal Regulations (or successor 
                        regulations); and
                            (iii) in accordance with existing law.
                    (C) Additional requirement.--In making 
                determinations with respect to the decommissioning of a 
                road under subparagraph (B), the Secretary shall 
                consult with--
                            (i) appropriate State, Tribal, and local 
                        governmental entities; and
                            (ii) members of the public.
            (6) Vegetation management.--
                    (A) In general.--Subject to subparagraphs (B), (C), 
                and (D), the Secretary may carry out any vegetation 
                management projects in the restoration area that the 
                Secretary determines to be necessary--
                            (i) to maintain or restore the 
                        characteristics of ecosystem composition and 
                        structure;
                            (ii) to reduce wildfire risk to the 
                        community by promoting forests that are fire 
                        resilient;
                            (iii) to improve the habitat of threatened 
                        species, endangered species, or sensitive 
                        species;
                            (iv) to protect or improve water quality; 
                        or
                            (v) to enhance the restoration of land 
                        within the restoration area.
                    (B) Additional requirements.--
                            (i) Shaded fuel breaks.--In carrying out 
                        subparagraph (A), the Secretary shall 
                        prioritize, as practicable, the establishment 
                        in the restoration area of a network of shaded 
                        fuel breaks within--
                                    (I) any portion of the wildland-
                                urban interface that is within 150 feet 
                                of private property contiguous to 
                                Federal land;
                                    (II) on the condition that the 
                                Secretary includes vegetation 
                                treatments within a minimum of 25 feet 
                                of a road that is open to motorized 
                                vehicles as of the date of enactment of 
                                this Act if practicable, feasible, and 
                                appropriate as part of any shaded fuel 
                                break--
                                            (aa) 150 feet of the road; 
                                        or
                                            (bb) as topography or other 
                                        conditions require, 275 feet of 
                                        the road, if the combined total 
                                        width of the shaded fuel breaks 
                                        for both sides of the road does 
                                        not exceed 300 feet; or
                                    (III) 150 feet of any plantation.
                            (ii) Plantations; riparian reserves.--The 
                        Secretary may carry out vegetation management 
                        projects--
                                    (I) in an area within the 
                                restoration area in which a fish or 
                                wildlife habitat is significantly 
                                compromised as a result of past 
                                management practices (including 
                                plantations); and
                                    (II) in designated riparian 
                                reserves in the restoration area, as 
                                the Secretary determines to be 
                                necessary--
                                            (aa) to maintain the 
                                        integrity of fuel breaks; or
                                            (bb) to enhance fire 
                                        resilience.
                    (C) Applicable law.--The Secretary shall carry out 
                vegetation management projects in the restoration 
                area--
                            (i) in accordance with--
                                    (I) this section; and
                                    (II) applicable law (including 
                                regulations);
                            (ii) after providing an opportunity for 
                        public comment; and
                            (iii) subject to appropriations.
                    (D) Best available science.--The Secretary shall 
                use the best available science in planning and carrying 
                out vegetation management projects in the restoration 
                area.
            (7) Grazing.--
                    (A) Existing grazing.--The grazing of livestock in 
                the restoration area, where established before the date 
                of enactment of this Act, shall be permitted to 
                continue--
                            (i) subject to such reasonable regulations, 
                        policies, and practices as the Secretary 
                        considers to be necessary;
                            (ii) in accordance with applicable law 
                        (including regulations); and
                            (iii) in a manner consistent with the 
                        purposes described in subsection (c).
                    (B) Targeted new grazing.--The Secretary may issue 
                annual targeted grazing permits for the grazing of 
                livestock in an area of the restoration area in which 
                the grazing of livestock is not authorized before the 
                date of enactment of this Act to control noxious weeds, 
                aid in the control of wildfire within the wildland-
                urban interface, or provide other ecological benefits--
                            (i) subject to such reasonable regulations, 
                        policies, and practices as the Secretary 
                        considers to be necessary; and
                            (ii) in a manner consistent with the 
                        purposes described in subsection (c).
                    (C) Best available science.--The Secretary shall 
                use the best available science in determining whether 
                to issue targeted grazing permits under subparagraph 
                (B) within the restoration area.
    (e) Withdrawal.--Subject to valid existing rights, the restoration 
area is withdrawn from--
            (1) all forms of entry, appropriation, and disposal under 
        the public land laws;
            (2) location, entry, and patent under the mining laws; and
            (3) disposition under all laws relating to mineral and 
        geothermal leasing or mineral materials.
    (f) Use of Stewardship Contracts.--To the maximum extent 
practicable, the Secretary shall--
            (1) use stewardship contracts to carry out this section; 
        and
            (2) use revenue derived from stewardship contracts under 
        paragraph (1) to carry out restoration and other activities 
        within the restoration area, including staff and administrative 
        costs to support timely consultation activities for restoration 
        projects.
    (g) Collaboration.--In developing and carrying out restoration 
projects in the restoration area, the Secretary shall consult with 
collaborative groups with an interest in the restoration area.
    (h) Environmental Review.--A collaboratively developed restoration 
project within the restoration area may be carried out in accordance 
with the provisions for hazardous fuel reduction projects in sections 
104, 105, and 106 of the Healthy Forests Restoration Act of 2003 (16 
U.S.C. 6514, 6515, 6516), as applicable.
    (i) Multiparty Monitoring.--The Secretary of Agriculture shall--
            (1) in collaboration with the Secretary of the Interior and 
        interested persons, use a multiparty monitoring, evaluation, 
        and accountability process to assess the positive or negative 
        ecological, social, and economic effects of restoration 
        projects within the restoration area; and
            (2) incorporate the monitoring results into the management 
        of the restoration area.
    (j) Available Authorities.--The Secretary shall use any available 
authorities to secure the funding necessary to fulfill the purposes of 
the restoration area.
    (k) Forest Residues Utilization.--
            (1) In general.--In accordance with applicable law 
        (including regulations) and this section, the Secretary may use 
        forest residues from restoration projects, including shaded 
        fuel breaks, in the restoration area for research and 
        development of biobased products that result in net carbon 
        sequestration.
            (2) Partnerships.--In carrying out paragraph (1), the 
        Secretary may enter into partnerships with institutions of 
        higher education, nongovernmental organizations, industry, 
        Tribes, and Federal, State, and local governmental agencies.

SEC. 102. REDWOOD NATIONAL AND STATE PARKS RESTORATION.

    (a) Partnership Agreements.--The Secretary of the Interior may 
carry out initiatives to restore degraded redwood forest ecosystems in 
Redwood National and State Parks in partnership with the State, local 
agencies, and nongovernmental organizations.
    (b) Applicable Law.--In carrying out an initiative under subsection 
(a), the Secretary of the Interior shall comply with applicable law.

SEC. 103. CALIFORNIA PUBLIC LAND REMEDIATION PARTNERSHIP.

    (a) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Partnership.--The term ``partnership'' means the 
        California Public Land Remediation Partnership established by 
        subsection (b).
            (2) Priority land.--The term ``priority land'' means 
        Federal land in the State that is determined by the partnership 
        to be a high priority for remediation.
            (3) Remediation.--
                    (A) In general.--The term ``remediation'' means to 
                facilitate the recovery of land or water that has been 
                degraded, damaged, or destroyed by illegal marijuana 
                cultivation or another illegal activity.
                    (B) Inclusions.--The term ``remediation'' 
                includes--
                            (i) the removal of trash, debris, or other 
                        material; and
                            (ii) establishing the composition, 
                        structure, pattern, and ecological processes 
                        necessary to facilitate terrestrial or aquatic 
                        ecosystem sustainability, resilience, or health 
                        under current and future conditions.
    (b) Establishment.--There is established the California Public Land 
Remediation Partnership.
    (c) Purposes.--The purposes of the partnership are to support 
coordination of activities among Federal, State, Tribal, and local 
authorities and the private sector in the remediation of priority land 
in the State affected by illegal marijuana cultivation or another 
illegal activity.
    (d) Membership.--The members of the partnership shall include the 
following:
            (1) The Secretary of Agriculture (or a designee) to 
        represent the Forest Service.
            (2) The Secretary of the Interior (or a designee) to 
        represent--
                    (A) the United States Fish and Wildlife Service;
                    (B) the Bureau of Land Management; and
                    (C) the National Park Service.
            (3) The Director of the Office of National Drug Control 
        Policy (or a designee).
            (4) The Secretary of the State Natural Resources Agency (or 
        a designee) to represent the California Department of Fish and 
        Wildlife.
            (5) A designee of the California State Water Resources 
        Control Board.
            (6) A designee of the California State Sheriffs' 
        Association.
            (7) 1 member to represent federally recognized Indian 
        Tribes, to be appointed by the Secretary of Agriculture.
            (8) 1 member to represent nongovernmental organizations 
        with an interest in Federal land remediation, to be appointed 
        by the Secretary of Agriculture.
            (9) 1 member to represent local governmental interests, to 
        be appointed by the Secretary of Agriculture.
            (10) A law enforcement official from each of the following:
                    (A) The Department of the Interior.
                    (B) The Department of Agriculture.
            (11) A subject matter expert to provide expertise and 
        advice on methods needed for remediation efforts, to be 
        appointed by the Secretary of Agriculture.
            (12) A designee of the National Guard Counterdrug Program.
            (13) Any other members that are determined to be 
        appropriate by the partnership.
    (e) Duties.--To further the purposes of this section and subject to 
subsection (f), the partnership shall--
            (1) identify priority land for remediation in the State;
            (2) secure voluntary contributions of resources from 
        Federal sources and non-Federal sources for remediation of 
        priority land in the State;
            (3) support efforts by Federal, State, Tribal, and local 
        agencies and nongovernmental organizations in carrying out 
        remediation of priority land in the State;
            (4) support research and education on the impacts of, and 
        solutions to, illegal marijuana cultivation and other illegal 
        activities on priority land in the State;
            (5) involve other Federal, State, Tribal, and local 
        agencies, nongovernmental organizations, and the public in 
        remediation efforts on priority land in the State, to the 
        maximum extent practicable; and
            (6) carry out any other administrative or advisory 
        activities necessary to address remediation of priority land in 
        the State.
    (f) Limitation.--Nothing in this section limits the authorities of 
the Federal, State, Tribal, and local entities that comprise the 
partnership.
    (g) Authorities.--Subject to the prior approval of the Secretary of 
Agriculture and consistent with applicable law (including regulations), 
the partnership may--
            (1) provide grants to the State, political subdivisions of 
        the State, nonprofit organizations, and other persons;
            (2) enter into cooperative agreements with or provide 
        technical assistance to Federal agencies, the State, political 
        subdivisions of the State, nonprofit organizations, and other 
        interested persons;
            (3) identify opportunities for collaborative efforts among 
        members of the partnership;
            (4) hire and compensate staff;
            (5) obtain funds or services from any source, including--
                    (A) Federal funds (including funds and services 
                provided under any other Federal law or program); and
                    (B) non-Federal funds;
            (6) coordinate to identify sources of funding or services 
        that may be available for remediation activities;
            (7) seek funds or services from any source, including--
                    (A) Federal funds (including funds and services 
                provided under any other Federal law or program); and
                    (B) non-Federal funds; and
            (8) support--
                    (A) activities of partners; and
                    (B) any other activities that further the purposes 
                of this section.
    (h) Procedures.--The partnership shall establish any internal 
administrative procedures for the partnership that the partnership 
determines to be necessary or appropriate.
    (i) Local Hiring.--The partnership shall, to the maximum extent 
practicable and in accordance with existing law, give preference to 
local entities and individuals in carrying out this section.
    (j) Service Without Compensation.--A member of the partnership 
shall serve without pay.
    (k) Duties and Authorities of the Secretaries.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary of Agriculture shall convene 
        the partnership on a regular basis to carry out this section.
            (2) Technical and financial assistance.--The Secretary of 
        Agriculture and the Secretary of the Interior may provide 
        technical and financial assistance, on a reimbursable or 
        nonreimbursable basis, as determined to be appropriate by the 
        Secretary of Agriculture or the Secretary of the Interior, as 
        applicable, to the partnership or any members of the 
        partnership to carry out this section.
            (3) Cooperative agreements.--The Secretary of Agriculture 
        and the Secretary of the Interior may enter into cooperative 
        agreements with the partnership, any member of the partnership, 
        or other public or private entities to provide technical, 
        financial, or other assistance to carry out this section.

SEC. 104. TRINITY LAKE VISITOR CENTER.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary of Agriculture, acting through the 
Chief of the Forest Service (referred to in this section as the 
``Secretary''), may establish, in cooperation with any other public or 
private entity that the Secretary determines to be appropriate, a 
visitor center in Weaverville, California--
            (1) to serve visitors; and
            (2) to assist in fulfilling the purposes of the 
        Whiskeytown-Shasta-Trinity National Recreation Area.
    (b) Requirements.--The Secretary shall ensure that the visitor 
center authorized under subsection (a) is designed to provide for the 
interpretation of the scenic, biological, natural, historical, 
scientific, paleontological, recreational, ecological, wilderness, and 
cultural resources of the Whiskeytown-Shasta-Trinity National 
Recreation Area and other Federal land in the vicinity of the visitor 
center.
    (c) Cooperative Agreements.--In a manner consistent with this 
section, the Secretary may enter into cooperative agreements with the 
State and any other appropriate institutions and organizations to carry 
out the purposes of this section.

SEC. 105. DEL NORTE COUNTY VISITOR CENTER.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary of Agriculture and the Secretary of 
the Interior, acting jointly or separately (referred to in this section 
as the ``Secretaries''), may establish, in cooperation with any other 
public or private entity that the Secretaries determine to be 
appropriate, a visitor center in Del Norte County, California--
            (1) to serve visitors; and
            (2) to assist in fulfilling the purposes of Redwood 
        National and State Parks, the Smith River National Recreation 
        Area, and any other Federal land in the vicinity of the visitor 
        center.
    (b) Requirements.--The Secretaries shall ensure that the visitor 
center authorized under subsection (a) is designed to interpret the 
scenic, biological, natural, historical, scientific, paleontological, 
recreational, ecological, wilderness, and cultural resources of Redwood 
National and State Parks, the Smith River National Recreation Area, and 
any other Federal land in the vicinity of the visitor center.

SEC. 106. LAND AND RESOURCE MANAGEMENT PLANS.

     In revising the land and resource management plan for each of the 
Shasta-Trinity, Six Rivers, Klamath, and Mendocino National Forests, 
the Secretary shall consider the purposes of the South Fork Trinity-Mad 
River Restoration Area established by section 101(b).

SEC. 107. ANNUAL FIRE MANAGEMENT PLANS.

    In revising the fire management plan for a wilderness area or 
wilderness addition designated by section 301(a), the Secretary shall--
            (1) develop spatial fire management plans in accordance 
        with--
                    (A) the Guidance for Implementation of Federal 
                Wildland Fire Management Policy, dated February 13, 
                2009, including any amendments to the guidance; and
                    (B) other appropriate policies;
            (2) ensure that a fire management plan--
                    (A) considers how prescribed or managed fire can be 
                used to achieve ecological management objectives of 
                wilderness and other natural or primitive areas; and
                    (B) in the case of a wilderness area to which land 
                is added under section 301, provides consistent 
                direction regarding fire management to the entire 
                wilderness area, including the wilderness addition;
            (3) consult with--
                    (A) appropriate State, Tribal, and local 
                governmental entities; and
                    (B) members of the public; and
            (4) comply with applicable law (including regulations).

SEC. 108. STUDY; PARTNERSHIPS RELATED TO OVERNIGHT ACCOMMODATIONS.

    (a) Study.--The Secretary of the Interior (referred to in this 
section as the ``Secretary''), in consultation with interested Federal, 
State, Tribal, and local entities and private and nonprofit 
organizations, shall conduct a study to evaluate the feasibility and 
suitability of establishing overnight accommodations near Redwood 
National and State Parks on--
            (1) Federal land that is--
                    (A) at the northern boundary of Redwood National 
                and State Parks; or
                    (B) on land within 20 miles of the northern 
                boundary of Redwood National and State Parks; and
            (2) Federal land that is--
                    (A) at the southern boundary of Redwood National 
                and State Parks; or
                    (B) on land within 20 miles of the southern 
                boundary of Redwood National and State Parks.
    (b) Partnerships.--
            (1) Agreements authorized.--If the Secretary determines, 
        based on the study conducted under subsection (a), that 
        establishing the accommodations described in that subsection is 
        suitable and feasible, the Secretary may, in accordance with 
        applicable law, enter into 1 or more agreements with qualified 
        private and nonprofit organizations for the development, 
        operation, and maintenance of the accommodations.
            (2) Contents.--Any agreement entered into under paragraph 
        (1) shall clearly define the role and responsibility of the 
        Secretary and the private or nonprofit organization entering 
        into the agreement.
            (3) Effect.--Nothing in this subsection--
                    (A) reduces or diminishes the authority of the 
                Secretary to manage land and resources under the 
                jurisdiction of the Secretary; or
                    (B) amends or modifies the application of any law 
                (including regulations) applicable to land under the 
                jurisdiction of the Secretary.

                          TITLE II--RECREATION

SEC. 201. HORSE MOUNTAIN SPECIAL MANAGEMENT AREA.

    (a) Establishment.--Subject to valid existing rights, there is 
established the Horse Mountain Special Management Area (referred to in 
this section as the ``special management area'') comprising 
approximately 7,482 acres of Federal land administered by the Forest 
Service in Humboldt County, California, as generally depicted on the 
map entitled ``Horse Mountain Special Management Area'' and dated May 
15, 2020.
    (b) Purpose.--The purpose of the special management area is to 
enhance the recreational and scenic values of the special management 
area while conserving the plants, wildlife, and other natural resource 
values of the area.
    (c) Management Plan.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 5 years after the date of 
        enactment of this Act and in accordance with paragraph (2), the 
        Secretary of Agriculture (referred to in this section as the 
        ``Secretary'') shall develop a comprehensive plan for the long-
        term management of the special management area.
            (2) Consultation.--In developing the management plan 
        required under paragraph (1), the Secretary shall consult 
        with--
                    (A) appropriate State, Tribal, and local 
                governmental entities; and
                    (B) members of the public.
            (3) Additional requirement.--The management plan required 
        under paragraph (1) shall ensure that recreational use within 
        the special management area does not cause significant adverse 
        impacts on the plants and wildlife of the special management 
        area.
    (d) Management.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary shall manage the special 
        management area--
                    (A) in furtherance of the purpose described in 
                subsection (b); and
                    (B) in accordance with--
                            (i) the laws (including regulations) 
                        generally applicable to the National Forest 
                        System;
                            (ii) this section; and
                            (iii) any other applicable law (including 
                        regulations).
            (2) Recreation.--The Secretary shall continue to authorize, 
        maintain, and enhance the recreational use of the special 
        management area, including hunting, fishing, camping, hiking, 
        hang gliding, sightseeing, nature study, horseback riding, 
        rafting, mountain bicycling, motorized recreation on authorized 
        routes, and other recreational activities, if the recreational 
        use is consistent with--
                    (A) the purpose of the special management area;
                    (B) this section;
                    (C) other applicable law (including regulations); 
                and
                    (D) any applicable management plans.
            (3) Motorized vehicles.--
                    (A) In general.--Except as provided in subparagraph 
                (B), the use of motorized vehicles in the special 
                management area shall be permitted only on roads and 
                trails designated for the use of motorized vehicles.
                    (B) Use of snowmobiles.--The winter use of 
                snowmobiles shall be allowed in the special management 
                area--
                            (i) during periods of adequate snow 
                        coverage during the winter season; and
                            (ii) subject to any terms and conditions 
                        determined to be necessary by the Secretary.
            (4) New trails.--
                    (A) In general.--The Secretary may construct new 
                trails for motorized or nonmotorized recreation within 
                the special management area in accordance with--
                            (i) the laws (including regulations) 
                        generally applicable to the National Forest 
                        System;
                            (ii) this section; and
                            (iii) any other applicable law (including 
                        regulations).
                    (B) Priority.--In establishing new trails within 
                the special management area, the Secretary shall--
                            (i) prioritize the establishment of loops 
                        that provide high-quality, diverse recreational 
                        experiences; and
                            (ii) consult with members of the public.
    (e) Withdrawal.--Subject to valid existing rights, the special 
management area is withdrawn from--
            (1) all forms of appropriation or disposal under the public 
        land laws;
            (2) location, entry, and patent under the mining laws; and
            (3) disposition under laws relating to mineral and 
        geothermal leasing.

SEC. 202. BIGFOOT NATIONAL RECREATION TRAIL.

    (a) Feasibility Study.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 5 years after the date of 
        the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Agriculture 
        (referred to in this section as the ``Secretary''), in 
        cooperation with the Secretary of the Interior, shall submit to 
        the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources of the Senate and 
        the Committee on Natural Resources of the House of 
        Representatives a study that describes the feasibility of 
        establishing a nonmotorized Bigfoot National Recreation Trail 
        that follows the route described in paragraph (2).
            (2) Route.--The route referred to in paragraph (1) shall 
        extend from the Ides Cove Trailhead in the Mendocino National 
        Forest to Crescent City, California, following the route as 
        generally depicted on the map entitled ``Bigfoot National 
        Recreation Trail--Proposed'' and dated July 25, 2018.
            (3) Additional requirement.--In completing the study 
        required under paragraph (1), the Secretary shall consult 
        with--
                    (A) appropriate Federal, State, Tribal, regional, 
                and local agencies;
                    (B) private landowners;
                    (C) nongovernmental organizations; and
                    (D) members of the public.
    (b) Designation.--
            (1) In general.--On a determination by the Secretary that 
        the Bigfoot National Recreation Trail is feasible and meets the 
        requirements for a National Recreation Trail under section 4 of 
        the National Trails System Act (16 U.S.C. 1243), the Secretary 
        shall designate the Bigfoot National Recreation Trail (referred 
        to in this section as the ``trail'') in accordance with--
                    (A) the National Trails System Act (16 U.S.C. 1241 
                et seq.)
                    (B) this Act; and
                    (C) other applicable law (including regulations).
            (2) Administration.--On designation by the Secretary, the 
        trail shall be administered by the Secretary, in consultation 
        with--
                    (A) other Federal, State, Tribal, regional, and 
                local agencies;
                    (B) private landowners; and
                    (C) other interested organizations.
            (3) Private property rights.--
                    (A) In general.--No portions of the trail may be 
                located on non-Federal land without the written consent 
                of the landowner.
                    (B) Prohibition.--The Secretary shall not acquire 
                for the trail any land or interest in land outside the 
                exterior boundary of any federally managed area without 
                the consent of the owner of the land or interest in the 
                land.
                    (C) Effect.--Nothing in this section--
                            (i) requires any private property owner to 
                        allow public access (including Federal, State, 
                        or local government access) to private 
                        property; or
                            (ii) modifies any provision of Federal, 
                        State, or local law with respect to public 
                        access to or use of private land.
    (c) Cooperative Agreements.--In carrying out this section, the 
Secretary may enter into cooperative agreements with State, Tribal, and 
local government entities and private entities--
            (1) to complete necessary trail construction, 
        reconstruction, realignment, or maintenance; or
            (2) carry out education projects relating to the trail.
    (d) Map.--
            (1) Map required.--On designation of the trail, the 
        Secretary shall prepare a map of the trail.
            (2) Public availability.--The map referred to in paragraph 
        (1) shall be on file and available for public inspection in the 
        appropriate offices of the Forest Service.

SEC. 203. ELK CAMP RIDGE RECREATION TRAIL.

    (a) Designation.--
            (1) In general.--In accordance with paragraph (2), the 
        Secretary of Agriculture (referred to in this section as the 
        ``Secretary''), after providing an opportunity for public 
        comment, shall designate a trail (which may include a system of 
        trails)--
                    (A) for use by off-highway vehicles, mountain 
                bicycles, or both; and
                    (B) to be known as the ``Elk Camp Ridge Recreation 
                Trail'' (referred to in this section as the ``trail'').
            (2) Requirements.--In designating the trail under paragraph 
        (1), the Secretary shall only include routes that are--
                    (A) as of the date of enactment of this Act, 
                authorized for use by off-highway vehicles, mountain 
                bicycles, or both; and
                    (B) located on land that is managed by the Forest 
                Service in Del Norte County in the State.
            (3) Map.--A map that depicts the trail shall be on file and 
        available for public inspection in the appropriate offices of 
        the Forest Service.
    (b) Management.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary shall manage the trail--
                    (A) in accordance with applicable law (including 
                regulations);
                    (B) in a manner that ensures the safety of citizens 
                who use the trail; and
                    (C) in a manner that minimizes any damage to 
                sensitive habitat or cultural resources.
            (2) Monitoring; evaluation.--To minimize the impacts of the 
        use of the trail on environmental and cultural resources, the 
        Secretary shall annually assess the effects of the use of off-
        highway vehicles and mountain bicycles on--
                    (A) the trail;
                    (B) land located in proximity to the trail; and
                    (C) plants, wildlife, and wildlife habitat.
            (3) Closure.--The Secretary, in consultation with the State 
        and Del Norte County in the State and subject to paragraph (4), 
        may temporarily close or permanently reroute a portion of the 
        trail if the Secretary determines that--
                    (A) the trail is having an adverse impact on--
                            (i) wildlife habitat;
                            (ii) natural resources;
                            (iii) cultural resources; or
                            (iv) traditional uses;
                    (B) the trail threatens public safety; or
                    (C) closure of the trail is necessary--
                            (i) to repair damage to the trail; or
                            (ii) to repair resource damage.
            (4) Rerouting.--Any portion of the trail that is 
        temporarily closed by the Secretary under paragraph (3) may be 
        permanently rerouted along any road or trail--
                    (A) that is--
                            (i) in existence as of the date of the 
                        closure of the portion of the trail;
                            (ii) located on public land; and
                            (iii) open to motorized or mechanized use; 
                        and
                    (B) if the Secretary determines that rerouting the 
                portion of the trail would not significantly increase 
                or decrease the length of the trail.
            (5) Notice of available routes.--The Secretary shall ensure 
        that visitors to the trail have access to adequate notice 
        relating to the availability of trail routes through--
                    (A) the placement of appropriate signage along the 
                trail; and
                    (B) the distribution of maps, safety education 
                materials, and other information that the Secretary 
                determines to be appropriate.
    (c) Effect.--Nothing in this section affects the ownership, 
management, or other rights relating to any non-Federal land (including 
any interest in any non-Federal land).

SEC. 204. TRINITY LAKE TRAIL.

    (a) Trail Construction.--
            (1) Feasibility study.--Not later than 3 years after the 
        date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall study the 
        feasibility and public interest of constructing a recreational 
        trail for nonmotorized uses around Trinity Lake (referred to in 
        this section as the ``trail'').
            (2) Construction.--
                    (A) Construction authorized.--Subject to 
                appropriations, and in accordance with paragraph (3), 
                if the Secretary determines under paragraph (1) that 
                the construction of the trail is feasible and in the 
                public interest, the Secretary may provide for the 
                construction of the trail.
                    (B) Use of volunteer services and contributions.--
                The trail may be constructed under this section through 
                the acceptance of volunteer services and contributions 
                from non-Federal sources to reduce or eliminate the 
                need for Federal expenditures to construct the trail.
            (3) Compliance.--In carrying out this section, the 
        Secretary shall comply with--
                    (A) the laws (including regulations) generally 
                applicable to the National Forest System; and
                    (B) this Act.
    (b) Effect.--Nothing in this section affects the ownership, 
management, or other rights relating to any non-Federal land (including 
any interest in any non-Federal land).

SEC. 205. TRAILS STUDY.

    (a) In General.--Not later than 3 years after the date of enactment 
of this Act, the Secretary of Agriculture, in accordance with 
subsection (b) and in consultation with interested parties, shall 
conduct a study to improve motorized and nonmotorized recreation trail 
opportunities (including mountain bicycling) on land not designated as 
wilderness within the portions of the Six Rivers, Shasta-Trinity, and 
Mendocino National Forests located in Del Norte, Humboldt, Trinity, and 
Mendocino Counties in the State.
    (b) Consultation.--In carrying out the study under subsection (a), 
the Secretary of Agriculture shall consult with the Secretary of the 
Interior regarding opportunities to improve, through increased 
coordination, recreation trail opportunities on land under the 
jurisdiction of the Secretary of the Interior that shares a boundary 
with the National Forest System land described in subsection (a).

SEC. 206. CONSTRUCTION OF MOUNTAIN BICYCLING ROUTES.

    (a) Trail Construction.--
            (1) Feasibility study.--Not later than 3 years after the 
        date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Agriculture 
        (referred to in this section as the ``Secretary'') shall study 
        the feasibility and public interest of constructing 
        recreational trails for mountain bicycling and other 
        nonmotorized uses on the routes as generally depicted in the 
        report entitled ``Trail Study for Smith River National 
        Recreation Area Six Rivers National Forest'' and dated 2016.
            (2) Construction.--
                    (A) Construction authorized.--Subject to 
                appropriations and in accordance with paragraph (3), if 
                the Secretary determines under paragraph (1) that the 
                construction of 1 or more routes described in that 
                paragraph is feasible and in the public interest, the 
                Secretary may provide for the construction of the 
                routes.
                    (B) Modifications.--The Secretary may modify the 
                routes, as determined to be necessary by the Secretary.
                    (C) Use of volunteer services and contributions.--
                Routes may be constructed under this section through 
                the acceptance of volunteer services and contributions 
                from non-Federal sources to reduce or eliminate the 
                need for Federal expenditures to construct the route.
            (3) Compliance.--In carrying out this section, the 
        Secretary shall comply with--
                    (A) the laws (including regulations) generally 
                applicable to the National Forest System; and
                    (B) this Act.
    (b) Effect.--Nothing in this section affects the ownership, 
management, or other rights relating to any non-Federal land (including 
any interest in any non-Federal land).

SEC. 207. PARTNERSHIPS.

    (a) Agreements Authorized.--The Secretary may enter into agreements 
with qualified private and nonprofit organizations to carry out the 
following activities on Federal land in Mendocino, Humboldt, Trinity, 
and Del Norte Counties in the State:
            (1) Trail and campground maintenance.
            (2) Public education, visitor contacts, and outreach.
            (3) Visitor center staffing.
    (b) Contents.--An agreement entered into under subsection (a) shall 
clearly define the role and responsibility of the Secretary and the 
private or nonprofit organization.
    (c) Compliance.--The Secretary shall enter into agreements under 
subsection (a) in accordance with existing law.
    (d) Effect.--Nothing in this section--
            (1) reduces or diminishes the authority of the Secretary to 
        manage land and resources under the jurisdiction of the 
        Secretary; or
            (2) amends or modifies the application of any existing law 
        (including regulations) applicable to land under the 
        jurisdiction of the Secretary.

                        TITLE III--CONSERVATION

SEC. 301. DESIGNATION OF WILDERNESS.

    (a) In General.--In accordance with the Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 
1131 et seq.), the following areas in the State are designated as 
wilderness areas and as components of the National Wilderness 
Preservation System:
            (1) Black butte river wilderness.--Certain Federal land 
        managed by the Forest Service in the State, comprising 
        approximately 11,155 acres, as generally depicted on the map 
        entitled ``Black Butte Wilderness--Proposed'' and dated May 15, 
        2020, which shall be known as the ``Black Butte River 
        Wilderness''.
            (2) Chanchelulla wilderness additions.--Certain Federal 
        land managed by the Forest Service in the State, comprising 
        approximately 6,382 acres, as generally depicted on the map 
        entitled ``Chanchelulla Wilderness Additions--Proposed'' and 
        dated May 15, 2020, which is incorporated in, and considered to 
        be a part of, the Chanchelulla Wilderness designated by section 
        101(a)(4) of the California Wilderness Act of 1984 (16 U.S.C. 
        1132 note; Public Law 98-425; 98 Stat. 1619).
            (3) Chinquapin wilderness.--Certain Federal land managed by 
        the Forest Service in the State, comprising approximately 
        27,164 acres, as generally depicted on the map entitled 
        ``Chinquapin Wilderness--Proposed'' and dated May 15, 2020, 
        which shall be known as the ``Chinquapin Wilderness''.
            (4) Elkhorn ridge wilderness addition.--Certain Federal 
        land managed by the Bureau of Land Management in the State, 
        comprising approximately 37 acres, as generally depicted on the 
        map entitled ``Proposed Elkhorn Ridge Wilderness Additions'' 
        and dated February 2, 2022, which is incorporated in, and 
        considered to be a part of, the Elkhorn Ridge Wilderness 
        designated by section 6(d) of the Northern California Coastal 
        Wild Heritage Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1132 note; Public Law 
        109-362; 120 Stat. 2070).
            (5) English ridge wilderness.--Certain Federal land managed 
        by the Bureau of Land Management in the State, comprising 
        approximately 6,204 acres, as generally depicted on the map 
        entitled ``English Ridge Wilderness--Proposed'' and dated 
        February 2, 2022, which shall be known as the ``English Ridge 
        Wilderness''.
            (6) Headwaters forest wilderness.--Certain Federal land 
        managed by the Bureau of Land Management in the State, 
        comprising approximately 4,360 acres, as generally depicted on 
        the map entitled ``Headwaters Forest Wilderness--Proposed'' and 
        dated October 15, 2019, which shall be known as the 
        ``Headwaters Forest Wilderness''.
            (7) Mad river buttes wilderness.--Certain Federal land 
        managed by the Forest Service in the State, comprising 
        approximately 6,097 acres, as generally depicted on the map 
        entitled ``Mad River Buttes Wilderness--Proposed'' and dated 
        May 15, 2020, which shall be known as the ``Mad River Buttes 
        Wilderness''.
            (8) Mount lassic wilderness addition.--Certain Federal land 
        managed by the Forest Service in the State, comprising 
        approximately 1,288 acres, as generally depicted on the map 
        entitled ``Mt. Lassic Wilderness Additions--Proposed'' and 
        dated May 15, 2020, which is incorporated in, and considered to 
        be a part of, the Mount Lassic Wilderness designated by section 
        3(6) of the Northern California Coastal Wild Heritage 
        Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1132 note; Public Law 109-362; 120 
        Stat. 2065).
            (9) North fork wilderness addition.--Certain Federal land 
        managed by the Forest Service and the Bureau of Land Management 
        in the State, comprising approximately 16,342 acres, as 
        generally depicted on the map entitled ``North Fork Eel 
        Wilderness Additions'' and dated May 15, 2020, which is 
        incorporated in, and considered to be a part of, the North Fork 
        Wilderness designated by section 101(a)(19) of the California 
        Wilderness Act of 1984 (16 U.S.C. 1132 note; Public Law 98-425; 
        98 Stat. 1621).
            (10) Pattison wilderness.--Certain Federal land managed by 
        the Forest Service in the State, comprising approximately 
        29,451 acres, as generally depicted on the map entitled 
        ``Pattison Wilderness--Proposed'' and dated May 15, 2020, which 
        shall be known as the ``Pattison Wilderness''.
            (11) Siskiyou wilderness addition.--Certain Federal land 
        managed by the Forest Service in the State, comprising 
        approximately 23,913 acres, as generally depicted on the maps 
        entitled ``Siskiyou Wilderness Additions--Proposed (North)'' 
        and ``Siskiyou Wilderness Additions--Proposed (South)'' and 
        dated May 15, 2020, which is incorporated in, and considered to 
        be a part of, the Siskiyou Wilderness, as designated by section 
        101(a)(30) of the California Wilderness Act of 1984 (16 U.S.C. 
        1132 note; Public Law 98-425; 98 Stat. 1623).
            (12) South fork eel river wilderness addition.--Certain 
        Federal land managed by the Bureau of Land Management in the 
        State, comprising approximately 603 acres, as generally 
        depicted on the map entitled ``South Fork Eel River Wilderness 
        Additions--Proposed'' and dated October 24, 2019, which is 
        incorporated in, and considered to be a part of, the South Fork 
        Eel River Wilderness designated by section 3(10) of the 
        Northern California Coastal Wild Heritage Wilderness Act (16 
        U.S.C. 1132 note; Public Law 109-362; 120 Stat. 2066).
            (13) South fork trinity river wilderness.--Certain Federal 
        land managed by the Forest Service in the State, comprising 
        approximately 26,115 acres, as generally depicted on the map 
        entitled ``South Fork Trinity River Wilderness Additions--
        Proposed'' and dated May 15, 2020, which shall be known as the 
        ``South Fork Trinity River Wilderness''.
            (14) Trinity alps wilderness addition.--Certain Federal 
        land managed by the Forest Service in the State, comprising 
        approximately 61,187 acres, as generally depicted on the maps 
        entitled ``Trinity Alps Proposed Wilderness Additions EAST'' 
        and ``Trinity Alps Wilderness Additions West--Proposed'' and 
        dated May 15, 2020, which is incorporated in, and considered to 
        be a part of, the Trinity Alps Wilderness designated by section 
        101(a)(34) of the California Wilderness Act of 1984 (16 U.S.C. 
        1132 note; Public Law 98-425; 98 Stat. 1623).
            (15) Underwood wilderness.--Certain Federal land managed by 
        the Forest Service in the State, comprising approximately 
        15,068 acres, as generally depicted on the map entitled 
        ``Underwood Wilderness--Proposed'' and dated May 15, 2020, 
        which shall be known as the ``Underwood Wilderness''.
            (16) Yolla bolly-middle eel wilderness additions.--Certain 
        Federal land managed by the Forest Service and the Bureau of 
        Land Management in the State, comprising approximately 11,243 
        acres, as generally depicted on the maps entitled ``Yolla Bolly 
        Wilderness Proposed--NORTH'', ``Yolla Bolly Wilderness 
        Proposed--SOUTH'', and ``Yolla Bolly Wilderness Proposed--
        WEST'' and dated May 15, 2020, which is incorporated in, and 
        considered to be a part of, the Yolla Bolly-Middle Eel 
        Wilderness designated by section 3 of the Wilderness Act (16 
        U.S.C. 1132).
            (17) Yuki wilderness addition.--Certain Federal land 
        managed by the Forest Service and the Bureau of Land Management 
        in the State, comprising approximately 11,076 acres, as 
        generally depicted on the map entitled ``Yuki Wilderness 
        Additions--Proposed'' and dated February 7, 2022, which is 
        incorporated in, and considered to be a part of, the Yuki 
        Wilderness designated by section 3(3) of the Northern 
        California Coastal Wild Heritage Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1132 
        note; Public Law 109-362; 120 Stat. 2065).
    (b) Redesignation of North Fork Wilderness as North Fork Eel River 
Wilderness.--
            (1) In general.--Section 101(a)(19) of the California 
        Wilderness Act of 1984 (16 U.S.C. 1132 note; Public Law 98-425; 
        98 Stat. 1621) is amended by striking ``which shall be known as 
        the North Fork Wilderness'' and inserting ``which shall be 
        known as the `North Fork Eel River Wilderness'''.
            (2) References.--Any reference in a law, map, regulation, 
        document, paper, or other record of the United States to the 
        ``North Fork Wilderness'' shall be considered to be a reference 
        to the ``North Fork Eel River Wilderness''.
    (c) Elkhorn Ridge Wilderness Modification.--The boundary of the 
Elkhorn Ridge Wilderness established by section 6(d) of the Northern 
California Coastal Wild Heritage Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1132 note; 
Public Law 109-362; 120 Stat. 2070) is modified by removing 
approximately 30 acres of Federal land, as generally depicted on the 
map entitled ``Proposed Elkhorn Ridge Wilderness Additions'' and dated 
October 24, 2019.

SEC. 302. ADMINISTRATION OF WILDERNESS.

    (a) In General.--Subject to valid existing rights, a wilderness 
area or wilderness addition established by section 301(a) (referred to 
in this section as a ``wilderness area or addition'') shall be 
administered by the Secretary in accordance with this title and the 
Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1131 et seq.), except that--
            (1) any reference in the Wilderness Act to the effective 
        date of that Act shall be considered to be a reference to the 
        date of enactment of this Act; and
            (2) any reference in that Act to the Secretary of 
        Agriculture shall be considered to be a reference to the 
        Secretary.
    (b) Fire Management and Related Activities.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary may carry out any activities 
        in a wilderness area or addition as are necessary for the 
        control of fire, insects, or disease in accordance with--
                    (A) section 4(d)(1) of the Wilderness Act (16 
                U.S.C. 1133(d)(1)); and
                    (B) the report of the Committee on Interior and 
                Insular Affairs of the House of Representatives 
                accompanying H.R. 1437 of the 98th Congress (House 
                Report 98-40).
            (2) Funding priorities.--Nothing in this title limits 
        funding for fire or fuels management in a wilderness area or 
        addition.
            (3) Administration.--In accordance with paragraph (1) and 
        any other applicable Federal law, to ensure a timely and 
        efficient response to a fire emergency in a wilderness area or 
        addition, the Secretary of Agriculture shall--
                    (A) not later than 1 year after the date of 
                enactment of this Act, establish agency approval 
                procedures (including appropriate delegations of 
                authority to the Forest Supervisor, District Manager, 
                or other agency officials) for responding to fire 
                emergencies; and
                    (B) enter into agreements with appropriate State or 
                local firefighting agencies.
    (c) Grazing.--The grazing of livestock in a wilderness area or 
addition, if established before the date of enactment of this Act, 
shall be administered in accordance with--
            (1) section 4(d)(4) of the Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 
        1133(d)(4)); and
            (2)(A) for land under the jurisdiction of the Secretary of 
        Agriculture, the guidelines set forth in the report of the 
        Committee on Interior and Insular Affairs of the House of 
        Representatives accompanying H.R. 5487 of the 96th Congress (H. 
        Rept. 96-617); and
            (B) for land under the jurisdiction of the Secretary of the 
        Interior, the guidelines set forth in Appendix A of the report 
        of the Committee on Interior and Insular Affairs of the House 
        of Representatives accompanying H.R. 2570 of the 101st Congress 
        (H. Rept. 101-405).
    (d) Fish and Wildlife.--
            (1) In general.--In accordance with section 4(d)(7) of the 
        Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1133(d)(7)), nothing in this title 
        affects the jurisdiction or responsibilities of the State with 
        respect to fish and wildlife on public land in the State.
            (2) Management activities.--In support of the purposes and 
        principles of the Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1131 et seq.), the 
        Secretary may conduct any management activity that the 
        Secretary determines to be necessary to maintain or restore a 
        fish, wildlife, or plant population or habitat in a wilderness 
        area or addition, if the management activity is conducted in 
        accordance with--
                    (A) an applicable wilderness management plan;
                    (B) the Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1131 et seq.); 
                and
                    (C) appropriate policies, such as the policies 
                established in Appendix B of the report of the 
                Committee on Interior and Insular Affairs of the House 
                of Representatives accompanying H.R. 2570 of the 101st 
                Congress (H. Rept. 101-405).
    (e) Buffer Zones.--
            (1) In general.--Nothing in this title establishes a 
        protective perimeter or buffer zone around a wilderness area or 
        addition.
            (2) Outside activities or uses.--The fact that a 
        nonwilderness activity or use can be seen or heard from within 
        a wilderness area or addition shall not preclude the activity 
        or use outside the boundary of the wilderness area or addition.
    (f) Military Activities.--Nothing in this title precludes--
            (1) low-level overflights of military aircraft over a 
        wilderness area or addition;
            (2) the designation of a new unit of special airspace over 
        a wilderness area or addition; or
            (3) the use or establishment of a military flight training 
        route over a wilderness area or addition.
    (g) Horses.--Nothing in this title precludes horseback riding in, 
or the entry of recreational or commercial saddle or pack stock into, a 
wilderness area or addition--
            (1) in accordance with section 4(d)(5) of the Wilderness 
        Act (16 U.S.C. 1133(d)(5)); and
            (2) subject to any terms and conditions determined to be 
        necessary by the Secretary.
    (h) Withdrawal.--Subject to valid existing rights, the wilderness 
areas and additions are withdrawn from--
            (1) all forms of entry, appropriation, and disposal under 
        the public land laws;
            (2) location, entry, and patent under the mining laws; and
            (3) operation of the mineral materials and geothermal 
        leasing laws.
    (i) Use by Members of Indian Tribes.--
            (1) Access.--In recognition of the past use of wilderness 
        areas and additions by members of Indian Tribes for traditional 
        cultural and religious purposes, the Secretary shall ensure 
        that Indian Tribes have access to the wilderness areas and 
        additions for traditional cultural and religious purposes.
            (2) Temporary closures.--
                    (A) In general.--In carrying out this section, the 
                Secretary, on request of an Indian Tribe, may 
                temporarily close to the general public 1 or more 
                specific portions of a wilderness area or addition to 
                protect the privacy of the members of the Indian Tribe 
                in the conduct of the traditional cultural and 
                religious activities in the wilderness area or 
                addition.
                    (B) Requirement.--Any closure under subparagraph 
                (A) shall be made in such a manner as to affect the 
                smallest practicable area for the minimum period of 
                time necessary for the activity to be carried out.
            (3) Applicable law.--Access to the wilderness areas and 
        wilderness additions under this subsection shall be in 
        accordance with--
                    (A) Public Law 95-341 (commonly known as the 
                ``American Indian Religious Freedom Act'') (42 U.S.C. 
                1996 et seq.); and
                    (B) the Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1131 et seq.).
    (j) Incorporation of Acquired Land and Interests.--Any land within 
the boundary of a wilderness area or addition that is acquired by the 
United States shall--
            (1) become part of the wilderness area or addition in which 
        the land is located;
            (2) be withdrawn in accordance with subsection (h); and
            (3) be managed in accordance with--
                    (A) this section;
                    (B) the Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1131 et seq.); 
                and
                    (C) any other applicable law.
    (k) Climatological Data Collection.--In accordance with the 
Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1131 et seq.) and subject to such terms and 
conditions as the Secretary may prescribe, the Secretary may authorize 
the installation and maintenance of hydrologic, meteorologic, or 
climatological collection devices in a wilderness area or addition if 
the Secretary determines that the devices and access to the devices are 
essential to a flood warning, flood control, or water reservoir 
operation activity.
    (l) Authorized Events.--The Secretary may continue to authorize the 
competitive equestrian event permitted since 2012 in the Chinquapin 
Wilderness established by section 301(a)(3) in a manner compatible with 
the preservation of the area as wilderness.
    (m) Recreational Climbing.--Nothing in this Act prohibits 
recreational rock climbing activities in the wilderness areas or 
additions, such as the placement, use, and maintenance of fixed 
anchors, including any fixed anchor established before the date of the 
enactment of this Act--
            (1) in accordance with the Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1131 
        et seq.); and
            (2) subject to any terms and conditions determined to be 
        necessary by the Secretary.

SEC. 303. DESIGNATION OF POTENTIAL WILDERNESS.

    (a) Designation.--In furtherance of the purposes of the Wilderness 
Act (16 U.S.C. 1131 et seq.), the following areas in the State are 
designated as potential wilderness areas:
            (1) Certain Federal land managed by the Forest Service, 
        comprising approximately 4,005 acres, as generally depicted on 
        the map entitled ``Chinquapin Proposed Potential Wilderness'' 
        and dated May 15, 2020.
            (2) Certain Federal land administered by the National Park 
        Service, compromising approximately 31,000 acres, as generally 
        depicted on the map entitled ``Redwood National Park--Potential 
        Wilderness'' and dated October 9, 2019.
            (3) Certain Federal land managed by the Forest Service, 
        comprising approximately 5,681 acres, as generally depicted on 
        the map entitled ``Siskiyou Proposed Potential Wildernesses'' 
        and dated May 15, 2020.
            (4) Certain Federal land managed by the Forest Service, 
        comprising approximately 446 acres, as generally depicted on 
        the map entitled ``South Fork Trinity River Proposed Potential 
        Wilderness'' and dated May 15, 2020.
            (5) Certain Federal land managed by the Forest Service, 
        comprising approximately 1,256 acres, as generally depicted on 
        the map entitled ``Trinity Alps Proposed Potential Wilderness'' 
        and dated May 15, 2020.
            (6) Certain Federal land managed by the Forest Service, 
        comprising approximately 4,386 acres, as generally depicted on 
        the map entitled ``Yolla Bolly Middle-Eel Proposed Potential 
        Wilderness'' and dated May 15, 2020.
            (7) Certain Federal land managed by the Forest Service, 
        comprising approximately 2,918 acres, as generally depicted on 
        the map entitled ``Yuki Proposed Potential Wilderness'' and 
        dated May 15, 2020.
    (b) Management.--Except as provided in subsection (c) and subject 
to valid existing rights, the Secretary shall manage each potential 
wilderness area designated by subsection (a) (referred to in this 
section as a ``potential wilderness area'') as wilderness until the 
date on which the potential wilderness area is designated as wilderness 
under subsection (d).
    (c) Ecological Restoration.--
            (1) In general.--For purposes of ecological restoration 
        (including the elimination of nonnative species, removal of 
        illegal, unused, or decommissioned roads, repair of skid 
        tracks, and any other activities necessary to restore the 
        natural ecosystems in a potential wilderness area and 
        consistent with paragraph (2)), the Secretary may use motorized 
        equipment and mechanized transport in a potential wilderness 
        area until the date on which the potential wilderness area is 
        designated as wilderness under subsection (d).
            (2) Limitation.--To the maximum extent practicable, the 
        Secretary shall use the minimum tool or administrative practice 
        necessary to accomplish ecological restoration with the least 
        amount of adverse impact on wilderness character and resources.
    (d) Wilderness Designation.--A potential wilderness area shall be 
designated as wilderness and as a component of the National Wilderness 
Preservation System on the earlier of--
            (1) the date on which the Secretary publishes in the 
        Federal Register notice that the conditions in the potential 
        wilderness area that are incompatible with the Wilderness Act 
        (16 U.S.C. 1131 et seq.) have been removed; and
            (2) the date that is 10 years after the date of enactment 
        of this Act, in the case of a potential wilderness area located 
        on land managed by the Forest Service.
    (e) Administration as Wilderness.--
            (1) In general.--On the designation of a potential 
        wilderness area as wilderness under subsection (d), the 
        wilderness shall be administered in accordance with--
                    (A) section 302; and
                    (B) the Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1131 et seq.).
            (2) Designation.--On the designation as wilderness under 
        subsection (d)--
                    (A) the land described in subsection (a)(1) shall 
                be incorporated in, and considered to be a part of, the 
                Chinquapin Wilderness established by section 301(a)(3);
                    (B) the land described in subsection (a)(3) shall 
                be incorporated in, and considered to be a part of, the 
                Siskiyou Wilderness designated by section 101(a)(30) of 
                the California Wilderness Act of 1984 (16 U.S.C. 1132 
                note; Public Law 98-425; 98 Stat. 1623);
                    (C) the land described in subsection (a)(4) shall 
                be incorporated in, and considered to be a part of, the 
                South Fork Trinity River Wilderness established by 
                section 301(a)(13);
                    (D) the land described in subsection (a)(5) shall 
                be incorporated in, and considered to be a part of, the 
                Trinity Alps Wilderness designated by section 
                101(a)(34) of the California Wilderness Act of 1984 (16 
                U.S.C. 1132 note; Public Law 98-425; 98 Stat. 1623);
                    (E) the land described in subsection (a)(6) shall 
                be incorporated in, and considered to be a part of, the 
                Yolla Bolly-Middle Eel Wilderness designated by section 
                3 of the Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1132); and
                    (F) the land described in subsection (a)(7) shall 
                be incorporated in, and considered to be a part of, the 
                Yuki Wilderness designated by section 3(3) of the 
                Northern California Coastal Wild Heritage Wilderness 
                Act (16 U.S.C. 1132 note; Public Law 109-362; 120 Stat. 
                2065) and expanded by section 301(a)(17).
    (f) Report.--Not later than 3 years after the date of enactment of 
this Act, and every 3 years thereafter until the date on which the 
potential wilderness areas are designated as wilderness under 
subsection (d), the Secretary shall submit to the Committee on Energy 
and Natural Resources of the Senate and the Committee on Natural 
Resources of the House of Representatives a report that describes--
            (1) the status of ecological restoration within the 
        potential wilderness areas; and
            (2) the progress toward the eventual designation of the 
        potential wilderness areas as wilderness under subsection (d).

SEC. 304. DESIGNATION OF WILD AND SCENIC RIVERS.

    Section 3(a) of the Wild and Scenic Rivers Act (16 U.S.C. 1274(a)) 
is amended by adding at the end the following:
            ``(233) South fork trinity river.--The following segments 
        from the source tributaries in the Yolla Bolly-Middle Eel 
        Wilderness, to be administered by the Secretary of Agriculture:
                    ``(A) The 18.3-mile segment from its multiple 
                source springs in the Cedar Basin of the Yolla Bolly-
                Middle Eel Wilderness in sec. 15, T. 27 N., R. 10 W., 
                to 0.25 miles upstream of the Wild Mad Road, as a wild 
                river.
                    ``(B) The 0.65-mile segment from 0.25 miles 
                upstream of Wild Mad Road to the confluence with the 
                unnamed tributary approximately 0.4 miles downstream of 
                the Wild Mad Road in sec. 29, T. 28 N., R. 11 W., as a 
                scenic river.
                    ``(C) The 9.8-mile segment from 0.75 miles 
                downstream of Wild Mad Road to Silver Creek, as a wild 
                river.
                    ``(D) The 5.4-mile segment from Silver Creek 
                confluence to Farley Creek, as a scenic river.
                    ``(E) The 3.6-mile segment from Farley Creek to 
                Cave Creek, as a recreational river.
                    ``(F) The 5.6-mile segment from Cave Creek to the 
                confluence of the unnamed creek upstream of Hidden 
                Valley Ranch in sec. 5, T. 15, R. 7 E., as a wild 
                river.
                    ``(G) The 2.5-mile segment from the unnamed creek 
                confluence upstream of Hidden Valley Ranch to the 
                confluence with the unnamed creek flowing west from 
                Bear Wallow Mountain in sec. 29, T. 1 N., R. 7 E., as a 
                scenic river.
                    ``(H) The 3.8-mile segment from the unnamed creek 
                confluence in sec. 29, T. 1 N., R. 7 E., to Plummer 
                Creek, as a wild river.
                    ``(I) The 1.8-mile segment from Plummer Creek to 
                the confluence with the unnamed tributary north of 
                McClellan Place in sec. 6, T. 1 N., R. 7 E., as a 
                scenic river.
                    ``(J) The 5.4-mile segment from the unnamed 
                tributary confluence in sec. 6, T. 1 N., R. 7 E., to 
                Hitchcock Creek, as a wild river.
                    ``(K) The 7-mile segment from Eltapom Creek to the 
                Grouse Creek, as a scenic river.
                    ``(L) The 5-mile segment from Grouse Creek to Coon 
                Creek, as a wild river.
            ``(234) East fork south fork trinity river.--The following 
        segments, to be administered by the Secretary of Agriculture:
                    ``(A) The 8.4-mile segment from its source in the 
                Pettijohn Basin in the Yolla Bolly-Middle Eel 
                Wilderness in sec. 10, T. 3 S., R. 10 W., to 0.25 miles 
                upstream of the Wild Mad Road, as a wild river.
                    ``(B) The 3.4-mile segment from 0.25 miles upstream 
                of the Wild Mad Road to the South Fork Trinity River, 
                as a recreational river.
            ``(235) Rattlesnake creek.--The 5.9-mile segment from the 
        confluence with the unnamed tributary in the southeast corner 
        of sec. 5, T. 1 S., R. 12 W., to the South Fork Trinity River, 
        to be administered by the Secretary of Agriculture as a 
        recreational river.
            ``(236) Butter creek.--The 7-mile segment from 0.25 miles 
        downstream of the Road 3N08 crossing to the South Fork Trinity 
        River, to be administered by the Secretary of Agriculture as a 
        scenic river.
            ``(237) Hayfork creek.--The following segments, to be 
        administered by the Secretary of Agriculture:
                    ``(A) The 3.2-mile segment from Little Creek to 
                Bear Creek, as a recreational river.
                    ``(B) The 13.2-mile segment from Bear Creek to the 
                northern boundary of sec. 19, T. 3 N., R. 7 E., as a 
                scenic river.
            ``(238) Olsen creek.--The 2.8-mile segment from the 
        confluence of its source tributaries in sec. 5, T. 3 N., R. 7 
        E., to the northern boundary of sec. 24, T. 3 N., R. 6 E., to 
        be administered by the Secretary of the Interior as a scenic 
        river.
            ``(239) Rusch creek.--The 3.2-mile segment from 0.25 miles 
        downstream of the 32N11 Road crossing to Hayfork Creek, to be 
        administered by the Secretary of Agriculture as a recreational 
        river.
            ``(240) Eltapom creek.--The 3.4-mile segment from Buckhorn 
        Creek to the South Fork Trinity River, to be administered by 
        the Secretary of Agriculture as a wild river.
            ``(241) Grouse creek.--The following segments, to be 
        administered by the Secretary of Agriculture:
                    ``(A) The 3.9-mile segment from Carson Creek to Cow 
                Creek, as a scenic river.
                    ``(B) The 7.4-mile segment from Cow Creek to the 
                South Fork Trinity River, as a recreational river.
            ``(242) Madden creek.--The following segments, to be 
        administered by the Secretary of Agriculture:
                    ``(A) The 6.8-mile segment from the confluence of 
                Madden Creek and its unnamed tributary in sec. 18, T. 5 
                N., R. 5 E., to Fourmile Creek, as a wild river.
                    ``(B) The 1.6-mile segment from Fourmile Creek to 
                the South Fork Trinity River, as a recreational river.
            ``(243) Canyon creek.--The following segments, to be 
        administered by the Secretary of Agriculture and the Secretary 
        of the Interior:
                    ``(A) The 6.6-mile segment from the outlet of lower 
                Canyon Creek Lake to Bear Creek upstream of Ripstein, 
                as a wild river.
                    ``(B) The 11.2-mile segment from Bear Creek 
                upstream of Ripstein to the southern boundary of sec. 
                25, T. 34 N., R. 11 W., as a recreational river.
            ``(244) North fork trinity river.--The following segments, 
        to be administered by the Secretary of Agriculture:
                    ``(A) The 12-mile segment from the confluence of 
                source tributaries in sec. 24, T. 8 N., R. 12 W., to 
                the Trinity Alps Wilderness boundary upstream of Hobo 
                Gulch, as a wild river.
                    ``(B) The 0.5-mile segment from where the river 
                leaves the Trinity Alps Wilderness to where it fully 
                reenters the Trinity Alps Wilderness downstream of Hobo 
                Gulch, as a scenic river.
                    ``(C) The 13.9-mile segment from where the river 
                fully reenters the Trinity Alps Wilderness downstream 
                of Hobo Gulch to the Trinity Alps Wilderness boundary 
                upstream of the County Road 421 crossing, as a wild 
                river.
                    ``(D) The 1.3-mile segment from the Trinity Alps 
                Wilderness boundary upstream of the County Road 421 
                crossing to the Trinity River, as a recreational river.
            ``(245) East fork north fork trinity river.--The following 
        segments, to be administered by the Secretary of Agriculture:
                    ``(A) The 9.5-mile segment from the source north of 
                Mt. Hilton in sec. 19, T. 36 N., R. 10 W., to the end 
                of Road 35N20 approximately 0.5 miles downstream of the 
                confluence with the East Branch East Fork North Fork 
                Trinity River, as a wild river.
                    ``(B) The 3.25-mile segment from the end of Road 
                35N20 to 0.25 miles upstream of Coleridge, as a scenic 
                river.
                    ``(C) The 4.6-mile segment from 0.25 miles upstream 
                of Coleridge to the confluence of Fox Gulch, as a 
                recreational river.
            ``(246) New river.--The following segments, to be 
        administered by the Secretary of Agriculture:
                    ``(A) The 12.7-mile segment of Virgin Creek from 
                its source spring in sec. 22, T. 9 N., R. 7 E., to 
                Slide Creek, as a wild river.
                    ``(B) The 2.3-mile segment of the New River where 
                it begins at the confluence of Virgin and Slide Creeks 
                to Barron Creek, as a wild river.
            ``(247) Middle eel river.--The following segments, to be 
        administered by the Secretary of Agriculture:
                    ``(A) The 37.7-mile segment from its source in 
                Frying Pan Meadow to Rose Creek, as a wild river.
                    ``(B) The 1.5-mile segment from Rose Creek to the 
                Black Butte River, as a recreational river.
                    ``(C) The 10.5-mile segment of Balm of Gilead Creek 
                from its source in Hopkins Hollow to the Middle Eel 
                River, as a wild river.
                    ``(D) The 13-mile segment of the North Fork Middle 
                Fork Eel River from the source on Dead Puppy Ridge in 
                sec. 11, T. 26 N., R. 11 W., to the confluence of the 
                Middle Eel River, as a wild river.
            ``(248) North fork eel river, california.--The 14.3-mile 
        segment from the confluence with Gilman Creek to the Six Rivers 
        National Forest boundary, to be administered by the Secretary 
        of Agriculture as a wild river.
            ``(249) Red mountain creek, california.--The following 
        segments, to be administered by the Secretary of Agriculture:
                    ``(A) The 5.25-mile segment from its source west of 
                Mike's Rock in sec. 23, T. 26 N., R. 12 E., to the 
                confluence with Littlefield Creek, as a wild river.
                    ``(B) The 1.6-mile segment from the confluence with 
                Littlefield Creek to the confluence with the unnamed 
                tributary in sec. 32, T. 26 N., R. 8 E., as a scenic 
                river.
                    ``(C) The 1.25-mile segment from the confluence 
                with the unnamed tributary in sec. 32, T. 4 S., R. 8 
                E., to the confluence with the North Fork Eel River, as 
                a wild river.
            ``(250) Redwood creek.--The following segments, to be 
        administered by the Secretary of the Interior:
                    ``(A) The 6.2-mile segment from the confluence with 
                Lacks Creek to the confluence with Coyote Creek, as a 
                scenic river, on publication by the Secretary of the 
                Interior of a notice in the Federal Register that 
                sufficient land or interests in land within the 
                boundaries of the segments have been acquired in fee 
                title or as a scenic easement to establish a manageable 
                addition to the National Wild and Scenic Rivers System.
                    ``(B) The 19.1-mile segment from the confluence 
                with Coyote Creek in sec. 2, T. 8 N., R. 2 E., to the 
                Redwood National Park boundary upstream of Orick in 
                sec. 34, T. 11 N., R. 1 E., as a scenic river.
                    ``(C) The 2.3-mile segment of Emerald Creek (also 
                known as Harry Weir Creek) from its source in sec. 29, 
                T. 10 N., R. 2 E., to the confluence with Redwood 
                Creek, as a scenic river.
            ``(251) Lacks creek.--The following segments, to be 
        administered by the Secretary of the Interior:
                    ``(A) The 5.1-mile segment from the confluence with 
                2 unnamed tributaries in sec. 14, T. 7 N., R. 3 E., to 
                Kings Crossing in sec. 27, T. 8 N., R. 3 E., as a wild 
                river.
                    ``(B) The 2.7-mile segment from Kings Crossing to 
                the confluence with Redwood Creek, as a scenic river, 
                on publication by the Secretary of a notice in the 
                Federal Register that sufficient inholdings within the 
                segment have been acquired in fee title or as scenic 
                easements to establish a manageable addition to the 
                National Wild and Scenic Rivers System.
            ``(252) Lost man creek.--The following segments, to be 
        administered by the Secretary of the Interior:
                    ``(A) The 6.4-mile segment of Lost Man Creek from 
                its source in sec. 5, T. 10 N., R. 2 E., to 0.25 miles 
                upstream of the Prairie Creek confluence, as a 
                recreational river.
                    ``(B) The 2.3-mile segment of Larry Damm Creek from 
                its source in sec. 8, T. 11 N., R. 2 E., to the 
                confluence with Lost Man Creek, as a recreational 
                river.
            ``(253) Little lost man creek.--The 3.6-mile segment of 
        Little Lost Man Creek from its source in sec. 6, T. 10 N., R. 2 
        E., to 0.25 miles upstream of the Lost Man Creek road crossing, 
        to be administered by the Secretary of the Interior as a wild 
        river.
            ``(254) South fork elk river.--The following segments, to 
        be administered by the Secretary of the Interior through a 
        cooperative management agreement with the State of California:
                    ``(A) The 3.6-mile segment of the Little South Fork 
                Elk River from the source in sec. 21, T. 3 N., R. 1 E., 
                to the confluence with the South Fork Elk River, as a 
                wild river.
                    ``(B) The 2.2-mile segment of the unnamed tributary 
                of the Little South Fork Elk River from its source in 
                sec. 15, T. 3 N., R. 1 E., to the confluence with the 
                Little South Fork Elk River, as a wild river.
                    ``(C) The 3.6-mile segment of the South Fork Elk 
                River from the confluence of the Little South Fork Elk 
                River to the confluence with Tom Gulch, as a 
                recreational river.
            ``(255) Salmon creek.--The 4.6-mile segment from its source 
        in sec. 27, T. 3 N., R. 1 E., to the Headwaters Forest Reserve 
        boundary in sec. 18, T. 3 N., R. 1 E., to be administered by 
        the Secretary of the Interior as a wild river through a 
        cooperative management agreement with the State of California.
            ``(256) South fork eel river.--The following segments, to 
        be administered by the Secretary of the Interior:
                    ``(A) The 6.2-mile segment from the confluence with 
                Jack of Hearts Creek to the southern boundary of the 
                South Fork Eel Wilderness in sec. 8, T. 22 N., R. 16 
                W., as a recreational river to be administered by the 
                Secretary through a cooperative management agreement 
                with the State of California.
                    ``(B) The 6.1-mile segment from the southern 
                boundary of the South Fork Eel Wilderness to the 
                northern boundary of the South Fork Eel Wilderness in 
                sec. 29, T. 23 N., R. 16 W., as a wild river.
            ``(257) Elder creek.--The following segments, to be 
        administered by the Secretary of the Interior through a 
        cooperative management agreement with the State of California:
                    ``(A) The 3.6-mile segment from its source north of 
                Signal Peak in sec. 6, T. 21 N., R. 15 W., to the 
                confluence with the unnamed tributary near the center 
                of sec. 28, T. 22 N., R. 16 W., as a wild river.
                    ``(B) The 1.3-mile segment from the confluence with 
                the unnamed tributary near the center of sec. 28, T. 22 
                N., R. 15 W., to the confluence with the South Fork Eel 
                River, as a recreational river.
                    ``(C) The 2.1-mile segment of Paralyze Canyon from 
                its source south of Signal Peak in sec. 7, T. 21 N., R. 
                15 W., to the confluence with Elder Creek, as a wild 
                river.
            ``(258) Cedar creek.--The following segments, to be 
        administered as a wild river by the Secretary of the Interior:
                    ``(A) The 7.7-mile segment from its source in sec. 
                22, T. 24 N., R. 16 W., to the southern boundary of the 
                Red Mountain unit of the South Fork Eel Wilderness.
                    ``(B) The 1.9-mile segment of North Fork Cedar 
                Creek from its source in sec. 28, T. 24 N., R. 16 E., 
                to the confluence with Cedar Creek.
            ``(259) East branch south fork eel river.--The following 
        segments, to be administered by the Secretary of the Interior 
        as a scenic river on publication by the Secretary of a notice 
        in the Federal Register that sufficient inholdings within the 
        boundaries of the segments have been acquired in fee title or 
        as scenic easements to establish a manageable addition to the 
        National Wild and Scenic Rivers System:
                    ``(A) The 2.3-mile segment of Cruso Cabin Creek 
                from the confluence of 2 unnamed tributaries in sec. 
                18, T. 24 N., R. 15 W., to the confluence with Elkhorn 
                Creek.
                    ``(B) The 1.8-mile segment of Elkhorn Creek from 
                the confluence of 2 unnamed tributaries in sec. 22, T. 
                24 N., R. 16 W., to the confluence with Cruso Cabin 
                Creek.
                    ``(C) The 14.2-mile segment of the East Branch 
                South Fork Eel River from the confluence of Cruso Cabin 
                and Elkhorn Creeks to the confluence with Rays Creek.
                    ``(D) The 1.7-mile segment of the unnamed tributary 
                from its source on the north flank of Red Mountain's 
                north ridge in sec. 2, T. 24 N., R. 17 W., to the 
                confluence with the East Branch South Fork Eel River.
                    ``(E) The 1.3-mile segment of the unnamed tributary 
                from its source on the north flank of Red Mountain's 
                north ridge in sec. 1, T. 24 N., R. 17 W., to the 
                confluence with the East Branch South Fork Eel River.
                    ``(F) The 1.8-mile segment of Tom Long Creek from 
                the confluence with the unnamed tributary in sec. 12, 
                T. 5 S., R. 4 E., to the confluence with the East 
                Branch South Fork Eel River.
            ``(260) Mattole river estuary.--The 1.5-mile segment from 
        the confluence of Stansberry Creek to the Pacific Ocean, to be 
        administered as a recreational river by the Secretary of the 
        Interior.
            ``(261) Honeydew creek.--The following segments, to be 
        administered as a wild river by the Secretary of the Interior:
                    ``(A) The 5.1-mile segment of Honeydew Creek from 
                its source in the southwest corner of sec. 25, T. 3 S., 
                R. 1 W., to the eastern boundary of the King Range 
                National Conservation Area in sec. 18, T. 3 S., R. 1 E.
                    ``(B) The 2.8-mile segment of West Fork Honeydew 
                Creek from its source west of North Slide Peak to the 
                confluence with Honeydew Creek.
                    ``(C) The 2.7-mile segment of Upper East Fork 
                Honeydew Creek from its source in sec. 23, T. 3 S., R. 
                1 W., to the confluence with Honeydew Creek.
            ``(262) Bear creek.--The following segments, to be 
        administered by the Secretary of the Interior:
                    ``(A) The 1.9-mile segment of North Fork Bear Creek 
                from the confluence with the unnamed tributary 
                immediately downstream of the Horse Mountain Road 
                crossing to the confluence with the South Fork, as a 
                scenic river.
                    ``(B) The 6.1-mile segment of South Fork Bear Creek 
                from the confluence in sec. 2, T. 5 S., R. 1 W., with 
                the unnamed tributary flowing from the southwest flank 
                of Queen Peak to the confluence with the North Fork, as 
                a scenic river.
                    ``(C) The 3-mile segment of Bear Creek from the 
                confluence of the North and South Forks to the southern 
                boundary of sec. 11, T. 4 S., R. 1 E., as a wild river.
            ``(263) Gitchell creek.--The 3-mile segment of Gitchell 
        Creek from its source near Saddle Mountain to the Pacific 
        Ocean, to be administered by the Secretary of the Interior as a 
        wild river.
            ``(264) Big flat creek.--The following segments, to be 
        administered by the Secretary of the Interior as a wild river:
                    ``(A) The 4-mile segment of Big Flat Creek from its 
                source near King Peak in sec. 36, T. 3 S., R. 1 W., to 
                the Pacific Ocean.
                    ``(B) The 0.8-mile segment of the unnamed tributary 
                from its source in sec. 35, T. 3 S., R. 1 W., to the 
                confluence with Big Flat Creek.
                    ``(C) The 2.7-mile segment of North Fork Big Flat 
                Creek from the source in sec. 34, T. 3 S., R. 1 W., to 
                the confluence with Big Flat Creek.
            ``(265) Big creek.--The following segments, to be 
        administered by the Secretary of the Interior as a wild river:
                    ``(A) The 2.7-mile segment of Big Creek from its 
                source in sec. 26, T. 3 S., R. 1 W., to the Pacific 
                Ocean.
                    ``(B) The 1.9-mile unnamed southern tributary from 
                its source in sec. 25, T. 3 S., R. 1 W., to the 
                confluence with Big Creek.
            ``(266) Elk creek.--The 11.4-mile segment from its 
        confluence with Lookout Creek to its confluence with Deep Hole 
        Creek, to be jointly administered by the Secretaries of 
        Agriculture and the Interior as a wild river.
            ``(267) Eden creek.--The 2.7-mile segment from the private 
        property boundary in the northwest quarter of sec. 27, T. 21 
        N., R. 12 W., to the eastern boundary of sec. 23, T. 21 N., R. 
        12 W., to be administered by the Secretary of the Interior as a 
        wild river.
            ``(268) Deep hole creek.--The 4.3-mile segment from the 
        private property boundary in the southwest quarter of sec. 13, 
        T. 20 N., R. 12 W., to the confluence with Elk Creek, to be 
        administered by the Secretary of the Interior as a wild river.
            ``(269) Indian creek.--The 3.3-mile segment from 300 feet 
        downstream of the jeep trail in sec. 13, T. 20 N., R. 13 W., to 
        the confluence with the Eel River, to be administered by the 
        Secretary of the Interior as a wild river.
            ``(270) Fish creek.--The 4.2-mile segment from the source 
        at Buckhorn Spring to the confluence with the Eel River, to be 
        administered by the Secretary of the Interior as a wild 
        river.''.

SEC. 305. SANHEDRIN SPECIAL CONSERVATION MANAGEMENT AREA.

    (a) Establishment.--Subject to valid existing rights, there is 
established the Sanhedrin Special Conservation Management Area 
(referred to in this section as the ``conservation management area''), 
comprising approximately 12,254 acres of Federal land administered by 
the Forest Service in Mendocino County, California, as generally 
depicted on the map entitled ``Sanhedrin Conservation Management Area'' 
and dated May 15, 2020.
    (b) Purposes.--The purposes of the conservation management area 
are--
            (1) to conserve, protect, and enhance for the benefit and 
        enjoyment of present and future generations the ecological, 
        scenic, wildlife, recreational, roadless, cultural, historical, 
        natural, educational, and scientific resources of the 
        conservation management area;
            (2) to protect and restore late-successional forest 
        structure, oak woodlands and grasslands, aquatic habitat, and 
        anadromous fisheries within the conservation management area;
            (3) to protect and restore the undeveloped character of the 
        conservation management area; and
            (4) to allow visitors to enjoy the scenic, natural, 
        cultural, and wildlife values of the conservation management 
        area.
    (c) Management.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary shall manage the 
        conservation management area--
                    (A) in a manner consistent with the purposes 
                described in subsection (b); and
                    (B) in accordance with--
                            (i) the laws (including regulations) 
                        generally applicable to the National Forest 
                        System;
                            (ii) this section; and
                            (iii) any other applicable law (including 
                        regulations).
            (2) Uses.--The Secretary shall only allow uses of the 
        conservation management area that the Secretary determines 
        would further the purposes described in subsection (b).
    (d) Motorized Vehicles.--
            (1) In general.--Except as provided in paragraph (3), the 
        use of motorized vehicles in the conservation management area 
        shall be permitted only on existing roads, trails, and areas 
        designated for use by such vehicles as of the date of enactment 
        of this Act.
            (2) New or temporary roads.--Except as provided in 
        paragraph (3), no new or temporary roads shall be constructed 
        within the conservation management area.
            (3) Exceptions.--Nothing in paragraph (1) or (2) prevents 
        the Secretary from--
                    (A) rerouting or closing an existing road or trail 
                to protect natural resources from degradation, or to 
                protect public safety, as determined to be appropriate 
                by the Secretary;
                    (B) designating routes of travel on land acquired 
                by the Secretary and incorporated into the conservation 
                management area if the designations are--
                            (i) consistent with the purposes described 
                        in subsection (b); and
                            (ii) completed, to the maximum extent 
                        practicable, not later than 3 years after the 
                        date of acquisition;
                    (C) constructing a temporary road on which 
                motorized vehicles are permitted as part of a 
                vegetation management project carried out in accordance 
                with paragraph (4);
                    (D) authorizing the use of motorized vehicles for 
                administrative purposes; or
                    (E) responding to an emergency.
            (4) Decommissioning of temporary roads.--
                    (A) Definition of decommission.--In this paragraph, 
                the term ``decommission'' means, with respect to a 
                road--
                            (i) to reestablish vegetation on the road; 
                        and
                            (ii) to restore any natural drainage, 
                        watershed function, or other ecological 
                        processes that are disrupted or adversely 
                        impacted by the road by removing or 
                        hydrologically disconnecting the road prism.
                    (B) Requirement.--Not later than 3 years after the 
                date on which the applicable vegetation management 
                project is completed, the Secretary shall decommission 
                any temporary road constructed under paragraph (3)(C).
    (e) Timber Harvest.--
            (1) In general.--Except as provided in paragraph (2), no 
        harvesting of timber shall be allowed within the conservation 
        management area.
            (2) Exceptions.--The Secretary may authorize harvesting of 
        timber in the conservation management area--
                    (A) if the Secretary determines that the harvesting 
                is necessary to further the purposes of the 
                conservation management area;
                    (B) in a manner consistent with the purposes 
                described in subsection (b); and
                    (C) subject to--
                            (i) such reasonable regulations, policies, 
                        and practices as the Secretary determines to be 
                        appropriate; and
                            (ii) all applicable laws (including 
                        regulations).
    (f) Grazing.--The grazing of livestock in the conservation 
management area, where established before the date of enactment of this 
Act, shall be permitted to continue--
            (1) subject to--
                    (A) such reasonable regulations, policies, and 
                practices as the Secretary considers necessary; and
                    (B) applicable law (including regulations); and
            (2) in a manner consistent with the purposes described in 
        subsection (b).
    (g) Wildfire, Insect, and Disease Management.--Consistent with this 
section, the Secretary may carry out any activities within the 
conservation management area that the Secretary determines to be 
necessary to control fire, insects, or diseases, including the 
coordination of those activities with a State or local agency.
    (h) Acquisition and Incorporation of Land and Interests in Land.--
            (1) Acquisition authority.--In accordance with applicable 
        laws (including regulations), the Secretary may acquire any 
        land or interest in land within or adjacent to the boundaries 
        of the conservation management area by purchase from a willing 
        seller, donation, or exchange.
            (2) Incorporation.--Any land or interest in land acquired 
        by the Secretary under paragraph (1) shall be--
                    (A) incorporated into, and administered as part of, 
                the conservation management area; and
                    (B) withdrawn in accordance with subsection (i).
    (i) Withdrawal.--Subject to valid existing rights, all Federal land 
located in the conservation management area is withdrawn from--
            (1) all forms of entry, appropriation, and disposal under 
        the public land laws;
            (2) location, entry, and patenting under the mining laws; 
        and
            (3) operation of the mineral leasing, mineral materials, 
        and geothermal leasing laws.

SEC. 306. RELEASE OF WILDERNESS STUDY AREA.

    (a) Finding.--Congress finds that, for purposes of section 603 of 
the Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1782), 
any portion of the Eden Valley Wilderness Study Area that is not 
designated as a wilderness area or wilderness addition by section 
301(a) has been adequately studied for wilderness designation.
    (b) Release.--Any portion of a wilderness study area described in 
subsection (a) that is not designated as a wilderness area or 
wilderness addition by section 301(a) is no longer subject to section 
603(c) of the Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 
1782(c)).

                        TITLE IV--MISCELLANEOUS

SEC. 401. MAPS AND LEGAL DESCRIPTIONS.

    (a) In General.--As soon as practicable after the date of enactment 
of this Act, the Secretary shall prepare maps and legal descriptions 
of--
            (1) the South Fork Trinity-Mad River Restoration Area 
        established by section 101(b);
            (2) the Horse Mountain Special Management Area established 
        by section 201(a);
            (3) the wilderness areas and wilderness additions 
        designated by section 301(a);
            (4) the potential wilderness areas designated by section 
        303(a); and
            (5) the Sanhedrin Special Conservation Management Area 
        established by section 305(a).
    (b) Submission of Maps and Legal Descriptions.--The Secretary shall 
file the maps and legal descriptions prepared under subsection (a) 
with--
            (1) the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources of the 
        Senate; and
            (2) the Committee on Natural Resources of the House of 
        Representatives.
    (c) Force of Law.--The maps and legal descriptions prepared under 
subsection (a) shall have the same force and effect as if included in 
this Act, except that the Secretary may correct any clerical and 
typographical errors in the maps and legal descriptions.
    (d) Public Availability.--The maps and legal descriptions prepared 
under subsection (a) shall be on file and available for public 
inspection in the appropriate offices of the Forest Service, the Bureau 
of Land Management, or the National Park Service, as applicable.

SEC. 402. UPDATES TO LAND AND RESOURCE MANAGEMENT PLANS.

    As soon as practicable after the date of enactment of this Act, in 
accordance with applicable law (including regulations), the Secretary 
shall incorporate the designations and studies required by this Act 
into updated management plans for units covered by this Act.

SEC. 403. PACIFIC GAS AND ELECTRIC COMPANY UTILITY FACILITIES AND 
              RIGHTS-OF-WAY.

    (a) Effect of Title.--Nothing in this Act--
            (1) affects any validly issued right-of-way for the 
        customary operation, maintenance, upgrade, repair, relocation 
        within an existing right-of-way, replacement, or other 
        authorized activity (including the use of any mechanized 
        vehicle, helicopter, and other aerial device) in a right-of-way 
        acquired by or issued, granted, or permitted to Pacific Gas and 
        Electric Company (including any predecessor or successor in 
        interest or assign) that is located on land included in--
                    (A) the South Fork Trinity-Mad River Restoration 
                Area established by section 101(b);
                    (B) the Horse Mountain Special Management Area 
                established by section 201(a);
                    (C) the Bigfoot National Recreation Trail 
                established under section 202(b)(1);
                    (D) the Sanhedrin Special Conservation Management 
                Area established by section 305(a); or
            (2) prohibits the upgrading or replacement of any--
                    (A) utility facilities of the Pacific Gas and 
                Electric Company, including those utility facilities in 
                existence on the date of enactment of this Act within--
                            (i) the South Fork Trinity-Mad River 
                        Restoration Area known as--
                                    (I) ``Gas Transmission Line 177A or 
                                rights-of-way'';
                                    (II) ``Gas Transmission Line DFM 
                                1312-02 or rights-of-way'';
                                    (III) ``Electric Transmission Line 
                                Bridgeville-Cottonwood 115 kV or 
                                rights-of-way'';
                                    (IV) ``Electric Transmission Line 
                                Humboldt-Trinity 60 kV or rights-of-
                                way'';
                                    (V) ``Electric Transmission Line 
                                Humboldt-Trinity 115 kV or rights-of-
                                way'';
                                    (VI) ``Electric Transmission Line 
                                Maple Creek-Hoopa 60 kV or rights-of-
                                way'';
                                    (VII) ``Electric Distribution Line-
                                Willow Creek 1101 12 kV or rights-of-
                                way'';
                                    (VIII) ``Electric Distribution 
                                Line-Willow Creek 1103 12 kV or rights-
                                of-way'';
                                    (IX) ``Electric Distribution Line-
                                Low Gap 1101 12 kV or rights-of-way'';
                                    (X) ``Electric Distribution Line-
                                Fort Seward 1121 12 kV or rights-of-
                                way'';
                                    (XI) ``Forest Glen Border District 
                                Regulator Station or rights-of-way'';
                                    (XII) ``Durret District Gas 
                                Regulator Station or rights-of-way'';
                                    (XIII) ``Gas Distribution Line 
                                4269C or rights-of-way'';
                                    (XIV) ``Gas Distribution Line 43991 
                                or rights-of-way'';
                                    (XV) ``Gas Distribution Line 4993D 
                                or rights-of-way'';
                                    (XVI) ``Sportsmans Club District 
                                Gas Regulator Station or rights-of-
                                way'';
                                    (XVII) ``Highway 36 and Zenia 
                                District Gas Regulator Station or 
                                rights-of-way'';
                                    (XVIII) ``Dinsmore Lodge 2nd Stage 
                                Gas Regulator Station or rights-of-
                                way'';
                                    (XIX) ``Electric Distribution Line-
                                Wildwood 1101 12kV or rights-of-way'';
                                    (XX) ``Low Gap Substation'';
                                    (XXI) ``Hyampom Switching 
                                Station''; or
                                    (XXII) ``Wildwood Substation'';
                            (ii) the Bigfoot National Recreation Trail 
                        known as--
                                    (I) ``Gas Transmission Line 177A or 
                                rights-of-way'';
                                    (II) ``Electric Transmission Line 
                                Humboldt-Trinity 115 kV or rights-of-
                                way'';
                                    (III) ``Electric Transmission Line 
                                Bridgeville-Cottonwood 115 kV or 
                                rights-of-way''; or
                                    (IV) ``Electric Transmission Line 
                                Humboldt-Trinity 60 kV or rights-of-
                                way'';
                            (iii) the Sanhedrin Special Conservation 
                        Management Area known as ``Electric 
                        Distribution Line-Willits 1103 12 kV or rights-
                        of-way''; or
                            (iv) the Horse Mountain Special Management 
                        Area known as ``Electric Distribution Line 
                        Willow Creek 1101 12 kV or rights-of-way''; or
                    (B) utility facilities of the Pacific Gas and 
                Electric Company in rights-of-way issued, granted, or 
                permitted by the Secretary adjacent to a utility 
                facility referred to in subparagraph (A).
    (b) Plans for Access.--Not later than the later of the date that is 
1 year after the date of enactment of this Act or the date of issuance 
of a new utility facility right-of-way within the South Fork Trinity-
Mad River Restoration Area, Bigfoot National Recreation Trail, 
Sanhedrin Special Conservation Management Area, or Horse Mountain 
Special Management Area, the Secretary, in consultation with the 
Pacific Gas and Electric Company, shall publish plans for regular and 
emergency access by the Pacific Gas and Electric Company to the 
inholdings and rights-of-way of the Pacific Gas and Electric Company.
                                 &lt;all&gt;
</pre></body></html>
