<html><body><pre>
[Congressional Bills 107th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[S. 2817 Introduced in Senate (IS)]







107th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                S. 2817

 To authorize appropriations for fiscal years 2003, 2004, 2005, 2006, 
 and 2007 for the National Science Foundation, and for other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                   IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

                             July 29, 2002

  Mr. Kennedy (for himself, Mr. Hollings, Mr. Bond, and Ms. Mikulski) 
introduced the following bill; which was read twice and referred to the 
          Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
 To authorize appropriations for fiscal years 2003, 2004, 2005, 2006, 
 and 2007 for the National Science Foundation, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``National Science Foundation Doubling 
Act''.

SEC. 2. DEFINITIONS.

    In this Act:
            (1) Board.--The term ``Board'' means the National Science 
        Board established under section 2 of the National Science 
        Foundation Act of 1950 (42 U.S.C. 1861).
            (2) Director.--The term ``Director'' means the Director of 
        the National Science Foundation established under section 2 of 
        the National Science Foundation Act of 1950 (42 U.S.C. 1861).
            (3) Eligible applicant.--The term ``eligible applicant'' 
        means--
                    (A) an institution of higher education;
                    (B) consortia of institutions of higher education;
                    (C)(i) an institution of higher education or 
                consortia of such institutions; and
                    (ii) a nonprofit organization with demonstrated 
                experience in delivering science, mathematics, 
                engineering, or technology education; or
                    (D)(i) an institution of higher education or 
                consortia of such institutions;
                    (ii) a nonprofit organization with demonstrated 
                experience in delivering science, mathematics, 
                engineering, or technology education; and
                    (iii) State governments, local governments, or 
                private companies.
            (4) Foundation.--The term ``Foundation'' means the National 
        Science Foundation established under section 2 of the National 
        Science Foundation Act of 1950 (42 U.S.C. 1861).
            (5) Institution of higher education.--The term 
        ``institution of higher education'' has the meaning given such 
        term in section 101(a) of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (20 
        U.S.C. 1001(a)).
            (6) National research facility.--The term ``national 
        research facility'' means a research facility funded by the 
        Foundation which is available, subject to appropriate policies 
        allocating access, for use by all scientists and engineers 
        affiliated with research institutions located in the United 
        States.

SEC. 3. FINDINGS.

    Congress finds the following:
            (1) The National Science Foundation has made major 
        contributions during the past 50 years to strengthen and 
        sustain the Nation's academic research enterprise that is the 
        envy of the world.
            (2) The economic strength and national security of the 
        United States and the quality of life of all Americans are 
        grounded in the Nation's scientific and technological 
        capabilities.
            (3) The National Science Foundation carries out an 
        important function in supporting basic research in all science 
        and engineering disciplines and in supporting science, 
        mathematics, engineering, and technology education at all 
        levels.
            (4) The research and education activities of the National 
        Science Foundation promote the discovery, integration, 
        dissemination, and application of new knowledge in service to 
        society and prepare future generations of scientists, 
        mathematicians, and engineers who will be necessary to ensure 
        America's leadership in the global marketplace.
            (5) The National Science Foundation must be provided with 
        sufficient resources to enable it to carry out its 
        responsibilities to develop intellectual capital, strengthen 
        the scientific infrastructure, integrate research and 
        education, enhance the delivery of mathematics and science 
        education in the United States, and improve the technological 
        literacy of all people in the United States.
            (6) The emerging global economic, scientific, and technical 
        environment challenges long-standing assumptions about the 
        dichotomy between domestic and international policy, requiring 
        the National Science Foundation to play a more proactive role 
        in sustaining the competitive advantage of the United States 
        through superior research capabilities.

SEC. 4. POLICY OBJECTIVES.

    In allocating resources made available under section 5, the 
Foundation shall have the following policy objectives:
            (1) To strengthen the Nation's lead in science and 
        technology by--
                    (A) increasing the national investment in research 
                in strategic areas;
                    (B) balancing the Nation's research portfolio among 
                the life sciences and fundamental disciplines that are 
                important for the continued development of enabling 
                technologies necessary for sustained international 
                competitiveness;
                    (C) expanding the pool of scientists and engineers 
                in the United States;
                    (D) modernizing the Nation's research 
                infrastructure; and
                    (E) establishing and maintaining cooperative 
                international relationships with premier research 
                institutions, with the goal of such relationships being 
                the exchange of personnel, data, and information in an 
                effort to alleviate problems common to the global 
                community.
            (2) To increase overall workforce skills by--
                    (A) improving the quality of mathematics and 
                science education, particularly in kindergarten through 
                grade 12;
                    (B) providing access to information technology for 
                all students;
                    (C) raising postsecondary enrollment rates for 
                underrepresented minorities;
                    (D) increasing access to higher education for 
                students from low-income households; and
                    (E) expanding technical training opportunities at 
                institutions of higher education.
            (3) To strengthen innovation by--
                    (A) expanding the focus of competitiveness and 
                innovation policy at the regional and local level;
                    (B) supporting initiatives and organizations that 
                enhance and mobilize regional innovation; and
                    (C) identifying best policy practices in fostering 
                innovation at the State, regional, and local levels.

SEC. 5. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.

    (a) Fiscal Year 2003.--
            (1) In general.--There are authorized to be appropriated to 
        the National Science Foundation $5,536,390,000 for fiscal year 
        2003.
            (2) Specific allocations.--Of the amount authorized under 
        paragraph (1)--
                    (A) $4,174,840,000 shall be made available to carry 
                out research and related activities;
                    (B) $1,006,250,000 shall be made available for 
                education and human resources;
                    (C) $152,900,000 shall be made available for major 
                research equipment and facilities construction;
                    (D) $194,700,000 shall be made available for 
                salaries and expenses; and
                    (E) $7,700,000 shall be made available for the 
                Office of Inspector General.
    (b) Fiscal Year 2004.--
            (1) In general.--There are authorized to be appropriated to 
        the National Science Foundation $6,390,832,000 for fiscal year 
        2004.
            (2) Specific allocations.--Of the amount authorized under 
        paragraph (1)--
                    (A) $4,842,814,000 shall be made available to carry 
                out research and related activities;
                    (B) $1,157,188,000 shall be made available for 
                education and human resources;
                    (C) $168,190,000 shall be made available for major 
                research equipment and facilities construction;
                    (D) $214,170,000 shall be made available for 
                salaries and expenses; and
                    (E) $8,470,000 shall be made available for the 
                Office of Inspector General.
    (c) Fiscal Year 2005.--
            (1) In general.--There are authorized to be appropriated to 
        the National Science Foundation $7,378,343,000 for fiscal year 
        2005.
            (2) Specific allocations.--Of the amount authorized under 
        paragraph (1)--
                    (A) $5,617,665,000 shall be made available to carry 
                out research and related activities;
                    (B) $1,330,766,000 shall be made available to carry 
                out education and human resources;
                    (C) $185,009,000 shall be made available for major 
                research equipment and facilities construction;
                    (D) $235,587,000 shall be made available for 
                salaries and expenses; and
                    (E) $9,317,000 shall be made available for the 
                Office of Inspector General.
    (d) Fiscal Year 2006.--
            (1) In general.--There are authorized to be appropriated to 
        the National Science Foundation $8,519,776,000 for fiscal year 
        2006.
            (2) Specific allocations.--Of the amount authorized under 
        paragraph (1)--
                    (A) $6,516,491,000 shall be made available to carry 
                out research and related activities;
                    (B) $1,530,380,000 shall be made available to carry 
                out education and human resources;
                    (C) $203,509,900 shall be made available for major 
                research equipment and facilities construction;
                    (D) $259,145,700 shall be made available for 
                salaries and expenses; and
                    (E) $10,248,700 shall be made available for the 
                Office of Inspector General.
    (e) Fiscal Year 2007.--
            (1) In general.--There are authorized to be appropriated to 
        the National Science Foundation $9,839,262,000 for fiscal year 
        2007.
            (2) Specific allocations.--Of the amount authorized under 
        paragraph (1)--
                    (A) $7,559,130,000 shall be made available to carry 
                out research and related activities;
                    (B) $1,759,938,000 shall be made available to carry 
                out education and human resources;
                    (C) $223,860,900 shall be made available for major 
                research equipment and facilities construction;
                    (D) $285,060,300 shall be made available for 
                salaries and expenses; and
                    (E) $11,273,570 shall be made available for the 
                Office of Inspector General.

SEC. 6. SPECIFIC PROGRAM AUTHORIZATIONS.

    From amounts authorized to be appropriated under section 5, the 
Director shall continue the following initiatives:
            (1) Information technology.--An information technology 
        research program to support competitive, merit-based proposals 
        for research, education, and infrastructure support in areas 
        related to cybersecurity, terascale computing systems, 
        software, networking, scalability, communications, and data 
        management.
            (2) Nanoscale science and engineering.--A nanoscale science 
        and engineering research and education program to support 
        competitive, merit-based proposals that emphasize research 
        aimed at--
                    (A) discovering novel phenomena, processes, 
                materials, and tools that address grand challenges in 
                materials, electronics, optoelectronics and magnetics, 
                manufacturing, the environment, and healthcare; and
                    (B) supporting new interdisciplinary centers and 
                networks of excellence, including shared national user 
                facilities, infrastructure, research, and education 
                activities on the societal implications of advances in 
                nanoscale science and engineering.
            (3) Plant genome research.--A plant genome research program 
        to support competitive, merit-based proposals--
                    (A) that advance our understanding of the 
                structure, organization, and function of plant genomes; 
                and
                    (B) that accelerate the use of new knowledge and 
                innovative technologies toward a more complete 
                understanding of basic biological processes in plants, 
                especially in economically important plants such as 
                corn and soybeans.
            (4) Innovation partnerships.--An innovation partnerships 
        program with the purpose of providing competitive, merit-based 
        support for proposals that seek to stimulate innovation at the 
        regional level through partnerships involving States, regional 
        governmental entities, local governmental entities, industry, 
        academic institutions, and other related organizations in 
        strategically important fields of science and technology.
            (5) Mathematics and science partnerships.--An education 
        improvement initiative for current teachers that provides 
        eligible partnerships with grants to model ways in which to 
        enhance the capacity of elementary schools and secondary 
        schools, particularly those in high-poverty urban and rural 
        areas, to provide challenging mathematics and science curricula 
        to all students through--
                    (A) the use of professional mathematicians, 
                scientists, and engineers both in and outside the 
                classroom;
                    (B) the provision of stipends and technological 
                materials (including computers, training, and other 
                support) for individuals identified by local 
                educational agencies as potential master teachers, who 
                such agencies assure shall--
                            (i) mentor and systematically assist other 
                        teachers in mathematics and science instruction 
                        and the use of technology; and
                            (ii) be provided with paid, sufficient time 
                        to participate in eligible partnership 
                        supported activities and those activities 
                        described in clause (i);
                    (C) implementation of summer and academic year 
                professional development institutes that train teachers 
                in mathematics and science content areas and promising 
                pedagogical techniques;
                    (D) support for distance learning programs in 
                mathematics and science; and
                    (E) other activities the Director determines will 
                accomplish the goals of this paragraph.
            (6) Robert c. noyce scholarship.--
                    (A) In general.--Multi-year awards to institutions 
                of higher education to provide future teachers who have 
                not less than 2 years of completed work toward a 
                baccalaureate degree in a mathematics or science area 
                with scholarships, stipends, and training toward 
                teacher certification or alternative certification.
                    (B) Selection.--An institution of higher education 
                that receives an award under this paragraph shall 
                provide scholarships, stipends, and training to future 
                teachers based on academic merit, with consideration 
                given to the financial need of such future teachers and 
                the goal of promoting participation of women, 
                minorities, and persons with disabilities.
                    (C) Amount.--Scholarships and stipends awarded 
                pursuant to this paragraph shall be equal to the lesser 
                of $7,500, or the cost of attendance at the institution 
                of higher education.
                    (D) Service obligation.--Not later than 3 years 
                after receiving a scholarship or stipend under this 
                paragraph, an individual shall--
                            (i) begin to undertake 2 years of teaching 
                        mathematics or science in a high poverty 
                        school;
                            (ii) provide the institution of higher 
                        education attended by the individual with 2 
                        years of certification of completed full time 
                        employment as a mathematics or science teacher 
                        in a high poverty school; and
                            (iii) if necessary return all relevant 
                        funds, including interest, awarded pursuant to 
                        this paragraph in the event of noncompliance 
                        with the terms of this paragraph, unless the 
                        Director provides for partial or total waiver 
                        of the terms of this subparagraph for 
                        individuals due to extreme hardship.
            (7) Science, mathematics, engineering and technology talent 
        expansion program.--
                    (A) In general.--A merit-based, multi-year, 
                competitive grant program for eligible applicants to 
                increase the number of students studying toward and 
                receiving associate's or bachelor's degrees in science, 
                mathematics, engineering, and technology.
                    (B) Types of projects.--The types of projects the 
                Foundation may support under this paragraph include 
                those that promote high quality--
                            (i) interdisciplinary teaching;
                            (ii) undergraduate-conducted research;
                            (iii) mentor relationships for students in 
                        underrepresented groups;
                            (iv) bridge programs that enable students 
                        at community colleges to matriculate directly 
                        into baccalaureate science, mathematics, 
                        engineering, or technology programs;
                            (v) internships carried out in partnership 
                        with industry; and
                            (vi) innovative uses of digital 
                        technologies, particularly at institutions of 
                        higher education that serve high numbers or 
                        percentages of economically disadvantaged 
                        students.
                    (C) Performance accountability.--
                            (i) In general.--In order to receive a 
                        grant under this paragraph, an eligible 
                        applicant shall establish benchmarks to 
                        increase the number of students studying toward 
                        and receiving associate's or bachelor's degrees 
                        in science, mathematics, engineering, and 
                        technology.
                            (ii) Continued funding.--In order to 
                        receive continued annual funding under this 
                        paragraph, an eligible applicant shall meet the 
                        benchmarks established under clause (i).
            (8) Secondary school systemic initiative.--A merit-based, 
        competitive grant program for State educational agencies or 
        local educational agencies that supports the planning and 
        implementation of agency-wide secondary school reform 
        initiatives designed to prepare graduating secondary school 
        students to read and comprehend specialized technical and 
        scientific texts, such as computer training materials or the 
        science section of a major newspaper, meet the mathematics and 
        science education needs of students at risk of not achieving 
        State academic achievement standards, reduce the need for basic 
        skill training by employers, and heighten college completion 
        rates, through--
                    (A) adoption of enriched mathematics and science 
                curricula for all students;
                    (B) strengthened teacher training in mathematics, 
                science, and reading as it relates to technical and 
                specialized texts;
                    (C) creation of smaller learning communities, 
                including initiatives that substantially reduce class 
                size, support new small schools, or small schools 
                within schools;
                    (D) collaborations between State and local 
                secondary school systems and institutions of higher 
                education that align curricula and higher education 
                placement requirements; and
                    (E) other activities the Director determines will 
                accomplish the goals of this paragraph.
            (9) Experimental program to stimulate competitive 
        research.--The Experimental Program to Stimulate Competitive 
        Research established under section 113 of the National Science 
        Foundation Authorization Act of 1988 (42 U.S.C. 1862g) as part 
        of the Foundation's crosscutting/interdisciplinary programs. 
        The program shall provide for activities, which may include 
        research infrastructure improvement grants, co-funding 
        initiatives, and outreach initiatives.
            (10) The science and engineering equal opportunities act.--
        A comprehensive program designed to advance the goals of the 
        Science and Engineering Equal Opportunities Act (42 U.S.C. 1885 
        et seq.), including programs to provide support to minority 
        serving institutions.

SEC. 7. MAJOR RESEARCH INSTRUMENTATION.

    (a) Review and Assessment.--The Director shall conduct a review and 
assessment of the major research instrumentation program and, not later 
than 1 year after the date of enactment of this Act, submit a report of 
findings and recommendations to the Committee on Commerce, Science, and 
Transportation of the Senate, the Committee on Health, Education, 
Labor, and Pensions of the Senate, and the Committee on Science of the 
House of Representatives. The report shall include--
            (1) estimates of the needs, by major field of science and 
        engineering and by types of institutions of higher education, 
        for the types of research instrumentation that are eligible for 
        acquisition under the guidelines of the major research 
        instrumentation program;
            (2) since the inception of the major research 
        instrumentation program, the distribution of awards and funding 
        levels by year, by major field of science and engineering, and 
        by type of institution of higher education for the program; and
            (3) an analysis of the impact of the major research 
        instrumentation program on the research instrumentation needs 
        that were documented in the Foundation's 1994 survey of 
        academic research instrumentation needs.
    (b) OSTP Assessment.--The Director of the Office of Science and 
Technology Policy shall--
            (1) assess the need for and develop an interagency program 
        to establish fully equipped, state-of-the-art university-based 
        centers for interdisciplinary research and advanced 
        instrumentation development; and
            (2) submit a report, not later than 14 months after the 
        date of enactment of this Act, that contains the assessment and 
        the recommended interagency program developed under paragraph 
        (1) to the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation 
        of the Senate, the Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and 
        Pensions of the Senate, and the Committee on Science of the 
        House of Representatives .

SEC. 8. MAJOR RESEARCH EQUIPMENT AND FACILITIES CONSTRUCTION PLAN.

    (a) Prioritization of Proposed Major Research Equipment and 
Facilities Construction.--
            (1) Development of priorities.--
                    (A) List.--The Director shall--
                            (i) develop a list indicating by number the 
                        relative priority for funding under the major 
                        research equipment and facilities construction 
                        account that the Director assigns to each 
                        project the Board has approved for inclusion in 
                        a future budget request; and
                            (ii) submit the list described in clause 
                        (i) to the Board for approval.
                    (B) Updates.--The Director shall update the list 
                prepared under subparagraph (A) each time the Board 
                approves a new project that would receive funding under 
                the major research equipment and facilities 
                construction account, as necessary to prepare reports 
                under paragraph (2), and, from time to time, submit any 
                updated list to the Board for approval.
            (2) Annual report.--Not later than 90 days after the date 
        of enactment of this Act, and not later than each June 15 
        thereafter, the Director shall transmit to Congress a report 
        containing--
                    (A) the most recent Board-approved priority list 
                developed under paragraph (1)(A);
                    (B) a description of the criteria used to develop 
                such list; and
                    (C) a description of the major factors for each 
                project that determined the ranking of such project on 
                the list, based on the application of the criteria 
                described pursuant to subparagraph (B).
            (3) Criteria.--The criteria described pursuant to paragraph 
        (2)(B) shall include, at a minimum--
                    (A) scientific merit;
                    (B) broad societal need and probable impact;
                    (C) consideration of the results of formal 
                prioritization efforts by the scientific community;
                    (D) readiness of plans for construction and 
                operation;
                    (E) the applicant's management and administrative 
                capacity of large research facilities;
                    (F) international and interagency commitments; and
                    (G) the order in which projects were approved by 
                the Board for inclusion in a future budget request.
    (b) Facilities Plan.--
            (1) In general.--Section 201(a)(1) of the National Science 
        Foundation Authorization Act of 1998 (42 U.S.C. 1862l(a)(1)) is 
        amended to read as follows:
            ``(1) In general.--The Director shall prepare, and include 
        as part of the Foundation's annual budget request to Congress, 
        a plan for the proposed construction of, and repair and 
        upgrades to, national research facilities, including full life-
        cycle cost information.''.
            (2) Contents of plan.--Section 201(a)(2) of the National 
        Science Foundation Authorization Act of 1998 (42 U.S.C. 
        1862l(a)(2)) is amended--
                    (A) in subparagraph (A), by striking ``(1);'' and 
                inserting ``(1), including costs for instrumentation 
                development;'';
                    (B) at the end of subparagraph (B), by striking 
                ``and'';
                    (C) in subparagraph (C), by striking 
                ``construction.'' and inserting ``construction;''; and
                    (D) by adding at the end the following:
                    ``(D) for each project funded under the major 
                research equipment and facilities construction 
                account--
                            ``(i) estimates of the total project cost 
                        (from planning to commissioning); and
                            ``(ii) the source of funds, including 
                        Federal funding identified by appropriations 
                        category and non-Federal funding;
                    ``(E) estimates of the full life-cycle cost of each 
                national research facility;
                    ``(F) information on any plans to retire national 
                research facilities; and
                    ``(G) estimates of funding levels for grants 
                supporting research that will make use of each national 
                research facility.''.
            (3) Definition.--Section 2 of the National Science 
        Foundation Authorization Act of 1998 (42 U.S.C. 1862k note) is 
        amended--
                    (A) by redesignating paragraphs (3) through (5) as 
                paragraphs (4) through (6), respectively; and
                    (B) by inserting after paragraph (2) the following:
            ``(3) Full life-cycle cost.--The term `full life-cycle 
        cost' means all costs of development, procurement, 
        construction, operations and support, and shut-down costs, 
        without regard to funding source and without regard to what 
        entity manages the project.''.
    (c) Project Management.--No national research facility project 
funded under the major research equipment and facilities construction 
account shall be managed by an individual whose appointment to the 
Foundation is temporary.
    (d) Board Approval of Major Research Equipment and Facilities 
Projects.--
            (1) In general.--The Board shall explicitly approve any 
        project to be funded out of the major research equipment and 
        facilities construction account before any funds may be 
        obligated from such account for such project.
            (2) Report.--Not later than September 15 of each fiscal 
        year, the Board shall report to the Committee on Commerce, 
        Science, and Transportation of the Senate, the Committee on 
        Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions of the Senate, and the 
        Committee on Science of the House of Representatives on the 
        conditions of any delegation of authority under section 4 of 
        the National Science Foundation Act of 1950 (42 U.S.C. 1863) 
        that relates to funds appropriated for any project in the major 
        research equipment and facilities construction account.

SEC. 9. ADMINISTRATIVE AMENDMENTS.

    (a) Adoption of Procedures for Meetings.--Section 4(e) of the 
National Science Foundation Act of 1950 (42 U.S.C. 1863(e)), is amended 
by striking the second and third sentences and inserting ``The Board 
shall adopt procedures governing the conduct of its meetings, including 
a definition of a quorum and delivery of notice.''.
    (b) Confidentiality of Certain Information.--Section 14(i) of the 
National Science Foundation Act of 1950 (42 U.S.C. 1873(i)) is amended 
to read as follows:
    ``(i) Confidentiality of Certain Information.--
            ``(1) In general.--
                    ``(A) Nondisclosure.--Information supplied to the 
                Foundation or a contractor of the Foundation in survey 
                forms, questionnaires, or similar instruments for 
                purposes of section 3(a) (5) or (6) by an individual, 
                an industrial or commercial organization, or an 
                educational or academic institution when the 
                institution has received a pledge of confidentiality 
                from the Foundation, shall not be disclosed to the 
                public unless the information has been transformed into 
                statistical or abstract formats that do not allow for 
                the identification of the supplier.
                    ``(B) Statistical or research purposes.--
                Information that has not been transformed into 
                nonidentifiable formats as described in subparagraph 
                (A) may be used only for statistical or research 
                purposes.
                    ``(C) Identities.--The identities of individuals 
                and organizations supplying information described in 
                subparagraph (A) may not be disclosed to the public.
            ``(2) Obligations of researchers.--In support of functions 
        authorized by section 3(a) (5) or (6), the Foundation may 
        designate, at its discretion, authorized persons, including 
        employees of Federal, State or local agencies or 
        instrumentalities (including local educational agencies) and 
        employees of private organizations, to have access, for 
        statistical or research purposes only, to identifiable 
        information collected pursuant to section 3(a) (5) or (6). No 
        such person may--
                    ``(A) publish information collected pursuant to 
                section 3(a) (5) or (6) in such a manner that either an 
                individual, an industrial or commercial organization, 
                or an educational, academic, or other nonprofit 
                institution that has received a pledge of 
                confidentiality from the Foundation can be specifically 
                identified;
                    ``(B) permit anyone other than individuals 
                authorized by the Foundation to examine, in 
                identifiable form, data relating to an individual, an 
                industrial or commercial organization, or an academic, 
                educational, or other non-profit institution that has 
                received a pledge of confidentiality from the 
                Foundation; or
                    ``(C) knowingly and willfully request or obtain any 
                confidential information described in paragraph (1) 
                from the Foundation under false pretenses.
            ``(3) Penalty.--Violation of this subsection is punishable 
        by a fine of not more than $10,000, imprisonment for not more 
        than 5 years, or both.''.

SEC. 10. REPORTS.

    (a) Grant Size and Duration.--Not later than 6 months after the 
date of enactment of this Act, the Director shall transmit to the 
Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate, the 
Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions of the Senate, and 
the Committee on Science of the House of Representatives a report 
describing the impact that increasing the average grant size and 
duration would have on minority serving institutions and on 
institutions located in States where the Foundation's Experimental 
Program to Stimulate Competitive Research (established under section 
113 of the National Science Foundation Authorization Act of 1988 (42 
U.S.C. 1862g)) is carrying out activities.
    (b) Open Meetings.--Not later than 6 months after the date of 
enactment of this Act, the Chair of the Board shall transmit to the 
Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate, the 
Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions of the Senate, and 
the Committee on Science of the House of Representatives a report 
describing proposed procedures under which the Board could conduct its 
meetings so as to ensure greater public access to its deliberations.
                                 &lt;all&gt;
</pre></body></html>
