<html><body><pre>
[Congressional Bills 116th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[S. 1110 Introduced in Senate (IS)]

&lt;DOC&gt;






116th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                S. 1110

   To provide for restoration, economic development, recreation, and 
  conservation on Federal lands in Northern California, and for other 
                               purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                   IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

                             April 10, 2019

 Ms. Harris (for herself and Mrs. Feinstein) introduced the following 
bill; which was read twice and referred to the Committee on Energy and 
                           Natural Resources

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
   To provide for restoration, economic development, recreation, and 
  conservation on Federal lands in Northern California, and for other 
                               purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE; TABLE OF CONTENTS.

    (a) Short Title.--This Act may be cited as the ``Northwest 
California Wilderness, Recreation, and Working Forests Act''.
    (b) Table of Contents.--The table of contents for this Act is as 
follows:

Sec. 1. Short title; table of contents.
Sec. 2. Definitions.
             TITLE I--RESTORATION AND ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT

Sec. 101. South Fork Trinity-Mad River Restoration Area.
Sec. 102. Redwood National and State Parks restoration.
Sec. 103. Northwest California Public Lands Remediation Partnership.
Sec. 104. Trinity Lake visitor center.
Sec. 105. Del Norte County visitor center.
Sec. 106. Management plans.
Sec. 107. Study; partnerships related to overnight accommodations.
                          TITLE II--RECREATION

Sec. 201. Horse Mountain Special Management Area.
Sec. 202. Bigfoot National Recreation Trail.
Sec. 203. Elk Camp Ridge Recreation Trail.
Sec. 204. Trinity Lake trail.
Sec. 205. Trails study.
Sec. 206. Construction of mountain bicycling routes.
Sec. 207. Partnerships.
                        TITLE III--CONSERVATION

Sec. 301. Designation of wilderness.
Sec. 302. Administration of wilderness.
Sec. 303. Designation of potential wilderness.
Sec. 304. Designation of wild and scenic rivers.
Sec. 305. Sanhedrin Conservation Management Area.
                        TITLE IV--MISCELLANEOUS

Sec. 401. Maps and legal description.

SEC. 2. DEFINITIONS.

    In this Act:
            (1) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means--
                    (A) with respect to land under the jurisdiction of 
                the Secretary of Agriculture, the Secretary of 
                Agriculture; and
                    (B) with respect to land under the jurisdiction of 
                the Secretary of the Interior, the Secretary of the 
                Interior.
            (2) State.--The term ``State'' means the State of 
        California.

             TITLE I--RESTORATION AND ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT

SEC. 101. SOUTH FORK TRINITY-MAD RIVER RESTORATION AREA.

    (a) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Collaboratively developed.--The term ``collaboratively 
        developed'' means projects that are developed and implemented 
        through a collaborative process that--
                    (A) includes--
                            (i) appropriate Federal, State, and local 
                        agencies; and
                            (ii) multiple interested persons 
                        representing diverse interests; and
                    (B) is transparent and nonexclusive.
            (2) Plantation.--The term ``plantation'' means a forested 
        area that has been artificially established by planting or 
        seeding.
            (3) Restoration.--The term ``restoration'' means the 
        process of assisting the recovery of an ecosystem that has been 
        degraded, damaged, or destroyed by establishing the 
        composition, structure, pattern, and ecological processes 
        necessary to facilitate terrestrial and aquatic ecosystem 
        sustainability, resilience, and health under current and future 
        conditions.
            (4) Restoration area.--The term ``restoration area'' means 
        the South Fork Trinity-Mad River Restoration Area, established 
        by subsection (b).
            (5) Stewardship contract.--The term ``stewardship 
        contract'' means an agreement or contract entered into under 
        section 604 of the Healthy Forests Restoration Act of 2003 (16 
        U.S.C. 6591c).
            (6) Shaded fuel break.--The term ``shaded fuel break'' 
        means a vegetation treatment that effectively addresses all 
        project-generated slash and that retains: adequate canopy cover 
        to suppress plant regrowth in the forest understory following 
        treatment; the longest-lived trees that provide the most shade 
        over the longest period of time; the healthiest and most 
        vigorous trees with the greatest potential for crown-growth in 
        plantations and in natural stands adjacent to plantations; and 
        all mature hardwoods, when practicable.
            (7) Wildland-urban interface.--The term ``wildland-urban 
        interface'' has the meaning given the term by section 101 of 
        the Healthy Forests Restoration Act of 2003 (16 U.S.C. 6511).
    (b) Establishment.--Subject to valid existing rights, there is 
established the South Fork Trinity-Mad River Restoration Area, 
comprising approximately 729,089 acres of Federal land administered by 
the Forest Service and approximately 1,280 acres of Federal land 
administered by the Bureau of Land Management, as generally depicted on 
the map entitled ``South Fork Trinity-Mad River Restoration Area--
Proposed'' and dated July 3, 2018, to be known as the ``South Fork 
Trinity-Mad River Restoration Area''.
    (c) Purposes.--The purposes of the restoration area are to--
            (1) establish, restore, and maintain fire-resilient forest 
        structures containing late successional forest structure 
        characterized by large trees and multistoried canopies, as 
        ecologically appropriate;
            (2) protect late successional reserves;
            (3) enhance the restoration of Federal lands within the 
        restoration area;
            (4) reduce the threat posed by wildfires to communities 
        within the restoration area;
            (5) protect and restore aquatic habitat and anadromous 
        fisheries;
            (6) protect the quality of water within the restoration 
        area; and
            (7) allow visitors to enjoy the scenic, natural, cultural, 
        and wildlife values of the restoration area.
    (d) Management.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary shall manage the restoration 
        area--
                    (A) in a manner consistent with the purposes 
                described in subsection (c);
                    (B) in a manner that--
                            (i) in the case of the Forest Service, 
                        prioritizes restoration of the restoration area 
                        over other nonemergency vegetation management 
                        projects on the portions of the Six Rivers and 
                        Shasta-Trinity national forests in Humboldt and 
                        Trinity counties; and
                            (ii) in the case of the United States Fish 
                        and Wildlife Service, establishes with the 
                        Forest Service an agreement for cooperation to 
                        ensure timely completion of consultation 
                        required by section 7 of the Endangered Species 
                        Act (15 U.S.C. 1536) on restoration projects 
                        within the restoration area and agreement to 
                        maintain and exchange information on planning 
                        schedules and priorities on a regular basis;
                    (C) in accordance with--
                            (i) the laws (including regulations) and 
                        rules applicable to the National Forest System 
                        for land managed by the Forest Service;
                            (ii) the Federal Land Policy and Management 
                        Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.) for land 
                        managed by the Bureau of Land Management;
                            (iii) this Act; and
                            (iv) any other applicable law (including 
                        regulations); and
                    (D) in a manner consistent with congressional 
                intent that consultation for restoration projects 
                within the restoration area are completed in a timely 
                and efficient manner.
            (2) Conflict of laws.--
                    (A) In general.--The establishment of the 
                restoration area shall not change the management status 
                of any land or water that is designated wilderness or 
                as a wild and scenic river, including lands and waters 
                designated by this Act.
                    (B) Resolution of conflict.--If there is a conflict 
                between the laws applicable to the areas described in 
                subparagraph (A) and this section, the more restrictive 
                provision shall control.
            (3) Uses.--
                    (A) In general.--The Secretary shall only allow 
                uses of the restoration area that the Secretary 
                determines would further the purposes described in 
                subsection (c).
                    (B) Priority.--The Secretary shall prioritize 
                restoration activities within the restoration area.
            (4) Wildland fire.--
                    (A) In general.--Nothing in this section prohibits 
                the Secretary, in cooperation with other Federal, 
                State, and local agencies, as appropriate, from 
                conducting wildland fire operations in the restoration 
                area, consistent with the purposes of this section.
                    (B) Priority.--The Secretary shall use prescribed 
                burning and wildland fire to the extent practicable to 
                achieve the purposes of this section.
            (5) Road decommissioning.--
                    (A) In general.--To the extent practicable, the 
                Secretary shall decommission unneeded National Forest 
                System roads identified for decommissioning and 
                unauthorized roads identified for decommissioning 
                within the restoration area--
                            (i) subject to appropriations;
                            (ii) consistent with the analysis required 
                        by subparts A and B of part 212 of title 36, 
                        Code of Federal Regulations; and
                            (iii) in accordance with existing law.
                    (B) Additional requirement.--In making 
                determinations regarding road decommissioning under 
                subparagraph (A), the Secretary shall consult with--
                            (i) appropriate State, Tribal, and local 
                        governmental entities; and
                            (ii) members of the public.
                    (C) Definition.--As used in subparagraph (A), the 
                term ``decommission'' means--
                            (i) to reestablish vegetation on a road; 
                        and
                            (ii) to restore any natural drainage, 
                        watershed function, or other ecological 
                        processes that are disrupted or adversely 
                        impacted by the road by removing or 
                        hydrologically disconnecting the road prism.
            (6) Vegetation management.--
                    (A) In general.--Subject to subparagraphs (B), (C), 
                and (D), the Secretary may conduct vegetation 
                management projects in the restoration area only where 
                necessary to--
                            (i) maintain or restore the characteristics 
                        of ecosystem composition and structure;
                            (ii) reduce wildfire risk to communities by 
                        promoting forests that are fire resilient;
                            (iii) improve the habitat of threatened, 
                        endangered, or sensitive species;
                            (iv) protect or improve water quality; or
                            (v) enhance the restoration of lands within 
                        the restoration area.
                    (B) Additional requirements.--
                            (i) Shaded fuel breaks.--In carrying out 
                        subparagraph (A), the Secretary shall 
                        prioritize the establishment of a network of 
                        shaded fuel breaks within--
                                    (I) the portions of the wildland-
                                urban interface that are within 150 
                                feet from private property contiguous 
                                to Federal land;
                                    (II) one hundred and fifty feet 
                                from any road that is open to motorized 
                                vehicles as of the date of enactment of 
                                this Act--
                                            (aa) except that, where 
                                        topography or other conditions 
                                        require, the Secretary may 
                                        establish shaded fuel breaks up 
                                        to 275 feet from a road so long 
                                        as the combined total width of 
                                        the shaded fuel breaks for both 
                                        sides of the road does not 
                                        exceed 300 feet; and
                                            (bb) provided that the 
                                        Secretary shall include 
                                        vegetation treatments within a 
                                        minimum of 25 feet of the road 
                                        where practicable, feasible, 
                                        and appropriate as part of any 
                                        shaded fuel break; or
                                    (III) one hundred and fifty feet of 
                                any plantation.
                            (ii) Plantations; riparian reserves.--The 
                        Secretary may undertake vegetation management 
                        projects--
                                    (I) in areas within the restoration 
                                area in which fish and wildlife habitat 
                                is significantly compromised as a 
                                result of past management practices 
                                (including plantations); and
                                    (II) within designated riparian 
                                reserves only where necessary to 
                                maintain the integrity of fuel breaks 
                                and to enhance fire resilience.
                    (C) Compliance.--The Secretary shall carry out 
                vegetation management projects within the restoration 
                area--
                            (i) in accordance with--
                                    (I) this section; and
                                    (II) existing law (including 
                                regulations);
                            (ii) after providing an opportunity for 
                        public comment; and
                            (iii) subject to appropriations.
                    (D) Best available science.--The Secretary shall 
                use the best available science in planning and 
                implementing vegetation management projects within the 
                restoration area.
            (7) Grazing.--The grazing of livestock in the restoration 
        area, where established before the date of enactment of this 
        Act, shall be permitted to continue--
                    (A) subject to--
                            (i) such reasonable regulations, policies, 
                        and practices as the Secretary considers 
                        necessary; and
                            (ii) applicable law (including 
                        regulations); and
                    (B) in a manner consistent with the purposes 
                described in subsection (c).
    (e) Withdrawal.--Subject to valid existing rights, the restoration 
area is withdrawn from--
            (1) all forms of entry, appropriation, and disposal under 
        the public land laws;
            (2) location, entry, and patent under the mining laws; and
            (3) disposition under all laws relating to mineral and 
        geothermal leasing or mineral materials.
    (f) Use of Stewardship Contracts.--To the maximum extent 
practicable, the Secretary shall--
            (1) use stewardship contracts to implement this section; 
        and
            (2) use revenue derived from such stewardship contracts for 
        restoration and other activities within the restoration area 
        which shall include staff and administrative costs to support 
        timely consultation activities for restoration projects.
    (g) Collaboration.--In developing and implementing restoration 
projects in the restoration area, the Secretary shall consult with 
collaborative groups with an interest in the restoration area.
    (h) Environmental Review.--A collaboratively developed restoration 
project within the restoration area may be carried out in accordance 
with the provisions for hazardous fuel reduction projects set forth in 
sections 104, 105, and 106 of the Healthy Forests Restoration Act of 
2003 (16 U.S.C. 6514-6516).
    (i) Multiparty Monitoring.--The Secretary of Agriculture shall--
            (1) in collaboration with the Secretary of the Interior and 
        interested persons, use a multiparty monitoring, evaluation, 
        and accountability process to assess the positive or negative 
        ecological, social, and economic effects of restoration 
        projects within the restoration area; and
            (2) incorporate the monitoring results into the management 
        of the restoration area.
    (j) Forest Residues Utilization.--
            (1) In general.--In accordance with applicable law, 
        including regulations, and this section, the Secretary may use 
        forest residues from restoration projects, including shaded 
        fuel breaks, in the restoration area for research and 
        development of biobased products that result in net carbon 
        sequestration.
            (2) Partnerships.--In carrying out paragraph (1), the 
        Secretary may enter into partnerships with institutions of 
        higher education, nongovernmental organizations, industry, 
        Indian Tribes, and Federal, State, and local governmental 
        agencies.
    (k) Funding.--The Secretary shall use existing authorities to 
secure such funding as is necessary to fulfill the purposes of the 
restoration area.

SEC. 102. REDWOOD NATIONAL AND STATE PARKS RESTORATION.

    (a) Findings.--Congress finds that--
            (1) Coast redwoods are an iconic California resource that 
        represents the beauty and natural grandeur of the Golden State.
            (2) These ancient redwood forests contain the tallest trees 
        on Earth, which grow to be more than 3,500 years old.
            (3) Redwood forests serve as the most effective forest-
        based carbon sink in the world, storing 3 times or more carbon 
        per acre than any other forest ecosystem.
            (4) Healthy old-growth redwood forests provide important 
        ecological benefits, including clean air, habitat for special 
        status plants and animals, and water resources that are 
        critical to the health and sustainability of federally listed 
        salmon fisheries.
            (5) Redwood forests are true wonders of the world, 
        inspiring more than 31 million visitors every year in 
        California's redwood parks and supporting a multi-billion 
        dollar outdoor recreation economy.
            (6) The redwood forests of northern California are the 
        ancestral home of several tribal nations, whose members use 
        stewardship and natural resource management expertise to 
        protect and restore these forestlands.
            (7) After the 1849 Gold Rush, demand for lumber devastated 
        ancient redwood forests and today only 5 percent of the 
        original old-growth coast redwoods remain.
            (8) Redwood National and State Parks safeguard more than 
        one-third of the world's remaining old-growth coast redwood 
        forests.
            (9) These parks contain tens of thousands of acres of 
        redwood forests that have been logged, and require innovative 
        application of science and technology to improve forest 
        stewardship and accelerate forest regeneration.
            (10) Restoration of these forest ecosystems will hasten the 
        return of healthy old-growth forests, while providing jobs in 
        local communities and enhancing native habitat for numerous 
        plant and animal species.
            (11) Redwood National and State Parks are partnering with 
        nongovernmental organizations and tribes to restore these 
        redwood forest ecosystems.
            (12) Redwood forest restoration benefits the people of 
        California for generations to come.
    (b) Partnership Agreements.--The Secretary of the Interior is 
authorized to undertake initiatives to restore degraded redwood forest 
ecosystems in Redwood National and State Parks in partnership with the 
State of California, local agencies, and nongovernmental organizations.
    (c) Compliance.--In carrying out any initiative authorized by 
subsection (a), the Secretary of the Interior shall comply with all 
applicable law.

SEC. 103. NORTHWEST CALIFORNIA PUBLIC LANDS REMEDIATION PARTNERSHIP.

    (a) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Remediation.--The term ``remediation'' means to 
        facilitate the recovery of lands and waters that have been 
        degraded, damaged, or destroyed by illegal marijuana 
        cultivation or another illegal activity. Remediation includes 
        but is not limited to removal of trash, debris, and other 
        material, and establishing the composition, structure, pattern, 
        and ecological processes necessary to facilitate terrestrial 
        and aquatic ecosystem sustainability, resilience, and health 
        under current and future conditions.
            (2) Partnership.--The term ``partnership'' means the 
        Northwest California Public Lands Remediation Partnership, 
        established by subsection (b).
            (3) Priority lands.--The term ``priority lands'' means 
        Federal land within the Klamath, Shasta-Trinity, Six Rivers, 
        and Mendocino National Forests, and public land administered by 
        the Bureau of Land Management within the Redding, Arcata, and 
        Ukiah field offices.
    (b) Establishment.--There is hereby established a Northwest 
California Public Lands Remediation Partnership.
    (c) Purposes.--The purposes of the partnership are to--
            (1) coordinate the activities of Federal, State, Tribal, 
        and local authorities, and the private sector, in the 
        remediation of priority lands in the State affected by illegal 
        marijuana cultivation or other illegal activities; and
            (2) use the resources and expertise of each agency, 
        authority, or entity in implementing remediation activities on 
        priority lands in the State.
    (d) Membership.--The members of the partnership shall include the 
following:
            (1) The Secretary of Agriculture, or a designee of the 
        Secretary of Agriculture to represent the Forest Service.
            (2) The Secretary of the Interior, or a designee of the 
        Secretary of the Interior, to represent the United States Fish 
        and Wildlife Service, Bureau of Land Management, and National 
        Park Service.
            (3) The Director of the Office of National Drug Control 
        Policy, or a designee of the Director.
            (4) The Secretary of the State Natural Resources Agency, or 
        a designee of the Secretary, to represent the California 
        Department of Fish and Wildlife.
            (5) A designee of the California State Water Resources 
        Control Board.
            (6) A designee of the California State Sheriffs' 
        Association.
            (7) One member to represent federally recognized Indian 
        Tribes, to be appointed by the Secretary of Agriculture.
            (8) One member to represent nongovernmental organizations 
        with an interest in Federal land remediation, to be appointed 
        by the Secretary of Agriculture.
            (9) One member to represent local governmental interests, 
        to be appointed by the Secretary of Agriculture.
            (10) A law enforcement official from each of the following:
                    (A) The Department of the Interior.
                    (B) The Department of Agriculture.
            (11) A scientist to provide expertise and advise on methods 
        needed for remediation efforts, to be appointed by the 
        Secretary of Agriculture.
            (12) A designee of the National Guard Counter Drug Program.
    (e) Duties.--To further the purposes of this section, the 
partnership shall--
            (1) identify priorities for remediation on priority lands 
        in the State;
            (2) secure resources from Federal and non-Federal sources 
        to apply to remediation of priority lands in the State;
            (3) carry out remediation on priority lands in the State;
            (4) support efforts by Federal, State, Tribal, and local 
        agencies, and nongovernmental organizations in carrying out 
        remediation of priority lands in the State;
            (5) support research and education on the impacts of, and 
        solutions to, illegal marijuana cultivation and other illegal 
        activities on priority lands in the State;
            (6) involve other Federal, State, Tribal, and local 
        agencies, nongovernmental organizations, and the public in 
        remediation efforts, to the extent practicable; and
            (7) take any other actions necessary to address remediation 
        of priority lands in the State.
    (f) Authorities.--To implement this section, the partnership may, 
subject to the prior approval of the Secretary of Agriculture--
            (1) make grants to the State, political subdivisions of the 
        State, nonprofit organizations, and other persons;
            (2) enter into cooperative agreements with, or provide 
        grants or technical assistance to, the State, political 
        subdivisions of the State, nonprofit organizations, Federal 
        agencies, and other interested parties;
            (3) hire and compensate staff;
            (4) obtain funds or services from any source, including 
        Federal and non-Federal funds, and funds and services provided 
        under any other Federal law or program;
            (5) contract for goods or services; and
            (6) support activities of partners and any other activities 
        that further the purposes of this section.
    (g) Procedures.--The partnership shall establish such rules and 
procedures as it deems necessary or desirable.
    (h) Local Hiring.--The partnership shall, to the maximum extent 
practicable and in accordance with existing law, give preference to 
local entities and persons when carrying out this section.
    (i) Service Without Compensation.--Members of the partnership shall 
serve without pay.
    (j) Duties and Authorities of the Secretary of Agriculture.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary of Agriculture shall convene 
        the partnership on a regular basis to carry out this section.
            (2) Technical and financial assistance.--The Secretary of 
        Agriculture and Secretary of the Interior may provide technical 
        and financial assistance, on a reimbursable or nonreimbursable 
        basis, as determined by the appropriate Secretary, to the 
        partnership or any members of the partnership to carry out this 
        Act.
            (3) Cooperative agreements.--The Secretary of Agriculture 
        and Secretary of the Interior may enter into cooperative 
        agreements with the partnership, any members of the 
        partnership, or other public or private entities to provide 
        technical, financial, or other assistance to carry out this 
        Act.

SEC. 104. TRINITY LAKE VISITOR CENTER.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary of Agriculture, acting through the 
Chief of the Forest Service, may establish, in cooperation with any 
other public or private entities that the Secretary may determine to be 
appropriate, a visitor center in Weaverville, California--
            (1) to serve visitors; and
            (2) to assist in fulfilling the purposes of the 
        Whiskeytown-Shasta-Trinity National Recreation Area.
    (b) Requirements.--The Secretary shall ensure that the visitor 
center authorized under subsection (a) is designed to interpret the 
scenic, biological, natural, historical, scientific, paleontological, 
recreational, ecological, wilderness, and cultural resources of the 
Whiskeytown-Shasta-Trinity National Recreation Area and other nearby 
Federal lands.
    (c) Cooperative Agreements.--The Secretary of Agriculture may, in a 
manner consistent with this Act, enter into cooperative agreements with 
the State and any other appropriate institutions and organizations to 
carry out the purposes of this section.

SEC. 105. DEL NORTE COUNTY VISITOR CENTER.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary of Agriculture and Secretary of the 
Interior, acting jointly or separately, may establish, in cooperation 
with any other public or private entities that the Secretaries 
determine to be appropriate, a visitor center in Del Norte County, 
California--
            (1) to serve visitors; and
            (2) to assist in fulfilling the purposes of Redwood 
        National and State Parks, the Smith River National Recreation 
        Area, and other nearby Federal lands.
    (b) Requirements.--The Secretaries shall ensure that the visitor 
center authorized under subsection (a) is designed to interpret the 
scenic, biological, natural, historical, scientific, paleontological, 
recreational, ecological, wilderness, and cultural resources of Redwood 
National and State Parks, the Smith River National Recreation Area, and 
other nearby Federal lands.

SEC. 106. MANAGEMENT PLANS.

    (a) In General.--In revising the land and resource management plan 
for the Shasta-Trinity, Six Rivers, Klamath, and Mendocino National 
Forests, the Secretary shall include a comprehensive fire management 
plan for the wilderness areas and wilderness additions established by 
this Act.
    (b) Requirement.--In carrying out the revisions required by 
subsection (a), the Secretary shall--
            (1) develop the fire management plans in accordance with--
                    (A) the Guidance for Implementation of Federal 
                Wildland Fire Management Policy dated February 13, 
                2009, including any amendments to that guidance; and
                    (B) other appropriate policies;
            (2) ensure that a fire management plan for a wilderness 
        area expanded by section 301--
                    (A) applies to the entire wilderness area, 
                including the addition; and
                    (B) provides consistent direction regarding fire 
                management to the entire wilderness area; and
            (3) consult with--
                    (A) appropriate State, Tribal, and local 
                governmental entities; and
                    (B) members of the public.

SEC. 107. STUDY; PARTNERSHIPS RELATED TO OVERNIGHT ACCOMMODATIONS.

    (a) Study.--The Secretary of the Interior shall conduct a study to 
evaluate the feasibility and suitability of establishing overnight 
accommodations on Federal land at the southern and northern boundaries 
or on land within 20 miles of the southern and northern boundaries of 
Redwood National and State parks in consultation with interested 
Federal, State, Tribal, and local entities, and private and nonprofit 
organizations.
    (b) Partnerships.--
            (1) Agreements authorized.--If the study conducted under 
        subsection (a) determines that establishing the described 
        accommodations is suitable and feasible, the Secretary may 
        enter into agreements with qualified private and nonprofit 
        organizations for the development, operation, and maintenance 
        of overnight accommodations.
            (2) Contents.--Any agreements entered into under paragraph 
        (1) shall clearly define the role and responsibility of the 
        Secretary and the private or nonprofit organization.
            (3) Compliance.--The Secretary shall enter agreements under 
        paragraph (1) in accordance with existing law.
            (4) Effect.--Nothing in this subsection--
                    (A) reduces or diminishes the authority of the 
                Secretary to manage land and resources under the 
                jurisdiction of the Secretary; or
                    (B) amends or modifies the application of any 
                existing law (including regulations) applicable to land 
                under the jurisdiction of the Secretary.

                          TITLE II--RECREATION

SEC. 201. HORSE MOUNTAIN SPECIAL MANAGEMENT AREA.

    (a) Establishment.--Subject to valid existing rights, there is 
established the Horse Mountain Special Management Area (referred to in 
this section as the ``special management area'') comprising 
approximately 7,399 acres of Federal land administered by the Forest 
Service in Humboldt County, California, as generally depicted on the 
map entitled ``Horse Mountain Special Management Area--Proposed'' and 
dated April 13, 2017.
    (b) Purposes.--The purpose of the special management area is to 
enhance the recreational and scenic values of the special management 
area while conserving the plants, wildlife, and other natural resource 
values of the area.
    (c) Management Plan.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 3 years after the date of 
        enactment of this Act and in accordance with paragraph (2), the 
        Secretary shall develop a comprehensive plan for the long-term 
        management of the special management area.
            (2) Consultation.--In developing the management plan 
        required under paragraph (1), the Secretary shall consult 
        with--
                    (A) appropriate State, Tribal, and local 
                governmental entities; and
                    (B) members of the public.
            (3) Additional requirement.--The management plan required 
        under paragraph (1) shall ensure that recreational use within 
        the special management area does not cause significant adverse 
        impacts on the plants and wildlife of the special management 
        area.
    (d) Management.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary shall manage the special 
        management area--
                    (A) in furtherance of the purposes described in 
                subsection (b); and
                    (B) in accordance with--
                            (i) the laws (including regulations) 
                        generally applicable to the National Forest 
                        System;
                            (ii) this section; and
                            (iii) any other applicable law (including 
                        regulations).
            (2) Recreation.--The Secretary shall continue to authorize, 
        maintain, and enhance the recreational use of the special 
        management area, including hunting, fishing, camping, hiking, 
        hang gliding, sightseeing, nature study, horseback riding, 
        rafting, mountain biking, and motorized recreation on 
        authorized routes, and other recreational activities, so long 
        as such recreational use is consistent with the purposes of the 
        special management area, this section, other applicable law 
        (including regulations), and applicable management plans.
            (3) Motorized vehicles.--
                    (A) In general.--Except as provided in subparagraph 
                (B), the use of motorized vehicles in the special 
                management area shall be permitted only on roads and 
                trails designated for the use of motorized vehicles.
                    (B) Use of snowmobiles.--The winter use of 
                snowmobiles shall be allowed in the special management 
                area--
                            (i) during periods of adequate snow 
                        coverage during the winter season; and
                            (ii) subject to any terms and conditions 
                        determined to be necessary by the Secretary.
            (4) New trails.--
                    (A) In general.--The Secretary may construct new 
                trails for motorized or nonmotorized recreation within 
                the special management area in accordance with--
                            (i) the laws (including regulations) 
                        generally applicable to the National Forest 
                        System;
                            (ii) this section; and
                            (iii) any other applicable law (including 
                        regulations).
                    (B) Priority.--In establishing new trails within 
                the special management area, the Secretary shall--
                            (i) prioritize the establishment of loops 
                        that provide high-quality, diverse recreational 
                        experiences; and
                            (ii) consult with members of the public.
    (e) Withdrawal.--Subject to valid existing rights, the special 
management area is withdrawn from--
            (1) all forms of appropriation or disposal under the public 
        land laws;
            (2) location, entry, and patent under the mining laws; and
            (3) disposition under laws relating to mineral and 
        geothermal leasing.

SEC. 202. BIGFOOT NATIONAL RECREATION TRAIL.

    (a) Feasibility Study.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 3 years after the date of 
        the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Agriculture, in 
        cooperation with the Secretary of the Interior, shall submit to 
        the Committee on Natural Resources of the House of 
        Representatives and Committee on Energy and Natural Resources 
        of the Senate a study that describes the feasibility of 
        establishing a nonmotorized Bigfoot National Recreation Trail 
        that follows the route described in paragraph (2).
            (2) Route.--The trail described in paragraph (1) shall 
        extend from the Ides Cove Trailhead in the Mendocino National 
        Forest to Crescent City, California, by roughly following the 
        route as generally depicted on the map entitled ``Bigfoot 
        National Recreation Trail--Proposed'' and dated July 25, 2018.
            (3) Additional requirement.--In completing the study 
        required by subsection (a), the Secretary of Agriculture shall 
        consult with--
                    (A) appropriate Federal, State, Tribal, regional, 
                and local agencies;
                    (B) private landowners;
                    (C) nongovernmental organizations; and
                    (D) members of the public.
    (b) Designation.--
            (1) In general.--Upon a determination that the Bigfoot 
        National Recreation Trail is feasible and meets the 
        requirements for a National Recreation Trail in 16 U.S.C. 1243, 
        the Secretary of Agriculture shall designate the Bigfoot 
        National Recreation Trail in accordance with--
                    (A) the National Trails System Act (Public Law 90-
                543);
                    (B) this Act; and
                    (C) other applicable law (including regulations).
            (2) Administration.--Upon designation by the Secretary of 
        Agriculture, the Bigfoot National Recreation Trail (referred to 
        in this section as the ``trail'') shall be administered by the 
        Secretary of Agriculture, in consultation with--
                    (A) other Federal, State, Tribal, regional, and 
                local agencies;
                    (B) private landowners; and
                    (C) other interested organizations.
            (3) Private property rights.--
                    (A) In general.--No portions of the trail may be 
                located on non-Federal land without the written consent 
                of the landowner.
                    (B) Prohibition.--The Secretary of Agriculture 
                shall not acquire for the trail any land or interest in 
                land outside the exterior boundary of any federally 
                managed area without the consent of the owner of the 
                land or interest in the land.
                    (C) Effect.--Nothing in this section--
                            (i) requires any private property owner to 
                        allow public access (including Federal, State, 
                        or local government access) to private 
                        property; or
                            (ii) modifies any provision of Federal, 
                        State, or local law with respect to public 
                        access to or use of private land.
    (c) Cooperative Agreements.--In carrying out this section, the 
Secretary of Agriculture may enter into cooperative agreements with 
State, Tribal, and local government entities and private entities to 
complete needed trail construction, reconstruction, realignment, 
maintenance, or education projects related to the Bigfoot National 
Recreation Trail.
    (d) Map.--
            (1) Map required.--Upon designation of the Bigfoot National 
        Recreation Trail, the Secretary of Agriculture shall prepare a 
        map of the trail.
            (2) Public availability.--The map referred to in paragraph 
        (1) shall be on file and available for public inspection in the 
        appropriate offices of the Forest Service.

SEC. 203. ELK CAMP RIDGE RECREATION TRAIL.

    (a) Designation.--
            (1) In general.--In accordance with paragraph (2), the 
        Secretary of Agriculture after an opportunity for public 
        comment, shall designate a trail (which may include a system of 
        trails)--
                    (A) for use by off-highway vehicles or mountain 
                bicycles, or both; and
                    (B) to be known as the ``Elk Camp Ridge Recreation 
                Trail''.
            (2) Requirements.--In designating the Elk Camp Ridge 
        Recreation Trail (referred to in this section as the 
        ``trail''), the Secretary shall only include trails that are--
                    (A) as of the date of enactment of this Act, 
                authorized for use by off-highway vehicles or mountain 
                bikes, or both; and
                    (B) located on land that is managed by the Forest 
                Service in Del Norte County.
            (3) Map.--A map that depicts the trail shall be on file and 
        available for public inspection in the appropriate offices of 
        the Forest Service.
    (b) Management.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary shall manage the trail--
                    (A) in accordance with applicable laws (including 
                regulations);
                    (B) to ensure the safety of citizens who use the 
                trail; and
                    (C) in a manner by which to minimize any damage to 
                sensitive habitat or cultural resources.
            (2) Monitoring; evaluation.--To minimize the impacts of the 
        use of the trail on environmental and cultural resources, the 
        Secretary shall annually assess the effects of the use of off-
        highway vehicles and mountain bicycles on--
                    (A) the trail;
                    (B) land located in proximity to the trail; and
                    (C) plants, wildlife, and wildlife habitat.
            (3) Closure.--The Secretary, in consultation with the State 
        and Del Norte County, and subject to paragraph (4), may 
        temporarily close or permanently reroute a portion of the trail 
        if the Secretary determines that--
                    (A) the trail is having an adverse impact on--
                            (i) wildlife habitats;
                            (ii) natural resources;
                            (iii) cultural resources; or
                            (iv) traditional uses;
                    (B) the trail threatens public safety; or
                    (C) closure of the trail is necessary--
                            (i) to repair damage to the trail; or
                            (ii) to repair resource damage.
            (4) Rerouting.--Any portion of the trail that is 
        temporarily closed by the Secretary under paragraph (3) may be 
        permanently rerouted along any road or trail--
                    (A) that is--
                            (i) in existence as of the date of the 
                        closure of the portion of the trail;
                            (ii) located on public land; and
                            (iii) open to motorized or mechanized use; 
                        and
                    (B) if the Secretary determines that rerouting the 
                portion of the trail would not significantly increase 
                or decrease the length of the trail.
            (5) Notice of available routes.--The Secretary shall ensure 
        that visitors to the trail have access to adequate notice 
        relating to the availability of trail routes through--
                    (A) the placement of appropriate signage along the 
                trail; and
                    (B) the distribution of maps, safety education 
                materials, and other information that the Secretary 
                concerned determines to be appropriate.
    (c) Effect.--Nothing in this section affects the ownership, 
management, or other rights relating to any non-Federal land (including 
any interest in any non-Federal land).

SEC. 204. TRINITY LAKE TRAIL.

    (a) Trail Construction.--
            (1) Feasibility study.--Not later than 18 months after the 
        date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall study the 
        feasibility and public interest of constructing a recreational 
        trail for nonmotorized uses around Trinity Lake.
            (2) Construction.--
                    (A) Construction authorized.--Subject to 
                appropriations, and in accordance with paragraph (3), 
                if the Secretary determines under paragraph (1) that 
                the construction of the trail described in such 
                paragraph is feasible and in the public interest, the 
                Secretary may provide for the construction of the 
                trail.
                    (B) Use of volunteer services and contributions.--
                The trail may be constructed under this section through 
                the acceptance of volunteer services and contributions 
                from non-Federal sources to reduce or eliminate the 
                need for Federal expenditures to construct the trail.
            (3) Compliance.--In carrying out this section, the 
        Secretary shall comply with--
                    (A) the laws (including regulations) generally 
                applicable to the National Forest System; and
                    (B) this Act.
    (b) Effect.--Nothing in this section affects the ownership, 
management, or other rights relating to any non-Federal land (including 
any interest in any non-Federal land).

SEC. 205. TRAILS STUDY.

    (a) In General.--Not later than 2 years after the date of enactment 
of this Act, the Secretary of Agriculture, in accordance with 
subsection (b) and in consultation with interested parties, shall 
conduct a study to improve motorized and nonmotorized recreation trail 
opportunities (including mountain bicycling) on land not designated as 
wilderness within the portions of the Six Rivers, Shasta-Trinity, and 
Mendocino National Forests located in Del Norte, Humboldt, Trinity, and 
Mendocino counties.
    (b) Consultation.--In carrying out the study required by subsection 
(a), the Secretary of Agriculture shall consult with the Secretary of 
the Interior regarding opportunities to improve, through increased 
coordination, recreation trail opportunities on land under the 
jurisdiction of the Secretary of the Interior that shares a boundary 
with the national forest land described in subsection (a).

SEC. 206. CONSTRUCTION OF MOUNTAIN BICYCLING ROUTES.

    (a) Trail Construction.--
            (1) Feasibility study.--Not later than 18 months after the 
        date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Agriculture 
        shall study the feasibility and public interest of constructing 
        recreational trails for mountain bicycling and other 
        nonmotorized uses on the routes as generally depicted in the 
        report titled ``Trail Study for Smith River National Recreation 
        Area Six Rivers National Forest'' and dated 2016.
            (2) Construction.--
                    (A) Construction authorized.--Subject to 
                appropriations, and in accordance with paragraph (3), 
                if the Secretary determines under paragraph (1) that 
                the construction of one or more routes described in 
                such paragraph is feasible and in the public interest, 
                the Secretary may provide for the construction of the 
                routes.
                    (B) Modifications.--The Secretary may modify the 
                routes as necessary in the opinion of the Secretary.
                    (C) Use of volunteer services and contributions.--
                Routes may be constructed under this section through 
                the acceptance of volunteer services and contributions 
                from non-Federal sources to reduce or eliminate the 
                need for Federal expenditures to construct the route.
            (3) Compliance.--In carrying out this section, the 
        Secretary shall comply with--
                    (A) the laws (including regulations) generally 
                applicable to the National Forest System; and
                    (B) this Act.
    (b) Effect.--Nothing in this section affects the ownership, 
management, or other rights relating to any non-Federal land (including 
any interest in any non-Federal land).

SEC. 207. PARTNERSHIPS.

    (a) Agreements Authorized.--The Secretary is authorized to enter 
into agreements with qualified private and nonprofit organizations to 
undertake the following activities on Federal lands in Mendocino, 
Humboldt, Trinity, and Del Norte counties:
            (1) Trail and campground maintenance.
            (2) Public education, visitor contacts, and outreach.
            (3) Visitor center staffing.
    (b) Contents.--Any agreements entered into under subsection (a) 
shall clearly define the role and responsibility of the Secretary and 
the private or nonprofit organization.
    (c) Compliance.--The Secretary shall enter agreements under 
subsection (a) in accordance with existing law.
    (d) Effect.--Nothing in this section--
            (1) reduces or diminishes the authority of the Secretary to 
        manage land and resources under the jurisdiction of the 
        Secretary; or
            (2) amends or modifies the application of any existing law 
        (including regulations) applicable to land under the 
        jurisdiction of the Secretary.

                        TITLE III--CONSERVATION

SEC. 301. DESIGNATION OF WILDERNESS.

    (a) In General.--In accordance with the Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 
1131 et seq.), the following areas in the State are designated as 
wilderness areas and as components of the National Wilderness 
Preservation System:
            (1) Black butte river wilderness.--Certain Federal land 
        managed by the Forest Service in the State, comprising 
        approximately 11,117 acres, as generally depicted on the map 
        entitled ``Black Butte River Wilderness--Proposed'' and dated 
        April 13, 2017, which shall be known as the Black Butte River 
        Wilderness.
            (2) Chanchelulla wilderness additions.--Certain Federal 
        land managed by the Forest Service in the State, comprising 
        approximately 6,212 acres, as generally depicted on the map 
        entitled ``Chanchelulla Wilderness Additions--Proposed'' and 
        dated July 16, 2018, which is incorporated in, and considered 
        to be a part of, the Chanchelulla Wilderness, as designated by 
        section 101(a)(4) of the California Wilderness Act of 1984 (16 
        U.S.C. 1132 note; 98 Stat. 1619).
            (3) Chinquapin wilderness.--Certain Federal land managed by 
        the Forest Service in the State, comprising approximately 
        26,890 acres, as generally depicted on the map entitled 
        ``Chinquapin Wilderness and Potential Wilderness--Proposed'' 
        and dated July 16, 2018, which shall be known as the Chinquapin 
        Wilderness.
            (4) English ridge wilderness.--Certain Federal land managed 
        by the Bureau of Land Management in the State, comprising 
        approximately 6,204 acres, as generally depicted on the map 
        entitled ``English Ridge Wilderness--Proposed'' and dated April 
        13, 2017, which shall be known as the English Ridge Wilderness.
            (5) Headwaters forest wilderness.--Certain Federal land 
        managed by the Bureau of Land Management in the State, 
        comprising approximately 4,360 acres, as generally depicted on 
        the map entitled ``Headwaters Forest Wilderness--Proposed'' and 
        dated July 24, 2018, which shall be known as the Headwaters 
        Forest Wilderness.
            (6) Mad river buttes wilderness.--Certain Federal land 
        managed by the Forest Service in the State, comprising 
        approximately 6,002 acres, as generally depicted on the map 
        entitled ``Mad River Buttes Wilderness--Proposed'' and dated 
        July 25, 2018, which shall be known as the Mad River Buttes 
        Wilderness.
            (7) Mount lassic wilderness addition.--Certain Federal land 
        managed by the Forest Service in the State, comprising 
        approximately 1,292 acres, as generally depicted on the map 
        entitled ``Mount Lassic Wilderness Addition--Proposed'' and 
        dated February 23, 2017, which is incorporated in, and 
        considered to be a part of, the Mount Lassic Wilderness, as 
        designated by section 3(6) of Public Law 109-362 (16 U.S.C. 
        1132 note; 120 Stat. 2065).
            (8) North fork eel wilderness addition.--Certain Federal 
        land managed by the Forest Service and the Bureau of Land 
        Management in the State, comprising approximately 17,182 acres, 
        as generally depicted on the map entitled ``North Fork Eel 
        Wilderness Addition--Proposed'' and dated February 23, 2017, 
        which is incorporated in, and considered to be a part of, the 
        North Fork Eel Wilderness, as designated by section 101(a)(19) 
        of the California Wilderness Act of 1984 (16 U.S.C. 1132 note; 
        98 Stat. 1621).
            (9) Pattison wilderness.--Certain Federal land managed by 
        the Forest Service in the State, comprising approximately 
        28,595 acres, as generally depicted on the map entitled 
        ``Pattison Wilderness--Proposed'' and dated July 16, 2018, 
        which shall be known as the Pattison Wilderness.
            (10) Sanhedrin wilderness addition.--Certain Federal land 
        managed by the Forest Service in the State, comprising 
        approximately 112 acres, as generally depicted on the map 
        entitled ``Sanhedrin Wilderness Addition--Proposed'' and dated 
        February 22, 2017, which is incorporated in, and considered to 
        be a part of, the Sanhedrin Wilderness, as designated by 
        section 3(2) of Public Law 109-362 (16 U.S.C. 1132 note; 120 
        Stat. 2065).
            (11) Siskiyou wilderness addition.--Certain Federal land 
        managed by the Forest Service in the State, comprising 
        approximately 27,747 acres, as generally depicted on the map 
        entitled ``Siskiyou Wilderness Addition and Potential 
        Wilderness--Proposed'' and dated July 24, 2018, which is 
        incorporated in, and considered to be a part of, the Siskiyou 
        Wilderness, as designated by section 101(a)(30) of the 
        California Wilderness Act of 1984 (16 U.S.C. 1132 note; 98 
        Stat. 1623) (as amended by section 3(5) of Public Law 109-362 
        (16 U.S.C. 1132 note; 120 Stat. 2065)).
            (12) South fork eel river wilderness addition.--Certain 
        Federal land managed by the Bureau of Land Management in the 
        State, comprising approximately 313 acres, as generally 
        depicted on the map entitled ``South Fork Eel River Wilderness 
        Addition--Proposed'' and dated April 9, 2019, which is 
        incorporated in, and considered to be a part of, the South Fork 
        Eel River Wilderness, as designated by section 3(10) of Public 
        Law 109-362 (16 U.S.C. 1132 note; 120 Stat. 2066).
            (13) South fork trinity river wilderness.--Certain Federal 
        land managed by the Forest Service in the State, comprising 
        approximately 26,446 acres, as generally depicted on the map 
        entitled ``South Fork Trinity River Wilderness and Potential 
        Wilderness--Proposed'' and dated February 22, 2017, which shall 
        be known as the South Fork Trinity River Wilderness.
            (14) Trinity alps wilderness addition.--Certain Federal 
        land managed by the Forest Service in the State, comprising 
        approximately 62,695 acres, as generally depicted on the map 
        entitled ``Trinity Alps Wilderness Addition and Potential 
        Wilderness--Proposed'' and dated July 18, 2018, which is 
        incorporated in, and considered to be a part of, the Trinity 
        Alps Wilderness, as designated by section 101(a)(34) of the 
        California Wilderness Act of 1984 (16 U.S.C. 1132 note; 98 
        Stat. 1623) (as amended by section 3(7) of Public Law 109-362 
        (16 U.S.C. 1132 note; 120 Stat. 2065)).
            (15) Underwood wilderness.--Certain Federal land managed by 
        the Forest Service in the State, comprising approximately 
        15,127 acres, as generally depicted on the map entitled 
        ``Underwood Wilderness--Proposed'' and dated July 19, 2018, 
        which shall be known as the Underwood Wilderness.
            (16) Yolla bolly-middle eel wilderness addition.--Certain 
        Federal land managed by the Forest Service and the Bureau of 
        Land Management in the State, comprising approximately 10,729 
        acres, as generally depicted on the map entitled ``Yolla Bolly-
        Middle Eel Wilderness Addition and Potential Wilderness--
        Proposed'' and dated June 7, 2018, which is incorporated in, 
        and considered to be a part of, the Yolla Bolly-Middle Eel 
        Wilderness, as designated by section 3 of the Wilderness Act 
        (16 U.S.C. 1132) (as amended by section 3(4) of Public Law 109-
        362 (16 U.S.C. 1132 note; 120 Stat. 2065)).
            (17) Yuki wilderness addition.--Certain Federal land 
        managed by the Forest Service and the Bureau of Land Management 
        in the State, comprising approximately 10,866 acres, as 
        generally depicted on the map entitled ``Yuki Wilderness 
        Addition and Potential Wilderness--Proposed'' and dated 
        February 15, 2017, which is incorporated in, and considered to 
        be a part of, the Yuki Wilderness, as designated by section 
        3(3) of Public Law 109-362 (16 U.S.C. 1132 note; 120 Stat. 
        2065).
    (b) Redesignation of North Fork Wilderness as North Fork Eel River 
Wilderness.--Subsection 101(a)(19) Public Law 98-425 (98 Stat. 1621; 16 
U.S.C. 1132 note) is amended by striking ``North Fork Wilderness'' and 
inserting ``North Fork Eel River Wilderness''. Any reference in a law, 
map, regulation, document, paper, or other record of the United States 
to the North Fork Wilderness shall be deemed to be a reference to the 
North Fork Eel River Wilderness.
    (c) Elkhorn Ridge Wilderness Adjustment.--The boundary of the 
Elkhorn Ridge Wilderness established by section 6(d) of Public Law 109-
362 (16 U.S.C. 1132 note) is adjusted by adding approximately 260 acres 
of Federal land and removing approximately 30 acres of Federal land, as 
generally depicted on the map entitled ``Elkhorn Ridge Wilderness 
Adjustments--Proposed'' and dated April 8, 2019.

SEC. 302. ADMINISTRATION OF WILDERNESS.

    (a) In General.--Subject to valid existing rights, the wilderness 
areas and wilderness additions established by section 301 shall be 
administered by the Secretary in accordance with this title and the 
Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1131 et seq.), except that--
            (1) any reference in the Wilderness Act to the effective 
        date of that Act shall be considered to be a reference to the 
        date of enactment of this Act; and
            (2) any reference in that Act to the Secretary of 
        Agriculture shall be considered to be a reference to the 
        Secretary.
    (b) Fire Management and Related Activities.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary may take such measures in a 
        wilderness area or wilderness addition designated by section 
        301 as are necessary for the control of fire, insects, and 
        diseases in accordance with section 4(d)(1) of the Wilderness 
        Act (16 U.S.C. 1133(d)(1)) and House Report 98-40 of the 98th 
        Congress.
            (2) Funding priorities.--Nothing in this title limits 
        funding for fire and fuels management in the wilderness areas 
        or wilderness additions designated by this Act.
            (3) Administration.--Consistent with paragraph (1) and 
        other applicable Federal law, to ensure a timely and efficient 
        response to fire emergencies in the wilderness additions 
        designated by this title, the Secretary of Agriculture shall--
                    (A) not later than 1 year after the date of 
                enactment of this Act, establish agency approval 
                procedures (including appropriate delegations of 
                authority to the Forest Supervisor, District Manager, 
                or other agency officials) for responding to fire 
                emergencies; and
                    (B) enter into agreements with appropriate State or 
                local firefighting agencies.
    (c) Grazing.--The grazing of livestock in the wilderness areas and 
wilderness additions designated by this Act, if established before the 
date of enactment of this Act, shall be administered in accordance 
with--
            (1) section 4(d)(4) of the Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 
        1133(d)(4)); and
            (2)(A) for lands under the jurisdiction of the Secretary of 
        Agriculture, the guidelines set forth in the report of the 
        Committee on Interior and Insular Affairs of the House of 
        Representatives accompanying H.R. 5487 of the 96th Congress in 
        (H. Rept. 96-617); or
            (B) for lands under the jurisdiction of the Secretary of 
        the Interior, the guidelines set forth in Appendix A of the 
        report of the Committee on Interior and Insular Affairs of the 
        House of Representatives accompanying H.R. 2570 of the 101st 
        Congress (H. Rept. 101-405).
    (d) Fish and Wildlife.--
            (1) In general.--In accordance with section 4(d)(7) of the 
        Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1133(d)(7)), nothing in this Act 
        affects the jurisdiction or responsibilities of the State with 
        respect to fish and wildlife on public land in the State.
            (2) Management activities.--In furtherance of the purposes 
        and principles of the Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1131 et seq.), 
        the Secretary may conduct any management activities that are 
        necessary to maintain or restore fish, wildlife, and plant 
        populations and habitats in the wilderness areas or wilderness 
        additions designated by section 301, if the management 
        activities are--
                    (A) consistent with relevant wilderness management 
                plans; and
                    (B) conducted in accordance with--
                            (i) the Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1131 et 
                        seq.); and
                            (ii) appropriate policies, such as the 
                        policies established in Appendix B of House 
                        Report 101-405.
    (e) Buffer Zones.--
            (1) In general.--Congress does not intend for designation 
        of wilderness or wilderness additions by this Act to lead to 
        the creation of protective perimeters or buffer zones around 
        each wilderness area or wilderness addition.
            (2) Activities or uses up to boundaries.--The fact that 
        nonwilderness activities or uses can be seen or heard from 
        within a wilderness area shall not, of itself, preclude the 
        activities or uses up to the boundary of the wilderness area.
    (f) Military Activities.--Nothing in this title precludes--
            (1) low-level overflights of military aircraft over the 
        wilderness areas or wilderness additions designated by section 
        301;
            (2) the designation of new units of special airspace over 
        the wilderness areas or wilderness additions designated by 
        section 301; or
            (3) the use or establishment of military flight training 
        routes over the wilderness areas or wilderness additions 
        designated by section 301.
    (g) Horses.--Nothing in this title precludes horseback riding in, 
or the entry of recreational or commercial saddle or pack stock into, 
an area designated as a wilderness area or wilderness addition by 
section 301--
            (1) in accordance with section 4(d)(5) of the Wilderness 
        Act (16 U.S.C. 1133(d)(5)); and
            (2) subject to any terms and conditions determined to be 
        necessary by the Secretary.
    (h) Withdrawal.--Subject to valid existing rights, the wilderness 
areas and wilderness additions designated by section 301 are withdrawn 
from--
            (1) all forms of entry, appropriation, and disposal under 
        the public land laws;
            (2) location, entry, and patent under the mining laws; and
            (3) operation of the mineral materials and geothermal 
        leasing laws.
    (i) Use by Members of Indian Tribes.--
            (1) Access.--In recognition of the past use of wilderness 
        areas and wilderness additions designated by this Act by 
        members of Indian Tribes for traditional cultural and religious 
        purposes, the Secretary shall ensure that Indian Tribes have 
        access to the wilderness areas and wilderness additions 
        designated by section 301 for traditional cultural and 
        religious purposes.
            (2) Temporary closures.--
                    (A) In general.--In carrying out this section, the 
                Secretary, on request of an Indian Tribe, may 
                temporarily close to the general public one or more 
                specific portions of a wilderness area or wilderness 
                addition to protect the privacy of the members of the 
                Indian Tribe in the conduct of the traditional cultural 
                and religious activities in the wilderness area or 
                wilderness addition.
                    (B) Requirement.--Any closure under subparagraph 
                (A) shall be made in such a manner as to affect the 
                smallest practicable area for the minimum period of 
                time necessary for the activity to be carried out.
            (3) Applicable law.--Access to the wilderness areas and 
        wilderness additions under this subsection shall be in 
        accordance with--
                    (A) Public Law 95-341 (commonly known as the 
                ``American Indian Religious Freedom Act'') (42 U.S.C. 
                1996 et seq.); and
                    (B) the Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1131 et seq.).
    (j) Incorporation of Acquired Land and Interests.--Any land within 
the boundary of a wilderness area or wilderness addition designated by 
section 301 that is acquired by the United States shall--
            (1) become part of the wilderness area in which the land is 
        located;
            (2) be withdrawn in accordance with subsection (h); and
            (3) be managed in accordance with this section, the 
        Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1131 et seq.), and any other 
        applicable law.
    (k) Climatological Data Collection.--In accordance with the 
Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1131 et seq.) and subject to such terms and 
conditions as the Secretary may prescribe, the Secretary may authorize 
the installation and maintenance of hydrologic, meteorologic, or 
climatological collection devices in the wilderness areas and 
wilderness additions designated by section 301 if the Secretary 
determines that the facilities and access to the facilities are 
essential to flood warning, flood control, or water reservoir operation 
activities.
    (l) Authorized Events.--The Secretary may continue to authorize the 
competitive equestrian event permitted since 2012 in the Chinquapin 
Wilderness established by section 301 in a manner compatible with the 
preservation of the area as wilderness.
    (m) Recreational Climbing.--Nothing in this Act prohibits 
recreational rock climbing activities in the wilderness areas, such as 
the placement, use, and maintenance of fixed anchors, including any 
fixed anchor established before the date of the enactment of this Act--
            (1) in accordance with the Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1131 
        et seq.); and
            (2) subject to any terms and conditions determined to be 
        necessary by the Secretary.

SEC. 303. DESIGNATION OF POTENTIAL WILDERNESS.

    (a) Designation.--In furtherance of the purposes of the Wilderness 
Act (16 U.S.C. 1131 et seq.), the following areas in the State are 
designated as potential wilderness areas:
            (1) Certain Federal land managed by the Forest Service, 
        comprising approximately 4,238 acres, as generally depicted on 
        the map entitled ``Chinquapin Wilderness and Potential 
        Wilderness--Proposed'' and dated July 16, 2018.
            (2) Certain Federal land administered by the National Park 
        Service, compromising approximately 31,000 acres, as generally 
        depicted on the map entitled ``Redwood National Park Potential 
        Wilderness--Proposed'' and dated August 21, 2017.
            (3) Certain Federal land managed by the Forest Service, 
        comprising approximately 8,961 acres, as generally depicted on 
        the map entitled ``Siskiyou Wilderness Addition and Potential 
        Wilderness--Proposed'' and dated July 24, 2018.
            (4) Certain Federal land managed by the Forest Service, 
        comprising approximately 405 acres, as generally depicted on 
        the map entitled ``South Fork Trinity River Wilderness and 
        Potential Wilderness--Proposed'' and dated February 22, 2017.
            (5) Certain Federal land managed by the Forest Service, 
        comprising approximately 1,237 acres, as generally depicted on 
        the map entitled ``Trinity Alps Wilderness Additions and 
        Potential Wilderness--Proposed'' and dated July 18, 2018.
            (6) Certain Federal land managed by the Forest Service, 
        comprising approximately 4,282 acres, as generally depicted on 
        the map entitled ``Yolla Bolly-Middle Eel Wilderness Additions 
        and Potential Wilderness--Proposed'' and dated June 7, 2018.
            (7) Certain Federal land managed by the Forest Service, 
        comprising approximately 1,165 acres, as generally depicted on 
        the map entitled ``Yuki Wilderness Addition and Potential 
        Wilderness--Proposed'' and dated February 15, 2017.
    (b) Management.--Except as provided in subsection (c) and subject 
to valid existing rights, the Secretary shall manage the potential 
wilderness areas designated by subsection (a) (referred to in this 
section as ``potential wilderness areas'') as wilderness until the 
potential wilderness areas are designated as wilderness under 
subsection (d).
    (c) Ecological Restoration.--
            (1) In general.--For purposes of ecological restoration 
        (including the elimination of nonnative species, removal of 
        illegal, unused, or decommissioned roads, repair of skid 
        tracks, and any other activities necessary to restore the 
        natural ecosystems in a potential wilderness area and 
        consistent with paragraph (2)), the Secretary may use motorized 
        equipment and mechanized transport in a potential wilderness 
        area until the potential wilderness area is designated as 
        wilderness under subsection (d).
            (2) Limitation.--To the maximum extent practicable, the 
        Secretary shall use the minimum tool or administrative practice 
        necessary to accomplish ecological restoration with the least 
        amount of adverse impact on wilderness character and resources.
    (d) Eventual Wilderness Designation.--The potential wilderness 
areas shall be designated as wilderness and as a component of the 
National Wilderness Preservation System on the earlier of--
            (1) the date on which the Secretary publishes in the 
        Federal Register notice that the conditions in a potential 
        wilderness area that are incompatible with the Wilderness Act 
        (16 U.S.C. 1131 et seq.) have been removed; or
            (2) the date that is 10 years after the date of enactment 
        of this Act for potential wilderness areas located on lands 
        managed by the Forest Service.
    (e) Administration as Wilderness.--
            (1) In general.--On its designation as wilderness under 
        subsection (d), a potential wilderness area shall be 
        administered in accordance with section 302 and the Wilderness 
        Act (16 U.S.C. 1131 et seq.).
            (2) Designation.--On its designation as wilderness under 
        subsection (d)--
                    (A) the land described in subsection (a)(1) shall 
                be incorporated in, and considered to be a part of, the 
                Chinquapin Wilderness established by section 301(a)(4);
                    (B) the land described in subsection (a)(3) shall 
                be incorporated in, and considered to be a part of, the 
                Siskiyou Wilderness as designated by section 101(a)(30) 
                of the California Wilderness Act of 1984 (16 U.S.C. 
                1132 note; 98 Stat. 1623) (as amended by section 3(5) 
                of Public Law 109-362 (16 U.S.C. 1132 note; 120 Stat. 
                2065) and expanded by section 301(a)(12));
                    (C) the land described in subsection (a)(4) shall 
                be incorporated in, and considered to be a part of, the 
                South Fork Trinity River Wilderness established by 
                section 301(a)(14);
                    (D) the land described in subsection (a)(5) shall 
                be incorporated in, and considered to be a part of, the 
                Trinity Alps Wilderness as designated by section 
                101(a)(34) of the California Wilderness Act of 1984 (16 
                U.S.C. 1132 note; 98 Stat. 1623) (as amended by section 
                3(7) of Public Law 109-362 (16 U.S.C. 1132 note; 120 
                Stat. 2065) and expanded by section 301(a)(15));
                    (E) the land described in subsection (a)(6) shall 
                be incorporated in, and considered to be a part of, the 
                Yolla Bolly-Middle Eel Wilderness as designated by 
                section 3 of the Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1132) (as 
                amended by section 3(4) of Public Law 109-362 (16 
                U.S.C. 1132 note; 120 Stat. 2065) and expanded by 
                section 301(a)(17)); and
                    (F) the land described in subsection (a)(7) shall 
                be incorporated in, and considered to be a part of, the 
                Yuki Wilderness as designated by section 3(3) of Public 
                Law 109-362 (16 U.S.C. 1132 note; 120 Stat. 2065) and 
                expanded by section 301(a)(18).
    (f) Report.--Within three years after the date of enactment of this 
Act, and every three years thereafter until the date upon which the 
potential wilderness is designated wilderness under subsection (d), the 
Secretary shall submit a report to the Committee on Natural Resources 
of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Energy and Natural 
Resources of the Senate on the status of ecological restoration within 
the potential wilderness area and the progress toward the potential 
wilderness area's eventual wilderness designation under subsection (d).

SEC. 304. DESIGNATION OF WILD AND SCENIC RIVERS.

    Section 3(a) of the Wild and Scenic Rivers Act (16 U.S.C. 1274(a)) 
is amended by adding at the end the following:
            ``(214) South fork trinity river.--The following segments 
        from the source tributaries in the Yolla Bolly-Middle Eel 
        Wilderness, to be administered by the Secretary of Agriculture:
                    ``(A) The 18.3-mile segment from its multiple 
                source springs in the Cedar Basin of the Yolla Bolly-
                Middle Eel Wilderness in section 15, T27N, R10W, to .25 
                miles upstream of the Wild Mad Road, as a wild river.
                    ``(B) The .65-mile segment from .25 miles upstream 
                of Wild Mad Road to the confluence with the unnamed 
                tributary approximately .4 miles downstream of the Wild 
                Mad Road in section 29, T28N, R11W, as a scenic river.
                    ``(C) The 9.8-mile segment from .75 miles 
                downstream of Wild Mad Road to Silver Creek, as a wild 
                river.
                    ``(D) The 5.4-mile segment from Silver Creek 
                confluence to Farley Creek, as a scenic river.
                    ``(E) The 3.6-mile segment from Farley Creek to 
                Cave Creek, as a recreational river.
                    ``(F) The 5.6-mile segment from Cave Creek to the 
                confluence of the unnamed creek upstream of Hidden 
                Valley Ranch in section 5, T15, R7E, as a wild river.
                    ``(G) The 2.5-mile segment from unnamed creek 
                confluence upstream of Hidden Valley Ranch to the 
                confluence with the unnamed creek flowing west from 
                Bear Wallow Mountain in section 29, T1N, R7E, as a 
                scenic river.
                    ``(H) The 3.8-mile segment from the unnamed creek 
                confluence in section 29, T1N, R7E to Plummer Creek, as 
                a wild river.
                    ``(I) The 1.8-mile segment from Plummer Creek to 
                the confluence with unnamed tributary north of 
                McClellan Place in section 6, T1N, R7E, as a scenic 
                river.
                    ``(J) The 5.4-mile segment from the unnamed 
                tributary confluence in section 6, T1N, R7E to 
                Hitchcock Creek, as a wild river.
                    ``(K) The 7-mile segment from Eltapom Creek to the 
                Grouse Creek, as a scenic river.
                    ``(L) The 5-mile segment from Grouse Creek to Coon 
                Creek, as a wild river.
            ``(215) East fork south fork trinity river.--The following 
        segments to be administered by the Secretary of Agriculture:
                    ``(A) The 8.4-mile segment from its source in the 
                Pettijohn Basin in the Yolla Bolly-Middle Eel 
                Wilderness in section 10, T3S, R10W to .25 miles 
                upstream of the Wild Mad Road, as a wild river.
                    ``(B) The 3.4-mile segment from .25 miles upstream 
                of the Wild Mad Road to the South Fork Trinity River, 
                as a recreational river.
            ``(216) Rattlesnake creek.--The 5.9-mile segment from the 
        confluence with the unnamed tributary in the southeast corner 
        of section 5, T1S, R12W to the South Fork Trinity River, to be 
        administered by the Secretary of Agriculture as a recreational 
        river.
            ``(217) Butter creek.--The 7-mile segment from .25 miles 
        downstream of the Road 3N08 crossing to the South Fork Trinity 
        River, to be administered by the Secretary of Agriculture as a 
        scenic river.
            ``(218) Hayfork creek.--The following segments to be 
        administered by the Secretary of Agriculture:
                    ``(A) The 3.2-mile segment from Little Creek to 
                Bear Creek, as a recreational river.
                    ``(B) The 13.2-mile segment from Bear Creek to the 
                northern boundary of section 19, T3N, R7E, as a scenic 
                river.
            ``(219) Olsen creek.--The 2.8-mile segment from the 
        confluence of its source tributaries in section 5, T3N, R7E to 
        the northern boundary of section 24, T3N, R6E, to be 
        administered by the Secretary of the Interior as a scenic 
        river.
            ``(220) Rusch creek.--The 3.2-mile segment from .25 miles 
        downstream of the 32N11 Road crossing to Hayfork Creek, to be 
        administered by the Secretary of Agriculture as a recreational 
        river.
            ``(221) Eltapom creek.--The 3.4-mile segment from Buckhorn 
        Creek to the South Fork Trinity River, to be administered by 
        the Secretary of Agriculture as a wild river.
            ``(222) Grouse creek.--The following segments to be 
        administered by the Secretary of Agriculture:
                    ``(A) The 3.9-mile segment from Carson Creek to Cow 
                Creek, as a scenic river.
                    ``(B) The 7.4-mile segment from Cow Creek to the 
                South Fork Trinity River, as a recreational river.
            ``(223) Madden creek.--The following segments to be 
        administered by the Secretary of Agriculture:
                    ``(A) The 6.8-mile segment from the confluence of 
                Madden Creek and its unnamed tributary in section 18, 
                T5N, R5E to Fourmile Creek, as a wild river.
                    ``(B) The 1.6-mile segment from Fourmile Creek to 
                the South Fork Trinity River, as a recreational river.
            ``(224) Canyon creek.--The following segments to be 
        administered by the Secretary of Agriculture and the Secretary 
        of the Interior:
                    ``(A) The 6.6-mile segment from the outlet of lower 
                Canyon Creek Lake to Bear Creek upstream of Ripstein, 
                as a wild river.
                    ``(B) The 11.2-mile segment from Bear Creek 
                upstream of Ripstein to the southern boundary of 
                section 25, T34N, R11W, as recreational river.
            ``(225) North fork trinity river.--The following segments 
        to be administered by the Secretary of Agriculture:
                    ``(A) The 12-mile segment from the confluence of 
                source tributaries in section 24, T8N, R12W to the 
                Trinity Alps Wilderness boundary upstream of Hobo 
                Gulch, as a wild river.
                    ``(B) The .5-mile segment from where the river 
                leaves the Trinity Alps Wilderness to where it fully 
                re-enters the Trinity Alps Wilderness downstream of 
                Hobo Gulch, as a scenic river.
                    ``(C) The 13.9-mile segment from where the river 
                fully re-enters the Trinity Alps Wilderness downstream 
                of Hobo Gulch to the Trinity Alps Wilderness boundary 
                upstream of the County Road 421 crossing, as a wild 
                river.
                    ``(D) The 1.3-mile segment from the Trinity Alps 
                Wilderness boundary upstream of the County Road 421 
                crossing to the Trinity River, as a recreational river.
            ``(226) East fork north fork trinity river.--The following 
        segments to be administered by the Secretary of Agriculture:
                    ``(A) The 9.5-mile segment from the river's source 
                north of Mt. Hilton in section 19, T36N, R10W to the 
                end of Road 35N20 approximately .5 miles downstream of 
                the confluence with the East Branch East Fork North 
                Fork Trinity River, as a wild river.
                    ``(B) The 3.25-mile segment from the end of Road 
                35N20 to .25 miles upstream of Coleridge, as a scenic 
                river.
                    ``(C) The 4.6-mile segment from .25 miles upstream 
                of Coleridge to the confluence of Fox Gulch, as a 
                recreational river.
            ``(227) New river.--The following segments to be 
        administered by the Secretary of Agriculture:
                    ``(A) The 12.7-mile segment of Virgin Creek from 
                its source spring in section 22, T9N, R7E to Slide 
                Creek, as a wild river.
                    ``(B) The 2.3-mile segment of the New River where 
                it begins at the confluence of Virgin and Slide Creeks 
                to Barron Creek, as a wild river.
            ``(228) Middle eel river.--The following segments, to be 
        administered by the Secretary of Agriculture:
                    ``(A) The 37.7-mile segment from its source in 
                Frying Pan Meadow to Rose Creek, as a wild river.
                    ``(B) The 1.5-mile segment from Rose Creek to the 
                Black Butte River, as a recreational river.
                    ``(C) The 10.5-mile segment of Balm of Gilead Creek 
                from its source in Hopkins Hollow to the Middle Eel 
                River, as a wild river.
                    ``(D) The 13-mile segment of the North Fork Middle 
                Fork Eel River from the source on Dead Puppy Ridge in 
                section 11, T26N, R11W to the confluence of the Middle 
                Eel River, as a wild river.
            ``(229) North fork eel river, ca.--The 14.3-mile segment 
        from the confluence with Gilman Creek to the Six Rivers 
        National Forest boundary, to be administered by the Secretary 
        of Agriculture as a wild river.
            ``(230) Red mountain creek, ca.--The following segments to 
        be administered by the Secretary of Agriculture:
                    ``(A) The 5.25-mile segment from its source west of 
                Mike's Rock in section 23, T26N, R12E to the confluence 
                with Littlefield Creek, as a wild river.
                    ``(B) The 1.6-mile segment from the confluence with 
                Littlefield Creek to the confluence with the unnamed 
                tributary in section 32, T26N, R8E, as a scenic river.
                    ``(C) The 1.25-mile segment from the confluence 
                with the unnamed tributary in section 32, T26N, R8E to 
                the confluence with the North Fork Eel River, as a wild 
                river.
            ``(231) Redwood creek.--The following segments to be 
        administered by the Secretary of the Interior:
                    ``(A) The 6.2-mile segment from the confluence with 
                Lacks Creek to the confluence with Coyote Creek as a 
                scenic river on publication by the Secretary of a 
                notice in the Federal Register that sufficient 
                inholdings within the boundaries of the segments have 
                been acquired in fee title to establish a manageable 
                addition to the system.
                    ``(B) The 19.1-mile segment from the confluence 
                with Coyote Creek in section 2, T8N, R2E to the Redwood 
                National Park boundary upstream of Orick in section 34, 
                T11N, R1E as a scenic river.
                    ``(C) The 2.3-mile segment of Emerald Creek from 
                its source in section 29, T10N, R2E to the confluence 
                with Redwood Creek as a scenic river.
            ``(232) Lacks creek.--The following segments to be 
        administered by the Secretary of the Interior:
                    ``(A) The 5.1-mile segment from the confluence with 
                two unnamed tributaries in section 14, T7N, R3E to 
                Kings Crossing in section 27, T8N, R3E as a wild river.
                    ``(B) The 2.7-mile segment from Kings Crossing to 
                the confluence with Redwood Creek as a scenic river 
                upon publication by the Secretary of a notice in the 
                Federal Register that sufficient inholdings within the 
                segment have been acquired in fee title or as scenic 
                easements to establish a manageable addition to the 
                system.
            ``(233) Lost man creek.--The following segments to be 
        administered by the Secretary of the Interior:
                    ``(A) The 6.2-mile segment of Lost Man Creek from 
                its source in section 7, T10N, R2E to .25 miles 
                upstream of the Prairie Creek confluence as a 
                recreational river.
                    ``(B) The 2.3-mile segment of Larry Damm Creek from 
                its source in section 44, T11N, R2E to the confluence 
                with Lost Man Creek as a recreational river.
                    ``(C) The 1.6-mile segment of Larry Damm Creek from 
                its source in section 8, T11N, R2E to the unnamed 
                confluence with the tributary in section 18, T11N, R1E, 
                as a recreational river.
                    ``(D) The .75-mile segment of Larry Damm Creek from 
                the unnamed confluence with the tributary in section 
                18, T11N, R1E to the confluence with Lost Man Creek, as 
                a scenic river.
            ``(234) Little lost man creek.--The 3.6-mile segment of 
        Little Lost Man Creek from its source in section 6, T10N, R2E 
        to .25 miles upstream of the Lost Man Creek road crossing, to 
        be administered by the Secretary of the Interior as a wild 
        river.
            ``(235) South fork elk river.--The following segments to be 
        administered by the Secretary of the Interior through a 
        cooperative management agreement with the State of California:
                    ``(A) The 3.6-mile segment of the Little South Fork 
                Elk River from the source in section 21, T3N, R1E to 
                the confluence with the South Fork Elk River, as a wild 
                river.
                    ``(B) The 2.2-mile segment of the unnamed tributary 
                of the Little South Fork Elk River from its source in 
                section 15, T3N, R1E to the confluence with the Little 
                South Fork Elk River, as a wild river.
                    ``(C) The 3.6-mile segment of the South Fork Elk 
                River from the confluence of the Little South Fork Elk 
                River to the confluence with Tom Gulch, as a 
                recreational river.
            ``(236) Salmon creek.--The 4.6-mile segment from its source 
        in section 27, T3N, R1E to the Headwaters Forest Reserve 
        boundary in section 18, T3N, R1E to be administered by the 
        Secretary of the Interior as a wild river through a cooperative 
        agreement with the State of California.
            ``(237) South fork eel river.--The following segments to be 
        administered by the Secretary of the Interior:
                    ``(A) The 6.2-mile segment from the confluence with 
                Jack of Hearts Creek to the southern boundary of the 
                South Fork Eel Wilderness in section 8, T22N, R5E, as a 
                recreational river to be administered by the Secretary 
                through a cooperative management agreement with the 
                State of California.
                    ``(B) The 6.1-mile segment from the southern 
                boundary of the South Fork Eel Wilderness to the 
                northern boundary of the South Fork Eel Wilderness in 
                section 29, T23N, R16W as a wild river.
            ``(238) Elder creek.--The following segments to be 
        administered by the Secretary of the Interior through a 
        cooperative management agreement with the State of California:
                    ``(A) The 3.6-mile segment from its source north of 
                Signal Peak in section 6, T21N, R15W to the confluence 
                with the unnamed tributary near the center of section 
                28, T22N, R16W, as a wild river.
                    ``(B) The 1.3-mile segment from the confluence with 
                the unnamed tributary near the center of section 28, 
                T22N, R16W to the confluence with the South Fork Eel 
                River, as a recreational river.
                    ``(C) The 2.1-mile segment of Paralyze Canyon from 
                its source south of Signal Peak in section 7, T21N, 
                R15W to the confluence with Elder Creek, as a wild 
                river.
            ``(239) Cedar creek.--The following segments to be 
        administered as a wild river by the Secretary of the Interior:
                    ``(A) The 7.7-mile segment from its source in 
                section 22, T24N, R16W to the southern boundary of the 
                Red Mountain unit of the South Fork Eel Wilderness.
                    ``(B) The 1.9-mile segment of North Fork Cedar 
                Creek from its source in section 28, T24N, R5E to the 
                confluence with Cedar Creek.
            ``(240) East branch south fork eel river.--The following 
        segments to be administered by the Secretary of the Interior as 
        a scenic river on publication by the Secretary of a notice in 
        the Federal Register that sufficient inholdings within the 
        boundaries of the segments have been acquired in fee title or 
        as scenic easements to establish a manageable addition to the 
        system:
                    ``(A) The 2.3-mile segment of Cruso Cabin Creek 
                from the confluence of two unnamed tributaries in 
                section 18, T24N, R15W to the confluence with Elkhorn 
                Creek.
                    ``(B) The 1.8-mile segment of Elkhorn Creek from 
                the confluence of two unnamed tributaries in section 
                22, T24N, R16W to the confluence with Cruso Cabin 
                Creek.
                    ``(C) The 14.2-mile segment of the East Branch 
                South Fork Eel River from the confluence of Cruso Cabin 
                and Elkhorn Creeks to the confluence with Rays Creek.
                    ``(D) The 1.7-mile segment of the unnamed tributary 
                from its source on the north flank of Red Mountain's 
                north ridge in section 2, T24N, R17W to the confluence 
                with the East Branch South Fork Eel River.
                    ``(E) The 1.3-mile segment of the unnamed tributary 
                from its source on the north flank of Red Mountain's 
                north ridge in section 1, T24N, R17W to the confluence 
                with the East Branch South Fork Eel River.
                    ``(F) The 1.8-mile segment of Tom Long Creek from 
                the confluence with the unnamed tributary in section 
                12, T25N, R4E to the confluence with the East Branch 
                South Fork Eel River.
            ``(241) Mattole river estuary.--The 1.5-mile segment from 
        the confluence of Stansberry Creek to the Pacific Ocean, to be 
        administered as a recreational river by the Secretary of the 
        Interior.
            ``(242) Honeydew creek.--The following segments to be 
        administered as a wild river by the Secretary of the Interior:
                    ``(A) The 5.1-mile segment of Honeydew Creek from 
                its source in the southwest corner of section 25, T3S, 
                R1W to the eastern boundary of the King Range National 
                Conservation Area in section 18, T3S, R1E.
                    ``(B) The 2.8-mile segment of West Fork Honeydew 
                Creek from its source west of North Slide Peak to the 
                confluence with Honeydew Creek.
                    ``(C) The 2.7-mile segment of Upper East Fork 
                Honeydew Creek from its source in section 25, T3S, R1W 
                to the confluence with Honeydew Creek.
            ``(243) Bear creek.--The following segments to be 
        administered by the Secretary of the Interior:
                    ``(A) The 1.9-mile segment of North Fork Bear Creek 
                from the confluence with the unnamed tributary 
                immediately downstream of the Horse Mountain Road 
                crossing to the confluence with the South Fork, as a 
                scenic river.
                    ``(B) The 6.1-mile segment of South Fork Bear Creek 
                from the confluence in section 2, T5S, R1W with the 
                unnamed tributary flowing from the southwest flank of 
                Queen Peak to the confluence with the North Fork, as a 
                scenic river.
                    ``(C) The 3-mile segment of Bear Creek from the 
                confluence of the North and South Forks to the eastern 
                boundary of the southwest \1/4\ of section 11, T4S, 
                R1E, as a wild river.
            ``(244) Gitchell creek.--The 3-mile segment of Gitchell 
        Creek from its source in section 8, T4S, R1E to the Pacific 
        Ocean to be administered by the Secretary of the Interior as a 
        wild river.
            ``(245) Big flat creek.--The following segments to be 
        administered by the Secretary of the Interior as a wild river:
                    ``(A) The 4-mile segment of Big Flat Creek from its 
                source in section 36, T3S, R1W to the Pacific Ocean.
                    ``(B) The .8-mile segment of the unnamed tributary 
                from its source in section 35, T3S, R1W to the 
                confluence with Big Flat Creek.
                    ``(C) The 2.7-mile segment of North Fork Big Flat 
                Creek from the source in section 34, T3S, R1W to the 
                confluence with Big Flat Creek.
            ``(246) Big creek.--The following segments to be 
        administered by the Secretary of the Interior as wild rivers:
                    ``(A) The 2.7-mile segment of Big Creek from its 
                source in section 28, T3S, R1W to the Pacific Ocean.
                    ``(B) The 1.9-mile unnamed southern tributary from 
                its source in section 27, T3S, R1W to the confluence 
                with Big Creek.
            ``(247) Elk creek.--The 11.4-mile segment from its 
        confluence with Lookout Creek to its confluence with Deep Hole 
        Creek, to be jointly administered by the Secretaries of 
        Agriculture and the Interior, as a wild river.
            ``(248) Eden creek.--The 2.7-mile segment from the private 
        property boundary in the northwest quarter of section 27, T21N, 
        R12W to the eastern boundary of section 23, T21N, R12W, to be 
        administered by the Secretary of the Interior as a wild river.
            ``(249) Deep hole creek.--The 4.3-mile segment from the 
        private property boundary in the southwest quarter of section 
        13, T20N, R12W to the confluence with Elk Creek, to be 
        administered by the Secretary of the Interior as a wild river.
            ``(250) Indian creek.--The 3.3-mile segment from 300 feet 
        downstream of the jeep trail in section 13, T20N, R13W to the 
        confluence with the Eel River, to be administered by the 
        Secretary of the Interior as a wild river.
            ``(251) Fish creek.--The 4.2-mile segment from the source 
        at Buckhorn Spring to the confluence with the Eel River, to be 
        administered by the Secretary of the Interior as a wild 
        river.''.

SEC. 305. SANHEDRIN CONSERVATION MANAGEMENT AREA.

    (a) Establishment.--Subject to valid existing rights, there is 
established the Sanhedrin Conservation Management Area (referred to in 
this section as the ``conservation management area''), comprising 
approximately 14,177 acres of Federal land administered by the Forest 
Service in Mendocino County, California, as generally depicted on the 
map entitled ``Sanhedrin Special Conservation Management Area--
Proposed'' and dated April 12, 2017.
    (b) Purposes.--The purposes of the conservation management area are 
to--
            (1) conserve, protect, and enhance for the benefit and 
        enjoyment of present and future generations the ecological, 
        scenic, wildlife, recreational, roadless, cultural, historical, 
        natural, educational, and scientific resources of the 
        conservation management area;
            (2) protect and restore late-successional forest structure, 
        oak woodlands and grasslands, aquatic habitat, and anadromous 
        fisheries within the conservation management area;
            (3) protect and restore the wilderness character of the 
        conservation management area; and
            (4) allow visitors to enjoy the scenic, natural, cultural, 
        and wildlife values of the conservation management area.
    (c) Management.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary shall manage the 
        conservation management area--
                    (A) in a manner consistent with the purposes 
                described in subsection (b); and
                    (B) in accordance with--
                            (i) the laws (including regulations) 
                        generally applicable to the National Forest 
                        System;
                            (ii) this section; and
                            (iii) any other applicable law (including 
                        regulations).
            (2) Uses.--The Secretary shall only allow uses of the 
        conservation management area that the Secretary determines 
        would further the purposes described in subsection (b).
    (d) Motorized Vehicles.--
            (1) In general.--Except as provided in paragraph (3), the 
        use of motorized vehicles in the conservation management area 
        shall be permitted only on existing roads, trails, and areas 
        designated for use by such vehicles as of the date of enactment 
        of this Act.
            (2) New or temporary roads.--Except as provided in 
        paragraph (3), no new or temporary roads shall be constructed 
        within the conservation management area.
            (3) Exception.--Nothing in paragraph (1) or (2) prevents 
        the Secretary from--
                    (A) rerouting or closing an existing road or trail 
                to protect natural resources from degradation, or to 
                protect public safety, as determined to be appropriate 
                by the Secretary;
                    (B) designating routes of travel on lands acquired 
                by the Secretary and incorporated into the conservation 
                management area if the designations are--
                            (i) consistent with the purposes described 
                        in subsection (b); and
                            (ii) completed, to the maximum extent 
                        practicable, within three years of the date of 
                        acquisition;
                    (C) constructing a temporary road on which 
                motorized vehicles are permitted as part of a 
                vegetation management project carried out in accordance 
                with subsection (e);
                    (D) authorizing the use of motorized vehicles for 
                administrative purposes; or
                    (E) responding to an emergency.
            (4) Decommissioning of temporary roads.--
                    (A) Requirement.--The Secretary shall decommission 
                any temporary road constructed under paragraph (3)(C) 
                not later than 3 years after the date on which the 
                applicable vegetation management project is completed.
                    (B) Definition.--As used in subparagraph (A), the 
                term ``decommission'' means--
                            (i) to reestablish vegetation on a road; 
                        and
                            (ii) to restore any natural drainage, 
                        watershed function, or other ecological 
                        processes that are disrupted or adversely 
                        impacted by the road by removing or 
                        hydrologically disconnecting the road prism.
    (e) Timber Harvest.--
            (1) In general.--Except as provided in paragraph (2), no 
        harvesting of timber shall be allowed within the conservation 
        management area.
            (2) Exceptions.--The Secretary may authorize harvesting of 
        timber in the conservation management area--
                    (A) if the Secretary determines that the harvesting 
                is necessary to further the purposes of the 
                conservation management area;
                    (B) in a manner consistent with the purposes 
                described in subsection (b); and
                    (C) subject to--
                            (i) such reasonable regulations, policies, 
                        and practices as the Secretary determines 
                        appropriate; and
                            (ii) all applicable laws (including 
                        regulations).
    (f) Grazing.--The grazing of livestock in the conservation 
management area, where established before the date of enactment of this 
Act, shall be permitted to continue--
            (1) subject to--
                    (A) such reasonable regulations, policies, and 
                practices as the Secretary considers necessary; and
                    (B) applicable law (including regulations); and
            (2) in a manner consistent with the purposes described in 
        subsection (b).
    (g) Wildfire, Insect, and Disease Management.--Consistent with this 
section, the Secretary may take any measures within the conservation 
management area that the Secretary determines to be necessary to 
control fire, insects, and diseases, including the coordination of 
those activities with a State or local agency.
    (h) Acquisition and Incorporation of Land and Interests in Land.--
            (1) Acquisition authority.--In accordance with applicable 
        laws (including regulations), the Secretary may acquire any 
        land or interest in land within the boundaries of the 
        conservation management area by purchase from willing sellers, 
        donation, or exchange.
            (2) Incorporation.--Any land or interest in land acquired 
        by the Secretary under paragraph (1) shall be--
                    (A) incorporated into, and administered as part of, 
                the conservation management area; and
                    (B) withdrawn in accordance with subsection (i).
    (i) Withdrawal.--Subject to valid existing rights, all Federal land 
located in the conservation management area is withdrawn from--
            (1) all forms of entry, appropriation, and disposal under 
        the public land laws;
            (2) location, entry, and patenting under the mining laws; 
        and
            (3) operation of the mineral leasing, mineral materials, 
        and geothermal leasing laws.

                        TITLE IV--MISCELLANEOUS

SEC. 401. MAPS AND LEGAL DESCRIPTION.

    (a) In General.--As soon as practicable after the date of enactment 
of this Act, the Secretary shall prepare maps and legal descriptions of 
the--
            (1) wilderness areas and wilderness additions designated by 
        section 301;
            (2) potential wilderness areas designated by section 303;
            (3) South Fork Trinity-Mad River Restoration Area;
            (4) Horse Mountain Special Management Area; and
            (5) Sanhedrin Conservation Management Area.
    (b) Submission of Maps and Legal Description.--The Secretary shall 
file the maps and legal descriptions prepared under subsection (a) 
with--
            (1) the Committee on Natural Resources of the House of 
        Representatives; and
            (2) the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources of the 
        Senate.
    (c) Force of Law.--The maps and legal descriptions prepared under 
subsection (a) shall have the same force and effect as if included in 
this Act, except that the Secretary may correct any clerical and 
typographical errors in the map and legal description.
    (d) Public Availability.--The maps and legal descriptions prepared 
under subsection (a) shall be on file and available for public 
inspection in the appropriate offices of the Forest Service, Bureau of 
Land Management, and National Park Service.
                                 &lt;all&gt;
</pre></body></html>
