<html><body><pre>
[Congressional Bills 107th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[S. 1716 Introduced in Senate (IS)]







107th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                S. 1716

  To speed national action to address global climate change, and for 
                            other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                   IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

                           November 15, 2001

Mr. Kerry (for himself, Mr. Stevens, Mr. Hollings, Mr. Inouye, and Mr. 
Akaka) introduced the following bill; which was read twice and referred 
       to the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
  To speed national action to address global climate change, and for 
                            other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Global Climate Change Act of 2001''.

SEC. 2. TABLE OF CONTENTS.

    The table of contents for this Act is as follows:

Sec. 1. Short Title.
Sec. 2. Table of Contents.
Sec. 3. Findings.
Sec. 4. Greenhouse gases defined.
         TITLE I--CLIMATE CHANGE SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY POLICY

                              Subtitle A--Office of Climate Change 
                                        Action
Sec. 101. Establishment of Office of Climate Change Action.
Sec. 102. Climate change action task force.
Sec. 103. Climate change action strategy.
Sec. 104. Reports.
                              Subtitle B--Policy Development Activities 
                                        and Organizations
Sec. 151. Elevate global climate change in the Office of Science and 
                            Technology Policy.
Sec. 152. Establishment of Associate Director for global climate 
                            change.
Sec. 153. National Science and Technology Assessment Service.
            TITLE II--GREENHOUSE GAS MEASURING AND REPORTING

Sec. 201. National greenhouse gas measurement, verification, and 
                            reporting system.
Sec. 202. Atmospheric monitoring and reporting on trends.
           TITLE III--CLIMATE CHANGE SCIENCE AND INFORMATION

                              Subtitle A--Amendments to the Global 
                                        Change Research Act of 1990
Sec. 301. Amendment of Global Change Research Act of 1990.
Sec. 302. Changes in definitions.
Sec. 303. Change in committee name.
Sec. 304. Change in national global change research plan.
Sec. 305. Integrated Program Office.
Sec. 306. Changes in reference to national climate change program.
                              Subtitle B--National Climate Services and 
                                        Monitoring
Sec. 351. Amendment of National Climate Program Act.
Sec. 352. Change in short title of Act.
Sec. 353. Changes in findings.
Sec. 354. Change in purpose.
Sec. 355. ``Program'' changed to ``Service''.
Sec. 356. Tools for regional planning.
Sec. 357. Authorization of appropriations.
Sec. 358. National Climate Service Plan.
Sec. 359. International Pacific research and cooperation.
                  TITLE IV--CLIMATE CHANGE TECHNOLOGY

Sec. 401. NIST greenhouse gas functions.
Sec. 402. Measurement and verification technologies.
Sec. 403. Enhanced environmental measurements and standards.
Sec. 404. Technology development and diffusion.
Sec. 405. Transfer of greenhouse gas reduction technology.
           TITLE V--CLIMATE ADAPTATION AND HAZARDS PREVENTION

                              Subtitle A--Assessment and Adaptation
Sec. 501. Regional climate assessment and adaptation.
Sec. 502. Coastal vulnerability and adaptation.
                              Subtitle B--Pilot Programs; Grants
Sec. 551. Forecasting projects.
Sec. 552. Database establishment.
Sec. 553. Definitions.
Sec. 554. Authorization of appropriations.
              TITLE VI--OCEAN AND COASTAL OBSERVING SYSTEM

Sec. 601. Ocean and coastal observing system.
Sec. 602. Authorization of appropriations.

SEC. 3. FINDINGS.

    The Congress finds the following:
            (1) The natural greenhouse effect is real and is an 
        essential component of the planet's climate process, but some 
        greenhouse gases are increasing in the atmosphere because of 
        human activities and increasingly trapping more heat.
            (2) The global-average surface temperature has increased 
        over the 20th century by 0.4 to 0.8 degrees Celsius and the 
        average temperature increase in the Northern Hemisphere over 
        the 20th century is likely to have been the largest of any 
        century during the past 1,000 years.
            (3) From 1948 to 1998 the mean temperature of the world 
        ocean increased with substantial changes in heat in the 300-to-
        1,000 meter layers of each ocean and in depths greater than 
        1,000 meters in the North Atlantic.
            (4) Other observed changes are consistent with this 
        warming, including widespread retreat of mountain glaciers in 
        non-polar regions, decrease in snow cover and ice extent, and a 
        rise of between 10-20 centimeters of global-average sea level.
            (5) There is new and stronger evidence that the warming 
        observed over the last 50 years is attributable to human 
        activities.
            (6) Direct atmospheric measurements made over the past 40-
        plus years, coupled with paleoclimatic measurements from ice 
        cores, have documented the steady growth in the atmospheric 
        abundance of carbon dioxide.
            (7) The predominant cause of this increase in carbon 
        dioxide is the combustion of fossil fuels and the burning of 
        forests. Further, methane abundance has doubled over the 
        Industrial Era. Other heat-trapping gases are also increasing 
        as a result of human activities.
            (8) Emissions of greenhouse gases and aerosols due to human 
        activities continue to alter the atmosphere in ways that are 
        expected to affect the climate.
            (9) Scenarios of future human activities indicate continued 
        changes in atmospheric composition throughout the 21st century. 
        Projected rates of warming would be much larger than the 
        observed 20th-century changes and would very likely be without 
        precedent during at least the last 10,000 years.
            (10) The oceans are key to regulating climate and 
        atmospheric concentrations of greenhouse gases, and to 
        understanding global change processes. Yet, at present we lack 
        an observing system to monitor marine and coastal waters that 
        cover nearly three quarters of the Earth's surface. Such a 
        system not only would improve knowledge of global change, but 
        also contribute to ensuring national security, managing marine 
        resources reducing ocean pollution, improving shipping and 
        other marine operations, and mitigating natural hazards.
            (11) A greenhouse-gas warming could be reversed only very 
        slowly because of the centuries-long rate of removal of many 
        greenhouse gases from the atmosphere and because of the slow 
        response of the oceans to thermal changes.
            (12) Stabilization of greenhouse gases in the atmosphere 
        will require a no net greenhouse gas emission strategy in 
        conjunction with specific innovative mitigation technologies 
        and flexible compliance mechanisms.
            (13) Substantial and coordinated progress must be made in 
        both the public and private sectors to develop and deploy 
        uniform measurement and verification standards and innovative 
        technologies and practices that will meet the goal of 
        stabilizing greenhouse gas concentrations in the atmosphere at 
        levels that would prevent dangerous human interference in the 
        climate system.
            (14) Federal, state and local governments will need 
        assistance in planning for or adapting to unavoidable coastal 
        and land use changes associated with global climate change. 
Coastal zone management and innovative technologies such as remote 
sensing, geographic information systems and satellite-based positioning 
information, when integrated with regional climate assessments, could 
provide decision makers with essential hazards prevention and long-term 
planning capabilities.

SEC. 4. GREENHOUSE GASES DEFINED.

    (a) In General.--In this Act, the term ``greenhouse gas'' means--
            (1) carbon dioxide (CO&lt;INF&gt;2&lt;/INF&gt;);
            (2) methane (CH&lt;INF&gt;4&lt;/INF&gt;);
            (3) nitrous oxide (N&lt;INF&gt;2&lt;/INF&gt;O);
            (4) hydrofluorocarbons (HFCs);
            (5) perfluorocarbons (PFCs); or
            (6) sulphur hexafluoride (SF&lt;INF&gt;6&lt;/INF&gt;).
    (b) Other Gases.--In addition to the gases listed in subsection 
(a), the term ``greenhouse gas'' includes any other gas determined by 
the Secretary of Commerce, after consultation with the National Office 
of Climate Change Action and the Environmental Protection Agency, after 
notice and an opportunity for a public hearing to contribute 
substantially to climate change phenomena associated with global 
warming attributable to greenhouse gases.

         TITLE I--CLIMATE CHANGE SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY POLICY

              Subtitle A--Office of Climate Change Action

SEC. 101. ESTABLISHMENT OF OFFICE OF CLIMATE CHANGE ACTION.

    (a) In General.--There is established a National Office of Climate 
Change Action within the Office of Science and Technology Policy to 
coordinate--
            (1) the development of a United States climate change 
        action strategy; and
            (2) the development, integration, and planning of long-
        range research and development budgets for climate change 
        action in consultation with the Office of Management and 
        Budget.
    (b) Duties.--The Office established by subsection (a) is 
responsible for--
            (1) establishing policies, objectives, and priorities for 
        the national climate change action strategy;
            (2) consulting with the President in creating the 
        interagency task force under section 102;
            (3) advising the President and the Congress, in 
        coordination with the Office of Management and Budget, of 
        substantial changes in the organization, management, budgeting, 
        and personnel allocations of Federal agencies involved in 
        climate change activities necessary to achieve the goals of the 
        climate change action strategy.
    (c) Director.--The Associate Director for Global Climate Change in 
the Office of Science and Technology Policy shall serve as the Director 
of the Office of Climate Change Action.

SEC. 102. CLIMATE CHANGE ACTION TASK FORCE.

    The President, after consultation with the Federal Coordinating 
Council for Science, Engineering, and Technology established by section 
401 of the National Science and Technology Policy, Organization, and 
Priorities Act of 1976 (42 U.S.C. 6651), shall create an interagency 
climate change action task force, which shall be chaired by the 
Secretary of Commerce, to serve as the primary mechanism for 
development and implementation of a climate change action strategy 
under section 103.

SEC. 103. CLIMATE CHANGE ACTION STRATEGY.

    The task force established under section 102 shall develop a 
national strategy for--
            (1) establishing and implementing emission reduction 
        standards and specific mitigation approaches that will 
        substantially reduce United States greenhouse gas emissions and 
        stabilize atmospheric greenhouse gas concentrations in order to 
        prevent dangerous anthropogenic interference with the climate 
        system;
            (2) doubling the current investment in research and 
        development of energy efficiency and emissions reductions 
        technologies by the United States public and private sectors 
        aimed at transforming the United States economy into a no-net 
        greenhouse gas emissions economy;
            (3) ensuring long-term investment of adequate resources to 
        high priority climate research and infrastructure needs, 
        including observation and modeling systems needed to provide 
        reliable global-mean and regional predictions and evaluate 
        adaption strategies;
            (4) promoting the transfer and exportation of innovative 
        United States greenhouse gas emissions reduction or 
        sequestration technologies to enable other nations to reduce 
        their emissions of greenhouse gases;
            (5) identifying national risks and vulnerabilities 
        associated with the effects of climate change or climate 
        variability and designing an appropriate adaptation and 
        disaster response capability; and
            (6) recommending legislative or administrative actions 
        necessary to implement the strategy.

SEC. 104. REPORTS.

    (a) Strategy.--The President shall transmit to the Congress not 
later than 18 months after the date of enactment of this Act a report 
containing the climate change action strategy developed under this 
subtitle. The President shall transmit a revised report on the strategy 
biennially thereafter.
    (b) Progress Reports.--The President shall transmit to the Congress 
not later than 1 year after the date of enactment of this Act, and 
annually thereafter, a report on--
            (1) the progress that has been made in developing and 
        implementing the climate change action strategy required under 
        this subtitle, including data on greenhouse gas emissions 
        reductions and technology innovation achievements;
            (2) whether, and the extent to which, Federal agency 
        policies or discretionary programs are contributing effectively 
        to the long-term goal of stabilization of atmospheric 
        greenhouse gas emissions;
            (3) whether, and the extent to which, Federal research and 
        development activities are consistent with the strategy; and
            (4) recommendations to ensure effective Federal 
        implementation of the strategy.
    (c) Review.--The Science and Technology Assessment Service 
established under section 154 shall review the report submitted to the 
Congress under subsections (a) and (b), and provide technical advice to 
the Congress on the adequacy of Federal agency efforts to provide 
technologies that will stabilize atmospheric greenhouse gases.

      Subtitle B--Policy Development Activities and Organizations

SEC. 151. ELEVATE GLOBAL CLIMATE CHANGE IN THE OFFICE OF SCIENCE AND 
              TECHNOLOGY POLICY.

    Section 101(b) of the National Science and Technology Policy, 
Organization, and Priorities Act of 1976 (42 U.S.C. 6601(b)) is 
amended--
            (1) by redesignating paragraphs (7) through (13) as 
        paragraphs (8) through (14), respectively; and
            (2) by inserting after paragraph (6) the following:
            ``(6) improving efforts to understand, assess, predict, 
        mitigate, and respond to global climate change;''.

SEC. 152. ESTABLISHMENT OF ASSOCIATE DIRECTOR FOR GLOBAL CLIMATE 
              CHANGE.

    Section 203 of the National Science and Technology Policy, 
Organization, and Priorities Act of 1976 (42 U.S.C. 6612) is amended--
            (1) by striking ``four'' in the second sentence and insert 
        ``five'';
            (2) by striking ``title.'' in the second sentence and 
        inserting ``title, one of whom shall be responsible for global 
        climate change.''; and
            (3) by striking ``prescribe.'' and inserting ``prescribe, 
        except that the Associate Director for global climate change 
        shall coordinate the development, integration, and planning of 
        long-range research and development budgets for climate change 
        action in consultation with the Office of Management and 
        Budget.

SEC. 153. NATIONAL SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY ASSESSMENT SERVICE.

    The National Science and Technology Policy, Organization, and 
Priorities Act of 1976 (42 U.S.C. 6601 et seq.) is amended by adding at 
the end the following:

    ``TITLE VII--NATIONAL SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY ASSESSMENT SERVICE

``SEC. 701. ESTABLISHMENT.

    ``There is hereby created a Science and Technology Assessment 
Service (hereinafter referred to as the `Service'), which shall be 
within and responsible to the legislative branch of the Government.

``SEC. 702. COMPOSITION.

    ``The Service shall consist of a Science and Technology Board 
(hereinafter referred to as the `Board') which shall formulate and 
promulgate the policies of the Service, and a Director who shall carry 
out such policies and administer the operations of the Service.

``SEC. 703. FUNCTIONS AND DUTIES.

    ``The Service shall coordinate and develop information for Congress 
relating to the uses and application of technology to address current 
national science and technology policy issues. In developing such 
technical assessments for Congress, the Service shall utilize, to the 
extent practicable, experts selected in coordination with the National 
Research Council.

``SEC. 704. INITIATION OF ACTIVITIES.

    ``Science and technology assessment activities undertaken by the 
Service may be initiated upon the request of--
            ``(1) the Chairman of any standing, special, or select 
        committee of either House of the Congress, or of any joint 
        committee of the Congress, acting for himself or at the request 
        of the ranking minority member or a majority of the committee 
        members;
            ``(2) the Board; or
            ``(3) the Director.

``SEC. 705. ADMINISTRATION AND SUPPORT.

    ``The Director of the Science and Technology Assessment Service 
shall be appointed by the Board and shall serve for a term of 6 years 
unless sooner removed by the Board. The Director shall receive basic 
pay at the rate provided for level III of the Executive Schedule under 
section 5314 of title 5, United States Code. The Director shall 
contract for administrative support from the Library of Congress.

``SEC. 706. AUTHORITY.

    ``The Service shall have the authority, within the limits of 
available appropriations, to do all things necessary to carry out the 
provisions of this section, including, but without being limited to, 
the authority to--
            ``(1) make full use of competent personnel and 
        organizations outside the Office, public or private, and form 
        special ad hoc task forces or make other arrangements when 
        appropriate;
            ``(2) enter into contracts or other arrangements as may be 
        necessary for the conduct of the work of the Office with any 
        agency or instrumentality of the United States, with any State, 
        territory, or possession or any political subdivision thereof, 
        or with any person, firm, association, corporation, or 
        educational institution, with or without reimbursement, without 
        performance or other bonds, and without regard to section 3709 
        of the Revised Statutes (41 U.S.C. 51);
            ``(3) accept and utilize the services of voluntary and 
        uncompensated personnel necessary for the conduct of the work 
        of the Service and provide transportation and subsistence as 
        authorized by section 5703 of title 5, United States Code, for 
        persons serving without compensation; and
            ``(4) prescribe such rules and regulations as it deems 
        necessary governing the operation and organization of the 
        Service.

``SEC. 707. BOARD.

    ``(a) In General.--The Board shall consist of 13 members as 
follows--
            ``(1) 6 Members of the Senate, appointed by the President 
        pro tempore of the Senate, 3 from the majority party and 3 from 
        the minority party;
            ``(2) 6 Members of the House of Representatives appointed 
        by the Speaker of the House of Representatives, 3 from the 
        majority party and 3 from the minority party; and
            ``(3) the Director, who shall not be a voting member.

``SEC. 708. REPORT TO CONGRESS.

    ``The Service shall submit to the Congress an annual report which 
shall include, but not be limited to, an evaluation of technology 
assessment techniques and identification, insofar as may be feasible, 
of technological areas and programs requiring future analysis. The 
annual report shall be submitted not later than March 15 of each year.

``SEC. 709. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.

    ``There are authorized to be appropriated to the Service such sums 
as are necessary to fulfill the requirements of this title.''.

            TITLE II--GREENHOUSE GAS MEASURING AND REPORTING

SEC. 201. NATIONAL GREENHOUSE GAS MEASUREMENT, VERIFICATION, AND 
              REPORTING SYSTEM.

    (a) Emissions Measurement and Verification System.--The Director of 
the National Institute of Standards and Technology shall, within 1 year 
after the date of enactment of this Act, design and develop a 
comprehensive national measurement and verification system for 
greenhouse gas emissions in order to establish a consistent and 
technically accurate record of greenhouse gas emissions, reductions, 
and atmospheric concentrations for measurement of progress in emissions 
reduction and future trading in greenhouse gas credits.
    (b) System Requirements.--The system developed by the Director 
shall--
            (1) provide a method for establishing an accurate baseline, 
        using standard units, for national or international measurement 
        and accounting of the United States's greenhouse gas emissions 
        and reductions;
            (2) build on, or coordinate with, existing monitoring, 
        measurement, and reporting systems applicable to greenhouse 
        gases under Federal environmental or other laws;
            (3) ensure coverage of greenhouse gases regulated under the 
        Clean Air Act (42 U.S.C. 7401 et seq.) and greenhouse gas 
        sources accounting for at least 75 percent of United States 
        greenhouse gas emissions;
            (4) utilize techniques and methods that will minimize 
        measurement and reporting costs of covered entities;
            (5) utilize advanced technologies, including satellite and 
        laser technology, that will allow for field measurement and 
        verification;
            (6) allow for measurement of reductions from energy 
        efficiency or environmentally appropriate carbon reduction 
        projects;
            (7) set uniform protocols and standards that can be used in 
        State or international reporting and measurement systems, 
        including those established by the Intergovernmental Panel on 
        Climate Change;
            (8) support the emissions reporting system established 
        under subsection (c);
            (9) provide for use and training of third-party 
        verification entities; and
            (10) provide a forum for public dissemination of 
        measurement and reporting techniques and methods, including 
        distribution on the world wide web.
    (c) Mandatory Greenhouse Gas Reporting System.--
            (1) In general.--No later than 2 years after the date of 
        enactment of this Act, the Climate Change Task Force, acting 
        through the Secretary of Commerce, shall initiate a mandatory 
        greenhouse gas emissions reporting system for the industrial, 
        energy-producing, and transportation sectors of the economy 
        utilizing the measurement and verification system developed 
        under subsection (a) and (b). The Secretary shall ensure that 
        the system is designed to maximize completeness, transparency, 
        and accuracy and to minimize measurement-and-reporting costs 
        for covered entities.
            (2) Covered entities.--The reporting system shall measure, 
        track, and disclose direct and indirect emissions from entities 
        operating in the industrial, energy-producing, and 
        transportation sectors of the United States economy. This shall 
        include facilities or entities--
                    (A) with significant direct greenhouse gas 
                emissions;
                    (B) with manufacturing or other processes that are 
                significant consumers of energy, particularly energy 
                derived from fossil fuel sources;
                    (C) that sell or market products or services that 
                consume significant amounts of energy, particularly 
                energy derived from fossil fuel sources; or
                    (D) involved in land use activities that release 
                significant greenhouse gases.
    (d) Reporting Emissions.--
            (1) Notification requirement.--Within 12 months after the 
        reporting system is developed, all covered entities shall be 
        notified of the existence of the system, and the procedures for 
        measuring, verifying, and submitting greenhouse gas emissions 
        information to the Secretary.
            (2) Required information.--Each covered entity shall be 
        required to report direct and indirect emissions on an entity-
        wide and facility-by-facility basis.
            (3) First reporting date.--Each covered entity notified 
        under paragraph (1) to begin reporting under the reporting 
        system shall be required to begin reporting not less than 4 
        years after the date of enactment of this Act.
            (4) Voluntary reporting.--Any entity may voluntarily report 
        greenhouse gas emissions information into the reporting system, 
        and such information shall be included in the reporting system.
    (e) Penalty for Failure to Report.--If any person required to 
report under this section fails to transmit the report at the time and 
in the manner required by the Task Force, the Secretary shall issue an 
administrative order assessing a penalty of not more than $25,000 per 
day. Each day on which the failure to report continues, excepting 
Saturdays, Sundays, and holidays, constitutes a separate violation of 
the reporting requirement. The maximum penalty the Secretary may assess 
against any person for any multiple day violation of a single failure 
to report may not exceed $200,000.
    (f) Public Information.--The Secretary shall make greenhouse gas 
emissions information contained in the reporting system publicly 
available, including through access on the world wide web, except in a 
case in which publishing information would reveal a trade secret or 
disclose information vital to national security. Emissions information 
reported by individual facilities shall be made available through a 
link with the Toxic Release Inventory public access system established 
under section 821 of the Act entitled ``An Act to amend the Clear Air 
Act to provide for attainment and maintenance of health protective 
purposes'', (42 U.S.C. 7651k nt.).

SEC. 202. ATMOSPHERIC MONITORING AND REPORTING ON TRENDS.

    (a) Atmospheric Monitoring and Verification Program.--The Secretary 
of Commerce, in coordination with relevant Federal agencies, shall, as 
part of the National Climate Service, establish an atmospheric 
monitoring and verification program utilizing aircraft, satellite, 
ground sensors, and modeling capabilities to monitor, measure, and 
verify atmospheric greenhouse gas levels, dates, and emissions. Where 
feasible, the program shall measure emissions from identified sources 
participating in the reporting system for verification purposes. The 
program shall use measurements and standards that are consistent with 
those utilized in the greenhouse gas measurement and reporting system 
established under subsection (a).
    (b) Annual Report.--The Secretary of Commerce shall issue an annual 
report that identifies greenhouse emissions and trends on a local, 
regional, and national level. The report shall also identify emissions 
or reductions attributable to individual or multiple sources covered by 
the greenhouse gas measurement and reporting system established under 
section 201.

           TITLE III--CLIMATE CHANGE SCIENCE AND INFORMATION

    Subtitle A--Amendments to the Global Change Research Act of 1990

SEC. 301. AMENDMENT OF GLOBAL CHANGE RESEARCH ACT OF 1990.

    Except as otherwise expressly provided, whenever in this subtitle 
an amendment or repeal is expressed in terms of an amendment to, or 
repeal of, a section or other provision, the reference shall be 
considered to be made to a section or other provision of the Global 
Change Research Act of 1990 (15 U.S.C. 2921 et seq.).

SEC. 302. CHANGES IN DEFINITIONS.

    Paragraph (1) of section 2 (15 U.S.C. 2921) is amended by striking 
``Earth and'' inserting ``Climate and''.

SEC. 303. CHANGE IN COMMITTEE NAME.

    Section 102 (15 U.S.C. 2932) is amended--
            (1) by striking ``Earth and'' in the section heading and 
        inserting ``Climate and''; and
            (2) by striking ``Earth and'' in subsection (a) and 
        inserting ``Climate and''.

SEC. 304. CHANGE IN NATIONAL GLOBAL CHANGE RESEARCH PLAN.

    Section 104 (15 U.S.C. 2934) is amended--
            (1) by adding at the end of subsection (c) the following:
            ``(6) Methods for integrating information to provide 
        predictive tools for planning and decision making by 
        governments, communities and the private sector.'';
            (2) by inserting ``local, State, and Federal'' before 
        ``policy makers'' in subsection (d)(3);
            (3) by striking ``and'' in subsection (d)(2);
            (4) by striking ``change.'' in subsection (d)(3) and 
        inserting ``change; and'';
            (5) by adding at the end of subsection (d) the following:
            ``(4) establish a common assessment and modeling framework 
        that may be used in both research and operations to predict and 
        assess the vulnerability of natural and managed ecosystems and 
        of human society in the context of other environmental and 
        social changes.''; and
            (6) by adding at the end the following:
    ``(g) Strategic Plan; Revised Implementation Plan.--The Chairman of 
the Council, through the Committee, shall develop a strategic plan for 
the United States Global Climate Change Research Program for the 10-
year period beginning in 2002 and submit the plan to the Congress 
within 180 days after the date of enactment of the Global Climate 
Change Act of 2001. The Chairman, through the Committee, shall also 
submit a revised implementation plan under subsection (a).''.

SEC. 305. INTEGRATED PROGRAM OFFICE.

    Section 105 (15 U.S.C. 2935) is amended--
            (1) by redesignating subsections (a), (b), and (c) as 
        subsections (b), (c), and (d), respectively; and
            (2) inserting before subsection (b), as redesignated, the 
        following:
    ``(a) Integrated Program Office.--
            ``(1) Establishment.--There is established in the Office of 
        Science and Technology Policy an integrated program office for 
        the global change research program.
            ``(2) Organization.--The integrated program office 
        established under paragraph (1) shall be headed by the 
        associate director for climate change and shall include a 
        representative from each Federal agency participating in the 
        global change research program.
            ``(3) Function.--The integrated program office shall--
                    ``(A) manage, working in conjunction with the 
                Committee, interagency coordination and program 
integration of global change research activities and budget requests;
                    ``(B) ensure that the activities and programs of 
                each Federal agency or department participating in the 
                program address the goals and objectives identified in 
                the strategic research plan and interagency 
                implementation plans;
                    ``(C) ensure program and budget recommendations of 
                the Committee are communicated to the President and are 
                integrated into the climate change action strategy;
                    ``(D) review, solicit, and identify, and allocate 
                funds for, partnership projects that address critical 
                research objectives or operational goals of the 
                program, including projects that would fill research 
                gaps identified by the program, and for which project 
                resources are shared among at least 2 agencies 
                participating in the program; and
                    ``(E) review and approve, in conjunction with the 
                Committee, all annual appropriations requests from 
                Federal agencies or departments participating in the 
                program.
            ``(4) Clearance required.--Notwithstanding any other 
        provision of law to the contrary, no Federal agency or 
        department participating in the program may submit its annual 
        appropriations request for program-related activities to the 
        President without the approval of the Integrated Program 
        Office.
            ``(5) Grant authority.--The Integrated Program Office may 
        authorize 1 or more of the departments or agencies 
        participating in the program to enter into contracts and make 
        grants, using funds appropriated for use by the Office of 
        Science and Technology Policy for the purpose of carrying out 
        the responsibilities of that Office.
            ``(6) Funding.--For fiscal year 2002, and each fiscal year 
        thereafter, not less than $13,000,000 shall be made available 
        to the Integrated Program Office from amounts appropriated to 
        or for the use of the Office of Science and Technology 
        Policy.'';
            (3) by striking ``Committee.'' in paragraph (2) of 
        subsection (c), as redesignated, and inserting ``Committee and 
        the Integrated Program Office.''; and
            (4) by inserting ``and the Integrated Program Office'' 
        after ``Committee'' in paragraph (1) of subsection (d), as 
        redesignated.

SEC. 306. CHANGES IN REFERENCE TO NATIONAL CLIMATE PROGRAM.

    Section 108 (15 U.S.C. 2938) is amended--
            (1) by striking ``Program'' in the heading for subsection 
        (a) and inserting ``Service''; and
            (2) by striking ``Program, established by the National 
        Climate Program Act (15 U.S.C. 2901 et seq.),'' and inserting 
        `` Service, established by the National Climate Service Act (15 
        U.S.C. 2901 et seq.),''.

          Subtitle B--National Climate Services and Monitoring

SEC. 351. AMENDMENT OF NATIONAL CLIMATE PROGRAM ACT.

    Except as otherwise expressly provided, whenever in this subtitle 
an amendment or repeal is expressed in terms of an amendment to, or 
repeal of, a section or other provision, the reference shall be 
considered to be made to a section or other provision of the National 
Climate Program Act (15 U.S.C. 2901 et seq.).

SEC. 352. CHANGE IN SHORT TITLE OF ACT.

    (a) In General.--Section 1 of the National Climate Program Act (15 
U.S.C. 2901 nt) is amended by striking ``Program'' and inserting 
``Service''.
    (b) References to Act by Former Short Title.--Except when 
inappropriate, any reference in any law, Executive order, or other 
document--
            (1) to the National Climate Program Act shall include a 
        reference to the National Climate Service Act; and
            (2) to the National Climate Service Act shall include a 
        reference to the provisions of law formerly known as the 
        National Climate Program Act.

SEC. 353. CHANGES IN FINDINGS.

    Section 2 (15 U.S.C. 2901) is amended--
            (1) by striking ``Weather and climate change affect'' in 
        paragraph (1) and inserting ``Weather, climate change, and 
        long-term weather fluctuations affect public safety, 
        environmental security, human health,'';
            (2) by striking ``climate'' in paragraph (2) and inserting 
        ``climate, including seasonal and decadal fluctuations,'';
            (3) by striking ``changes.'' in paragraph (5) and inserting 
        ``changes and providing free exchange of meteorological 
        data.''; and
            (4) by adding at the end the following:
            ``(7) The present rate of advance in research and 
        development is inadequate and new developments must be 
        incorporated rapidly into services for the benefit of the 
        public.
            ``(8) The United States lacks adequate infrastructure and 
        research to meet national climate monitoring and prediction 
        needs.''.

SEC. 354. CHANGE IN PURPOSE.

    Section 3 (15 U.S.C. 2902) is amended by striking ``program'' and 
inserting ``service''.

SEC. 355. ``PROGRAM'' CHANGED TO ``SERVICE''.

    (a) Definition.--Section 4 (15 U.S.C. 2903) is amended by striking 
paragraph (3) and inserting the following:
            ``(3) The term ``Service'' means the National Climate 
        Service.''.
    (b) Program in Department of Commerce.--In section 5 (15 U.S.C. 
2904) insert ``in the Department of Commerce'' after ``Program''.
    (c) Conforming Amendments.--The Act is amended--
            (1) by striking `` Program'' each place it appears in 
        sections 5(b)(2), 5(b)(3), 5(c)(2)(B), 5(c)(4), 5(d), 5(d)(1), 
        5(d)(10) (as section 5(d) is amended by section 355 of this 
        Act), 5(e)(1), 5(e)(2)(A), 5(f)(1), 5(f)(2), 5(g), 7(a), 7(b), 
        7(c), 8(a), and 9 and inserting ``Service'';
            (2) by striking ``program'' each place it appears in 
        sections 5(c)(2)(A) and 5(c)(3) and inserting ``Service'';
            (3) by striking ``programs,'' in section 5(d)(10)(A) (as 
        section 5(d) is amended by section 355 of this Act) and 
        inserting ``Service'';
            (4) by striking ``Program'' and inserting ``Service'' in 
        the headings for subsections (c), (d), and (e) of section 5; 
        and
            (5) by striking ``PROGRAM'' in the heading for section 5 
        and inserting ``SERVICE''.

SEC. 356. TOOLS FOR REGIONAL PLANNING.

    Section 5(d) (15 U.S.C. 2904(d)) is amended--
            (1) by redesignating paragraphs (4) through (9) as 
        paragraphs (5) through (10), respectively;
            (2) by inserting after paragraph (3) the following:
            ``(4) methods for improving modeling and predictive 
        capabilities and developing assessment methods to guide 
        national, regional, and local planning and decision-making on 
        land use, water hazards, and related issues;''
            (3) by inserting ``sharing,'' after ``collection,'' in 
        paragraph (5), as redesignated;
            (4) by striking ``experimental'' each place it appears in 
        paragraph (9), as redesignated;
            (5) by striking ``preliminary'' in paragraph (10), as 
        redesignated;
            (6) by striking ``this Act,'' the first place it appears in 
        paragraph (10), as redesignated, and inserting ``the Global 
        Climate Change Act of 2001,''; and
            (7) by striking ``this Act,'' the second place it appears 
        in paragraph (10), as redesignated, and inserting ``that 
        Act,''.

SEC. 357. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.

    Section 9 (15 U.S.C. 2908) is amended--
            (1) by striking ``1979,'' and inserting ``2002,'';
            (2) by striking ``1980,'' and inserting ``2003,'';
            (3) by striking ``1981,'' and inserting ``2004,''; and
            (4) by striking ``$25,500,000'' and inserting 
        ``$75,500,000''.

SEC. 358. NATIONAL CLIMATE SERVICE PLAN.

    The Act (15 U.S.C. 2901 et seq.) is amended by inserting after 
section 5 the following:

``SEC. 6. NATIONAL CLIMATE SERVICE PLAN.

    ``Within one year after the date of enactment of the Global Climate 
Change Act of 2001, the Secretary of Commerce shall submit to the 
Senate Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation and the House 
Science Committee a plan of action for the National Climate Service. 
The plan shall set forth recommendations and funding estimates for--
            ``(1) a national center for operational climate monitoring 
        and predicting with the functional capacity to monitor and 
        adjust observing systems as necessary to reduce bias;
            ``(2) the design, deployment, and operation of an adequate 
        national climate observing system that builds upon existing 
        environmental monitoring systems and closes gaps in coverage by 
        existing systems;
            ``(3) the establishment of a national coordinated modeling 
        strategy, including a national climate modeling center to 
        provide a dedicated capability for climate modeling and a 
        regular schedule of projections on a long and short term time 
        schedules and at a range of spatial scales;
            ``(4) improvements in modeling and assessment capabilities 
        needed to integrate information to predict regional and local 
        climate changes and impacts;
            ``(5) in coordination with the private sector, improving 
        the capacity to assess the impacts of predicted and projected 
        climate changes and variations;
            ``(6) a program for long term stewardship, quality control, 
        development of relevant climate products, and efficient access 
        to all relevant climate data, products, and critical model 
        simulations; and
            ``(7) mechanisms to coordinate among Federal agencies, 
        State and local government entities and the academic community 
        to ensure timely and full sharing and dissemination of climate 
        information and services, both domestically and 
        internationally.''.

SEC. 359. INTERNATIONAL PACIFIC RESEARCH AND COOPERATION.

    The Secretary of Commerce, in cooperation with the Administrator of 
the National Aeronautics and Space Administration, shall conduct 
international research in the Pacific region that will increase 
understanding of the nature and predictability of climate variability 
in the Asia-Pacific sector, including regional aspects of global 
environmental change. Such research activities shall be conducted in 
cooperation with other nations of the region. There are authorized to 
be appropriated for the purposes of this section $1,500,000 to the 
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration and $1,500,000 to the 
National Aeronautics and Space Administration.

                  TITLE IV--CLIMATE CHANGE TECHNOLOGY

SEC. 401. NIST GREENHOUSE GAS FUNCTIONS.

    Section 2(c) of the National Institute of Standards and Technology 
Act (15 U.S.C. 272(c)) is amended--
            (1) striking ``and'' after the semicolon in paragraph (21);
            (2) by redesignating paragraph (22) as paragraph (23); and
            (3) by inserting after paragraph (21) the following:
            ``(22) perform research to develop enhanced measurements, 
        calibrations, standards, and technologies which will enable the 
        reduced production in the United States of greenhouse gases 
        associated with global warming, including carbon dioxide, 
        methane, nitrous oxide, ozone, perfluorocarbons, hydro 
        fluorocarbons, and sulphur hexafluoride; and''.

SEC. 402. MEASUREMENT AND VERIFICATION TECHNOLOGIES.

    The Secretary of Commerce shall initiate a program to develop, with 
technical assistance from appropriate Federal agencies, innovative 
standards and measurement technologies (including technologies for use 
in the system established under section 201(a) to measure carbon 
changes due to changes in land use cover) to calculate--
            (1) greenhouse gas emissions and reductions from 
        agriculture, forestry, and other land use practices;
            (2) non-carbon dioxide greenhouse gas emissions from 
        transportation;
            (3) greenhouse gas emissions from facilities or sources 
        using remote sensing technology; and
            (4) any other greenhouse gas emissions or reductions for 
        which no accurate or reliable measurement technology exists.

SEC. 403. ENHANCED ENVIRONMENTAL MEASUREMENTS AND STANDARDS.

    The National Institute of Standards and Technology Act (15 U.S.C. 
271 et seq.) is amended--
            (1) by redesignating sections 17 through 32 as sections 18 
        through 33, respectively; and
            (2) by inserting after section 16 the following:

``SEC. 17. CLIMATE CHANGE STANDARDS AND PROCESSES.

    ``(a) In General.--The Director shall establish within the 
Institute a program to perform and support research on global climate 
change standards and processes, with the goal of providing scientific 
and technical knowledge applicable to the reduction of greenhouse gases 
(as defined in section 4 of the Global Climate Change Act of 2001).
    ``(b) Research Program.--
            ``(1) In general.--The Director is authorized to conduct, 
        directly or through contracts or grants, a global climate 
        change standards and processes research program.
            ``(2) Research projects.--The specific contents and 
        priorities of the research program shall be determined in 
        consultation with appropriate Federal agencies, including the 
        Environmental Protection Agency, the National Oceanic and 
        Atmospheric Administration, the National Aeronautics and Space 
        Administration, and the National Science Foundation. The 
        program generally shall include basic and applied research--
                    ``(A) to develop and provide the enhanced 
                measurements, calibrations, data, models, and reference 
                material standards which will enable the monitoring of 
                greenhouse gases;
                    ``(B) to assist in establishing of a baseline 
                reference point for future trading in greenhouse gases 
                and the measurement of progress in emissions reduction;
                    ``(C) that will be exchanged internationally as 
                scientific or technical information which has the 
                stated purpose of developing mutually recognized 
                measurements, standards, and procedures for reducing 
                greenhouse gases; and
                    ``(D) to assist in developing improved industrial 
                processes designed to reduce or eliminated greenhouse 
                gases.
    ``(c) National Measurement Laboratories.--
            ``(1) In general.--In carrying out this section, the 
        Director shall utilize the collective skills of the National 
        Measurement Laboratories of the National Institute of Standards 
        and Technology to improve the accuracy of measurements that 
        will permit better understanding and control of these 
        industrial chemical processes and result in the reduction or 
        elimination of greenhouse gases.
            ``(2) Material, process, and building research.--The 
        National Measurement Laboratories shall conduct research under 
        this subsection that includes--
                    ``(A) material and manufacturing processes which 
                are designed for energy efficiency and reduced 
                greenhouse gas emissions into the environment;
                    ``(B) developing environmentally-friendly, `green' 
                chemical processes to be used by industry; and
                    ``(C) enhancing building performance with a focus 
                in developing standards or tools which will help 
                incorporate low or no-emission technologies into 
                building designs.
            ``(3) Standards and tools.--The National Measurement 
        Laboratories shall develop standards and tools under this 
        subsection that include software to assist designers in 
        selecting alternate building materials, performance data on 
        materials, artificial intelligence-aided design procedures for 
        building subsystems and `smart buildings', and improved test 
        methods and rating procedures for evaluating the energy 
        performance of residential and commercial appliances and 
        products.
    ``(d) National Voluntary Laboratory Accreditation Program.--The 
Director shall utilize the National Voluntary Laboratory Accreditation 
Program under this section to establish a program to include specific 
calibration or test standards and related methods and protocols 
assembled to satisfy the unique needs for accreditation in measuring 
the production of greenhouse gases. In carrying out this subsection the 
Director may cooperate with other departments and agencies of the 
Federal Government, State and local governments, and private 
organizations.''.

SEC. 404. TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT AND DIFFUSION.

    (a) Advanced Technology Program Competitions.--The Director of the 
National Institute of Standards and Technology, through the Advanced 
Technology Program, may hold a portion of the Institute's competitions 
in thematic areas, selected after consultation with industry, 
academics, and other Federal Agencies, designed to develop and 
commercialize enabling technologies to address global climate change by 
significantly reducing greenhouse gas emissions and concentrations in 
the atmosphere.
    (b) Manufacturing Extension Partnership Program for ``Green'' 
Manufacturing.--The Director of the National Institute of Standards and 
Technology, through the Manufacturing Extension Partnership Program, 
may develop a program to support the implementation of new ``green'' 
manufacturing technologies and techniques by the more than 380,000 
small manufacturers, with particular emphasis on improving the energy 
efficiency of electric motors.

SEC. 405. TRANSFER OF GREENHOUSE GAS REDUCTION TECHNOLOGY .

    (a) Establishment.--The Secretary of Commerce shall establish a 
technology transfer program for emissions reduction and energy 
efficiency technologies. In selecting technologies for promotion 
through this program, the Secretary shall consult with the Department 
of Energy, the Agency for International Development, the Environmental 
Protection Agency, and other appropriate Federal agencies.
    (b) Focus Areas.--The program shall--
            (1) promote the transfer of United States emissions 
        reduction technologies to developing countries and countries in 
        transition that are likely to have greenhouse gas emissions 
        increases over the next 20 years;
            (2) promote the transfer of United States emissions 
        reduction technologies to clean development and technology 
        transfer programs established under the Framework Convention on 
        Climate Change and other international agreements;
            (3) identify technology, policy, and market opportunities 
        for transfer and development of such technologies; and
            (4) make recommendations to other appropriate Federal 
        agencies to improve Federal participation in the program.
    (c) Advisory Committee.--The Secretary shall establish an advisory 
committee composed of representatives of industry, academics, and other 
interested groups to provide advice on the development, deployment, and 
export of greenhouse gas reduction technologies.

           TITLE V--CLIMATE ADAPTATION AND HAZARDS PREVENTION

                 Subtitle A--Assessment and Adaptation

SEC. 501. REGIONAL CLIMATE ASSESSMENT AND ADAPTATION.

    (a) In General.--The President shall establish within the 
Department of Commerce a National Climate Vulnerability and Adaptation 
Program for regional impacts related to increasing concentrations of 
greenhouse gases in the atmosphere and climate variability.
    (b) Coordination.--In designing such program the Secretary shall 
consult with the Climate Change Task Force to ensure involvement of, 
and coordination with, appropriate Federal, State, and local government 
entities.
    (c) Regional Vulnerability Assessments.--The program shall--
            (1) evaluate, based on predictions developed under this 
        Act, the National Climate Service Act (15 U.S.C. 2901 et seq.), 
        and the global climate modeling community, regional 
        vulnerability to phenomena associated with climate change and 
        climate variability, including--
                    (A) increases in severe weather events;
                    (B) sea level rise and shifts in the hydrological 
                cycle;
                    (C) natural hazards, including tsunami, drought, 
                flood and fire; and
                    (D) alteration of ecological communities at the 
                ecosystem or watershed level; and
            (2) build upon predictions and other information developed 
        in the National Assessments prepared under the Global Change 
        Research Act of 1990 (15 U.S.C. 2921 et seq.).
    (d) Preparedness Recommendations.--The program shall submit a 
report to Congress within 2 years after the date of enactment of this 
Act that identifies and recommends implementation and funding 
strategies for short and long-term actions that may be taken at the 
national, regional, State, and local level--
            (1) to minimize threats to human life and property,
            (2) to improve resilience to hazards,
            (3) to minimize economic impacts; and
            (4) to reduce threats to critical biological and ecological 
        processes.
    (e) Information and Technology.--The Secretary shall make available 
appropriate information and other technologies and products that will 
assist national, regional, State, and local efforts to reduce loss of 
life and property, and coordinate dissemination of such technologies 
and products.
    (f) Authorization of Appropriations.--There are authorized to be 
appropriated to the Secretary of Commerce $4,500,000 to implement the 
requirements of this section.

SEC. 502. COASTAL VULNERABILITY AND ADAPTATION.

    (a) Coastal Vulnerability.--Within 2 years after the date of 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall, in consultation with the 
appropriate Federal, State, and local governmental entities, conduct 
regional assessments of the vulnerability of coastal areas to hazards 
associated with climate change, climate variability, sea level rise, 
and fluctuation of Great Lakes water levels. The Secretary may also 
consult with the governments of Canada and Mexico as appropriate in 
developing such regional assessments. In preparing the regional 
assessments, the Secretary shall collect and compile current 
information on climate change, sea level rise, natural hazards, and 
coastal erosion and mapping, and specifically address impacts on Arctic 
regions and the Central, Western, and South Pacific regions. The 
regional assessments shall include an evaluation of--
            (1) social impacts associated with threats to and potential 
        losses of housing, communities, and infrastructure;
            (2) physical impacts such as coastal erosion, flooding and 
        loss of estuarine habitat, saltwater intrusion of aquifers and 
        saltwater encroachment, and species migration; and
            (3) economic impact on local, State, and regional 
        economies, including the impact on abundance or distribution of 
        economically important living marine resources.
    (b) Coastal Adaptation Plan.--The Secretary shall, within 3 years 
after the date of enactment of this Act, submit to the Congress a 
national coastal adaptation plan, composed of individual regional 
adaptation plans that recommend targets and strategies to address 
coastal impacts associated with climate change, sea level rise, or 
climate variability. The plan shall be developed with the participation 
of other Federal, State, and local government agencies that will be 
critical in the implementation of the plan at the State and local 
levels. The regional plans that will make up the national coastal 
adaptation plan shall be based on the information contained in the 
regional assessments and shall identify special needs associated with 
Arctic areas and the Central, Western, and South Pacific regions. The 
Plan shall recommend both short and long-term adaptation strategies and 
shall include recommendations regarding--
            (1) Federal flood insurance program modifications;
            (2) areas that have been identified as high risk through 
        mapping and assessment;
            (3) mitigation incentives such as rolling easements, 
        strategic retreat, State or Federal acquisition in fee simple 
        or other interest in land, construction standards, and zoning;
            (4) land and property owner education;
            (5) economic planning for small communities dependent upon 
        affected coastal resources, including fisheries; and
            (6) funding requirements and mechanisms.
    (c) Technical Planning Assistance.--The Secretary, through the 
National Ocean Service, shall establish a coordinated program to 
provide technical planning assistance and products to coastal States 
and local governments as they develop and implement adaptation or 
mitigation strategies and plans. Products, information, tools and 
technical expertise generated from the development of the regional 
assessments and the regional adaptation plans will be made available to 
coastal States for the purposes of developing their own State and local 
plans.
    (d) Coastal Adaptation Grants.--The Secretary shall provide grants 
of financial assistance to coastal States with Federally approved 
coastal zone management programs to develop and begin implementing 
coastal adaptation programs if the State provides a Federal-to-state 
match of 4 to 1 in the first fiscal year, 2.3 to 1 in the second fiscal 
year, 2 to 1 in the third fiscal year, and 1 to 1 thereafter. 
Distribution of these funds to coastal states shall be based upon the 
formula established under section 306(c) of the Coastal Zone Management 
Act of 1972 (16 U.S.C. 1455(c)), adjusted in consultation with the 
States as necessary to provide assistance to particularly vulnerable 
coastlines.
    (e) Coastal Response Pilot Program.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary shall establish a 4-year 
        pilot program to provide financial assistance to coastal 
        communities most adversely affected by the impact of climate 
        change or climate variability that are located in States with 
        Federal-approved coastal zone management programs.
            (2) Eligible projects.--A project is eligible for financial 
        assistance under the pilot program if it--
                    (A) will restore or strengthen coastal resources, 
                facilities, or infrastructure that have been damaged by 
                such an impact, as determined by the Secretary;
                    (B) meets the requirements of the Coastal Zone 
                Management Act (16 U.S.C. 1451 et seq.) and is 
                consistent with the coastal zone management plan of the 
                State in which it is located; and
                    (C) will not cost more than $100,000.
            (3) Funding share.--The Federal funding share of any 
        project under this subsection may not exceed 75 percent of the 
        total cost of the project. In this administration of this 
        paragraph--
                    (A) the Secretary may take into account in-kind 
                contributions and other non-cash support of any project 
                to determine the Federal funding share for that 
                project; and
                    (B) the Secretary may waive the requirements of 
                this paragraph for a project in a community if--
                            (i) the Secretary determines that the 
                        project is important; and
                            (ii) the economy and available resources of 
                        the community in which the project is to be 
                        conducted are insufficient to meet the non-
                        Federal share of the project's costs.
    (f) CZMA Terms.--Any term used in this section that is defined in 
section 304 of the Coastal Zone Management Act of 1972 (16 U.S.C. 1453) 
has the meaning given it by that section.
    (g) Authorization of Appropriations.--There are authorized to be 
appropriated--
            (1) $5,00,000 annually for coastal adaptation grants under 
        subsection (d); and
            (2) $3,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2003 through 2006 
        for the pilot program established under subsection (e).

                   Subtitle B--Pilot Programs; Grants

SEC. 551. FORECASTING PROJECTS.

    (a) In General.--The Administrator of the National Aeronautics and 
Space Administration shall establish, through the National Oceanic and 
Atmospheric Administration's Coastal Services Center, a program of 
grants for competitively awarded pilot projects to explore the 
integrated use of sources of remote sensing and other geospatial 
information to address State, local, regional, and tribal agency needs 
to forecast a plan for adaptation to coastal zone and land use changes 
that may result as a consequence of global climate change or climate 
variability.
    (b) Preferred Projects.--In awarding grants under this section, the 
Center shall give preference to projects that--
            (1) focus on areas that are most sensitive to the 
        consequences of global climate change or climate variability;
            (2) make use of existing public or commercial data sets;
            (3) integrate multiple sources of geospatial information, 
        such as geographic information system data, satellite-provided 
        positioning data, and remotely sensed data, in innovative ways;
            (4) offer diverse, innovative approaches that may serve as 
        models for establishing a future coordinated framework for 
        planning strategies for adaptation to coastal zone and land use 
        changes related to global climate change or climate 
        variability;
            (5) include funds or in-kind contributions from non-Federal 
        sources;
            (6) involve the participation of commercial entities that 
        process raw or lightly processed data, often merging that data 
        with other geospatial information, to create data products that 
        have significant value added to the original data; and
            (7) taken together demonstrate as diverse a set of public 
        sector applications as possible.
    (c) Opportunities.--In carrying out this section, the Center shall 
seek opportunities to assist--
            (1) in the development of commercial applications 
        potentially available from the remote sensing industry; and
            (2) State, local, regional, and tribal agencies in applying 
        remote sensing and other geospatial information technologies 
        for management and adaptation to coastal and land use 
        consequences of global climate change or climate variability.
    (d) Duration.--Assistance for a pilot project under subsection (a) 
shall be provided for a period of not more than 3 years.
    (e) Responsibilities of Grantees.--Within 180 days after completion 
of a grant project, each recipient of a grant under subsection (a) 
shall transmit a report to the Center on the results of the pilot 
project and conduct at least one workshop for potential users to 
disseminate the lessons learned from the pilot project as widely as 
feasible.
    (f) Regulations.--The Center shall issue regulations establishing 
application, selection, and implementation procedures for pilot 
projects, and guidelines for reports and workshops required by this 
section.

SEC. 552. DATABASE ESTABLISHMENT.

    The Center shall establish and maintain an electronic, Internet-
accessible database of the results of each pilot project completed 
under section 551.

SEC. 553. DEFINITIONS.

    In this subtitle:
            (1) Center.--The term ``Center'' means the Coastal Services 
        Center of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration.
            (2) Geospatial information.--The term ``geospatial 
        information'' means knowledge of the nature and distribution of 
        physical and cultural features on the landscape based on 
        analysis of data from airborne or spaceborne platforms or other 
        types and sources of data.

SEC. 554. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.

    There are authorized to be appropriated to the Administrator to 
carry out the provisions of this subtitle--
            (1) $15,000,000 for fiscal year 2002;
            (2) $17,500,000 for fiscal year 2003;
            (3) $20,000,000 for fiscal year 2004;
            (4) $22,500,000 for fiscal year 2005; and
            (5) $25,000,000 for fiscal year 2006.

              TITLE VI--OCEAN AND COASTAL OBSERVING SYSTEM

SEC. 601. OCEAN AND COASTAL OBSERVING SYSTEM.

    (a) Establishment.--The President, through the National Ocean 
Research Leadership Council, established by section 7902(a) of title 
10, United States Code, shall establish and maintain an integrated 
ocean and coastal observing system that provides for long-term, 
continuous, and real-time observations of the oceans and coasts for the 
purposes of--
            (1) understanding, assessing and responding to human-
        induced and natural processes of global change;
            (2) improving weather forecasts and public warnings;
            (3) strengthening national security and military 
        preparedness;
            (4) enhancing the safety and efficiency of marine 
        operations;
            (5) supporting efforts to restore the health of and manage 
        coastal and marine ecosystems and living resources;
            (6) monitoring and evaluating the effectiveness of ocean 
        and coastal environmental policies;
            (7) reducing and mitigating ocean and coastal pollution; 
        and
            (8) providing information that contributes to public 
        awareness of the state and importance of the oceans.
    (b) Council Functions.--In addition to its responsibilities under 
section 7902(a) of such title, the Council shall be responsible for 
planning and coordinating the observing system and in carrying out this 
responsibility shall--
            (1) develop and submit to the Congress, within 6 months 
        after the date of enactment of this Act, a plan for 
        implementing a national ocean and coastal observing system 
        that--
                    (A) uses an end-to end engineering and development 
                approach to develop a system design and schedule for 
                operational implementation;
                    (B) determines how current and planned observing 
                activities can be integrated in a cost-effective 
                manner;
                    (C) provides for regional and concept demonstration 
                projects;
                    (D) describes the role and estimated budget of each 
                Federal agency in implementing the plan;
                    (E) contributes, to the extent practicable, to the 
                National Global Change Research Plan under section 104 
                of the Global Change Research Act of 1990 (15 U.S.C. 
                2934); and
                    (F) makes recommendations for coordination of ocean 
                observing activities of the United States with those of 
                other nations and international organizations;
            (2) serve as the mechanism for coordinating Federal ocean 
        observing requirements and activities;
            (3) work with academic, State, industry and other actual 
        and potential users of the observing system to make effective 
        use of existing capabilities and incorporate new technologies;
            (4) approve standards and protocols for the administration 
        of the system, including--
                    (A) a common set of measurements to be collected 
                and distributed routinely and by uniform methods;
                    (B) standards for quality control and assessment of 
                data;
                    (C) design, testing and employment of forecast 
                models for ocean conditions;
                    (D) data management, including data transfer 
                protocols and archiving; and
                    (E) designation of coastal ocean observing regions; 
                and
            (5) in consultation with the Secretary of State, provide 
        representation at international meetings on ocean observing 
        programs and coordinate relevant Federal activities with those 
        of other nations.
    (c) System Elements.--The integrated ocean and coastal observing 
system shall include the following elements:
            (1) A nationally coordinated network of regional coastal 
        ocean observing systems that measure and disseminate a common 
        set of ocean observations and related products in a uniform 
        manner and according to sound scientific practice, but that are 
        adapted to local and regional needs.
            (2) Ocean sensors for climate observations, including the 
        Arctic Ocean and sub-polar seas.
            (3) Coastal, relocatable, and cabled sea floor 
        observatories.
            (4) Broad bandwidth communications that are capable of 
        transmitting high volumes of data from open ocean locations at 
        low cost and in real time.
            (5) Ocean data management and assimilation systems that 
        ensure full use of new sources of data from space-borne and in 
        situ sensors.
            (6) Focused research programs.
            (7) Technology development program to develop new observing 
        technologies and techniques, including data management and 
        dissemination.
            (8) Public outreach and education.

SEC. 602. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.

    For development and implementation of an integrated ocean and 
coastal observation system under this title, including financial 
assistance to regional coastal ocean observing systems, there are 
authorized to be appropriated $135,000,000 in fiscal year 2002, 
$235,000,000 in fiscal year 2003, $315,000,000 in fiscal year 2004, 
$390,000,000 in fiscal year 2005, and $445,000,000 in fiscal year 2006.
                                 &lt;all&gt;
</pre></body></html>
