<html><body><pre>
[Congressional Bills 115th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H.R. 4672 Introduced in House (IH)]

&lt;DOC&gt;






115th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                H. R. 4672

To further deployment of Next Generation 9-1-1 services to enhance and 
      upgrade the Nation's 9-1-1 systems, and for other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                           December 18, 2017

 Ms. Eshoo (for herself, Mr. Pallone, and Mrs. Torres) introduced the 
   following bill; which was referred to the Committee on Energy and 
   Commerce, and in addition to the Committee on Science, Space, and 
Technology, for a period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, 
 in each case for consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
                jurisdiction of the committee concerned

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
To further deployment of Next Generation 9-1-1 services to enhance and 
      upgrade the Nation's 9-1-1 systems, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Next Generation 9-1-1 Act of 2017''.

SEC. 2. FINDINGS.

    Congress makes the following findings:
            (1) The Nation's 9-1-1 systems, while a model for the 
        entire world, lack the advanced functionality, 
        interoperability, and capabilities that come with the adoption 
        of new, digital communications technologies.
            (2) Communications technologies currently available to the 
        public, including first responders and other public safety 
        personnel, have substantially outpaced the legacy 
        communications technologies still used by most public safety 
        answering points in the Nation's 9-1-1 systems.
            (3) This lack of modern technology, when coupled with other 
        challenges, is impacting the ability of the Nation's 9-1-1 
        systems to efficiently and effectively provide responses to 
        emergencies.
            (4) Modernizing the Nation's 9-1-1 systems to incorporate 
        the new and evolving capabilities of broadband voice and data 
        communications is essential for the safety and security of the 
        public, including first responders and other public safety 
        personnel.
            (5) Efforts to modernize the Nation's 9-1-1 systems to 
        date, while laudable and important, have been limited due to a 
        lack of funding and inconsistent or unclear policies related to 
        the governance, deployment, and operations of Next Generation 
        9-1-1 services.
            (6) A nationwide strategy for Next Generation 9-1-1 
        services has become essential to help guide the transition and 
        create a common framework for implementation of Next Generation 
        9-1-1 services while preserving State, regional, and local 
        control over the governance and technology choices of the 
        Nation's 9-1-1 systems.
            (7) Accelerated implementation of Next Generation 9-1-1 
        services will--
                    (A) increase compatibility with emerging 
                communications trends;
                    (B) enhance the flexibility, reliability, and 
                survivability of the Nation's 9-1-1 systems during 
                major incidents;
                    (C) improve emergency response for the public, 
                including first responders and other public safety 
                personnel;
                    (D) promote the functional interconnection of the 
                Nation's 9-1-1 systems with the wireless nationwide 
                public safety broadband network being deployed by the 
                First Responder Network Authority; and
                    (E) increase the cost effectiveness of operating 
                the Nation's 9-1-1 systems.

SEC. 3. SENSE OF CONGRESS.

    It is the sense of Congress that--
            (1) the Nation's 9-1-1 professionals perform important and 
        lifesaving work every day, and need the tools and 
        communications technologies to perform the work effectively in 
        a world with new, digital communications technologies;
            (2) the transition from the legacy communications 
        technologies used in the Nation's 9-1-1 systems to Next 
        Generation 9-1-1 services is a national priority and a national 
        imperative;
            (3) the Nation should complete the transition described in 
        paragraph (2) as soon as practicable, with the goal of having 
        full implementation of Next Generation 9-1-1 services not later 
        than 10 years after the date of enactment of this Act;
            (4) the Nation should develop a framework that facilitates 
        cooperation among Federal, State, and local officials on 
        deployment of Next Generation 9-1-1 services in order to meet 
        that goal; and
            (5) 9-1-1 authorities and the public safety answering 
        points should have sufficient resources to implement Next 
        Generation 9-1-1 services, including resources to support 
        associated geographic information systems (commonly known as 
        ``GIS''), cybersecurity measures, and the necessary training 
        and workforce to manage these advanced communications 
        capabilities.

SEC. 4. STATEMENT OF POLICY.

    It is the policy of the United States that--
            (1) Next Generation 9-1-1 services should be 
        technologically and competitively neutral;
            (2) Next Generation 9-1-1 services should have seamless 
        interoperability, including with respect to the transferability 
        of information among public safety answering points;
            (3) the design and implementation of Next Generation 9-1-1 
        services should conform to accredited, non-proprietary, 
        consensus-based standards;
            (4) the governance and control of the Nation's 9-1-1 
        systems, including Next Generation 9-1-1 services, should 
        remain at the State, regional, and local level; and
            (5) the American public should receive information on how 
        to best utilize Next Generation 9-1-1 services and on the 
        capabilities and usefulness of those services.

SEC. 5. DEFINITIONS.

    In this Act:
            (1) Assistant secretary.--The term ``Assistant Secretary'' 
        means the Assistant Secretary of Commerce for Communications 
        and Information.
            (2) Board.--The term ``Board'' means the Advisory Board for 
        Next Generation 9-1-1 Interoperability established under 
        section 7 of this Act.
            (3) First responder network authority.--The term ``First 
        Responder Network Authority'' has the meaning given the term in 
        section 6001 of the Middle Class Tax Relief and Job Creation 
        Act of 2012 (47 U.S.C. 1401).
            (4) Nationwide public safety broadband network.--The term 
        ``nationwide public safety broadband network'' has the meaning 
        given the term in section 6001 of the Middle Class Tax Relief 
        and Job Creation Act of 2012 (47 U.S.C. 1401).
            (5) Next generation 9-1-1 services.--The term ``Next 
        Generation 9-1-1 services'' has the meaning given the term in 
        section 158 of the National Telecommunications and Information 
        Administration Organization Act (47 U.S.C. 942), as amended 
        pursuant to this Act.
            (6) Office.--The term ``Office'' means the 9-1-1 
        Implementation Coordination Office established under section 
        158 of the National Telecommunications and Information 
        Administration Organization Act (47 U.S.C. 942).
            (7) Public safety answering point.--The term ``public 
        safety answering point'' has the meaning given the term in 
        section 222 of the Communications Act of 1934 (47 U.S.C. 222).
            (8) Seamless interoperability.--The term ``seamless 
        interoperability'' means that all networks, services, and 
        equipment are interoperable and capable of seamlessly 
        exchanging and processing data, including interoperability 
        among and between--
                    (A) public service answering points;
                    (B) emergency services internet protocol networks;
                    (C) State, regions, localities, and other 
                jurisdictions;
                    (D) originating communications networks, including 
                wireline telecommunications networks, wireless 
                telecommunications networks, internet service 
                providers, and voice over internet protocol service 
                networks; and
                    (E) the nationwide public safety broadband network.

SEC. 6. 9-1-1 IMPLEMENTATION COORDINATION OFFICE.

    (a) Additional Responsibilities.--In addition to the 
responsibilities assigned to the Office under section 158 of the 
National Telecommunications and Information Administration Organization 
Act (47 U.S.C. 942), the Office shall--
            (1) create a clearinghouse of information that contains 
        resources and references for both technical and nontechnical 
        aspects of development and deployment of Next Generation 9-1-1 
        services for Federal, State, regional, and local entities to 
        assist with the development and deployment of such services;
            (2) provide guidance to Federal, State, regional, and local 
        entities with the development and deployment of Next Generation 
        9-1-1 services, including with respect to--
                    (A) model governance structures for Next Generation 
                9-1-1 services;
                    (B) network deployment models for seamless 
                interoperability of Next Generation 9-1-1 services; and
                    (C) sustainable funding models for Next Generation 
                9-1-1 services;
            (3) help Federal, State, regional, and local 9-1-1 entities 
        coordinate acquisitions and procurements related to the 
        deployment of Next Generation 9-1-1 services, including the 
        development of model requests for proposals and related 
        documents;
            (4) work with the General Services Administration to 
        determine the feasibility of allowing State, regional, and 
        local entities to take advantage of any relevant General 
        Services Administration blanket purchase agreements for 
        acquisition of equipment related to Next Generation 9-1-1 
        services; and
            (5) work with all relevant Federal departments and agencies 
        that operate public safety answering points to promote 
        implementation of Next Generation 9-1-1 services and effective 
        seamless interoperability with other 9-1-1 systems, including 
        Next Generation 9-1-1 services operated by Federal, State, 
        regional, and local entities.
    (b) Coordination.--The Office shall work with all relevant Federal 
departments and agencies, including the Federal Communications 
Commission, the National Institute of Standards and Technology, the 
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, the First Responder 
Network Authority, and the Department of Homeland Security, to 
coordinate Federal Government activities related to the development and 
deployment of Next Generation 9-1-1 services at the Federal, State, 
regional, and local level.
    (c) Annual Reports.--
            (1) In general.--Beginning not later than 2 years after the 
        date of enactment of this Act, and annually thereafter, the 
        Office shall prepare a comprehensive report on the status of 
        the implementation of Next Generation 9-1-1 services by 
        Federal, State, regional, and local entities.
            (2) Publication.--Each report under paragraph (1) shall be 
        published online and submitted to the Committee on Commerce, 
        Science, and Transportation of the Senate and the Committee on 
        Energy and Commerce of the House of Representatives.
            (3) Combination of existing reports.--To the extent that 
        the Office is required by law to issue other reports, such 
        reports may be combined with a report under paragraph (1).
            (4) Submission of information.--The Office may require, as 
        part of a grant issued by the Office under this Act or any 
        other Act, that a grant recipient provide such information as 
        the Office considers necessary to prepare a report under 
        paragraph (1).
    (d) Authorization of Appropriations.--There are authorized to be 
appropriated to carry out this section such sums as may be necessary.
    (e) Repeal of Sunset.--Section 158(d) of the National 
Telecommunications and Information Administration Organization Act (47 
U.S.C. 942(d)) is amended--
            (1) by striking ``(1) In general.--'' and indenting 
        appropriately; and
            (2) by striking paragraph (2).

SEC. 7. ADVISORY BOARD FOR NEXT GENERATION 9-1-1 INTEROPERABILITY.

    (a) Establishment.--There is established within the Office the 
``Advisory Board for Next Generation 9-1-1 Interoperability'' to 
recommend updates to the definition of Next Generation 9-1-1 services 
under section 8.
    (b) Membership.--
            (1) Voting members.--
                    (A) In general.--Subject to subparagraphs (B) and 
                (C), not later than 30 days after the date of enactment 
                of this Act, the Secretary of Commerce, in coordination 
                with the Secretary of Transportation, shall appoint 17 
                voting members to the Board.
                    (B) Appointments.--In making appointments under 
                subparagraph (A), the Secretary shall appoint--
                            (i) 5 members who represent 9-1-1 
                        professionals;
                            (ii) 4 members who represent companies 
                        offering services that originate communications 
                        to 9-1-1 systems, including wireline 
                        telecommunications providers, wireless 
                        telecommunications providers, internet service 
                        providers, and voice over internet protocol 
                        service providers;
                            (iii) 2 members who represent manufacturers 
                        and vendors;
                            (iv) 2 members who represent companies with 
                        expertise in information technology, 
                        networking, and application development, 
                        including consumer-focused technologies and 
                        services; and
                            (v) 4 members who represent State, 
                        regional, or local 9-1-1 entities and who 
                        reflect geographic and population density 
                        differences across the United States.
                    (C) Required qualifications.--All voting members 
                shall have--
                            (i) specific expertise and experience 
                        related to Next Generation 9-1-1 systems; and
                            (ii) such other specific expertise as the 
                        Secretary considers necessary, such as 
                        technical expertise, public safety 
                        communications expertise, or commercial network 
                        experience.
            (2) Non-voting members.--The Assistant Secretary and the 
        Administrator of the National Highway Traffic Safety 
        Administration shall each have the authority to appoint 1 non-
        voting member to the Board.
            (3) Period of appointment.--
                    (A) In general.--Except as provided in subparagraph 
                (B), each member of the Board shall be appointed for 
                the life of the Board.
                    (B) Removal for cause.--A member of the Board may 
                be removed for cause upon the determination of the 
                Office.
            (4) Vacancies.--A vacancy in the membership of the Board--
                    (A) shall not affect the powers of the Board; and
                    (B) shall be filled in the same manner as the 
                original appointment.
            (5) Chairperson and vice chairperson.--The Board shall 
        select a chairperson and vice chairperson from among the 
        members of the Board.
            (6) Quorum.--A majority of the members of the Board shall 
        constitute a quorum.
            (7) Travel expenses.--The members of the Board shall be 
        allowed travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of 
        subsistence, at rates authorized for employees of agencies 
        under subchapter I of chapter 57 of title 5, United States 
        Code, while away from their homes or regular places of business 
        in the performance of services for the Board.
    (c) Office Participation.--The Office may name 1 employee of the 
Office to serve as its liaison to the Board and to assist the Board as 
needed in carrying out its responsibilities under this section.
    (d) Nonapplication of Certain Laws.--The following law, including 
regulations, shall not apply to the operations of the Board:
            (1) Federal Advisory Committee Act (5 U.S.C. App.).
            (2) Chapter 5 and chapter 7 of title 5, United States Code 
        (commonly known as the ``Administrative Procedure Act'').
            (3) Chapter 35 of title 44, United States Code (commonly 
        known as the ``Paperwork Reduction Act'').
            (4) Federal Acquisition Regulations (48 C.F.R. ch. 1).
    (e) Termination.--The Board shall terminate on the date that is 15 
days after the date the Office approves the recommendations under 
section 8.

SEC. 8. REVISED DEFINITION OF NEXT GENERATION 9-1-1 SERVICES.

    (a) Recommended Updates to Definition of Next Generation 9-1-1 
Services.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 180 days after the date of 
        enactment of this Act, the Board shall--
                    (A) review the definition of the term ``Next 
                Generation 9-1-1 services'' in section 158 of the 
                National Telecommunications and Information 
                Administration Organization Act (47 U.S.C. 942);
                    (B) subject to paragraph (2), recommend such 
                updates to that definition as the Board considers 
                necessary; and
                    (C) submit to the Office the recommendations under 
                subparagraph (B).
            (2) Considerations.--In recommending updates to the 
        definition described in paragraph (1), the Board shall 
        consider--
                    (A) the need for the definition to--
                            (i) cover systems based on various internet 
                        protocols, including Transmission Control 
                        Protocol/Internet Protocol (or any 
                        corresponding similar communication language or 
                        protocol of the internet);
                            (ii) include support for all forms of 
                        emergency communications technologies;
                            (iii) ensure seamless interoperability;
                            (iv) incorporate the need to provide a 
                        secure environment for emergency 
                        communications, including relevant 
                        cybersecurity measures; and
                            (v) incorporate the need to include support 
                        for geographic information systems; and
                    (B) such other issues as the Board considers 
                relevant to the definition.
    (b) Approval of Recommendations.--
            (1) In general.--Subject to paragraph (2), not later than 
        45 days after the date the Board submits the recommendations 
        under subsection (a)(1), the Office shall approve the 
        recommendations, with any revisions it considers necessary, and 
        transmit the recommendations to the Assistant Secretary and the 
        Administrator of the National Highway Traffic Safety 
        Administration.
            (2) Public comment.--
                    (A) In general.--The Office shall provide the 
                public with notice and an opportunity to comment on the 
                recommendations developed by the Board under this 
                section prior to their approval.
                    (B) Further board consideration.--After such public 
                comment period has closed, the Office may refer 
                questions raised by those comments to the Board for 
                further consideration, including amendment of the 
                recommendations submitted by the Board.
    (c) Revision of Definition.--The Assistant Secretary and the 
Administrator of the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration 
shall revise the definition of the term ``Next Generation 9-1-1 
services'' in section 158 of the National Telecommunications and 
Information Administration Organization Act (47 U.S.C. 942), based on 
the approved recommendations under subsection (b) of this section, as 
part of the rulemaking under section 9(e) of this Act.
    (d) Conforming Amendment.--
            (1) In general.--Section 158(e)(5) of the National 
        Telecommunications and Information Administration Organization 
        Act (47 U.S.C. 942(e)(5)) is amended to read as follows:
            ``(5) Next generation 9-1-1 services.--The term `Next 
        Generation 9-1-1 services' has the meaning given the term by 
        the Assistant Secretary and the Administrator of the National 
        Highway Traffic Safety Administration in the final rule 
        published under section 8(c) of the Next Generation 9-1-1 Act 
        of 2017.''.
            (2) Effective date.--The amendment under paragraph (1) of 
        this subsection shall take effect on the date that a final rule 
        is published under subsection (c).

SEC. 9. NEXT GENERATION 9-1-1 GRANT PROGRAM.

    (a) Grant Requirements.--
            (1) Single point of contact.--Section 158(b)(3)(A) of the 
        National Telecommunications and Information Administration 
        Organization Act (47 U.S.C. 942(b)(3)(A)) is amended by 
        amending clause (ii) to read as follows:
                            ``(ii) has designated a single officer or 
                        governance body to serve as the State point of 
                        contact to coordinate the implementation of 
                        Next Generation 9-1-1 services for that 
                        State;''.
            (2) Additional requirements.--Section 158(b)(3)(A) of the 
        National Telecommunications and Information Administration 
        Organization Act (47 U.S.C. 942(b)(3)(A)) is amended--
                    (A) in clause (iii), by striking ``; and'' and 
                inserting a semicolon;
                    (B) in clause (iv), by striking ``or'' at the end; 
                and
                    (C) adding at the end the following:
                            ``(v) has developed and submitted a State 
                        plan for deployment of Next Generation 9-1-1 
                        services that--
                                    ``(I) uses an accredited, non-
                                proprietary, consensus-based, 
                                standards-based approach in the design, 
                                deployment, and implementation of all 
                                aspects of such services;
                                    ``(II) incorporates the use of 
                                effective cybersecurity resources;
                                    ``(III) uses open and competitive 
                                request for proposal processes, or the 
                                applicable State equivalent, for 
                                deployment of Next Generation 9-1-1 
                                services;
                                    ``(IV) includes input from relevant 
                                public safety answering points, 
                                regional authorities, local 
                                authorities, and tribal authorities;
                                    ``(V) includes a governance body or 
                                bodies for the development and 
                                deployment of Next Generation 9-1-1 
                                services that--
                                            ``(aa) includes relevant 
                                        stakeholders; and
                                            ``(bb) consults and 
                                        coordinates with the State 
                                        point of contact required by 
                                        clause (ii); and
                                    ``(VI) ensures sufficient staffing 
                                and training of staff at all levels to 
                                ensure the effectiveness of all aspects 
                                of Next Generation 9-1-1 services; 
                                or''.
    (b) Grant Commitments.--Section 158(b) of the National 
Telecommunications and Information Administration Organization Act (47 
U.S.C. 942(b)) is amended by adding at the end the following:
            ``(5) Additional grant certifications.--In addition to the 
        certification required under subsection (c)(2), each applicant 
        for a matching grant under this section, at the time of 
        application, and each applicant that receives a grant shall 
        certify that--
                    ``(A) any funds received by the applicant will be 
                utilized to support deployment of Next Generation 9-1-1 
                services that comply with accredited, non-proprietary, 
                consensus-based standards and feature seamless 
                interoperability (as defined in section 5 of the Next 
                Generation 9-1-1 Act of 2017);
                    ``(B) the applicant has taken all necessary steps 
                to ensure that there is a sustainable funding mechanism 
                for the Next Generation 9-1-1 services to be deployed 
                pursuant to the grant to support continued operations, 
                maintenance, and upgrades;
                    ``(C) the applicant will coordinate with the First 
                Responder Network Authority to ensure that the 
                implementation of Next Generation 9-1-1 services will 
                be fully interoperable with the nationwide public 
                safety broadband network (as defined in section 6001 of 
                the Middle Class Tax Relief and Job Creation Act of 
                2012 (47 U.S.C. 1401));
                    ``(D) the applicant has or will take steps to 
                coordinate with adjoining States to establish and 
                maintain interoperable and interconnected Next 
                Generation 9-1-1 services; and
                    ``(E) the applicant has developed a plan for public 
                outreach and education on how to best utilize Next 
                Generation 9-1-1 services and on the capabilities and 
                usefulness of those services.
            ``(6) Prohibition.--No grant funds under this subsection 
        may be used--
                    ``(A) for any component of the nationwide public 
                safety broadband network (as defined in section 6001 of 
                the Middle Class Tax Relief and Job Creation Act of 
                2012 (47 U.S.C. 1401)); or
                    ``(B) to make any payments to a person who has 
                been, for reasons of national security, prohibited by 
                any department or agency of the Federal Government from 
                bidding on a contract, participating in an auction, or 
                receiving a grant.''.
    (c) Conforming Amendments.--Section 158 of the National 
Telecommunications and Information Administration Organization Act (47 
U.S.C. 942) is amended--
            (1) in subsection (b)--
                    (A) in paragraph (1)--
                            (i) in subparagraph (B), by striking ``; 
                        and'' and inserting a semicolon;
                            (ii) in subparagraph (C), by striking the 
                        period at the end and inserting ``; and''; and
                            (iii) by adding at the end the following:
                    ``(D) administrative costs associated with planning 
                and implementation of Next Generation 9-1-1 services, 
                including related to planning for and preparing an 
                application and related materials as required by this 
                section, if--
                            ``(i) such costs are fully documented in 
                        materials submitted to the Office; and
                            ``(ii) such costs are reasonable and 
                        necessary and do not exceed 5 percent of the 
                        total grant award.''; and
                    (B) in paragraph (3)(B), by striking ``the entity 
                has complied with clauses (i), (iii), and (iv) of 
                subparagraph (A), and the State in which it is located 
                has complied with clause (ii) of such subparagraph'' 
                and inserting ``the entity has complied with clauses 
                (i), (iii), and (iv), and the State in which it is 
                located has complied with clauses (ii) and (v) of such 
                subparagraph''; and
            (2) by amending subsection (e)(3)(C) to read as follows:
                    ``(C) Exception.--The term `eligible entity' does 
                not include any entity that has failed to submit--
                            ``(i) the certifications required under 
                        subsection (b)(5); and
                            ``(ii) the most recently required 
                        certification under subsection (c) within 30 
                        days after the date on which such certification 
                        is due.''.
    (d) Adjustment of Matching Requirement.--Section 158(b)(2) of the 
National Telecommunications and Information Administration Organization 
Act (47 U.S.C. 942(b)(2)) is amended by striking ``60'' and inserting 
``80''.
    (e) Criteria.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 15 months after the date of 
        enactment of this Act, the Assistant Secretary and the 
        Administrator of the National Highway Traffic Safety 
        Administration shall issue regulations, after providing the 
        public with notice and an opportunity to comment, prescribing 
        the criteria for selection for grants under section 158 of the 
        National Telecommunications and Information Administration 
        Organization Act (47 U.S.C. 942), as amended by this Act.
            (2) Requirements.--The criteria shall--
                    (A) include performance requirements and a schedule 
                for completion of any project to be financed by a grant 
                under that section; and
                    (B) specifically permit joint, regional, or multi-
                State applications for funds.
            (3) Updates.--The Assistant Secretary and the Administrator 
        shall update such regulations as necessary.
            (4) Prior regulations.--Any regulations issued under 
        section 158(b)(4) of the National Telecommunications and 
        Information Administration Organization Act (47 U.S.C. 
        942(b)(4)) before the effective date of this Act may be 
        incorporated into the regulations promulgated under this 
        subsection.
            (5) Conforming amendment.--Section 158(b) of the National 
        Telecommunications and Information Administration Organization 
        Act (47 U.S.C. 942(b)) is amended by striking paragraph (4).
    (f) Issuance of Guidance.--Not later than 18 months after the date 
of enactment of this Act, the Office shall issue guidance, consistent 
with the regulations promulgated under subsection (e) of this section, 
regarding the grant program under section 158 of the National 
Telecommunications and Information Administration Organization Act (47 
U.S.C. 942), as amended by this Act.
    (g) Authorization of Appropriations.--
            (1) In general.--In addition to any funds already made 
        available for grants under section 158 of the National 
        Telecommunications and Information Administration Organization 
        Act (47 U.S.C. 942), there is authorized to be appropriated to 
        carry out such grants such sums as may be necessary for fiscal 
        years 2018 through 2022.
            (2) Use of funds.--Any funds appropriated under this 
        subsection shall remain available until expended.
            (3) Administrative costs.--The Office may utilize up to 5 
        percent of the funds appropriated under this subsection for 
        reasonable and necessary administrative costs associated with 
        the grant program required by section 158 of the National 
        Telecommunications and Information Administration Organization 
        Act (47 U.S.C. 942), as amended by this Act.
    (h) Savings Provision.--Nothing in this Act or an amendment made by 
this Act shall affect any application pending or grant awarded under 
section 158 of the National Telecommunications and Information 
Administration Organization Act (47 U.S.C. 942) prior to date of 
enactment of this Act.

SEC. 10. ENCOURAGING DEPLOYMENT OF NEXT GENERATION 9-1-1 SERVICES.

    (a) Consistent Implementation of Next Generation 9-1-1 Services.--
            (1) In general.--The Office shall implement, to the maximum 
        extent possible, its responsibilities under this Act in a 
        technologically and competitively neutral manner.
            (2) Federal, state, and local action.--The Office shall 
        encourage and support efforts by the Federal Government, 
        States, and localities--
                    (A) to implement Next Generation 9-1-1 services in 
                a technologically and competitively neutral manner; and
                    (B) to take such other steps as are necessary to 
                harmonize and expedite the deployment of Next 
                Generation 9-1-1 services.
    (b) Deployment of Next Generation 9-1-1 Services.--Not later than 1 
year after the date of enactment of this Act, the Office, after seeking 
public comment, shall--
            (1) identify and recommend such changes to State and local 
        law, including regulations and policies, that the Office 
        considers necessary to better support deployment of Next 
        Generation 9-1-1 services;
            (2) recommend model language a State or locality can adopt 
        to support deployment of Next Generation 9-1-1 services; and
            (3) report the findings and recommendations.
    (c) Request for Information.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 180 days after the date of 
        enactment of this Act, the Office shall issue a request for 
        information seeking public comment on what additional actions 
        the Federal Government could take to enhance and support Next 
        Generation 9-1-1 services.
            (2) Requirements.--At a minimum, the request for 
        information required by this subsection shall seek public 
        comment on--
                    (A) whether there is a need for a national public 
                safety answering points certification or credentialing 
                process with respect to Next Generation 9-1-1 services;
                    (B) whether Federal or State law, including 
                regulations, should be amended to include--
                            (i) specific liability and indemnification 
                        protections for Next Generation 9-1-1 services; 
                        and
                            (ii) privacy and data security protections 
                        for information conveyed through Next 
                        Generation 9-1-1 services or retained by Next 
                        Generation 9-1-1 services;
                    (C) additional protections to ensure accessibility 
                to Next Generation 9-1-1 services for individuals with 
                disabilities; and
                    (D) recommended legislative and regulatory action 
                related to subparagraphs (A) through (C).
            (3) Report.--Not later than 18 months after the date of 
        enactment of this Act, the Office shall publish a report--
                    (A) summarizing the comments received in the 
                request for information required by this section; and
                    (B) including recommendations for such actions the 
                Office considers necessary to promote the effective and 
                timely implementation of Next Generation 9-1-1 
                services.

SEC. 11. SUPPORT FOR CYBERSECURITY IN NEXT GENERATION 9-1-1 SERVICES.

    (a) Federal Assistance.--
            (1) In general.--The Office, in consultation with the 
        Department of Homeland Security and the National Institute for 
        Science and Technology, shall provide support to States, 
        localities, vendors, and other entities in addressing 
        cybersecurity issues related to Next Generation 9-1-1 services.
            (2) Specific assistance.--After publishing the report under 
        subsection (b), the Office shall provide information, training, 
        and other assistance to help implement the recommendations in 
        the report.
    (b) NIST Report.--Not later than 18 months after the date of 
enactment of this Act, the National Institute of Standards and 
Technology shall--
            (1) identify any cybersecurity vulnerabilities that are 
        unique to the implementation of Next Generation 9-1-1 services;
            (2) identify and recommend best practices, consistent with 
        the most recent Framework for Improving Critical Infrastructure 
        Cybersecurity, for affected entities to protect Next Generation 
        9-1-1 services from the vulnerabilities identified under 
        paragraph (1);
            (3) identify and recommend specific assistance that can be 
        provided by the Federal Government related to the adoption of 
        any best practices identified under paragraph (2); and
            (4) publish a report on its findings and recommendations.
    (c) FCC Report.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 18 months after the date of 
        enactment of this Act, the Federal Communications Commission 
        shall publish a report on the adoption of and adherence--
                    (A) by telecommunications carriers to the network 
                reliability best practices established by the 
                Commission as part of its rulemaking related to 
                Improving 911 Reliability; Reliability and Continuity 
                of Communications Networks, Including Broadband 
                Technologies (28 FCC Record 17476); and
                    (B) by public safety answering points to the public 
                safety answering point best practices for cybersecurity 
                recommended by the Task Force on Optimal Public Safety 
                Answering Point Architecture in its final report issued 
                on February 19, 2016 (DA 16-179).
            (2) Data collection.--The Federal Communications Commission 
        may request from relevant telecommunications carriers and 
        public safety answering points such data as may be necessary to 
        prepare the report required by this subsection.
            (3) Public comment.--The Federal Communications Commission 
        shall seek public comment on the report required by this 
        subsection prior to its publication.

SEC. 12. GAO STUDY ON THE RESILIENCY OF PUBLIC SAFETY ANSWERING POINTS.

    (a) In General.--The Comptroller General of the United States shall 
conduct a study regarding the resiliency, reliability, and 
survivability of public safety answering points during natural 
disasters and other catastrophes.
    (b) Contents.--In conducting the study under subsection (a), the 
Comptroller General shall--
            (1) examine the affect recent natural disasters or other 
        catastrophes have had on the operability of public safety 
        answering points;
            (2) identify the common issues that impaired the operations 
        of public safety answering points during or after the natural 
        disaster or catastrophe, as applicable;
            (3) identify the current best practices for public safety 
        answering points and telecommunication carriers to ensure the 
        resiliency of public safety answering points during a natural 
        disaster or other catastrophe; and
            (4) determine how Next Generation 9-1-1 services can 
        improve public safety answering point resiliency and the 
        overall resiliency of the Nation's 9-1-1 systems.
    (c) Report.--Not later than 18 months after the date of enactment 
of this Act, the Comptroller General shall submit to the Committee on 
Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate and the Committee 
on Energy and Commerce of the House of Representatives a report on the 
findings of the study under subsection (a), including any 
recommendations for additional actions the Federal Communications 
Commission or Congress could take to enhance public safety answering 
point resiliency, reliability, and survivability.
                                 &lt;all&gt;
</pre></body></html>
