<html><body><pre>
[Congressional Bills 110th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[S. 1321 Placed on Calendar Senate (PCS)]






                                                       Calendar No. 140
110th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                S. 1321

                          [Report No. 110-65]

   To enhance the energy security of the United States by promoting 
 biofuels, energy efficiency, and carbon capture and storage, and for 
                            other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                   IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

                              May 7, 2007

   Mr. Bingaman, from the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources, 
 reported the following original bill; which was read twice and placed 
                            on the calendar

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
   To enhance the energy security of the United States by promoting 
 biofuels, energy efficiency, and carbon capture and storage, and for 
                            other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE; TABLE OF CONTENTS.

    (a) Short Title.--This Act may be cited as the ``Energy Savings Act 
of 2007''.
    (b) Table of Contents.--The table of contents of this Act is as 
follows:

Sec. 1. Short title; table of contents.
Sec. 2. Definition of Secretary.
        TITLE I--BIOFUELS FOR ENERGY SECURITY AND TRANSPORTATION

Sec. 101. Short title.
Sec. 102. Definitions.
                  Subtitle A--Renewable Fuel Standard

Sec. 111. Renewable fuel standard.
Sec. 112. Production of renewable fuel using renewable energy.
               Subtitle B--Renewable Fuels Infrastructure

Sec. 121. Infrastructure pilot program for renewable fuels.
Sec. 122. Bioenergy research and development.
Sec. 123. Bioresearch centers for systems biology program.
Sec. 124. Loan guarantees for renewable fuel facilities.
Sec. 125. Grants for renewable fuel production research and development 
                            in certain States.
Sec. 126. Grants for infrastructure for transportation of biomass to 
                            local biorefineries.
Sec. 127. Biorefinery information center.
Sec. 128. Alternative fuel database and materials.
Sec. 129. Fuel tank cap labeling requirement.
Sec. 130. Biodiesel.
                          Subtitle C--Studies

Sec. 141. Study of advanced biofuels technologies.
Sec. 142. Study of increased consumption of ethanol-blended gasoline 
                            with higher levels of ethanol.
Sec. 143. Pipeline feasibility study.
Sec. 144. Study of optimization of flexible fueled vehicles to use E-85 
                            fuel.
Sec. 145. Study of credits for use of renewable electricity in electric 
                            vehicles.
Sec. 146. Study of engine durability associated with the use of 
                            biodiesel.
Sec. 147. Study of incentives for renewable fuels.
Sec. 148. Study of streamlined lifecycle analysis tools for the 
                            evaluation of renewable carbon content of 
                            biofuels.
Sec. 149. Study of the adequacy of railroad transportation of 
                            domestically-produced renewable fuel.
Sec. 150. Study of effects of ethanol-blended gasoline on off road 
                            vehicles.
                 TITLE II--ENERGY EFFICIENCY PROMOTION

Sec. 201. Short title.
          Subtitle A--Promoting Advanced Lighting Technologies

Sec. 211. Accelerated procurement of energy efficient lighting.
Sec. 212. Incandescent reflector lamp efficiency standards.
Sec. 213. Bright Tomorrow Lighting Prizes.
Sec. 214. Sense of Senate concerning efficient lighting standards.
Sec. 215. Renewable energy construction grants.
         Subtitle B--Expediting New Energy Efficiency Standards

Sec. 221. Definition of energy conservation standard.
Sec. 222. Regional efficiency standards for heating and cooling 
                            products.
Sec. 223. Furnace fan rulemaking.
Sec. 224. Expedited rulemakings.
Sec. 225. Periodic reviews.
Sec. 226. Energy efficiency labeling for consumer products.
Sec. 227. Residential boiler efficiency standards.
Sec. 228. Technical corrections.
Sec. 229. Electric motor efficiency standards.
Sec. 230. Energy standards for home appliances.
Sec. 231. Improved energy efficiency for appliances and buildings in 
                            cold climates.
Sec. 232. Deployment of new technologies for high-efficiency consumer 
                            products.
Sec. 233. Industrial efficiency program.
Subtitle C--Promoting High Efficiency Vehicles, Advanced Batteries, and 
                             Energy Storage

Sec. 241. Lightweight materials research and development.
Sec. 242. Loan guarantees for fuel-efficient automobile parts 
                            manufacturers.
Sec. 243. Advanced technology vehicles manufacturing incentive program.
Sec. 244. Energy storage competitiveness.
Sec. 245. Advanced transportation technology program.
              Subtitle D--Setting Energy Efficiency Goals

Sec. 251. National goals for energy savings in transportation.
Sec. 252. National energy efficiency improvement goals.
Sec. 253. National media campaign.
Sec. 254. Modernization of electricity grid system.
   Subtitle E--Promoting Federal Leadership in Energy Efficiency and 
                            Renewable Energy

Sec. 261. Federal fleet conservation requirements.
Sec. 262. Federal requirement to purchase electricity generated by 
                            renewable energy.
Sec. 263. Energy savings performance contracts.
Sec. 264. Energy management requirements for Federal buildings.
Sec. 265. Combined heat and power and district energy installations at 
                            Federal sites.
Sec. 266. Federal building energy efficiency performance standards.
Sec. 267. Application of International Energy Conservation Code to 
                            public and assisted housing.
Sec. 268. Energy efficient commercial buildings initiative.
 Subtitle F--Assisting State and Local Governments in Energy Efficiency

Sec. 271. Weatherization assistance for low-income persons.
Sec. 272. State energy conservation plans.
Sec. 273. Utility energy efficiency programs.
Sec. 274. Energy efficiency and demand response program assistance.
Sec. 275. Energy and environmental block grant.
Sec. 276. Energy sustainability and efficiency grants for institutions 
                            of higher education.
Sec. 277. Workforce training.
Sec. 278. Assistance to States to reduce school bus idling.
   TITLE III--CARBON CAPTURE AND STORAGE RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT, AND 
                             DEMONSTRATION

Sec. 301. Short title.
Sec. 302. Carbon capture and storage research, development, and 
                            demonstration program.
Sec. 303. Carbon dioxide storage capacity assessment.
Sec. 304. Carbon capture and storage initiative.

SEC. 2. DEFINITION OF SECRETARY.

    In this Act, the term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary of Energy.

        TITLE I--BIOFUELS FOR ENERGY SECURITY AND TRANSPORTATION

SEC. 101. SHORT TITLE.

    This title may be cited as the ``Biofuels for Energy Security and 
Transportation Act of 2007''.

SEC. 102. DEFINITIONS.

    In this title:
            (1) Advanced biofuel.--
                    (A) In general.--The term ``advanced biofuel'' 
                means fuel derived from renewable biomass other than 
                corn starch.
                    (B) Inclusions.--The term ``advanced biofuel'' 
                includes--
                            (i) ethanol derived from cellulose, 
                        hemicellulose, or lignin;
                            (ii) ethanol derived from sugar or starch, 
                        other than ethanol derived from corn starch;
                            (iii) ethanol derived from waste material, 
                        including crop residue, other vegetative waste 
                        material, animal waste, and food waste and yard 
                        waste;
                            (iv) diesel-equivalent fuel derived from 
                        renewable biomass, including vegetable oil and 
                        animal fat;
                            (v) biogas produced through the conversion 
                        of organic matter from renewable biomass; and
                            (vi) butanol or higher alcohols produced 
                        through the conversion of organic matter from 
                        renewable biomass.
            (2) Cellulosic biomass ethanol.--The term ``cellulosic 
        biomass ethanol'' means ethanol derived from any cellulose, 
        hemicellulose, or lignin that is derived from renewable 
        biomass.
            (3) Conventional biofuel.--The term ``conventional 
        biofuel'' means ethanol derived from corn starch.
            (4) Renewable biomass.--The term ``renewable biomass'' 
        means--
                    (A) biomass (as defined by section 210 of the 
                Energy Policy Act of 2005 (42 U.S.C. 15855)) (excluding 
                the bole of old-growth trees of a forest from the late 
                successional state of forest development) that is 
                harvested where permitted by law and in accordance with 
                applicable land management plans from--
                            (i) National Forest System land; or
                            (ii) public lands (as defined in section 
                        103 of the Federal Land Policy and Management 
                        Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1702)); or
                    (B) any organic matter that is available on a 
                renewable or recurring basis from non-Federal land or 
                from land belonging to an Indian tribe, or an Indian 
                individual, that is held in trust by the United States 
                or subject to a restriction against alienation imposed 
                by the United States, including--
                            (i) renewable plant material, including--
                                    (I) feed grains;
                                    (II) other agricultural 
                                commodities;
                                    (III) other plants and trees; and
                                    (IV) algae; and
                            (ii) waste material, including--
                                    (I) crop residue;
                                    (II) other vegetative waste 
                                material (including wood waste and wood 
                                residues);
                                    (III) animal waste and byproducts 
                                (including fats, oils, greases, and 
                                manure); and
                                    (IV) food waste and yard waste.
            (5) Renewable fuel.--
                    (A) In general.--The term ``renewable fuel'' means 
                motor vehicle fuel, boiler fuel, or home heating fuel 
                that is--
                            (i) produced from renewable biomass; and
                            (ii) used to replace or reduce the quantity 
                        of fossil fuel present in a fuel or fuel 
                        mixture used to operate a motor vehicle, 
                        boiler, or furnace.
                    (B) Inclusion.--The term ``renewable fuel'' 
                includes--
                            (i) conventional biofuel; and
                            (ii) advanced biofuel.
            (6) Small refinery.--The term ``small refinery'' means a 
        refinery for which the average aggregate daily crude oil 
        throughput for a calendar year (as determined by dividing the 
        aggregate throughput for the calendar year by the number of 
        days in the calendar year) does not exceed 75,000 barrels.

                  Subtitle A--Renewable Fuel Standard

SEC. 111. RENEWABLE FUEL STANDARD.

    (a) Renewable Fuel Program.--
            (1) Regulations.--
                    (A) In general.--Not later than 1 year after the 
                date of enactment of this Act, the President shall 
                promulgate regulations to ensure that motor vehicle 
                fuel, home heating oil, and boiler fuel sold or 
                introduced into commerce in the United States (except 
                in noncontiguous States or territories), on an annual 
                average basis, contains the applicable volume of 
                renewable fuel determined in accordance with paragraph 
                (2).
                    (B) Provisions of regulations.--Regardless of the 
                date of promulgation, the regulations promulgated under 
                subparagraph (A)--
                            (i) shall contain compliance provisions 
                        applicable to refineries, blenders, 
                        distributors, and importers, as appropriate, to 
                        ensure that--
                                    (I) the requirements of this 
                                subsection are met; and
                                    (II) renewable fuels produced from 
                                facilities built after the date of 
                                enactment of this Act achieve at least 
                                a 20 percent reduction in life cycle 
                                greenhouse gas emissions compared to 
                                gasoline; but
                            (ii) shall not--
                                    (I) restrict geographic areas in 
                                the contiguous United States in which 
                                renewable fuel may be used; or
                                    (II) impose any per-gallon 
                                obligation for the use of renewable 
                                fuel.
                    (C) Relationship to other regulations.--Regulations 
                promulgated under this paragraph shall, to the maximum 
                extent practicable, incorporate the program structure, 
                compliance, and reporting requirements established 
                under the final regulations promulgated to implement 
                the renewable fuel program established by the amendment 
                made by section 1501(a)(2) of the Energy Policy Act of 
                2005 (Public Law 109-58; 119 Stat. 1067).
            (2) Applicable volume.--
                    (A) Calendar years 2008 through 2022.--
                            (i) Renewable fuel.--For the purpose of 
                        paragraph (1), subject to clause (ii), the 
                        applicable volume for any of calendar years 
                        2008 through 2022 shall be determined in 
                        accordance with the following table:

                                        Applicable volume of renewable 
                                                                  fuel 
Calendar year:                               (in billions of gallons): 
    2008..........................................                 8.5 
    2009..........................................                10.5 
    2010..........................................                12.0 
    2011..........................................                12.6 
    2012..........................................                13.2 
    2013..........................................                13.8 
    2014..........................................                14.4 
    2015..........................................                15.0 
    2016..........................................                18.0 
    2017..........................................                21.0 
    2018..........................................                24.0 
    2019..........................................                27.0 
    2020..........................................                30.0 
    2021..........................................                33.0 
    2022..........................................                36.0.
                            (ii) Advanced biofuels.--For the purpose of 
                        paragraph (1), of the volume of renewable fuel 
                        required under clause (i), the applicable 
                        volume for any of calendar years 2016 through 
                        2022 for advanced biofuels shall be determined 
                        in accordance with the following table:

                                         Applicable volume of advanced 
                                                              biofuels 
Calendar year:                               (in billions of gallons): 
    2016..........................................                 3.0 
    2017..........................................                 6.0 
    2018..........................................                 9.0 
    2019..........................................                12.0 
    2020..........................................                15.0 
    2021..........................................                18.0 
    2022..........................................                21.0.
                    (B) Calendar year 2023 and thereafter.--Subject to 
                subparagraph (C), for the purposes of paragraph (1), 
                the applicable volume for calendar year 2023 and each 
                calendar year thereafter shall be determined by the 
                President, in coordination with the Secretary of 
                Energy, the Secretary of Agriculture, and the 
                Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency, 
                based on a review of the implementation of the program 
                during calendar years 2007 through 2022, including a 
                review of--
                            (i) the impact of renewable fuels on the 
                        energy security of the United States;
                            (ii) the expected annual rate of future 
                        production of renewable fuels, including 
                        advanced biofuels;
                            (iii) the impact of renewable fuels on the 
                        infrastructure of the United States, including 
                        deliverability of materials, goods, and 
                        products other than renewable fuel, and the 
                        sufficiency of infrastructure to deliver 
                        renewable fuel; and
                            (iv) the impact of the use of renewable 
                        fuels on other factors, including job creation, 
                        the price and supply of agricultural 
                        commodities, rural economic development, and 
                        the environment.
                    (C) Minimum applicable volume.--Subject to 
                subparagraph (D), for the purpose of paragraph (1), the 
                applicable volume for calendar year 2023 and each 
                calendar year thereafter shall be equal to the product 
                obtained by multiplying--
                            (i) the number of gallons of gasoline that 
                        the President estimates will be sold or 
                        introduced into commerce in the calendar year; 
                        and
                            (ii) the ratio that--
                                    (I) 36,000,000,000 gallons of 
                                renewable fuel; bears to
                                    (II) the number of gallons of 
                                gasoline sold or introduced into 
                                commerce in calendar year 2022.
                    (D) Minimum percentage of advanced biofuel.--For 
                the purpose of paragraph (1) and subparagraph (C), at 
                least 60 percent of the minimum applicable volume for 
                calendar year 2023 and each calendar year thereafter 
                shall be advanced biofuel.
    (b) Applicable Percentages.--
            (1) Provision of estimate of volumes of gasoline sales.--
        Not later than October 31 of each of calendar years 2008 
        through 2021, the Administrator of the Energy Information 
        Administration shall provide to the President an estimate, with 
        respect to the following calendar year, of the volumes of 
        gasoline projected to be sold or introduced into commerce in 
        the United States.
            (2) Determination of applicable percentages.--
                    (A) In general.--Not later than November 30 of each 
                of calendar years 2008 through 2022, based on the 
                estimate provided under paragraph (1), the President 
                shall determine and publish in the Federal Register, 
                with respect to the following calendar year, the 
                renewable fuel obligation that ensures that the 
                requirements of subsection (a) are met.
                    (B) Required elements.--The renewable fuel 
                obligation determined for a calendar year under 
                subparagraph (A) shall--
                            (i) be applicable to refineries, blenders, 
                        and importers, as appropriate;
                            (ii) be expressed in terms of a volume 
                        percentage of gasoline sold or introduced into 
                        commerce in the United States; and
                            (iii) subject to paragraph (3)(A), consist 
                        of a single applicable percentage that applies 
                        to all categories of persons specified in 
                        clause (i).
            (3) Adjustments.--In determining the applicable percentage 
        for a calendar year, the President shall make adjustments--
                    (A) to prevent the imposition of redundant 
                obligations on any person specified in paragraph 
                (2)(B)(i); and
                    (B) to account for the use of renewable fuel during 
                the previous calendar year by small refineries that are 
                exempt under subsection (g).
    (c) Volume Conversion Factors for Renewable Fuels Based on Energy 
Content or Requirements.--
            (1) In general.--For the purpose of subsection (a), the 
        President shall assign values to specific types of advanced 
        biofuels for the purpose of satisfying the fuel volume 
        requirements of subsection (a)(2) in accordance with this 
        subsection.
            (2) Energy content relative to ethanol.--For advanced 
        biofuel, 1 gallon of the advanced biofuel shall be considered 
        to be the equivalent of 1 gallon of renewable fuel multiplied 
        by the ratio that--
                    (A) the number of British thermal units of energy 
                produced by the combustion of 1 gallon of the advanced 
                biofuel (as measured under conditions determined by the 
                Secretary); bears to
                    (B) the number of British thermal units of energy 
                produced by the combustion of 1 gallon of pure ethanol 
                (as measured under conditions determined by the 
                Secretary to be comparable to conditions described in 
                subparagraph (A)).
            (3) Transitional energy-related conversion factors for 
        cellulosic biomass ethanol.--For any of calendar years 2008 
        through 2015, 1 gallon of cellulosic biomass ethanol shall be 
        considered to be the equivalent of 2.5 gallons of renewable 
        fuel.
    (d) Credit Program.--
            (1) In general.--The President, in consultation with the 
        Secretary and the Administrator of the Environmental Protection 
        Agency, shall implement a credit program to manage the 
        renewable fuel requirement of this section in a manner 
        consistent with the credit program established by the amendment 
        made by section 1501(a)(2) of the Energy Policy Act of 2005 
        (Public Law 109-58; 119 Stat. 1067).
            (2) Market transparency.--In carrying out the credit 
        program under this subsection, the President shall facilitate 
        price transparency in markets for the sale and trade of 
        credits, with due regard for the public interest, the integrity 
        of those markets, fair competition, and the protection of 
        consumers and agricultural producers.
    (e) Seasonal Variations in Renewable Fuel Use.--
            (1) Study.--For each of calendar years 2008 through 2022, 
        the Administrator of the Energy Information Administration 
        shall conduct a study of renewable fuel blending to determine 
        whether there are excessive seasonal variations in the use of 
        renewable fuel.
            (2) Regulation of excessive seasonal variations.--If, for 
        any calendar year, the Administrator of the Energy Information 
        Administration, based on the study under paragraph (1), makes 
        the determinations specified in paragraph (3), the President 
        shall promulgate regulations to ensure that 25 percent or more 
        of the quantity of renewable fuel necessary to meet the 
        requirements of subsection (a) is used during each of the 2 
        periods specified in paragraph (4) of each subsequent calendar 
        year.
            (3) Determinations.--The determinations referred to in 
        paragraph (2) are that--
                    (A) less than 25 percent of the quantity of 
                renewable fuel necessary to meet the requirements of 
                subsection (a) has been used during 1 of the 2 periods 
                specified in paragraph (4) of the calendar year;
                    (B) a pattern of excessive seasonal variation 
                described in subparagraph (A) will continue in 
                subsequent calendar years; and
                    (C) promulgating regulations or other requirements 
                to impose a 25 percent or more seasonal use of 
                renewable fuels will not significantly--
                            (i) increase the price of motor fuels to 
                        the consumer; or
                            (ii) prevent or interfere with the 
                        attainment of national ambient air quality 
                        standards.
            (4) Periods.--The 2 periods referred to in this subsection 
        are--
                    (A) April through September; and
                    (B) January through March and October through 
                December.
    (f) Waivers.--
            (1) In general.--The President, in consultation with the 
        Secretary of Energy, the Secretary of Agriculture, and the 
        Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency, may waive 
        the requirements of subsection (a) in whole or in part on 
        petition by one or more States by reducing the national 
        quantity of renewable fuel required under subsection (a), based 
        on a determination by the President (after public notice and 
        opportunity for comment), that--
                    (A) implementation of the requirement would 
                severely harm the economy or environment of a State, a 
                region, or the United States; or
                    (B) extreme and unusual circumstances exist that 
                prevent distribution of an adequate supply of 
                domestically-produced renewable fuel to consumers in 
                the United States.
            (2) Petitions for waivers.--The President, in consultation 
        with the Secretary of Energy, the Secretary of Agriculture, and 
        the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency, shall 
        approve or disapprove a State petition for a waiver of the 
        requirements of subsection (a) within 90 days after the date on 
        which the petition is received by the President.
            (3) Termination of waivers.--A waiver granted under 
        paragraph (1) shall terminate after 1 year, but may be renewed 
        by the President after consultation with the Secretary of 
        Energy, the Secretary of Agriculture, and the Administrator of 
        the Environmental Protection Agency.
            (4) Report to congress.--If the Secretary makes a 
        determination under paragraph (1)(B) that railroad 
        transportation of domestically-produced renewable fuel is 
        inadequate, based on either the service provided by, or the 
        price of, the railroad transportation, the President shall 
        submit to Congress a report that describes--
                    (A) the actions the Federal Government is taking, 
                or will take, to address the inadequacy, including a 
                description of the specific powers of the applicable 
                Federal agencies; and
                    (B) if the President finds that there are 
                inadequate Federal powers to address the railroad 
                service or pricing inadequacies, recommendations for 
                legislation to provide appropriate powers to Federal 
                agencies to address the inadequacies.
    (g) Small Refineries.--
            (1) Temporary exemption.--
                    (A) In general.--The requirements of subsection (a) 
                shall not apply to--
                            (i) small refineries (other than a small 
                        refinery described in clause (ii)) until 
                        calendar year 2013; and
                            (ii) small refineries owned by a small 
                        business refiner (as defined in section 45H(c) 
                        of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986) until 
                        calendar year 2015.
                    (B) Extension of exemption.--
                            (i) Study by secretary.--Not later than 
                        December 31, 2008, the Secretary shall submit 
                        to the President and Congress a report 
                        describing the results of a study to determine 
                        whether compliance with the requirements of 
                        subsection (a) would impose a disproportionate 
                        economic hardship on small refineries.
                            (ii) Extension of exemption.--In the case 
                        of a small refinery that the Secretary 
                        determines under clause (i) would be subject to 
                        a disproportionate economic hardship if 
                        required to comply with subsection (a), the 
                        President shall extend the exemption under 
                        subparagraph (A) for the small refinery for a 
                        period of not less than 2 additional years.
            (2) Petitions based on disproportionate economic 
        hardship.--
                    (A) Extension of exemption.--A small refinery may 
                at any time petition the President for an extension of 
                the exemption under paragraph (1) for the reason of 
                disproportionate economic hardship.
                    (B) Evaluation of petitions.--In evaluating a 
                petition under subparagraph (A), the President, in 
                consultation with the Secretary, shall consider the 
                findings of the study under paragraph (1)(B) and other 
                economic factors.
                    (C) Deadline for action on petitions.--The 
                President shall act on any petition submitted by a 
                small refinery for a hardship exemption not later than 
                90 days after the date of receipt of the petition.
            (3) Opt-in for small refineries.--A small refinery shall be 
        subject to the requirements of subsection (a) if the small 
        refinery notifies the President that the small refinery waives 
        the exemption under paragraph (1).
    (h) Penalties and Enforcement.--
            (1) Civil penalties.--
                    (A) In general.--Any person that violates a 
                regulation promulgated under subsection (a), or that 
                fails to furnish any information required under such a 
                regulation, shall be liable to the United States for a 
                civil penalty of not more than the total of--
                            (i) $25,000 for each day of the violation; 
                        and
                            (ii) the amount of economic benefit or 
                        savings received by the person resulting from 
                        the violation, as determined by the President.
                    (B) Collection.--Civil penalties under subparagraph 
                (A) shall be assessed by, and collected in a civil 
                action brought by, the Secretary or such other officer 
                of the United States as is designated by the President.
            (2) Injunctive authority.--
                    (A) In general.--The district courts of the United 
                States shall have jurisdiction to--
                            (i) restrain a violation of a regulation 
                        promulgated under subsection (a);
                            (ii) award other appropriate relief; and
                            (iii) compel the furnishing of information 
                        required under the regulation.
                    (B) Actions.--An action to restrain such violations 
                and compel such actions shall be brought by and in the 
                name of the United States.
                    (C) Subpoenas.--In the action, a subpoena for a 
                witness who is required to attend a district court in 
                any district may apply in any other district.
    (i) Voluntary Labeling Program.--
            (1) In general.--The President shall establish criteria for 
        a system of voluntary labeling of renewable fuels based on life 
        cycle greenhouse gas emissions.
            (2) Consumer education.--The President shall ensure that 
        the labeling system under this subsection provides useful 
        information to consumers making fuel purchases.
            (3) Flexibility.--In carrying out this subsection, the 
        President may establish more than 1 label, as appropriate.
    (j) Effective Date.--Except as otherwise specifically provided in 
this section, this section takes effect on January 1, 2008.

SEC. 112. PRODUCTION OF RENEWABLE FUEL USING RENEWABLE ENERGY.

    (a) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Facility.--The term ``facility'' means a facility used 
        for the production of renewable fuel.
            (2) Renewable energy.--
                    (A) In general.--The term ``renewable energy'' has 
                the meaning given the term in section 203(b) of the 
                Energy Policy Act of 2005 (42 U.S.C. 15852(b)).
                    (B) Inclusion.--The term ``renewable energy'' 
                includes biogas produced through the conversion of 
                organic matter from renewable biomass.
    (b) Additional Credit.--
            (1) In general.--The President shall provide a credit under 
        the program established under section 111(d) to the owner of a 
        facility that uses renewable energy to displace more than 90 
        percent of the fossil fuel normally used in the production of 
        renewable fuel.
            (2) Credit amount.--The President may provide the credit in 
        a quantity that is not more than the equivalent of 1.5 gallons 
        of renewable fuel for each gallon of renewable fuel produced in 
        a facility described in paragraph (1).

               Subtitle B--Renewable Fuels Infrastructure

SEC. 121. INFRASTRUCTURE PILOT PROGRAM FOR RENEWABLE FUELS.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary, in consultation with the Secretary 
of Transportation and the Administrator of the Environmental Protection 
Agency, shall establish a competitive grant pilot program (referred to 
in this section as the ``pilot program''), to be administered through 
the Vehicle Technology Deployment Program of the Department of Energy, 
to provide not more than 10 geographically-dispersed project grants to 
State governments, Indian tribal governments, local governments, 
metropolitan transportation authorities, or partnerships of those 
entities to carry out 1 or more projects for the purposes described in 
subsection (b).
    (b) Grant Purposes.--A grant under this section shall be used for 
the establishment of refueling infrastructure corridors, as designated 
by the Secretary, for gasoline blends that contain not less than 11 
percent, and not more than 85 percent, renewable fuel or diesel fuel 
that contains at least 10 percent renewable fuel, including--
            (1) installation of infrastructure and equipment necessary 
        to ensure adequate distribution of renewable fuels within the 
        corridor;
            (2) installation of infrastructure and equipment necessary 
        to directly support vehicles powered by renewable fuels; and
            (3) operation and maintenance of infrastructure and 
        equipment installed as part of a project funded by the grant.
    (c) Applications.--
            (1) Requirements.--
                    (A) In general.--Subject to subparagraph (B), not 
                later than 90 days after the date of enactment of this 
                Act, the Secretary shall issue requirements for use in 
                applying for grants under the pilot program.
                    (B) Minimum requirements.--At a minimum, the 
                Secretary shall require that an application for a grant 
                under this section--
                            (i) be submitted by--
                                    (I) the head of a State, tribal, or 
                                local government or a metropolitan 
                                transportation authority, or any 
                                combination of those entities; and
                                    (II) a registered participant in 
                                the Vehicle Technology Deployment 
                                Program of the Department of Energy; 
                                and
                            (ii) include--
                                    (I) a description of the project 
                                proposed in the application, including 
                                the ways in which the project meets the 
                                requirements of this section;
                                    (II) an estimate of the degree of 
                                use of the project, including the 
                                estimated size of fleet of vehicles 
                                operated with renewable fuel available 
                                within the geographic region of the 
                                corridor, measured as a total quantity 
                                and a percentage;
                                    (III) an estimate of the potential 
                                petroleum displaced as a result of the 
                                project (measured as a total quantity 
                                and a percentage), and a plan to 
                                collect and disseminate petroleum 
                                displacement and other relevant data 
                                relating to the project to be funded 
                                under the grant, over the expected life 
                                of the project;
                                    (IV) a description of the means by 
                                which the project will be sustainable 
                                without Federal assistance after the 
                                completion of the term of the grant;
                                    (V) a complete description of the 
                                costs of the project, including 
                                acquisition, construction, operation, 
                                and maintenance costs over the expected 
                                life of the project; and
                                    (VI) a description of which costs 
                                of the project will be supported by 
                                Federal assistance under this 
                                subsection.
            (2) Partners.--An applicant under paragraph (1) may carry 
        out a project under the pilot program in partnership with 
        public and private entities.
    (d) Selection Criteria.--In evaluating applications under the pilot 
program, the Secretary shall--
            (1) consider the experience of each applicant with 
        previous, similar projects; and
            (2) give priority consideration to applications that--
                    (A) are most likely to maximize displacement of 
                petroleum consumption, measured as a total quantity and 
                a percentage;
                    (B) are best able to incorporate existing 
                infrastructure while maximizing, to the extent 
                practicable, the use of advanced biofuels;
                    (C) demonstrate the greatest commitment on the part 
                of the applicant to ensure funding for the proposed 
                project and the greatest likelihood that the project 
                will be maintained or expanded after Federal assistance 
                under this subsection is completed;
                    (D) represent a partnership of public and private 
                entities; and
                    (E) exceed the minimum requirements of subsection 
                (c)(1)(B).
    (e) Pilot Project Requirements.--
            (1) Maximum amount.--The Secretary shall provide not more 
        than $20,000,000 in Federal assistance under the pilot program 
        to any applicant.
            (2) Cost sharing.--The non-Federal share of the cost of any 
        activity relating to renewable fuel infrastructure development 
        carried out using funds from a grant under this section shall 
        be not less than 20 percent.
            (3) Maximum period of grants.--The Secretary shall not 
        provide funds to any applicant under the pilot program for more 
        than 2 years.
            (4) Deployment and distribution.--The Secretary shall seek, 
        to the maximum extent practicable, to ensure a broad geographic 
        distribution of project sites funded by grants under this 
        section.
            (5) Transfer of information and knowledge.--The Secretary 
        shall establish mechanisms to ensure that the information and 
        knowledge gained by participants in the pilot program are 
        transferred among the pilot program participants and to other 
        interested parties, including other applicants that submitted 
        applications.
    (f) Schedule.--
            (1) Initial grants.--
                    (A) In general.--Not later than 90 days after the 
                date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall 
                publish in the Federal Register, Commerce Business 
                Daily, and such other publications as the Secretary 
                considers to be appropriate, a notice and request for 
                applications to carry out projects under the pilot 
                program.
                    (B) Deadline.--An application described in 
                subparagraph (A) shall be submitted to the Secretary by 
                not later than 180 days after the date of publication 
                of the notice under that subparagraph.
                    (C) Initial selection.--Not later than 90 days 
                after the date by which applications for grants are due 
                under subparagraph (B), the Secretary shall select by 
                competitive, peer-reviewed proposal up to 5 
                applications for projects to be awarded a grant under 
                the pilot program.
            (2) Additional grants.--
                    (A) In general.--Not later than 2 years after the 
                date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall 
                publish in the Federal Register, Commerce Business 
                Daily, and such other publications as the Secretary 
                considers to be appropriate, a notice and request for 
                additional applications to carry out projects under the 
                pilot program that incorporate the information and 
                knowledge obtained through the implementation of the 
                first round of projects authorized under the pilot 
                program.
                    (B) Deadline.--An application described in 
                subparagraph (A) shall be submitted to the Secretary by 
                not later than 180 days after the date of publication 
                of the notice under that subparagraph.
                    (C) Initial selection.--Not later than 90 days 
                after the date by which applications for grants are due 
                under subparagraph (B), the Secretary shall select by 
                competitive, peer-reviewed proposal such additional 
                applications for projects to be awarded a grant under 
                the pilot program as the Secretary determines to be 
                appropriate.
    (g) Reports to Congress.--
            (1) Initial report.--Not later than 60 days after the date 
        on which grants are awarded under this section, the Secretary 
        shall submit to Congress a report containing--
                    (A) an identification of the grant recipients and a 
                description of the projects to be funded under the 
                pilot program;
                    (B) an identification of other applicants that 
                submitted applications for the pilot program but to 
                which funding was not provided; and
                    (C) a description of the mechanisms used by the 
                Secretary to ensure that the information and knowledge 
                gained by participants in the pilot program are 
                transferred among the pilot program participants and to 
                other interested parties, including other applicants 
                that submitted applications.
            (2) Evaluation.--Not later than 2 years after the date of 
        enactment of this Act, and annually thereafter until the 
        termination of the pilot program, the Secretary shall submit to 
        Congress a report containing an evaluation of the effectiveness 
        of the pilot program, including an assessment of the petroleum 
        displacement and benefits to the environment derived from the 
        projects included in the pilot program.
    (h) Authorization of Appropriations.--There is authorized to be 
appropriated to the Secretary to carry out this section $200,000,000, 
to remain available until expended.

SEC. 122. BIOENERGY RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT.

    Section 931(c) of the Energy Policy Act of 2005 (42 U.S.C. 
16231(c)) is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (2), by striking ``$251,000,000'' and 
        inserting ``$377,000,000''; and
            (2) in paragraph (3), by striking ``$274,000,000'' and 
        inserting ``$398,000,000''.

SEC. 123. BIORESEARCH CENTERS FOR SYSTEMS BIOLOGY PROGRAM.

    Section 977(a)(1) of the Energy Policy Act of 2005 (42 U.S.C. 
16317(a)(1)) is amended by inserting before the period at the end the 
following: ``, including the establishment of at least 11 bioresearch 
centers of varying sizes, as appropriate, that focus on biofuels, of 
which at least 2 centers shall be located in each of the 4 Petroleum 
Administration for Defense Districts with no subdistricts and 1 center 
shall be located in each of the subdistricts of the Petroleum 
Administration for Defense District with subdistricts''.

SEC. 124. LOAN GUARANTEES FOR RENEWABLE FUEL FACILITIES.

    (a) In General.--Section 1703 of the Energy Policy Act of 2005 (42 
U.S.C. 16513) is amended by adding at the end the following:
    ``(f) Renewable Fuel Facilities.--
            ``(1) In general.--The Secretary may make guarantees under 
        this title for projects that produce advanced biofuel (as 
        defined in section 102 of the Biofuels for Energy Security and 
        Transportation Act of 2007).
            ``(2) Requirements.--A project under this subsection shall 
        employ new or significantly improved technologies for the 
        production of renewable fuels as compared to commercial 
        technologies in service in the United States at the time that 
        the guarantee is issued.
            ``(3) Issuance of first loan guarantees.--The requirement 
        of section 20320(b) of division B of the Continuing 
        Appropriations Resolution, 2007 (Public Law 109-289, Public Law 
        110-5), relating to the issuance of final regulations, shall 
        not apply to the first 6 guarantees issued under this 
        subsection.
            ``(4) Project design.--A project for which a guarantee is 
        made under this subsection shall have a project design that has 
        been validated through the operation of a continuous process 
        pilot facility with an annual output of at least 50,000 gallons 
        of ethanol or the energy equivalent volume of other advanced 
        biofuels.
            ``(5) Maximum guaranteed principal.--The total principal 
        amount of a loan guaranteed under this subsection may not 
        exceed $250,000,000 for a single facility.
            ``(6) Amount of guarantee.--The Secretary shall guarantee 
        100 percent of the principal and interest due on 1 or more 
        loans made for a facility that is the subject of the guarantee 
        under paragraph (3).
            ``(7) Deadline.--The Secretary shall approve or disapprove 
        an application for a guarantee under this subsection not later 
        than 90 days after the date of receipt of the application.
            ``(8) Report.--Not later than 30 days after approving or 
        disapproving an application under paragraph (7), the Secretary 
        shall submit to Congress a report on the approval or 
        disapproval (including the reasons for the action).''.
    (b) Improvements to Underlying Loan Guarantee Authority.--
            (1) Definition of commercial technology.--Section 1701(1) 
        of the Energy Policy Act of 2005 (42 U.S.C. 16511(1)) is 
        amended by striking subparagraph (B) and inserting the 
        following:
                    ``(B) Exclusion.--The term `commercial technology' 
                does not include a technology if the sole use of the 
                technology is in connection with--
                            ``(i) a demonstration plant; or
                            ``(ii) a project for which the Secretary 
                        approved a loan guarantee.''.
            (2) Specific appropriation or contribution.--Section 1702 
        of the Energy Policy Act of 2005 (42 U.S.C. 16512) is amended 
        by striking subsection (b) and inserting the following:
    ``(b) Specific Appropriation or Contribution.--
            ``(1) In general.--No guarantee shall be made unless--
                    ``(A) an appropriation for the cost has been made; 
                or
                    ``(B) the Secretary has received from the borrower 
                a payment in full for the cost of the obligation and 
                deposited the payment into the Treasury.
            ``(2) Limitation.--The source of payments received from a 
        borrower under paragraph (1)(B) shall not be a loan or other 
        debt obligation that is made or guaranteed by the Federal 
        Government.
            ``(3) Relation to other laws.--Section 504(b) of the 
        Federal Credit Reform Act of 1990 (2 U.S.C. 661c(b)) shall not 
        apply to a loan or loan guarantee made in accordance with 
        paragraph (1)(B).''.
            (3) Amount.--Section 1702 of the Energy Policy Act of 2005 
        (42 U.S.C. 16512) is amended by striking subsection (c) and 
        inserting the following:
    ``(c) Amount.--
            ``(1) In general.--Subject to paragraph (2), the Secretary 
        shall guarantee up to 100 percent of the principal and interest 
        due on 1 or more loans for a facility that are the subject of 
        the guarantee.
            ``(2) Limitation.--The total amount of loans guaranteed for 
        a facility by the Secretary shall not exceed 80 percent of the 
        total cost of the facility, as estimated at the time at which 
        the guarantee is issued.''.
            (4) Subrogation.--Section 1702(g)(2) of the Energy Policy 
        Act of 2005 (42 U.S.C. 16512(g)(2)) is amended--
                    (A) by striking subparagraph (B); and
                    (B) by redesignating subparagraph (C) as 
                subparagraph (B).
            (5) Fees.--Section 1702(h) of the Energy Policy Act of 2005 
        (42 U.S.C. 16512(h)) is amended by striking paragraph (2) and 
        inserting the following:
            ``(2) Availability.--Fees collected under this subsection 
        shall--
                    ``(A) be deposited by the Secretary into a special 
                fund in the Treasury to be known as the `Incentives For 
                Innovative Technologies Fund'; and
                    ``(B) remain available to the Secretary for 
                expenditure, without further appropriation or fiscal 
                year limitation, for administrative expenses incurred 
                in carrying out this title.''.

SEC. 125. GRANTS FOR RENEWABLE FUEL PRODUCTION RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT 
              IN CERTAIN STATES.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary shall provide grants to eligible 
entities to conduct research into, and develop and implement, renewable 
fuel production technologies in States with low rates of ethanol 
production, including low rates of production of cellulosic biomass 
ethanol, as determined by the Secretary.
    (b) Eligibility.--To be eligible to receive a grant under the 
section, an entity shall--
            (1)(A) be an institution of higher education (as defined in 
        section 2 of the Energy Policy Act of 2005 (42 U.S.C. 15801)) 
        located in a State described in subsection (a);
            (B) be an institution--
                    (i) referred to in section 532 of the Equity in 
                Educational Land-Grant Status Act of 1994 (Public Law 
                103-382; 7 U.S.C. 301 note);
                    (ii) that is eligible for a grant under the 
                Tribally Controlled College or University Assistance 
                Act of 1978 (25 U.S.C. 1801 et seq.), including Dine 
                College; or
                    (iii) that is eligible for a grant under the Navajo 
                Community College Act (25 U.S.C. 640a et seq.); or
            (C) be a consortium of such institutions of higher 
        education, industry, State agencies, Indian tribal agencies, or 
        local government agencies located in the State; and
            (2) have proven experience and capabilities with relevant 
        technologies.
    (c) Authorization of Appropriations.--There is authorized to be 
appropriated to carry out this section $25,000,000 for each of fiscal 
years 2008 through 2010.

SEC. 126. GRANTS FOR INFRASTRUCTURE FOR TRANSPORTATION OF BIOMASS TO 
              LOCAL BIOREFINERIES.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary shall conduct a program under which 
the Secretary shall provide grants to Indian tribal and local 
governments and other eligible entities (as determined by the 
Secretary) (referred to in this section as ``eligible entities'') to 
promote the development of infrastructure to support the separation, 
production, processing, and transportation of biomass to local 
biorefineries.
    (b) Phases.--The Secretary shall conduct the program in the 
following phases:
            (1) Development.--In the first phase of the program, the 
        Secretary shall make grants to eligible entities to assist the 
        eligible entities in the development of local projects to 
        promote the development of infrastructure to support the 
        separation, production, processing, and transportation of 
        biomass to local biorefineries.
            (2) Implementation.--In the second phase of the program, 
        the Secretary shall make competitive grants to eligible 
        entities to implement projects developed under paragraph (1).
    (c) Authorization of Appropriations.--There are authorized to be 
appropriated such sums as are necessary to carry out this section.

SEC. 127. BIOREFINERY INFORMATION CENTER.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary, in cooperation with the Secretary 
of Agriculture, shall establish a biorefinery information center to 
make available to interested parties information on--
            (1) renewable fuel resources, including information on 
        programs and incentives for renewable fuels;
            (2) renewable fuel producers;
            (3) renewable fuel users; and
            (4) potential renewable fuel users.
    (b) Administration.--In administering the biorefinery information 
center, the Secretary shall--
            (1) continually update information provided by the center;
            (2) make information available to interested parties on the 
        process for establishing a biorefinery; and
            (3) make information and assistance provided by the center 
        available through a toll-free telephone number and website.
    (c) Authorization of Appropriations.--There are authorized to be 
appropriated such sums as are necessary to carry out this section.

SEC. 128. ALTERNATIVE FUEL DATABASE AND MATERIALS.

    The Secretary and the Director of the National Institute of 
Standards and Technology shall jointly establish and make available to 
the public--
            (1) a database that describes the physical properties of 
        different types of alternative fuel; and
            (2) standard reference materials for different types of 
        alternative fuel.

SEC. 129. FUEL TANK CAP LABELING REQUIREMENT.

    Section 406(a) of the Energy Policy Act of 1992 (42 U.S.C. 
13232(a)) is amended--
            (1) by striking ``The Federal Trade Commission'' and 
        inserting the following:
            ``(1) In general.--The Federal Trade Commission''; and
            (2) by adding at the end the following:
            ``(2) Fuel tank cap labeling requirement.--Beginning with 
        model year 2010, the fuel tank cap of each alternative fueled 
        vehicle manufactured for sale in the United States shall be 
        clearly labeled to inform consumers that such vehicle can 
        operate on alternative fuel.''.

SEC. 130. BIODIESEL.

    (a) In General.--Not later than 180 days after the date of 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall submit to Congress a report 
on any research and development challenges inherent in increasing to 5 
percent the proportion of diesel fuel sold in the United States that is 
biodiesel (as defined in section 757 of the Energy Policy Act of 2005 
(42 U.S.C. 16105)).
    (b) Regulations.--The President shall promulgate regulations 
providing for the uniform labeling of biodiesel blends that are 
certified to meet applicable standards published by the American 
Society for Testing and Materials.
    (c) National Biodiesel Fuel Quality Standard.--
            (1) Quality regulations.--Within 180 days following the 
        date of enactment of this Act, the President shall promulgate 
        regulations to ensure that only biodiesel that is tested and 
        certified to comply with the American Society for Testing and 
        Materials (ASTM) 6751 standard is introduced into interstate 
        commerce.
            (2) Enforcement.--The President shall ensure that all 
        biodiesel entering interstate commerce meets the requirements 
        of paragraph (1).
            (3) Funding.--There are authorized to be appropriated to 
        the President to carry out this section:
                    (A) $3,000,000 for fiscal year 2008.
                    (B) $3,000,000 for fiscal year 2009.
                    (C) $3,000,000 for fiscal year 2010.

                          Subtitle C--Studies

SEC. 141. STUDY OF ADVANCED BIOFUELS TECHNOLOGIES.

    (a) In General.--Not later than October 1, 2012, the Secretary 
shall offer to enter into a contract with the National Academy of 
Sciences under which the Academy shall conduct a study of technologies 
relating to the production, transportation, and distribution of 
advanced biofuels.
    (b) Scope.--In conducting the study, the Academy shall--
            (1) include an assessment of the maturity of advanced 
        biofuels technologies;
            (2) consider whether the rate of development of those 
        technologies will be sufficient to meet the advanced biofuel 
        standards required under section 111;
            (3) consider the effectiveness of the research and 
        development programs and activities of the Department of Energy 
        relating to advanced biofuel technologies; and
            (4) make policy recommendations to accelerate the 
        development of those technologies to commercial viability, as 
        appropriate.
    (c) Report.--Not later than November 30, 2014, the Secretary shall 
submit to the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources of the Senate 
and the Committee on Energy and Commerce of the House of 
Representatives a report describing the results of the study conducted 
under this section.

SEC. 142. STUDY OF INCREASED CONSUMPTION OF ETHANOL-BLENDED GASOLINE 
              WITH HIGHER LEVELS OF ETHANOL.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary, in cooperation with the Secretary 
of Agriculture, the Administrator of the Environmental Protection 
Agency, and the Secretary of Transportation, and after providing notice 
and an opportunity for public comment, shall conduct a study of the 
feasibility of increasing consumption in the United States of ethanol-
blended gasoline with levels of ethanol that are not less than 10 
percent and not more than 40 percent.
    (b) Study.--The study under subsection (a) shall include--
            (1) a review of production and infrastructure constraints 
        on increasing consumption of ethanol;
            (2) an evaluation of the economic, market, and energy-
        related impacts of State and regional differences in ethanol 
        blends;
            (3) an evaluation of the economic, market, and energy-
        related impacts on gasoline retailers and consumers of separate 
        and distinctly labeled fuel storage facilities and dispensers;
            (4) an evaluation of the environmental impacts of mid-level 
        ethanol blends on evaporative and exhaust emissions from on-
        road, off-road, and marine engines, recreational boats, 
        vehicles, and equipment;
            (5) an evaluation of the impacts of mid-level ethanol 
        blends on the operation, durability, and performance of on-
        road, off-road, and marine engines, recreational boats, 
        vehicles, and equipment; and
            (6) an evaluation of the safety impacts of mid-level 
        ethanol blends on consumers that own and operate off-road and 
        marine engines, recreational boats, vehicles, or equipment.
    (c) Report.--Not later than 1 year after the date of enactment of 
this Act, the Secretary shall submit to Congress a report describing 
the results of the study conducted under this section.

SEC. 143. PIPELINE FEASIBILITY STUDY.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary, in coordination with the Secretary 
of Agriculture and the Secretary of Transportation, shall conduct a 
study of the feasibility of the construction of dedicated ethanol 
pipelines.
    (b) Factors.--In conducting the study, the Secretary shall 
consider--
            (1) the quantity of ethanol production that would make 
        dedicated pipelines economically viable;
            (2) existing or potential barriers to dedicated ethanol 
        pipelines, including technical, siting, financing, and 
        regulatory barriers;
            (3) market risk (including throughput risk) and means of 
        mitigating the risk;
            (4) regulatory, financing, and siting options that would 
        mitigate risk in those areas and help ensure the construction 
        of 1 or more dedicated ethanol pipelines;
            (5) financial incentives that may be necessary for the 
        construction of dedicated ethanol pipelines, including the 
        return on equity that sponsors of the initial dedicated ethanol 
        pipelines will require to invest in the pipelines;
            (6) technical factors that may compromise the safe 
        transportation of ethanol in pipelines, identifying remedial 
        and preventative measures to ensure pipeline integrity; and
            (7) such other factors as the Secretary considers 
        appropriate.
    (c) Report.--Not later than 15 months after the date of enactment 
of this Act, the Secretary shall submit to Congress a report describing 
the results of the study conducted under this section.

SEC. 144. STUDY OF OPTIMIZATION OF FLEXIBLE FUELED VEHICLES TO USE E-85 
              FUEL.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary shall conduct a study of methods of 
increasing the fuel efficiency of flexible fueled vehicles by 
optimizing flexible fueled vehicles to operate using E-85 fuel.
    (b) Report.--Not later than 180 days after the date of enactment of 
this Act, the Secretary shall submit to the Committee on Energy and 
Natural Resources of the Senate and the Committee on Natural Resources 
of the House of Representatives a report that describes the results of 
the study, including any recommendations of the Secretary.

SEC. 145. STUDY OF CREDITS FOR USE OF RENEWABLE ELECTRICITY IN ELECTRIC 
              VEHICLES.

    (a) Definition of Electric Vehicle.--In this section, the term 
``electric vehicle'' means an electric motor vehicle (as defined in 
section 601 of the Energy Policy Act of 1992 (42 U.S.C. 13271)) for 
which the rechargeable storage battery--
            (1) receives a charge directly from a source of electric 
        current that is external to the vehicle; and
            (2) provides a minimum of 80 percent of the motive power of 
        the vehicle.
    (b) Study.--The Secretary shall conduct a study on the feasibility 
of issuing credits under the program established under section 111(d) 
to electric vehicles powered by electricity produced from renewable 
energy sources.
    (c) Report.--Not later than 18 months after the date of enactment 
of this Act, the Secretary shall submit to the Committee on Energy and 
Natural Resources of the Senate and the Committee on Energy and 
Commerce of the House of Representatives a report that describes the 
results of the study, including a description of--
            (1) existing programs and studies on the use of renewable 
        electricity as a means of powering electric vehicles; and
            (2) alternatives for--
                    (A) designing a pilot program to determine the 
                feasibility of using renewable electricity to power 
                electric vehicles as an adjunct to a renewable fuels 
                mandate;
                    (B) allowing the use, under the pilot program 
                designed under subparagraph (A), of electricity 
                generated from nuclear energy as an additional source 
                of supply;
                    (C) identifying the source of electricity used to 
                power electric vehicles; and
                    (D) equating specific quantities of electricity to 
                quantities of renewable fuel under section 111(d).

SEC. 146. STUDY OF ENGINE DURABILITY ASSOCIATED WITH THE USE OF 
              BIODIESEL.

    (a) In General.--Not later than 30 days after the date of enactment 
of this Act, the Secretary shall initiate a study on the effects of the 
use of biodiesel on engine durability.
    (b) Components.--The study under this section shall include--
            (1) an assessment of whether the use of biodiesel in 
        conventional diesel engines lessens engine durability; and
            (2) an assessment of the effects referred to in subsection 
        (a) with respect to biodiesel blends at varying concentrations, 
        including--
                    (A) B5;
                    (B) B10;
                    (C) B20; and
                    (D) B30.

SEC. 147. STUDY OF INCENTIVES FOR RENEWABLE FUELS.

    (a) Study.--The President shall conduct a study of the renewable 
fuels industry and markets in the United States, including--
            (1) the costs to produce conventional and advanced 
        biofuels;
            (2) the factors affecting the future market prices for 
        those biofuels, including world oil prices; and
            (3) the financial incentives necessary to enhance, to the 
        maximum extent practicable, the biofuels industry of the United 
        States to reduce the dependence of the United States on foreign 
        oil during calendar years 2011 through 2030.
    (b) Goals.--The study shall include an analysis of the options for 
financial incentives and the advantage and disadvantages of each 
option.
    (c) Report.--Not later than 1 year after the date of enactment of 
this Act, the President shall submit to Congress a report that 
describes the results of the study.

SEC. 148. STUDY OF STREAMLINED LIFECYCLE ANALYSIS TOOLS FOR THE 
              EVALUATION OF RENEWABLE CARBON CONTENT OF BIOFUELS.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary, in consultation with the Secretary 
of Agriculture and the Administrator of the Environmental Protection 
Agency, shall conduct a study of--
            (1) published methods for evaluating the lifecycle fossil 
        and renewable carbon content of fuels, including conventional 
        and advanced biofuels; and
            (2) methods for performing simplified, streamlined 
        lifecycle analyses of the fossil and renewable carbon content 
        of biofuels.
    (b) Report.--Not later than 1 year after the date of enactment of 
this Act, the Secretary shall submit to the Committee on Energy and 
Natural Resources of the Senate and the Committee on Energy and 
Commerce of the House of Representatives a report that describes the 
results of the study under subsection (a), including recommendations 
for a method for performing a simplified, streamlined lifecycle 
analysis of the fossil and renewable carbon content of biofuels that 
includes--
            (1) carbon inputs to feedstock production; and
            (2) carbon inputs to the biofuel production process, 
        including the carbon associated with electrical and thermal 
        energy inputs.

SEC. 149. STUDY OF THE ADEQUACY OF RAILROAD TRANSPORTATION OF 
              DOMESTICALLY-PRODUCED RENEWABLE FUEL.

    (a) Study.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary, in consultation with the 
        Secretary of Transportation, shall conduct a study of the 
        adequacy of railroad transportation of domestically-produced 
        renewable fuel.
            (2) Components.--In conducting the study under paragraph 
        (1), the Secretary shall consider--
                    (A) the adequacy of, and appropriate location for, 
                tracks that have sufficient capacity, and are in the 
                appropriate condition, to move the necessary quantities 
                of domestically-produced renewable fuel within the 
                timeframes required by section 111;
                    (B) the adequacy of the supply of railroad tank 
                cars, locomotives, and rail crews to move the necessary 
                quantities of domestically-produced renewable fuel in a 
                timely fashion;
                    (C)(i) the projected costs of moving the 
                domestically-produced renewable fuel using railroad 
                transportation; and
                    (ii) the impact of the projected costs on the 
                marketability of the domestically-produced renewable 
                fuel;
                    (D) whether there is adequate railroad competition 
                to ensure--
                            (i) a fair price for the railroad 
                        transportation of domestically-produced 
                        renewable fuel; and
                            (ii) acceptable levels of service for 
                        railroad transportation of domestically-
                        produced renewable fuel;
                    (E) any rail infrastructure capital costs that the 
                railroads indicate should be paid by the producers or 
                distributors of domestically-produced renewable fuel;
                    (F) whether Federal agencies have adequate legal 
                authority to ensure a fair and reasonable 
                transportation price and acceptable levels of service 
                in cases in which the domestically-produced renewable 
                fuel source does not have access to competitive rail 
                service;
                    (G) whether Federal agencies have adequate legal 
                authority to address railroad service problems that may 
                be resulting in inadequate supplies of domestically-
                produced renewable fuel in any area of the United 
                States; and
                    (H) any recommendations for any additional legal 
                authorities for Federal agencies to ensure the reliable 
                railroad transportation of adequate supplies of 
                domestically-produced renewable fuel at reasonable 
                prices.
    (b) Report.--Not later than 180 days after the date of enactment of 
this Act, the Secretary shall submit to the Committee on Energy and 
Natural Resources of the Senate and the Committee on Energy and 
Commerce of the House of Representatives a report that describes the 
results of the study conducted under subsection (a).

SEC. 150. STUDY OF EFFECTS OF ETHANOL-BLENDED GASOLINE ON OFF ROAD 
              VEHICLES.

    (a) Study.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary, in consultation with the 
        Secretary of Transportation and the Administrator of the 
        Environmental Protection Agency, shall conduct a study to 
        determine the effects of ethanol-blended gasoline on off-road 
        vehicles and recreational boats.
            (2) Evaluation.--The study shall include an evaluation of 
        the operational, safety, durability, and environmental impacts 
        of ethanol-blended gasoline on off-road and marine engines, 
        recreational boats, and related equipment.
    (b) Report.--Not later than 1 year after the date of enactment of 
this Act, the Secretary shall submit to Congress a report describing 
the results of the study.

                 TITLE II--ENERGY EFFICIENCY PROMOTION

SEC. 201. SHORT TITLE.

    This title may be cited as the ``Energy Efficiency Promotion Act of 
2007''.

          Subtitle A--Promoting Advanced Lighting Technologies

SEC. 211. ACCELERATED PROCUREMENT OF ENERGY EFFICIENT LIGHTING.

    Section 553 of the National Energy Conservation Policy Act (42 
U.S.C. 8259b) is amended by adding the following:
    ``(f) Accelerated Procurement of Energy Efficient Lighting.--
            ``(1) In general.--Not later than October 1, 2013, in 
        accordance with guidelines issued by the Secretary, all general 
        purpose lighting in Federal buildings shall be Energy Star 
        products or products designated under the Federal Energy 
        Management Program.
            ``(2) Guidelines.--
                    ``(A) In general.--Not later than 1 year after the 
                date of enactment of this subsection, the Secretary 
                shall issue guidelines to carry out this subsection.
                    ``(B) Replacement costs.--The guidelines shall take 
                into consideration the costs of replacing all general 
                service lighting and the reduced cost of operation and 
                maintenance expected to result from such 
                replacement.''.

SEC. 212. INCANDESCENT REFLECTOR LAMP EFFICIENCY STANDARDS.

    (a) Definitions.--Section 321 of the Energy Policy and Conservation 
Act (42 U.S.C. 6291) is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (30)(C)(ii)--
                    (A) in the matter preceding subclause (I)--
                            (i) by striking ``or similar bulb shapes 
                        (excluding ER or BR)'' and inserting ``ER, BR, 
                        BPAR, or similar bulb shapes''; and
                            (ii) by striking ``2.75'' and inserting 
                        ``2.25''; and
                    (B) by striking ``is either--'' and all that 
                follows through subclause (II) and inserting ``has a 
                rated wattage that is 40 watts or higher''; and
            (2) by adding at the end the following:
            ``(52) BPAR incandescent reflector lamp.--The term `BPAR 
        incandescent reflector lamp' means a reflector lamp as shown in 
        figure C78.21-278 on page 32 of ANSI C78.21-2003.
            ``(53) BR incandescent reflector lamp; br30; br40.--
                    ``(A) BR incandescent reflector lamp.--The term `BR 
                incandescent reflector lamp' means a reflector lamp 
                that has--
                            ``(i) a bulged section below the major 
                        diameter of the bulb and above the approximate 
                        baseline of the bulb, as shown in figure 1 (RB) 
                        on page 7 of ANSI C79.1-1994, incorporated by 
                        reference in section 430.22 of title 10, Code 
                        of Federal Regulations (as in effect on the 
                        date of enactment of this paragraph); and
                            ``(ii) a finished size and shape shown in 
                        ANSI C78.21-1989, including the referenced 
                        reflective characteristics in part 7 of ANSI 
                        C78.21-1989, incorporated by reference in 
                        section 430.22 of title 10, Code of Federal 
                        Regulations (as in effect on the date of 
                        enactment of this paragraph).
                    ``(B) BR30.--The term `BR30' means a BR 
                incandescent reflector lamp with a diameter of 30/8ths 
                of an inch.
                    ``(C) BR40.--The term `BR40' means a BR 
                incandescent reflector lamp with a diameter of 40/8ths 
                of an inch.
            ``(54) ER incandescent reflector lamp; er30; er40.--
                    ``(A) ER incandescent reflector lamp.--The term `ER 
                incandescent reflector lamp' means a reflector lamp 
                that has--
                            ``(i) an elliptical section below the major 
                        diameter of the bulb and above the approximate 
                        baseline of the bulb, as shown in figure 1 (RE) 
                        on page 7 of ANSI C79.1-1994, incorporated by 
                        reference in section 430.22 of title 10, Code 
                        of Federal Regulations (as in effect on the 
                        date of enactment of this paragraph); and
                            ``(ii) a finished size and shape shown in 
                        ANSI C78.21-1989, incorporated by reference in 
                        section 430.22 of title 10, Code of Federal 
                        Regulations (as in effect on the date of 
                        enactment of this paragraph).
                    ``(B) ER30.--The term `ER30' means an ER 
                incandescent reflector lamp with a diameter of 30/8ths 
                of an inch.
                    ``(C) ER40.--The term `ER40' means an ER 
                incandescent reflector lamp with a diameter of 40/8ths 
                of an inch.
            ``(55) R20 incandescent reflector lamp.--The term `R20 
        incandescent reflector lamp' means a reflector lamp that has a 
        face diameter of approximately 2.5 inches, as shown in figure 
        1(R) on page 7 of ANSI C79.1-1994.''.
    (b) Standards for Fluorescent Lamps and Incandescent Reflector 
Lamps.--Section 325(i) of the Energy Policy and Conservation Act (42 
U.S.C. 6925(i)) is amended by striking paragraph (1) and inserting the 
following:
            ``(1) Standards.--
                    ``(A) Definition of effective date.--In this 
                paragraph (other than subparagraph (D)), the term 
                `effective date' means, with respect to each type of 
                lamp specified in a table contained in subparagraph 
                (B), the last day of the period of months corresponding 
                to that type of lamp (as specified in the table) that 
                follows October 24, 1992.
                    ``(B) Minimum standards.--Each of the following 
                general service fluorescent lamps and incandescent 
                reflector lamps manufactured after the effective date 
                specified in the tables contained in this paragraph 
                shall meet or exceed the following lamp efficacy and 
                CRI standards:


                                               ``FLUORESCENT LAMPS
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                                                  Effective Date
           Lamp Type               Nominal Lamp       Minimum CRI       Minimum Average Lamp        (Period of
                                      Wattage                              Efficacy (LPW)            Months)
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
4-foot medium bi-pin...........        &gt;35 W              69                    75.0                    36
                                       35 W               45                    75.0                    36
2-foot U-shaped................        &gt;35 W              69                    68.0                    36
                                       35 W               45                    64.0                    36
8-foot slimline................         65 W              69                    80.0                    18
                                       65 W               45                    80.0                    18
8-foot high output.............       &gt;100 W              69                    80.0                    18
                                       100 W              45                    80.0                    18
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------



                     ``INCANDESCENT REFLECTOR LAMPS
------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                          Effective Date
     Nominal Lamp Wattage         Minimum Average Lamp      (Period of
                                     Efficacy (LPW)           Months)
------------------------------------------------------------------------
 40-50.......................             10.5                  36
 51-66.......................             11.0                  36
 67-85.......................             12.5                  36
 86-115......................             14.0                  36
116-155......................             14.5                  36
156-205......................             15.0                  36
------------------------------------------------------------------------

                    ``(C) Exemptions.--The standards specified in 
                subparagraph (B) shall not apply to the following types 
                of incandescent reflector lamps:
                            ``(i) Lamps rated at 50 watts or less that 
                        are ER30, BR30, BR40, or ER40 lamps.
                            ``(ii) Lamps rated at 65 watts that are 
                        BR30, BR40, or ER40 lamps.
                            ``(iii) R20 incandescent reflector lamps 
                        rated 45 watts or less.
                    ``(D) Effective dates.--
                            ``(i) ER, br, and bpar lamps.--The 
                        standards specified in subparagraph (B) shall 
                        apply with respect to ER incandescent reflector 
                        lamps, BR incandescent reflector lamps, BPAR 
                        incandescent reflector lamps, and similar bulb 
                        shapes on and after January 1, 2008.
                            ``(ii) Lamps between 2.25-2.75 inches in 
                        diameter.--The standards specified in 
                        subparagraph (B) shall apply with respect to 
                        incandescent reflector lamps with a diameter of 
                        more than 2.25 inches, but not more than 2.75 
                        inches, on and after January 1, 2008.''.

SEC. 213. BRIGHT TOMORROW LIGHTING PRIZES.

    (a) Establishment.--Not later than 1 year after the date of 
enactment of this Act, as part of the program carried out under section 
1008 of the Energy Policy Act of 2005 (42 U.S.C. 16396), the Secretary 
shall establish and award Bright Tomorrow Lighting Prizes for solid 
state lighting in accordance with this section.
    (b) Prize Specifications.--
            (1) 60-watt incandescent replacement lamp prize.--The 
        Secretary shall award a 60-Watt Incandescent Replacement Lamp 
        Prize to an entrant that produces a solid-state light package 
        simultaneously capable of--
                    (A) producing a luminous flux greater than 900 
                lumens;
                    (B) consuming less than or equal to 10 watts;
                    (C) having an efficiency greater than 90 lumens per 
                watt;
                    (D) having a color rendering index greater than 90;
                    (E) having a correlated color temperature of not 
                less than 2,750, and not more than 3,000, degrees 
                Kelvin;
                    (F) having 70 percent of the lumen value under 
                subparagraph (A) exceeding 25,000 hours under typical 
                conditions expected in residential use;
                    (G) having a light distribution pattern similar to 
                a soft 60-watt incandescent A19 bulb;
                    (H) having a size and shape that fits within the 
                maximum dimensions of an A19 bulb in accordance with 
                American National Standards Institute standard C78.20-
                2003, figure C78.20-211;
                    (I) using a single contact medium screw socket; and
                    (J) mass production for a competitive sales 
                commercial market satisfied by the submission of 10,000 
                such units equal to or exceeding the criteria described 
                in subparagraphs (A) through (I).
            (2) PAR type 38 halogen replacement lamp prize.--The 
        Secretary shall award a Parabolic Aluminized Reflector Type 38 
        Halogen Replacement Lamp Prize (referred to in this section as 
        the ``PAR Type 38 Halogen Replacement Lamp Prize'') to an 
        entrant that produces a solid-state-light package 
        simultaneously capable of--
                    (A) producing a luminous flux greater than or equal 
                to 1,350 lumens;
                    (B) consuming less than or equal to 11 watts;
                    (C) having an efficiency greater than 123 lumens 
                per watt;
                    (D) having a color rendering index greater than or 
                equal to 90;
                    (E) having a correlated color coordinate 
                temperature of not less than 2,750, and not more than 
                3,000, degrees Kelvin;
                    (F) having 70 percent of the lumen value under 
                subparagraph (A) exceeding 25,000 hours under typical 
                conditions expected in residential use;
                    (G) having a light distribution pattern similar to 
                a PAR 38 halogen lamp;
                    (H) having a size and shape that fits within the 
                maximum dimensions of a PAR 38 halogen lamp in 
                accordance with American National Standards Institute 
                standard C78-21-2003, figure C78.21-238;
                    (I) using a single contact medium screw socket; and
                    (J) mass production for a competitive sales 
                commercial market satisfied by the submission of 10,000 
                such units equal to or exceeding the criteria described 
                in subparagraphs (A) through (I).
            (3) Twenty-first century lamp prize.--The Secretary shall 
        award a Twenty-First Century Lamp Prize to an entrant that 
        produces a solid-state-light-light capable of--
                    (A) producing a light output greater than 1,200 
                lumens;
                    (B) having an efficiency greater than 150 lumens 
                per watt;
                    (C) having a color rendering index greater than 90;
                    (D) having a color coordinate temperature between 
                2,800 and 3,000 degrees Kelvin; and
                    (E) having a lifetime exceeding 25,000 hours.
    (c) Private Funds.--The Secretary may accept and use funding from 
private sources as part of the prizes awarded under this section.
    (d) Technical Review.--The Secretary shall establish a technical 
review committee composed of non-Federal officers to review entrant 
data submitted under this section to determine whether the data meets 
the prize specifications described in subsection (b).
    (e) Third Party Administration.--The Secretary may competitively 
select a third party to administer awards under this section.
    (f) Award Amounts.--Subject to the availability of funds to carry 
out this section, the amount of--
            (1) the 60-Watt Incandescent Replacement Lamp Prize 
        described in subsection (b)(1) shall be $10,000,000;
            (2) the PAR Type 38 Halogen Replacement Lamp Prize 
        described in subsection (b)(2) shall be $5,000,000; and
            (3) the Twenty-First Century Lamp Prize described in 
        subsection (b)(3) shall be $5,000,000.
    (g) Federal Procurement of Solid-State-Lights.--
            (1) 60-watt incandescent replacement.--Subject to paragraph 
        (3), as soon as practicable after the successful award of the 
        60-Watt Incandescent Replacement Lamp Prize under subsection 
        (b)(1), the Secretary (in consultation with the Administrator 
        of General Services) shall develop governmentwide Federal 
        purchase guidelines with a goal of replacing the use of 60-watt 
        incandescent lamps in Federal Government buildings with a 
        solid-state-light package described in subsection (b)(1) by not 
        later than the date that is 5 years after the date the award is 
        made.
            (2) PAR 38 halogen replacement lamp replacement.--Subject 
        to paragraph (3), as soon as practicable after the successful 
        award of the PAR Type 38 Halogen Replacement Lamp Prize under 
        subsection (b)(2), the Secretary (in consultation with the 
        Administrator of General Services) shall develop governmentwide 
        Federal purchase guidelines with the goal of replacing the use 
        of PAR 38 halogen lamps in Federal Government buildings with a 
        solid-state-light package described in subsection (b)(2) by not 
        later than the date that is 5 years after the date the award is 
        made.
            (3) Waivers.--
                    (A) In general.--The Secretary or the Administrator 
                of General Services may waive the application of 
                paragraph (1) or (2) if the Secretary or Administrator 
                determines that the return on investment from the 
                purchase of a solid-state-light package described in 
                paragraph (1) or (2) of subsection (b), respectively, 
                is cost prohibitive.
                    (B) Report of waiver.--If the Secretary or 
                Administrator waives the application of paragraph (1) 
                or (2), the Secretary or Administrator, respectively, 
                shall submit to Congress an annual report that 
                describes the waiver and provides a detailed 
                justification for the waiver.
    (h) Bright Light Tomorrow Award Fund.--
            (1) Establishment.--There is established in the United 
        States Treasury a Bright Light Tomorrow permanent fund without 
        fiscal year limitation to award prizes under paragraphs (1), 
        (2), and (3) of subsection (b).
            (2) Sources of funding.--The fund established under 
        paragraph (1) shall accept--
                    (A) fiscal year appropriations; and
                    (B) private contributions authorized under 
                subsection (c).
    (i) Authorization of Appropriations.--There are authorized to be 
appropriated such sums as are necessary to carry out this section.

SEC. 214. SENSE OF SENATE CONCERNING EFFICIENT LIGHTING STANDARDS.

    (a) Findings.--The Senate finds that--
            (1) there are approximately 4,000,000,000 screw-based 
        sockets in the United States that contain traditional, energy-
        inefficient, incandescent light bulbs;
            (2) incandescent light bulbs are based on technology that 
        is more than 125 years old;
            (3) there are radically more efficient lighting 
        alternatives in the market, with the promise of even more 
        choices over the next several years;
            (4) national policy can support a rapid substitution of 
        new, energy-efficient light bulbs for the less efficient 
        products in widespread use; and,
            (5) transforming the United States market to use of more 
        efficient lighting technologies can--
                    (A) reduce electric costs in the United States by 
                more than $18,000,000,000 annually;
                    (B) save the equivalent electricity that is 
                produced by 80 base load coal-fired power plants; and
                    (C) reduce fossil fuel related emissions by 
                approximately 158,000,000 tons each year.
    (b) Sense of the Senate.--It is the sense of the Senate that the 
Senate should--
            (1) pass a set of mandatory, technology-neutral standards 
        to establish firm energy efficiency performance targets for 
        lighting products;
            (2) ensure that the standards become effective within the 
        next 10 years; and
            (3) in developing the standards--
                    (A) establish the efficiency requirements to ensure 
                that replacement lamps will provide consumers with the 
                same quantity of light while using significantly less 
                energy;
                    (B) ensure that consumers will continue to have 
                multiple product choices, including energy-saving 
                halogen, incandescent, compact fluorescent, and LED 
                light bulbs; and
                    (C) work with industry and key stakeholders on 
                measures that can assist consumers and businesses in 
                making the important transition to more efficient 
                lighting.

SEC. 215. RENEWABLE ENERGY CONSTRUCTION GRANTS.

    (a) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Alaska small hydroelectric power.--The term ``Alaska 
        small hydroelectric power'' means power that--
                    (A) is generated--
                            (i) in the State of Alaska;
                            (ii) without the use of a dam or 
                        impoundment of water; and
                            (iii) through the use of--
                                    (I) a lake tap (but not a perched 
                                alpine lake); or
                                    (II) a run-of-river screened at the 
                                point of diversion; and
                    (B) has a nameplate capacity rating of a wattage 
                that is not more than 15 megawatts.
            (2) Eligible applicant.--The term ``eligible applicant'' 
        means any--
                    (A) governmental entity;
                    (B) private utility;
                    (C) public utility;
                    (D) municipal utility;
                    (E) cooperative utility;
                    (F) Indian tribes; and
                    (G) Regional Corporation (as defined in section 3 
                of the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act (43 U.S.C. 
                1602)).
            (3) Ocean energy.--
                    (A) Inclusions.--The term ``ocean energy'' includes 
                current, wave, and tidal energy.
                    (B) Exclusion.--The term ``ocean energy'' excludes 
                thermal energy.
            (4) Renewable energy project.--The term ``renewable energy 
        project'' means a project--
                    (A) for the commercial generation of electricity; 
                and
                    (B) that generates electricity from--
                            (i) solar, wind, or geothermal energy or 
                        ocean energy;
                            (ii) biomass (as defined in section 203(b) 
                        of the Energy Policy Act of 2005 (42 U.S.C. 
                        15852(b)));
                            (iii) landfill gas; or
                            (iv) Alaska small hydroelectric power.
    (b) Renewable Energy Construction Grants.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary shall use amounts 
        appropriated under this section to make grants for use in 
        carrying out renewable energy projects.
            (2) Criteria.--Not later than 180 days after the date of 
        enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall set forth criteria 
        for use in awarding grants under this section.
            (3) Application.--To receive a grant from the Secretary 
        under paragraph (1), an eligible applicant shall submit to the 
        Secretary an application at such time, in such manner, and 
        containing such information as the Secretary may require, 
        including a written assurance that--
                    (A) all laborers and mechanics employed by 
                contractors or subcontractors during construction, 
                alteration, or repair that is financed, in whole or in 
                part, by a grant under this section shall be paid wages 
                at rates not less than those prevailing on similar 
                construction in the locality, as determined by the 
                Secretary of Labor in accordance with sections 3141-
                3144, 3146, and 3147 of title 40, United States Code; 
                and
                    (B) the Secretary of Labor shall, with respect to 
                the labor standards described in this paragraph, have 
                the authority and functions set forth in Reorganization 
                Plan Numbered 14 of 1950 (5 U.S.C. App.) and section 
                3145 of title 40, United States Code.
            (4) Non-federal share.--Each eligible applicant that 
        receives a grant under this subsection shall contribute to the 
        total cost of the renewable energy project constructed by the 
        eligible applicant an amount not less than 50 percent of the 
        total cost of the project.
    (c) Authorization of Appropriations.--There are authorized to be 
appropriated to the Fund such sums as are necessary to carry out this 
section.

         Subtitle B--Expediting New Energy Efficiency Standards

SEC. 221. DEFINITION OF ENERGY CONSERVATION STANDARD.

    Section 321 of the Energy Policy and Conservation Act (42 U.S.C. 
6291) is amended by striking paragraph (6) and inserting the following:
            ``(6) Energy conservation standard.--
                    ``(A) In general.--The term `energy conservation 
                standard' means 1 or more performance standards that 
                prescribe a minimum level of energy efficiency or a 
                maximum quantity of energy use and, in the case of a 
                showerhead, faucet, water closet, urinal, clothes 
                washer, and dishwasher, water use, for a covered 
                product, determined in accordance with test procedures 
                prescribed under section 323.
                    ``(B) Inclusions.--The term `energy conservation 
                standard' includes--
                            ``(i) 1 or more design requirements, as 
                        part of a consensus agreement under section 
                        325(hh); and
                            ``(ii) any other requirements that the 
                        Secretary may prescribe under subsections (o) 
                        and (r) of section 325.
                    ``(C) Exclusion.--The term `energy conservation 
                standard' does not include a performance standard for a 
                component of a finished covered product.''.

SEC. 222. REGIONAL EFFICIENCY STANDARDS FOR HEATING AND COOLING 
              PRODUCTS.

    (a) In General.--Section 327 of the Energy Policy and Conservation 
Act (42 U.S.C. 6297) is amended--
            (1) by redesignating subsections (e), (f), and (g) as 
        subsections (f), (g), and (h), respectively; and
            (2) by inserting after subsection (d) the following:
    ``(e) Regional Efficiency Standards for Heating and Cooling 
Products.--
            ``(1) In general.--
                    ``(A) Determination.--The Secretary may determine, 
                after notice and comment, that more stringent Federal 
                energy conservation standards are appropriate for 
                furnaces, boilers, or central air conditioning 
                equipment than applicable Federal energy conservation 
                standards.
                    ``(B) Finding.--The Secretary may determine that 
                more stringent standards are appropriate for up to 2 
                different regions only after finding that the regional 
                standards--
                            ``(i) would contribute to energy savings 
                        that are substantially greater than that of a 
                        single national energy standard; and
                            ``(ii) are economically justified.
                    ``(C) Regions.--On making a determination described 
                in subparagraph (B), the Secretary shall establish the 
                regions so that the more stringent standards would 
                achieve the maximum level of energy savings that is 
                technologically feasible and economically justified.
                    ``(D) Factors.--In determining the appropriateness 
                of 1 or more regional standards for furnaces, boilers, 
                and central and commercial air conditioning equipment, 
                the Secretary shall consider all of the factors 
                described in paragraphs (1) through (4) of section 
                325(o).
            ``(2) State petition.--After a determination made by the 
        Secretary under paragraph (1), a State may petition the 
        Secretary requesting a rule that a State regulation that 
        establishes a standard for furnaces, boilers, or central air 
        conditioners become effective at a level determined by the 
        Secretary to be appropriate for the region that includes the 
        State.
            ``(3) Rule.--Subject to paragraphs (4) through (7), the 
        Secretary may issue the rule during the period described in 
        paragraph (4) and after consideration of the petition and the 
        comments of interested persons.
            ``(4) Procedure.--
                    ``(A) Notice.--The Secretary shall provide notice 
                of any petition filed under paragraph (2) and afford 
                interested persons a reasonable opportunity to make 
                written comments, including rebuttal comments, on the 
                petition.
                    ``(B) Decision.--Except as provided in subparagraph 
                (C), during the 180-day period beginning on the date on 
                which the petition is filed, the Secretary shall issue 
                the requested rule or deny the petition.
                    ``(C) Extension.--The Secretary may publish in the 
                Federal Register a notice--
                            ``(i) extending the period to a specified 
                        date, but not longer than 1 year after the date 
                        on which the petition is filed; and
                            ``(ii) describing the reasons for the 
                        delay.
                    ``(D) Denials.--If the Secretary denies a petition 
                under this subsection, the Secretary shall publish in 
                the Federal Register notice of, and the reasons for, 
                the denial.
            ``(5) Finding of significant burden on manufacturing, 
        marketing, distribution, sale, or servicing of covered product 
        on national basis.--
                    ``(A) In general.--The Secretary may not issue a 
                rule under this subsection if the Secretary finds (and 
                publishes the finding) that interested persons have 
                established, by a preponderance of the evidence, that 
                the State regulation will significantly burden 
                manufacturing, marketing, distribution, sale, or 
                servicing of a covered product on a national basis.
                    ``(B) Factors.--In determining whether to make a 
                finding described in subparagraph (A), the Secretary 
                shall evaluate all relevant factors, including--
                            ``(i) the extent to which the State 
                        regulation will increase manufacturing or 
                        distribution costs of manufacturers, 
                        distributors, and others;
                            ``(ii) the extent to which the State 
                        regulation will disadvantage smaller 
                        manufacturers, distributors, or dealers or 
                        lessen competition in the sale of the covered 
                        product in the State; and
                            ``(iii) the extent to which the State 
                        regulation would cause a burden to 
                        manufacturers to redesign and produce the 
                        covered product type (or class), taking into 
                        consideration the extent to which the 
                        regulation would result in a reduction--
                                    ``(I) in the current models, or in 
                                the projected availability of models, 
                                that could be shipped on the effective 
                                date of the regulation to the State and 
                                within the United States; or
                                    ``(II) in the current or projected 
                                sales volume of the covered product 
                                type (or class) in the State and the 
                                United States.
            ``(6) Application.--No State regulation shall become 
        effective under this subsection with respect to any covered 
        product manufactured before the date specified in the 
        determination made by the Secretary under paragraph (1).
            ``(7) Petition to withdraw federal rule following amendment 
        of federal standard.--
                    ``(A) In general.--If a State has issued a rule 
                under paragraph (3) with respect to a covered product 
                and subsequently a Federal energy conservation standard 
                concerning the product is amended pursuant to section 
                325, any person subject to the State regulation may 
                file a petition with the Secretary requesting the 
                Secretary to withdraw the rule issued under paragraph 
                (3) with respect to the product in the State.
                    ``(B) Burden of proof.--The Secretary shall 
                consider the petition in accordance with paragraph (5) 
                and the burden shall be on the petitioner to show by a 
                preponderance of the evidence that the rule received by 
                the State under paragraph (3) should be withdrawn as a 
                result of the amendment to the Federal standard.
                    ``(C) Withdrawal.--If the Secretary determines that 
                the petitioner has shown that the rule issued by the 
                Secretary under paragraph (3) should be withdrawn in 
                accordance with subparagraph (B), the Secretary shall 
                withdraw the rule.''.
    (b) Conforming Amendments.--
            (1) Section 327 of the Energy Policy and Conservation Act 
        (42 U.S.C. 6297) is amended--
                    (A) in subsection (b)--
                            (i) in paragraph (2), by striking 
                        ``subsection (e)'' and inserting ``subsection 
                        (f)''; and
                            (ii) in paragraph (3)--
                                    (I) by striking ``subsection 
                                (f)(1)'' and inserting ``subsection 
                                (g)(1)''; and
                                    (II) by striking ``subsection 
                                (f)(2)'' and inserting ``subsection 
                                (g)(2)''; and
                    (B) in subsection (c)(3), by striking ``subsection 
                (f)(3)'' and inserting ``subsection (g)(3)''.
            (2) Section 345(b)(2) of the Energy Policy and Conservation 
        Act (42 U.S.C. 6316(b)(2)) is amended by adding at the end the 
        following:
                    ``(E) Relationship to certain state regulations.--
                Notwithstanding subparagraph (A), a standard prescribed 
                or established under section 342(a) with respect to the 
                equipment specified in subparagraphs (B), (C), (D), 
                (H), (I), and (J) of section 340 shall not supersede a 
                State regulation that is effective under the terms, 
                conditions, criteria, procedures, and other 
                requirements of section 327(e).''.

SEC. 223. FURNACE FAN RULEMAKING.

    Section 325(f)(3) of the Energy Policy and Conservation Act (42 
U.S.C. 6295(f)(3)) is amended by adding at the end the following:
                    ``(E) Final rule.--
                            ``(i) In general.--The Secretary shall 
                        publish a final rule to carry out this 
                        subsection not later than December 31, 2014.
                            ``(ii) Criteria.--The standards shall meet 
                        the criteria established under subsection 
                        (o).''.

SEC. 224. EXPEDITED RULEMAKINGS.

    Section 325 of the Energy Policy and Conservation Act (42 U.S.C. 
6295) is amended by adding at the end the following:
    ``(hh) Expedited Rulemaking for Consensus Standards.--
            ``(1) In general.--The Secretary shall conduct an expedited 
        rulemaking based on an energy conservation standard or test 
        procedure recommended by interested persons, if--
                    ``(A) the interested persons (demonstrating 
                significant and broad support from manufacturers of a 
                covered product, States, utilities, and environmental, 
                energy efficiency, and consumer advocates) submit a 
                joint comment or petition recommending a consensus 
                energy conservation standard or test procedure; and
                    ``(B) the Secretary determines that the joint 
                comment or petition includes evidence that (assuming no 
                other evidence were considered) provides an adequate 
                basis for determining that the proposed consensus 
                energy conservation standard or test procedure proposed 
                in the joint comment or petition complies with the 
                provisions and criteria of this Act (including 
                subsection (o)) that apply to the type or class of 
                covered products covered by the joint comment or 
                petition.
            ``(2) Procedure.--
                    ``(A) In general.--Notwithstanding subsection (p) 
                or section 336(a), if the Secretary receives a joint 
                comment or petition that meets the criteria described 
                in paragraph (1), the Secretary shall conduct an 
                expedited rulemaking with respect to the standard or 
                test procedure proposed in the joint comment or 
                petition in accordance with this paragraph.
                    ``(B) Advanced notice of proposed rulemaking.--If 
                no advanced notice of proposed rulemaking has been 
                issued under subsection (p)(1) with respect to the 
                rulemaking covered by the joint comment or petition, 
                the requirements of subsection (p) with respect to the 
                issuance of an advanced notice of proposed rulemaking 
                shall not apply.
                    ``(C) Publication of determination.--Not later than 
                60 days after receipt of a joint comment or petition 
                described in paragraph (1)(A), the Secretary shall 
                publish a description of a determination as to whether 
                the proposed standard or test procedure covered by the 
                joint comment or petition meets the criteria described 
                in paragraph (1).
                    ``(D) Proposed rule.--
                            ``(i) Publication.--If the Secretary 
                        determines that the proposed consensus standard 
                        or test procedure covered by the joint comment 
                        or petition meets the criteria described in 
                        paragraph (1), not later than 30 days after the 
                        determination, the Secretary shall publish a 
                        proposed rule proposing the consensus standard 
                        or test procedure covered by the joint comment 
                        or petition.
                            ``(ii) Public comment period.--
                        Notwithstanding paragraphs (2) and (3) of 
                        subsection (p), the public comment period for 
                        the proposed rule shall be the 30-day period 
                        beginning on the date of the publication of the 
                        proposed rule in the Federal Register.
                            ``(iii) Public hearing.--Notwithstanding 
                        section 336(a), the Secretary may waive the 
                        holding of a public hearing with respect to the 
                        proposed rule.
                    ``(E) Final rule.--Notwithstanding subsection 
                (p)(4), the Secretary--
                            ``(i) may publish a final rule at any time 
                        after the 60-day period beginning on the date 
                        of publication of the proposed rule in the 
                        Federal Register; and
                            ``(ii) shall publish a final rule not later 
                        than 120 days after the date of publication of 
                        the proposed rule in the Federal Register.''.

SEC. 225. PERIODIC REVIEWS.

    (a) Test Procedures.--Section 323(b)(1) of the Energy Policy and 
Conservation Act (42 U.S.C. 6293(b)(1)) is amended by striking ``(1)'' 
and all that follows through the end of the paragraph and inserting the 
following:
            ``(1) Test procedures.--
                    ``(A) Amendment.--At least once every 7 years, the 
                Secretary shall review test procedures for all covered 
                products and--
                            ``(i) amend test procedures with respect to 
                        any covered product, if the Secretary 
                        determines that amended test procedures would 
                        more accurately or fully comply with the 
                        requirements of paragraph (3); or
                            ``(ii) publish notice in the Federal 
                        Register of any determination not to amend a 
                        test procedure.''.
    (b) Energy Conservation Standards.--Section 325 of the Energy 
Policy and Conservation Act (42 U.S.C. 6295) is amended by striking 
subsection (m) and inserting the following:
    ``(m) Further Rulemaking.--
            ``(1) In general.--After issuance of the last final rules 
        required for a product under this part, the Secretary shall, 
        not later than 5 years after the date of issuance of a final 
        rule establishing or amending a standard or determining not to 
        amend a standard, publish a final rule to determine whether 
        standards for the product should be amended based on the 
        criteria described in subsection (n)(2).
            ``(2) Analysis.--Prior to publication of the determination, 
        the Secretary shall publish a notice of availability describing 
        the analysis of the Department and provide opportunity for 
        written comment.
            ``(3) Final rule.--Not later than 3 years after a positive 
        determination under paragraph (1), the Secretary shall publish 
        a final rule amending the standard for the product.
            ``(4) Application of amendment.--An amendment prescribed 
        under this subsection shall apply to a product manufactured 
        after a date that is 5 years after--
                    ``(A) the effective date of the previous amendment 
                made pursuant to this part; or
                    ``(B) if the previous final rule published under 
                this part did not amend the standard, the earliest date 
                by which a previous amendment could have been in 
                effect, except that in no case may an amended standard 
                apply to products manufactured within 3 years after 
                publication of the final rule establishing a 
                standard.''.
    (c) Standards.--Section 342(a) of the Energy Policy and 
Conservation Act (42 U.S.C. 6313(a)) is amended by striking paragraph 
(6) and inserting the following:
            ``(6) Amended energy efficiency standards.--
                    ``(A) Analysis of potential energy savings.--If 
                ASHRAE/IES Standard 90.1 is amended with respect to any 
                small commercial package air conditioning and heating 
                equipment, large commercial package air conditioning 
                and heating equipment, packaged terminal central and 
                commercial air conditioners, packaged terminal heat 
                pumps, warm-air furnaces, packaged boilers, storage 
                water heaters, instantaneous water heaters, or unfired 
                hot water storage tanks, not later than 180 days after 
                the amendment of the standard, the Secretary shall 
                publish in the Federal Register for public comment an 
                analysis of the energy savings potential of amended 
                energy efficiency standards.
                    ``(B) Amended uniform national standard for 
                products.--
                            ``(i) In general.--Except as provided in 
                        clause (ii), not later than 18 months after the 
                        date of publication of the amendment to the 
                        ASHRAE/IES Standard 90.1 for a product 
                        described in subparagraph (A), the Secretary 
                        shall establish an amended uniform national 
                        standard for the product at the minimum level 
                        for the applicable effective date specified in 
                        the amended ASHRAE/IES Standard 90.1.
                            ``(ii) More stringent standard.--Clause (i) 
                        shall not apply if the Secretary determines, by 
                        rule published in the Federal Register, and 
                        supported by clear and convincing evidence, 
                        that adoption of a uniform national standard 
                        more stringent than the amended ASHRAE/IES 
                        Standard 90.1 for the product would result in 
                        significant additional conservation of energy 
                        and is technologically feasible and 
                        economically justified.
                    ``(C) Rule.--If the Secretary makes a determination 
                described in subparagraph (B)(ii) for a product 
                described in subparagraph (A), not later than 30 months 
                after the date of publication of the amendment to the 
                ASHRAE/IES Standard 90.1 for the product, the Secretary 
                shall issue the rule establishing the amended standard.
                    ``(D) Amendment of standards.--
                            ``(i) In general.--After issuance of the 
                        most recent final rule for a product under this 
                        subsection, not later than 5 years after the 
                        date of issuance of a final rule establishing 
                        or amending a standard or determining not to 
                        amend a standard, the Secretary shall publish a 
                        final rule to determine whether standards for 
                        the product should be amended based on the 
                        criteria described in subparagraph (A).
                            ``(ii) Analysis.--Prior to publication of 
                        the determination, the Secretary shall publish 
                        a notice of availability describing the 
                        analysis of the Department and provide 
                        opportunity for written comment.
                            ``(iii) Final rule.--Not later than 3 years 
                        after a positive determination under clause 
                        (i), the Secretary shall publish a final rule 
                        amending the standard for the product.''.
    (d) Test Procedures.--Section 343(a) of the Energy Policy and 
Conservation Act (42 U.S.C. 6313(a)) is amended by striking ``(a)'' and 
all that follows through the end of paragraph (1) and inserting the 
following:
    ``(a) Prescription by Secretary; Requirements.--
            ``(1) Test procedures.--
                    ``(A) Amendment.--At least once every 7 years, the 
                Secretary shall conduct an evaluation of each class of 
                covered equipment and--
                            ``(i) if the Secretary determines that 
                        amended test procedures would more accurately 
                        or fully comply with the requirements of 
                        paragraphs (2) and (3), shall prescribe test 
                        procedures for the class in accordance with 
                        this section; or
                            ``(ii) shall publish notice in the Federal 
                        Register of any determination not to amend a 
                        test procedure.''.
    (e) Effective Date.--The amendments made by subsections (b) and (c) 
take effect on January 1, 2012.

SEC. 226. ENERGY EFFICIENCY LABELING FOR CONSUMER PRODUCTS.

    (a) In General.--Not later than 2 years after the date of enactment 
of this Act or not later than 18 months after test procedures have been 
developed for a consumer electronics product category described in 
subsection (b), whichever is later, the Federal Trade Commission, in 
consultation with the Secretary and the Administrator of the 
Environmental Protection Agency shall promulgate regulations, in 
accordance with the Energy Star program and in a manner that minimizes, 
to the maximum extent practicable, duplication with respect to the 
requirements of that program and other national and international 
energy labeling programs, to add the consumer electronics product 
categories described in subsection (b) to the Energy Guide labeling 
program of the Commission.
    (b) Consumer Electronics Product Categories.--The consumer 
electronics product categories referred to in subsection (a) are the 
following:
            (1) Televisions.
            (2) Personal computers.
            (3) Cable or satellite set-top boxes.
            (4) Stand-alone digital video recorder boxes.
            (5) Computer monitors.
    (c) Label Placement.--The regulations shall include specific 
requirements for each product on the placement of Energy Guide labels.
    (d) Deadline for Labeling.--Not later than 1 year after the date of 
promulgation of regulations under subsection (a), the Commission shall 
require labeling electronic products described in subsection (b) in 
accordance with this section (including the regulations).
    (e) Authority To Include Additional Product Categories.--The 
Commission may add additional product categories to the Energy Guide 
labeling program if the product categories include products, as 
determined by the Commission--
            (1) that have an annual energy use in excess of 100 
        kilowatt hours per year; and
            (2) for which there is a significant difference in energy 
        use between the most and least efficient products.

SEC. 227. RESIDENTIAL BOILER EFFICIENCY STANDARDS.

    Section 325(f) of the Energy Policy and Conservation Act (42 U.S.C. 
6295(f)) is amended--
            (1) by redesignating paragraph (3) as paragraph (4); and
            (2) by inserting after paragraph (2) the following:
            ``(3) Boilers.--
                    ``(A) In general.--Subject to subparagraphs (B) and 
                (C), boilers manufactured on or after September 1, 
                2012, shall meet the following requirements:


------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                  Minimum
                                Annual Fuel
          Boiler Type           Utilization      Design Requirements
                                 Efficiency
------------------------------------------------------------------------
Gas Hot Water                       82%       No Constant Burning Pilot,
                                             Automatic Means for
                                              Adjusting Water
                                              Temperature
------------------------------------------------------------------------
Gas Steam                           80%       No Constant Burning Pilot
------------------------------------------------------------------------
Oil Hot Water                       84%          Automatic Means for
                                                 Adjusting Temperature
------------------------------------------------------------------------
Oil Steam                           82%                  None
------------------------------------------------------------------------
Electric Hot Water                  None         Automatic Means for
                                                 Adjusting Temperature
------------------------------------------------------------------------
Electric Steam                      None                 None
------------------------------------------------------------------------

                    ``(B) Pilots.--The manufacturer shall not equip gas 
                hot water or steam boilers with constant-burning pilot 
                lights.
                    ``(C) Automatic means for adjusting water 
                temperature.--
                            ``(i) In general.--The manufacturer shall 
                        equip each gas, oil, and electric hot water 
                        boiler (other than a boiler equipped with 
                        tankless domestic water heating coils) with an 
                        automatic means for adjusting the temperature 
                        of the water supplied by the boiler to ensure 
                        that an incremental change in inferred heat 
                        load produces a corresponding incremental 
                        change in the temperature of water supplied.
                            ``(ii) Certain boilers.--For a boiler that 
                        fires at 1 input rate, the requirements of this 
                        subparagraph may be satisfied by providing an 
                        automatic means that allows the burner or 
                        heating element to fire only when the means has 
                        determined that the inferred heat load cannot 
                        be met by the residual heat of the water in the 
                        system.
                            ``(iii) No inferred heat load.--When there 
                        is no inferred heat load with respect to a hot 
                        water boiler, the automatic means described in 
                        clauses (i) and (ii) shall limit the 
                        temperature of the water in the boiler to not 
                        more than 140 degrees Fahrenheit.
                            ``(iv) Operation.--A boiler described in 
                        clause (i) or (ii) shall be operable only when 
                        the automatic means described in clauses (i), 
                        (ii), and (iii) is installed.''.

SEC. 228. TECHNICAL CORRECTIONS.

    (a) Definition of Fluorescent Lamp.--Section 321(30)(B)(viii) of 
the Energy Policy and Conservation Act (42 U.S.C. 6291(30)(B)(viii)) is 
amended by striking ``82'' and inserting ``87''.
    (b) Standards for Commercial Package Air Conditioning and Heating 
Equipment.--Section 342(a)(1) of the Energy Policy and Conservation Act 
(42 U.S.C. 6313(a)(1)) is amended in the matter preceding subparagraph 
(A) by striking ``but before January 1, 2010,''.
    (c) Mercury Vapor Lamp Ballasts.--
            (1) Definitions.--Section 321 of the Energy Policy and 
        Conservation Act (42 U.S.C. 6291) (as amended by section 
        212(a)(2)) is amended--
                    (A) in paragraph (46)(A)--
                            (i) in clause (i), by striking ``bulb'' and 
                        inserting ``the arc tube''; and
                            (ii) in clause (ii), by striking ``has a 
                        bulb'' and inserting ``wall loading is'';
                    (B) in paragraph (47)(A), by striking ``operating 
                at a partial'' and inserting ``typically operating at a 
                partial vapor'';
                    (C) in paragraph (48), by inserting ``intended for 
                general illumination'' after ``lamps''; and
                    (D) by adding at the end the following:
            ``(56) The term `specialty application mercury vapor lamp 
        ballast' means a mercury vapor lamp ballast that--
                    ``(A) is designed and marketed for medical use, 
                optical comparators, quality inspection, industrial 
                processing, or scientific use, including fluorescent 
                microscopy, ultraviolet curing, and the manufacture of 
                microchips, liquid crystal displays, and printed 
                circuit boards; and
                    ``(B) in the case of a specialty application 
                mercury vapor lamp ballast, is labeled as a specialty 
                application mercury vapor lamp ballast.''.
            (2) Standard setting authority.--Section 325(ee) of the 
        Energy Policy and Conservation Act (42 U.S.C. 6295(ee)) is 
        amended by inserting ``(other than specialty application 
        mercury vapor lamp ballasts)'' after ``ballasts''.

SEC. 229. ELECTRIC MOTOR EFFICIENCY STANDARDS.

    (a) Definitions.--Section 340(13) of the Energy Policy and 
Conservation Act (42 U.S.C. 6311(13)) is amended by striking 
subparagraph (A) and inserting the following:
            ``(A)(i) The term `electric motor' means--
                    ``(I) a general purpose electric motor--subtype I; 
                and
                    ``(II) a general purpose electric motor--subtype 
                II.
            ``(ii) The term `general purpose electric motor--subtype I' 
        means any motor that  is considered a general purpose motor 
        under section 431.12 of title 10, Code of Federal Regulations 
        (or successor regulations).
            ``(iii) The term `general purpose electric motor--subtype 
        II' means a motor that, in addition to the design elements for 
        a general purpose electric motor--subtype I, incorporates the 
        design elements (as established in National Electrical 
        Manufacturers Association MG-1 (2006)) for any of the 
        following:
                    ``(I) A U-Frame Motor.
                    ``(II) A Design C Motor.
                    ``(III) A close-coupled pump motor.
                    ``(IV) A footless motor.
                    ``(V) A vertical solid shaft normal thrust (tested 
                in a horizontal configuration).
                    ``(VI) An 8-pole motor.
                    ``(VII) A poly-phase motor with voltage of not more 
                than 600 volts (other than 230 or 460 volts).''.
    (b) Standards.--Section 342(b) of the Energy Policy and 
Conservation Act (42 U.S.C. 6313(13)) is amended by striking paragraph 
(1) and inserting the following:
            ``(1) Standards.--
                    ``(A) General purpose electric motors--subtype i.--
                            ``(i) In general.--Except as otherwise 
                        provided in this subparagraph, a general 
                        purpose electric motor--subtype I with a power 
                        rating of not less than 1, and not more than 
                        200, horsepower manufactured (alone or as a 
                        component of another piece of equipment) after 
                        the 3-year period beginning on the date of 
                        enactment of this subparagraph, shall have a 
                        nominal full load efficiency established in 
                        Table 12-12 of National Electrical 
                        Manufacturers Association (referred to in this 
                        paragraph as `NEMA') MG-1 (2006).
                            ``(ii) Fire pump motors.--A fire pump motor 
                        shall have a nominal full load efficiency 
                        established in Table 12-11 of NEMA MG-1 (2006).
                    ``(B) General purpose electric motors--subtype 
                ii.--A general purpose electric motor--subtype II with 
                a power rating of not less than 1, and not more than 
                200, horsepower manufactured (alone or as a component 
                of another piece of equipment) after the 3-year period 
                beginning on the date of enactment of this 
                subparagraph, shall have a nominal full load efficiency 
                established in Table 12-11 of NEMA MG-1 (2006).
                    ``(C) Design b, general purpose electric motors.--A 
                NEMA Design B, general purpose electric motor with a 
                power rating of not less than 201, and not more than 
                500, horsepower manufactured (alone or as a component 
                of another piece of equipment) after the 3-year period 
                beginning on the date of the enactment of this 
                subparagraph shall have a nominal full load efficiency 
                established in Table 12-11 of NEMA MG-1 (2006).''.
    (c) Effective Date.--The amendments made by this section take 
effect on the date that is 3 years after the date of enactment of this 
Act.

SEC. 230. ENERGY STANDARDS FOR HOME APPLIANCES.

    (a) Definition of Energy Conservation Standard.--Section 321(6)(A) 
of the Energy Policy and Conservation Act (42 U.S.C. 6291(6)(A)) is 
amended by striking ``or, in the case of'' and inserting ``and, in the 
case of residential clothes washers, residential dishwashers,''.
    (b) Refrigerators, Refrigerator-Freezers, and Freezers.--Section 
325(b) of the Energy Policy and Conservation Act (42 U.S.C. 6295(b)) is 
amended by adding at the end the following:
            ``(4) Refrigerators, refrigerator-freezers, and freezers 
        manufactured on or after january 1, 2014.--Not later than 
        December 31, 2010, the Secretary shall publish a final rule 
        determining whether to amend the standards in effect for 
        refrigerators, refrigerator-freezers, and freezers manufactured 
        on or after January 1, 2014, and including any amended 
        standards.''.
    (c) Residential Clothes Washers and Dishwashers.--Section 325(g)(4) 
of the Energy Policy and Conservation Act (42 U.S.C. 6295(g)(4)) is 
amended by adding at the end the following:
                    ``(D) Clothes washers.--
                            ``(i) Clothes washers manufactured on or 
                        after january 1, 2011.--A residential clothes 
                        washer manufactured on or after January 1, 
                        2011, shall have--
                                    ``(I) a modified energy factor of 
                                at least 1.26; and
                                    ``(II) a water factor of not more 
                                than 9.5.
                            ``(ii) Clothes washers manufactured on or 
                        after january 1, 2012.--Not later than January 
                        1, 2012, the Secretary shall publish a final 
                        rule determining whether to amend the standards 
                        in effect for residential clothes washers 
                        manufactured on or after January 1, 2012, and 
                        including any amended standards.
                    ``(E) Dishwashers.--
                            ``(i) Dishwashers manufactured on or after 
                        january 1, 2010.--A dishwasher manufactured on 
                        or after January 1, 2010, shall use not more 
                        than--
                                    ``(I) in the case of a standard-
                                size dishwasher, 355 kWh per year or 
                                6.5 gallons of water per cycle; and
                                    ``(II) in the case of a compact-
                                size dishwasher, 260 kWh per year or 
                                4.5 gallons of water per cycle.
                            ``(ii) Dishwashers manufactured on or after 
                        january 1, 2018.--Not later than January 1, 
                        2015, the Secretary shall publish a final rule 
                        determining whether to amend the standards for 
                        dishwashers manufactured on or after January 1, 
                        2018, and including any amended standards.''.
    (d) Dehumidifiers.--Section 325(cc) of the Energy Policy and 
Conservation Act (42 U.S.C. 6295(cc)) is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (1), by inserting ``and before October 1, 
        2012,'' after ``2007,''; and
            (2) by striking paragraph (2) and inserting the following:
            ``(2) Dehumidifiers manufactured on or after october 1, 
        2012.--Dehumidifiers manufactured on or after October 1, 2012, 
        shall have an Energy Factor that meets or exceeds the following 
        values:


------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                     Minimum Energy Factor
   Product Capacity (pints/day):           liters/kWh
------------------------------------------------------------
Up to 35.00................................................         1.35
35.01-45.00................................................         1.50
45.01-54.00................................................         1.60
54.01-75.00................................................         1.70
Greater than 75.00.........................................       2.5.''
------------------------------------------------------------------------

    (e) Energy Star Program.--Section 324A(d)(2) of the Energy Policy 
and Conservation Act (42 U.S.C. 6294a(d)(2)) is amended by striking 
``2010'' and inserting ``2009''.

SEC. 231. IMPROVED ENERGY EFFICIENCY FOR APPLIANCES AND BUILDINGS IN 
              COLD CLIMATES.

    (a) Research.--Section 911(a)(2) of the Energy Policy Act of 2005 
(42 U.S.C. 16191(a)(2)) is amended--
            (1) in subparagraph (C), by striking ``and'' at the end;
            (2) in subparagraph (D), by striking the period at the end 
        and inserting ``; and''; and
            (3) by adding at the end the following:
                    ``(E) technologies to improve the energy efficiency 
                of appliances and mechanical systems for buildings in 
                cold climates, including combined heat and power units 
                and increased use of renewable resources, including 
                fuel.''.
    (b) Rebates.--Section 124 of the Energy Policy Act of 2005 (42 
U.S.C. 15821) is amended--
            (1) in subsection (b)(1), by inserting ``, or products with 
        improved energy efficiency in cold climates,'' after 
        ``residential Energy Star products''; and
            (2) in subsection (e), by inserting ``or product with 
        improved energy efficiency in a cold climate'' after 
        ``residential Energy Star product'' each place it appears.

SEC. 232. DEPLOYMENT OF NEW TECHNOLOGIES FOR HIGH-EFFICIENCY CONSUMER 
              PRODUCTS.

    (a) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Energy savings.--The term ``energy savings'' means 
        megawatt-hours of electricity or million British thermal units 
        of natural gas saved by a product, in comparison to projected 
        energy consumption under the energy efficiency standard 
        applicable to the product.
            (2) High-efficiency consumer product.--The term ``high-
        efficiency consumer product'' means a product that exceeds the 
        energy efficiency of comparable products available in the 
        market by a percentage determined by the Secretary to be an 
        appropriate benchmark for the consumer product category 
        competing for an award under this section.
    (b) Financial Incentives Program.--Effective beginning October 1, 
2007, the Secretary shall competitively award financial incentives 
under this section for the manufacture of high-efficiency consumer 
products.
    (c) Requirements.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary shall make awards under this 
        section to manufacturers of high-efficiency consumer products, 
        based on the bid of each manufacturer in terms of dollars per 
        megawatt-hour or million British thermal units saved.
            (2) Acceptance of bids.--In making awards under this 
        section, the Secretary shall--
                    (A) solicit bids for reverse auction from 
                appropriate manufacturers, as determined by the 
                Secretary; and
                    (B) award financial incentives to the manufacturers 
                that submit the lowest bids that meet the requirements 
                established by the Secretary.
    (d) Forms of Awards.--An award for a high-efficiency consumer 
product under this section shall be in the form of a lump sum payment 
in an amount equal to the product obtained by multiplying--
            (1) the amount of the bid by the manufacturer of the high-
        efficiency consumer product; and
            (2) the energy savings during the projected useful life of 
        the high-efficiency consumer product, not to exceed 10 years, 
        as determined under regulations issued by the Secretary.

SEC. 233. INDUSTRIAL EFFICIENCY PROGRAM.

    (a) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Eligible entity.--The term eligible entity means--
                    (A) an institution of higher education under 
                contract or in partnership with a nonprofit or for-
                profit private entity acting on behalf of an industrial 
                or commercial sector or subsector;
                    (B) a nonprofit or for-profit private entity acting 
                on behalf on an industrial or commercial sector or 
                subsector; or
                    (C) a consortia of entities acting on behalf of an 
                industrial or commercial sector or subsector.
            (2) Energy-intensive commercial applications.--The term 
        ``energy-intensive commercial applications'' means processes 
        and facilities that use significant quantities of energy as 
        part of the primary economic activities of the processes and 
        facilities, including--
                    (A) information technology data centers;
                    (B) product manufacturing; and
                    (C) food processing.
            (3) Feedstock.--The term ``feedstock'' means the raw 
        material supplied for use in manufacturing, chemical, and 
        biological processes.
            (4) Materials manufacturers.--The term ``materials 
        manufacturers'' means the energy-intensive primary 
        manufacturing industries, including the aluminum, chemicals, 
        forest and paper products, glass, metal casting, and steel 
        industries.
            (5) Partnership.--The term ``partnership'' means an energy 
        efficiency and utilization partnership established under 
        subsection (c)(1)(A).
            (6) Program.--The term ``program'' means the industrial 
        efficiency program established under subsection (b).
    (b) Establishment of Program.--The Secretary shall establish a 
program under which the Secretary, in cooperation with materials 
manufacturers, companies engaged in energy-intensive commercial 
applications, and national industry trade associations representing the 
manufactures and companies, shall support, develop, and promote the use 
of new materials manufacturing and industrial and commercial processes, 
technologies, and techniques to optimize energy efficiency and the 
economic competitiveness of the United States.
    (c) Partnerships.--
            (1) In general.--As part of the program, the Secretary 
        shall--
                    (A) establish energy efficiency and utilization 
                partnerships between the Secretary and eligible 
                entities to conduct research on, develop, and 
                demonstrate new processes, technologies, and operating 
                practices and techniques to significantly improve 
                energy efficiency and utilization by materials 
                manufacturers and in energy-intensive commercial 
                applications, including the conduct of activities to--
                            (i) increase the energy efficiency of 
                        industrial and commercial processes and 
                        facilities in energy-intensive commercial 
                        application sectors;
                            (ii) research, develop, and demonstrate 
                        advanced technologies capable of energy 
                        intensity reductions and increased 
                        environmental performance in energy-intensive 
                        commercial application sectors; and
                            (iii) promote the use of the processes, 
                        technologies, and techniques described in 
                        clauses (i) and (ii); and
                    (B) pay the Federal share of the cost of any 
                eligible partnership activities for which a proposal 
                has been submitted and approved in accordance with 
                paragraph (3)(B).
            (2) Eligible activities.--Partnership activities eligible 
        for financial assistance under this subsection include--
                    (A) feedstock and recycling research, development, 
                and demonstration activities to identify and promote--
                            (i) opportunities for meeting manufacturing 
                        feedstock requirements with more energy 
                        efficient and flexible sources of feedstock or 
                        energy supply;
                            (ii) strategies to develop and deploy 
                        technologies that improve the quality and 
                        quantity of feedstocks recovered from process 
                        and waste streams; and
                            (iii) other methods using recycling, reuse, 
                        and improved industrial materials;
                    (B) industrial and commercial energy efficiency and 
                sustainability assessments to--
                            (i) assist individual industrial and 
                        commercial sectors in developing tools, 
                        techniques, and methodologies to assess--
                                    (I) the unique processes and 
                                facilities of the sectors;
                                    (II) the energy utilization 
                                requirements of the sectors; and
                                    (III) the application of new, more 
                                energy efficient technologies; and
                            (ii) conduct energy savings assessments;
                    (C) the incorporation of technologies and 
                innovations that would significantly improve the energy 
                efficiency and utilization of energy-intensive 
                commercial applications; and
                    (D) any other activities that the Secretary 
                determines to be appropriate.
            (3) Proposals.--
                    (A) In general.--To be eligible for financial 
                assistance under this subsection, a partnership shall 
                submit to the Secretary a proposal that describes the 
                proposed research, development, or demonstration 
                activity to be conducted by the partnership.
                    (B) Review.--After reviewing the scientific, 
                technical, and commercial merit of a proposals 
                submitted under subparagraph (A), the Secretary shall 
                approve or disapprove the proposal.
                    (C) Competitive awards.--The provision of financial 
                assistance under this subsection shall be on a 
                competitive basis.
            (4) Cost-sharing requirement.--In carrying out this 
        section, the Secretary shall require cost sharing in accordance 
        with section 988 of the Energy Policy Act of 2005 (42 U.S.C. 
        16352).
    (d) Authorization of Appropriations.--
            (1) In general.--There are authorized to be appropriated to 
        the Secretary to carry out this section--
                    (A) $184,000,000 for fiscal year 2008;
                    (B) $190,000,000 for fiscal year 2009;
                    (C) $196,000,000 for fiscal year 2010;
                    (D) $202,000,000 for fiscal year 2011;
                    (E) $208,000,000 for fiscal year 2012; and
                    (F) such sums as are necessary for fiscal year 2013 
                and each fiscal year thereafter.
            (2) Partnership activities.--Of the amounts made available 
        under paragraph (1), not less than 50 percent shall be used to 
        pay the Federal share of partnership activities under 
        subsection (c).

Subtitle C--Promoting High Efficiency Vehicles, Advanced Batteries, and 
                             Energy Storage

SEC. 241. LIGHTWEIGHT MATERIALS RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT.

    (a) In General.--As soon as practicable after the date of enactment 
of this Act, the Secretary shall establish a research and development 
program to determine ways in which--
            (1) the weight of vehicles may be reduced to improve fuel 
        efficiency without compromising passenger safety; and
            (2) the cost of lightweight materials (such as steel 
        alloys, fiberglass, and carbon composites) required for the 
        construction of lighter-weight vehicles may be reduced.
    (b) Authorization of Appropriations.--There is authorized to be 
appropriated to carry out this section $60,000,000 for each of fiscal 
years 2007 through 2012.

SEC. 242. LOAN GUARANTEES FOR FUEL-EFFICIENT AUTOMOBILE PARTS 
              MANUFACTURERS.

    (a) In General.--Section 712(a) of the Energy Policy Act of 2005 
(42 U.S.C. 16062(a)) is amended in the second sentence by striking 
``grants to automobile manufacturers'' and inserting ``grants and loan 
guarantees under section 1703 to automobile manufacturers and 
suppliers''.
    (b) Conforming Amendment.--Section 1703(b) of the Energy Policy Act 
of 2005 (42 U.S.C. 16513(b)) is amended by striking paragraph (8) and 
inserting the following:
            ``(8) Production facilities for the manufacture of fuel 
        efficient vehicles or parts of those vehicles, including 
        electric drive transportation technology and advanced diesel 
        vehicles.''.

SEC. 243. ADVANCED TECHNOLOGY VEHICLES MANUFACTURING INCENTIVE PROGRAM.

    (a) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Adjusted average fuel economy.--The term ``adjusted 
        average fuel economy'' means the average fuel economy of a 
        manufacturer for all light duty vehicles produced by the 
        manufacturer, adjusted such that the fuel economy of each 
        vehicle that qualifies for an award shall be considered to be 
        equal to the average fuel economy for vehicles of a similar 
        footprint for model year 2005.
            (2) Advanced technology vehicle.--The term ``advanced 
        technology vehicle'' means a light duty vehicle that meets--
                    (A) the Bin 5 Tier II emission standard established 
                in regulations issued by the Administrator of the 
                Environmental Protection Agency under section 202(i) of 
                the Clean Air Act (42 U.S.C. 7521(i)), or a lower-
                numbered Bin emission standard;
                    (B) any new emission standard for fine particulate 
                matter prescribed by the Administrator under that Act 
                (42 U.S.C. 7401 et seq.); and
                    (C) at least 125 percent of the average base year 
                combined fuel economy, calculated on an energy-
                equivalent basis, for vehicles of a substantially 
                similar footprint.
            (3) Combined fuel economy.--The term ``combined fuel 
        economy'' means--
                    (A) the combined city/highway miles per gallon 
                values, as reported in accordance with section 32908 of 
                title 49, United States Code; and
                    (B) in the case of an electric drive vehicle with 
                the ability to recharge from an off-board source, the 
                reported mileage, as determined in a manner consistent 
                with the Society of Automotive Engineers recommended 
                practice for that configuration or a similar practice 
                recommended by the Secretary, using a petroleum 
                equivalence factor for the off-board electricity (as 
                defined in section 474 of title 10, Code of Federal 
                Regulations).
            (4) Engineering integration costs.--The term ``engineering 
        integration costs'' includes the cost of engineering tasks 
        relating to--
                    (A) incorporating qualifying components into the 
                design of advanced technology vehicles; and
                    (B) designing new tooling and equipment for 
                production facilities that produce qualifying 
                components or advanced technology vehicles.
            (5) Qualifying components.--The term ``qualifying 
        components'' means components that the Secretary determines to 
        be--
                    (A) specially designed for advanced technology 
                vehicles; and
                    (B) installed for the purpose of meeting the 
                performance requirements of advanced technology 
                vehicles.
    (b) Advanced Vehicles Manufacturing Facility.--The Secretary shall 
provide facility funding awards under this section to automobile 
manufacturers and component suppliers to pay not more than 30 percent 
of the cost of--
            (1) reequipping, expanding, or establishing a manufacturing 
        facility in the United States to produce--
                    (A) qualifying advanced technology vehicles; or
                    (B) qualifying components; and
            (2) engineering integration performed in the United States 
        of qualifying vehicles and qualifying components.
    (c) Period of Availability.--An award under subsection (b) shall 
apply to--
            (1) facilities and equipment placed in service before 
        December 30, 2017; and
            (2) engineering integration costs incurred during the 
        period beginning on the date of enactment of this Act and 
        ending on December 30, 2017.
    (d) Improvement.--The Secretary shall issue regulations that 
require that, in order for an automobile manufacturer to be eligible 
for an award under this section during a particular year, the adjusted 
average fuel economy of the manufacturer for light duty vehicles 
produced by the manufacturer during the most recent year for which data 
are available shall be not less than the average fuel economy for all 
light duty vehicles of the manufacturer for model year 2005.

SEC. 244. ENERGY STORAGE COMPETITIVENESS.

    (a) Short Title.--This section may be cited as the ``United States 
Energy Storage Competitiveness Act of 2007''.
    (b) Energy Storage Systems for Motor Transportation and Electricity 
Transmission and Distribution.--
            (1) Definitions.--In this subsection:
                    (A) Council.--The term ``Council'' means the Energy 
                Storage Advisory Council established under paragraph 
                (3).
                    (B) Compressed air energy storage.--The term 
                ``compressed air energy storage'' means, in the case of 
                an electricity grid application, the storage of energy 
                through the compression of air.
                    (C) Department.--The term ``Department'' means the 
                Department of Energy.
                    (D) Flywheel.--The term ``flywheel'' means, in the 
                case of an electricity grid application, a device used 
                to store rotational kinetic energy.
                    (E) Ultracapacitor.--The term ``ultracapacitor'' 
                means an energy storage device that has a power density 
                comparable to conventional capacitors but capable of 
                exceeding the energy density of conventional capacitors 
                by several orders of magnitude.
            (2) Program.--The Secretary shall carry out a research, 
        development, and demonstration program to support the ability 
        of the United States to remain globally competitive in energy 
        storage systems for motor transportation and electricity 
        transmission and distribution.
            (3) Energy storage advisory council.--
                    (A) Establishment.--Not later than 90 days after 
                the date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall 
                establish an Energy Storage Advisory Council.
                    (B) Composition.--
                            (i) In general.--Subject to clause (ii), 
                        the Council shall consist of not less than 15 
                        individuals appointed by the Secretary, based 
                        on recommendations of the National Academy of 
                        Sciences.
                            (ii) Energy storage industry.--The Council 
                        shall consist primarily of representatives of 
                        the energy storage industry of the United 
                        States.
                            (iii) Chairperson.--The Secretary shall 
                        select a Chairperson for the Council from among 
                        the members appointed under clause (i)
                    (C) Meetings.--
                            (i) In general.--The Council shall meet not 
                        less than once a year.
                            (ii) Federal advisory committee act.--The 
                        Federal Advisory Committee Act (5 U.S.C. App. 
                        2) shall apply to a meeting of the Council.
                    (D) Plans.--No later than 1 year after the date of 
                enactment of this Act, in conjunction with the 
                Secretary, the Council shall develop 5-year plans for 
                integrating basic and applied research so that the 
                United States retains a globally competitive domestic 
                energy storage industry for motor transportation and 
                electricity transmission and distribution.
                    (E) Review.--The Council shall--
                            (i) assess the performance of the 
                        Department in meeting the goals of the plans 
                        developed under subparagraph (D); and
                            (ii) make specific recommendations to the 
                        Secretary on programs or activities that should 
                        be established or terminated to meet those 
                        goals.
            (4) Basic research program.--
                    (A) Basic research.--The Secretary shall conduct a 
                basic research program on energy storage systems to 
                support motor transportation and electricity 
                transmission and distribution, including--
                            (i) materials design;
                            (ii) materials synthesis and 
                        characterization;
                            (iii) electrolytes, including 
                        bioelectrolytes;
                            (iv) surface and interface dynamics; and
                            (v) modeling and simulation.
                    (B) Nanoscience centers.--The Secretary shall 
                ensure that the nanoscience centers of the Department--
                            (i) support research in the areas described 
                        in subparagraph (A), as part of the mission of 
                        the centers; and
                            (ii) coordinate activities of the centers 
                        with activities of the Council.
            (5) Applied research program.--The Secretary shall conduct 
        an applied research program on energy storage systems to 
        support motor transportation and electricity transmission and 
        distribution technologies, including--
                    (A) ultracapacitors;
                    (B) flywheels;
                    (C) batteries;
                    (D) compressed air energy systems;
                    (E) power conditioning electronics; and
                    (F) manufacturing technologies for energy storage 
                systems.
            (6) Energy storage research centers.--
                    (A) In general.--The Secretary shall establish, 
                through competitive bids, 4 energy storage research 
                centers to translate basic research into applied 
                technologies to advance the capability of the United 
                States to maintain a globally competitive posture in 
                energy storage systems for motor transportation and 
                electricity transmission and distribution.
                    (B) Program management.--The centers shall be 
                jointly managed by the Under Secretary for Science and 
                the Under Secretary of Energy of the Department.
                    (C) Participation agreements.--As a condition of 
                participating in a center, a participant shall enter 
                into a participation agreement with the center that 
                requires that activities conducted by the participant 
                for the center promote the goal of enabling the United 
                States to compete successfully in global energy storage 
                markets.
                    (D) Plans.--A center shall conduct activities that 
                promote the achievement of the goals of the plans of 
                the Council under paragraph (3)(D).
                    (E) Cost sharing.--In carrying out this paragraph, 
                the Secretary shall require cost-sharing in accordance 
                with section 988 of the Energy Policy Act of 2005 (42 
                U.S.C. 16352).
                    (F) National laboratories.--A national laboratory 
                (as defined in section 2 of the Energy Policy Act of 
                2005 (42 U.S.C. 15801)) may participate in a center 
                established under this paragraph, including a 
                cooperative research and development agreement (as 
                defined in section 12(d) of the Stevenson-Wydler 
                Technology Innovation Act of 1980 (15 U.S.C. 
                3710a(d))).
                    (G) Intellectual property.--A participant shall be 
                provided appropriate intellectual property rights 
                commensurate with the nature of the participation 
                agreement of the participant.
            (7) Review by national academy of sciences.--Not later than 
        5 years after the date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary 
        shall offer to enter into an arrangement with the National 
        Academy of Sciences to assess the performance of the Department 
        in making the United States globally competitive in energy 
        storage systems for motor transportation and electricity 
        transmission and distribution.
            (8) Authorization of appropriations.--There are authorized 
        to be appropriated to carry out--
                    (A) the basic research program under paragraph (4) 
                $50,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2008 through 2017;
                    (B) the applied research program under paragraph 
                (5) $80,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2008 through 
                2017; and;
                    (C) the energy storage research center program 
                under paragraph (6) $100,000,000 for each of fiscal 
                years 2008 through 2017.

SEC. 245. ADVANCED TRANSPORTATION TECHNOLOGY PROGRAM.

    (a) Electric Drive Vehicle Demonstration Program.--
            (1) Definition of electric drive vehicle.--In this 
        subsection, the term ``electric drive vehicle'' means a 
        precommercial vehicle that--
                    (A) draws motive power from a battery with at least 
                4 kilowatt-hours of electricity;
                    (B) can be recharged from an external source of 
                electricity for motive power; and
                    (C) is a light-, medium-, or heavy-duty onroad or 
                nonroad vehicle.
            (2) Program.--The Secretary shall establish a competitive 
        program to provide grants for demonstrations of electric drive 
        vehicles.
            (3) Eligibility.--A State government, local government, 
        metropolitan transportation authority, air pollution control 
        district, private entity, and nonprofit entity shall be 
        eligible to receive a grant under this subsection.
            (4) Priority.--In making grants under this subsection, the 
        Secretary shall give priority to proposals that--
                    (A) are likely to contribute to the 
                commercialization and production of electric drive 
                vehicles in the United States; and
                    (B) reduce petroleum usage.
            (5) Scope of demonstrations.--The Secretary shall ensure, 
        to the extent practicable, that the program established under 
        this subsection includes a variety of applications, 
        manufacturers, and end-uses.
            (6) Reporting.--The Secretary shall require a grant 
        recipient under this subsection to submit to the Secretary, on 
        an annual basis, data relating to vehicle, performance, life 
        cycle costs, and emissions of vehicles demonstrated under the 
        grant, including emissions of greenhouse gases.
            (7) Cost sharing.--Section 988 of the Energy Policy Act of 
        2005 (42 U.S.C. 16352) shall apply to a grant made under this 
        subsection.
            (8) Authorizations of appropriations.--There are authorized 
        to be appropriated to carry out this subsection $60,000,000 for 
        each of fiscal years 2008 through 2012, of which not less than 
        $20,000,000 shall be available each fiscal year only to make 
        grants local and municipal governments.
    (b) Near-Term Oil Saving Transportation Deployment Program.--
            (1) Definition of qualified transportation project.--In 
        this subsection, the term ``qualified transportation project'' 
        means--
                    (A) a project that simultaneously reduces emissions 
                of criteria pollutants, greenhouse gas emissions, and 
                petroleum usage by at least 40 percent as compared to 
                commercially available, petroleum-based technologies 
                used in nonroad vehicles; and
                    (B) an electrification project involving onroad 
                commercial trucks, rail transportation, or ships, and 
                any associated infrastructure (including any panel 
                upgrades, battery chargers, trenching, and alternative 
                fuel infrastructure).
            (2) Program.--Not later than 1 year after the date of 
        enactment of this Act, the Secretary, in consultation with the 
        Secretary of Transportation, shall establish a program to 
        provide grants to eligible entities for the conduct of 
        qualified transportation projects.
            (3) Priority.--In providing grants under this subsection, 
        the Secretary shall give priority to large-scale projects and 
        large-scale aggregators of projects.
            (4) Cost sharing.--Section 988 of the Energy Policy Act of 
        2005 (42 U.S.C. 16352) shall apply to a grant made under this 
        subsection.
            (5) Authorization of appropriations.--There are authorized 
        to carry this subsection $90,000,000 for each of fiscal years 
        2008 through 2013.

              Subtitle D--Setting Energy Efficiency Goals

SEC. 251. NATIONAL GOALS FOR ENERGY SAVINGS IN TRANSPORTATION.

    (a) Goals.--The goals of the United States are to reduce gasoline 
usage in the United States from the levels projected under subsection 
(b) by--
            (1) 20 percent by calendar year 2017;
            (2) 35 percent by calendar year 2025; and
            (3) 45 percent by calendar year 2030.
    (b) Measurement.--For purposes of subsection (a), reduction in 
gasoline usage shall be measured from the estimates for each year in 
subsection (a) contained in the reference case in the report of the 
Energy Information Administration entitled ``Annual Energy Outlook 
2007''.
    (c) Strategic Plan.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 1 year after the date of 
        enactment of this Act, the Secretary, in cooperation with the 
        Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency and the 
        heads of other appropriate Federal agencies, shall develop a 
        strategic plan to achieve the national goals for reduction in 
        gasoline usage established under subsection (a).
            (2) Public input and comment.--The Secretary shall develop 
        the plan in a manner that provides appropriate opportunities 
        for public comment.
    (d) Plan Contents.--The strategic plan shall--
            (1) establish future regulatory, funding, and policy 
        priorities to ensure compliance with the national goals;
            (2) include energy savings estimates for each sector; and
            (3) include data collection methodologies and compilations 
        used to establish baseline and energy savings data.
    (e) Plan Updates.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary shall--
                    (A) update the strategic plan biennially; and
                    (B) include the updated strategic plan in the 
                national energy policy plan required by section 801 of 
                the Department of Energy Organization Act (42 U.S.C. 
                7321).
            (2) Contents.--In updating the plan, the Secretary shall--
                    (A) report on progress made toward implementing 
                efficiency policies to achieve the national goals 
                established under subsection (a); and
                    (B) to the maximum extent practicable, verify 
                energy savings resulting from the policies.
    (f) Report to Congress and Public.--The Secretary shall submit to 
Congress, and make available to the public, the initial strategic plan 
developed under subsection (c) and each updated plan.

SEC. 252. NATIONAL ENERGY EFFICIENCY IMPROVEMENT GOALS.

    (a) Goals.--The goals of the United States are--
            (1) to achieve an improvement in the overall energy 
        productivity of the United States (measured in gross domestic 
        product per unit of energy input) of at least 2.5 percent per 
        year by the year 2012; and
            (2) to maintain that annual rate of improvement each year 
        through 2030.
    (b) Strategic Plan.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 1 year after the date of 
        enactment of this Act, the Secretary, in cooperation with the 
        Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency and the 
        heads of other appropriate Federal agencies, shall develop a 
        strategic plan to achieve the national goals for improvement in 
        energy productivity established under subsection (a).
            (2) Public input and comment.--The Secretary shall develop 
        the plan in a manner that provides appropriate opportunities 
        for public input and comment.
    (c) Plan Contents.--The strategic plan shall--
            (1) establish future regulatory, funding, and policy 
        priorities to ensure compliance with the national goals;
            (2) include energy savings estimates for each sector; and
            (3) include data collection methodologies and compilations 
        used to establish baseline and energy savings data.
    (d) Plan Updates.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary shall--
                    (A) update the strategic plan biennially; and
                    (B) include the updated strategic plan in the 
                national energy policy plan required by section 801 of 
                the Department of Energy Organization Act (42 U.S.C. 
                7321).
            (2) Contents.--In updating the plan, the Secretary shall--
                    (A) report on progress made toward implementing 
                efficiency policies to achieve the national goals 
                established under subsection (a); and
                    (B) verify, to the maximum extent practicable, 
                energy savings resulting from the policies.
    (e) Report to Congress and Public.--The Secretary shall submit to 
Congress, and make available to the public, the initial strategic plan 
developed under subsection (b) and each updated plan.

SEC. 253. NATIONAL MEDIA CAMPAIGN.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary, acting through the Assistant 
Secretary for Energy Efficiency and Renewable Energy (referred to in 
this section as the ``Secretary''), shall develop and conduct a 
national media campaign--
            (1) to increase energy efficiency throughout the economy of 
        the United States over the next decade;
            (2) to promote the national security benefits associated 
        with increased energy efficiency; and
            (3) to decrease oil consumption in the United States over 
        the next decade.
    (b) Contract With Entity.--The Secretary shall carry out subsection 
(a) directly or through--
            (1) competitively bid contracts with 1 or more nationally 
        recognized media firms for the development and distribution of 
        monthly television, radio, and newspaper public service 
        announcements; or
            (2) collective agreements with 1 or more nationally 
        recognized institutes, businesses, or nonprofit organizations 
        for the funding, development, and distribution of monthly 
        television, radio, and newspaper public service announcements.
    (c) Use of Funds.--
            (1) In general.--Amounts made available to carry out this 
        section shall be used for the following:
                    (A) Advertising costs.--
                            (i) The purchase of media time and space.
                            (ii) Creative and talent costs.
                            (iii) Testing and evaluation of 
                        advertising.
                            (iv) Evaluation of the effectiveness of the 
                        media campaign.
                    (B) Administrative costs.--Operational and 
                management expenses.
            (2) Limitations.--In carrying out this section, the 
        Secretary shall allocate not less than 85 percent of funds made 
        available under subsection (e) for each fiscal year for the 
        advertising functions specified under paragraph (1)(A).
    (d) Reports.--The Secretary shall annually submit to Congress a 
report that describes--
            (1) the strategy of the national media campaign and whether 
        specific objectives of the campaign were accomplished, 
        including--
                    (A) determinations concerning the rate of change of 
                energy consumption, in both absolute and per capita 
                terms; and
                    (B) an evaluation that enables consideration 
                whether the media campaign contributed to reduction of 
                energy consumption;
            (2) steps taken to ensure that the national media campaign 
        operates in an effective and efficient manner consistent with 
        the overall strategy and focus of the campaign;
            (3) plans to purchase advertising time and space;
            (4) policies and practices implemented to ensure that 
        Federal funds are used responsibly to purchase advertising time 
        and space and eliminate the potential for waste, fraud, and 
        abuse; and
            (5) all contracts or cooperative agreements entered into 
        with a corporation, partnership, or individual working on 
        behalf of the national media campaign.
    (e) Authorization of Appropriations.--
            (1) In general.--There is authorized to be appropriated to 
        carry out this section $5,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2008 
        through 2012.
            (2) Decreased oil consumption.--The Secretary shall use not 
        less than 50 percent of the amount that is made available under 
        this section for each fiscal year to develop and conduct a 
        national media campaign to decrease oil consumption in the 
        United States over the next decade.

SEC. 254. MODERNIZATION OF ELECTRICITY GRID SYSTEM.

    (a) Statement of Policy.--It is the policy of the United States 
that developing and deploying advanced technology to modernize and 
increase the efficiency of the electricity grid system of the United 
States is essential to maintain a reliable and secure electricity 
transmission and distribution infrastructure that can meet future 
demand growth.
    (b) Programs.--The Secretary, the Federal Energy Regulatory 
Commission, and other Federal agencies, as appropriate, shall carry out 
programs to support the use, development, and demonstration of advanced 
transmission and distribution technologies, including real-time 
monitoring and analytical software--
            (1) to maximize the capacity and efficiency of electricity 
        networks;
            (2) to enhance grid reliability;
            (3) to reduce line losses;
            (4) to facilitate the transition to real-time electricity 
        pricing;
            (5) to allow grid incorporation of more onsite renewable 
        energy generators;
            (6) to enable electricity to displace a portion of the 
        petroleum used to power the national transportation system of 
        the United States; and
            (7) to enable broad deployment of distributed generation 
        and demand side management technology.

   Subtitle E--Promoting Federal Leadership in Energy Efficiency and 
                            Renewable Energy

SEC. 261. FEDERAL FLEET CONSERVATION REQUIREMENTS.

    (a) Federal Fleet Conservation Requirements.--
            (1) In general.--Part J of title III of the Energy Policy 
        and Conservation Act (42 U.S.C. 6374 et seq.) is amended by 
        adding at the end the following:

``SEC. 400FF. FEDERAL FLEET CONSERVATION REQUIREMENTS.

    ``(a) Mandatory Reduction in Petroleum Consumption.--
            ``(1) In general.--The Secretary shall issue regulations 
        (including provisions for waivers from the requirements of this 
        section) for Federal fleets subject to section 400AA requiring 
        that not later than October 1, 2015, each Federal agency 
        achieve at least a 20 percent reduction in petroleum 
        consumption, and that each Federal agency increase alternative 
        fuel consumption by 10 percent annually, as calculated from the 
        baseline established by the Secretary for fiscal year 2005.
            ``(2) Plan.--
                    ``(A) Requirement.--The regulations shall require 
                each Federal agency to develop a plan to meet the 
                required petroleum reduction levels and the alternative 
                fuel consumption increases.
                    ``(B) Measures.--The plan may allow an agency to 
                meet the required petroleum reduction level through--
                            ``(i) the use of alternative fuels;
                            ``(ii) the acquisition of vehicles with 
                        higher fuel economy, including hybrid vehicles, 
                        neighborhood electric vehicles, electric 
                        vehicles, and plug-in hybrid vehicles if the 
                        vehicles are commercially available;
                            ``(iii) the substitution of cars for light 
                        trucks;
                            ``(iv) an increase in vehicle load factors;
                            ``(v) a decrease in vehicle miles traveled;
                            ``(vi) a decrease in fleet size; and
                            ``(vii) other measures.
    ``(b) Federal Employee Incentive Programs for Reducing Petroleum 
Consumption.--
            ``(1) In general.--Each Federal agency shall actively 
        promote incentive programs that encourage Federal employees and 
        contractors to reduce petroleum usage through the use of 
        practices such as--
                    ``(A) telecommuting;
                    ``(B) public transit;
                    ``(C) carpooling; and
                    ``(D) bicycling.
            ``(2) Monitoring and support for incentive programs.--The 
        Administrator of General Services, the Director of the Office 
        of Personnel Management, and the Secretary of Energy shall 
        monitor and provide appropriate support to agency programs 
        described in paragraph (1).
            ``(3) Recognition.--The Secretary may establish a program 
        under which the Secretary recognizes private sector employers 
        and State and local governments for outstanding programs to 
        reduce petroleum usage through practices described in paragraph 
        (1).
    ``(c) Replacement Tires.--
            ``(1) In general.--Except as provided in paragraph (2), the 
        regulations issued under subsection (a)(1) shall include a 
        requirement that, to the maximum extent practicable, each 
        Federal agency purchase energy-efficient replacement tires for 
        the respective fleet vehicles of the agency.
            ``(2) Exceptions.--This section does not apply to--
                    ``(A) law enforcement motor vehicles;
                    ``(B) emergency motor vehicles; or
                    ``(C) motor vehicles acquired and used for military 
                purposes that the Secretary of Defense has certified to 
                the Secretary must be exempt for national security 
                reasons.
    ``(d) Annual Reports on Compliance.--The Secretary shall submit to 
Congress an annual report that summarizes actions taken by Federal 
agencies to comply with this section.''.
            (2) Table of contents amendment.--The table of contents of 
        the Energy Policy and Conservation Act (42 U.S.C. prec. 6201) 
        is amended by adding at the end of the items relating to part J 
        of title III the following:

``Sec. 400FF. Federal fleet conservation requirements.''.
    (b) Authorization of Appropriations.--There is authorized to be 
appropriated to carry out the amendment made by this section 
$10,000,000 for the period of fiscal years 2008 through 2013.

SEC. 262. FEDERAL REQUIREMENT TO PURCHASE ELECTRICITY GENERATED BY 
              RENEWABLE ENERGY.

    Section 203 of the Energy Policy Act of 2005 (42 U.S.C. 15852) is 
amended--
            (1) by striking subsection (a) and inserting the following:
    ``(a) Requirement.--
            ``(1) In general.--The President, acting through the 
        Secretary, shall require that, to the extent economically 
        feasible and technically practicable, of the total quantity of 
        domestic electric energy the Federal Government consumes during 
        any fiscal year, the following percentages shall be renewable 
        energy from facilities placed in service after January 1, 1999:
                    ``(A) Not less than 10 percent in fiscal year 2010.
                    ``(B) Not less than 15 percent in fiscal year 2015.
            ``(2) Capitol complex.--The Architect of the Capitol, in 
        consultation with the Secretary, shall ensure that, of the 
        total quantity of electric energy the Capitol complex consumes 
        during any fiscal year, the percentages prescribed in paragraph 
        (1) shall be renewable energy.
            ``(3) Waiver authority.--The President may reduce or waive 
        the requirement under paragraph (1) on a fiscal-year basis if 
        the President determines that complying with paragraph (1) for 
        a fiscal year would result in--
                    ``(A) a negative impact on military training or 
                readiness activities conducted by the Department of 
                Defense;
                    ``(B) a negative impact on domestic preparedness 
                activities conducted by the Department of Homeland 
                Security; or
                    ``(C) a requirement that a Federal agency provide 
                emergency response services in the event of a natural 
                disaster or terrorist attack.''; and
            (2) by adding at the end the following:
    ``(e) Contracts for Renewable Energy From Public Utility 
Services.--Notwithstanding section 501(b)(1)(B) of title 40, United 
States Code, a contract for renewable energy from a public utility 
service may be made for a period of not more than 50 years.''.

SEC. 263. ENERGY SAVINGS PERFORMANCE CONTRACTS.

    (a) Retention of Savings.--Section 546(c) of the National Energy 
Conservation Policy Act (42 U.S.C. 8256(c)) is amended by striking 
paragraph (5).
    (b) Sunset and Reporting Requirements.--Section 801 of the National 
Energy Conservation Policy Act (42 U.S.C. 8287) is amended by striking 
subsection (c).
    (c) Definition of Energy Savings.--Section 804(2) of the National 
Energy Conservation Policy Act (42 U.S.C. 8287c(2)) is amended--
            (1) by redesignating subparagraphs (A), (B), and (C) as 
        clauses (i), (ii), and (iii), respectively, and indenting 
        appropriately;
            (2) by striking ``means a reduction'' and inserting 
        ``means--
                    ``(A) a reduction'';
            (3) by striking the period at the end and inserting a 
        semicolon; and
            (4) by adding at the end the following:
                    ``(B) the increased efficient use of an existing 
                energy source by cogeneration or heat recovery, and 
                installation of renewable energy systems;
                    ``(C) if otherwise authorized by Federal or State 
                law (including regulations), the sale or transfer of 
                electrical or thermal energy generated on-site from 
                renewable energy sources or cogeneration, but in excess 
                of Federal needs, to utilities or non-Federal energy 
                users; and
                    ``(D) the increased efficient use of existing water 
                sources in interior or exterior applications.''.
    (d) Notification.--
            (1) Authority to enter into contracts.--Section 
        801(a)(2)(D) of the National Energy Conservation Policy Act (42 
        U.S.C. 8287(a)(2)(D)) is amended--
                    (A) in clause (ii), by inserting ``and'' after the 
                semicolon at the end;
                    (B) by striking clause (iii); and
                    (C) by redesignating clause (iv) as clause (iii).
            (2) Reports.--Section 548(a)(2) of the National Energy 
        Conservation Policy Act (42 U.S.C. 8258(a)(2)) is amended by 
        inserting ``and any termination penalty exposure'' after ``the 
        energy and cost savings that have resulted from such 
        contracts''.
            (3) Conforming amendment.--Section 2913 of title 10, United 
        States Code, is amended by striking subsection (e).
    (e) Energy and Cost Savings in Nonbuilding Applications.--
            (1) Definitions.--In this subsection:
                    (A) Nonbuilding application.--The term 
                ``nonbuilding application'' means--
                            (i) any class of vehicles, devices, or 
                        equipment that is transportable under the power 
                        of the applicable vehicle, device, or equipment 
                        by land, sea, or air and that consumes energy 
                        from any fuel source for the purpose of--
                                    (I) that transportation; or
                                    (II) maintaining a controlled 
                                environment within the vehicle, device, 
                                or equipment; and
                            (ii) any federally-owned equipment used to 
                        generate electricity or transport water.
                    (B) Secondary savings.--
                            (i) In general.--The term ``secondary 
                        savings'' means additional energy or cost 
                        savings that are a direct consequence of the 
                        energy savings that result from the energy 
                        efficiency improvements that were financed and 
                        implemented pursuant to an energy savings 
                        performance contract.
                            (ii) Inclusions.--The term ``secondary 
                        savings'' includes--
                                    (I) energy and cost savings that 
                                result from a reduction in the need for 
                                fuel delivery and logistical support;
                                    (II) personnel cost savings and 
                                environmental benefits; and
                                    (III) in the case of electric 
                                generation equipment, the benefits of 
                                increased efficiency in the production 
                                of electricity, including revenues 
                                received by the Federal Government from 
                                the sale of electricity so produced.
            (2) Study.--
                    (A) In general.--As soon as practicable after the 
                date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary and the 
                Secretary of Defense shall jointly conduct, and submit 
                to Congress and the President a report of, a study of 
                the potential for the use of energy savings performance 
                contracts to reduce energy consumption and provide 
                energy and cost savings in nonbuilding applications.
                    (B) Requirements.--The study under this subsection 
                shall include--
                            (i) an estimate of the potential energy and 
                        cost savings to the Federal Government, 
                        including secondary savings and benefits, from 
                        increased efficiency in nonbuilding 
                        applications;
                            (ii) an assessment of the feasibility of 
                        extending the use of energy savings performance 
                        contracts to nonbuilding applications, 
                        including an identification of any regulatory 
                        or statutory barriers to such use; and
                            (iii) such recommendations as the Secretary 
                        and Secretary of Defense determine to be 
                        appropriate.

SEC. 264. ENERGY MANAGEMENT REQUIREMENTS FOR FEDERAL BUILDINGS.

    Section 543(a)(1) of the National Energy Conservation Policy Act 
(42 U.S.C. 8253(a)(1)) is amended by striking the table and inserting 
the following:

``Fiscal Year                                      Percentage reduction
    2006..........................................                   2 
    2007..........................................                   4 
    2008..........................................                   9 
    2009..........................................                  12 
    2010..........................................                  15 
    2011..........................................                  18 
    2012..........................................                  21 
    2013..........................................                  24 
    2014..........................................                  27 
    2015..........................................               30.''.

SEC. 265. COMBINED HEAT AND POWER AND DISTRICT ENERGY INSTALLATIONS AT 
              FEDERAL SITES.

    Section 543 of the National Energy Conservation Policy Act (42 
U.S.C. 8253) is amended by adding at the end the following:
    ``(f) Combined Heat and Power and District Energy Installations at 
Federal Sites.--
            ``(1) In general.--Not later than 18 months after the date 
        of enactment of this subsection, the Secretary, in consultation 
        with the Administrator of General Services and the Secretary of 
        Defense, shall identify Federal sites that could achieve 
        significant cost-effective energy savings through the use of 
        combined heat and power or district energy installations.
            ``(2) Information and technical assistance.--The Secretary 
        shall provide agencies with information and technical 
        assistance that will enable the agencies to take advantage of 
        the energy savings described in paragraph (1).
            ``(3) Energy performance requirements.--Any energy savings 
        from the installations described in paragraph (1) may be 
        applied to meet the energy performance requirements for an 
        agency under subsection (a)(1).''.

SEC. 266. FEDERAL BUILDING ENERGY EFFICIENCY PERFORMANCE STANDARDS.

    Section 305(a)(3)(A) of the Energy Conservation and Production Act 
(42 U.S.C. 6834(a)(3)(A)) is amended--
            (1) in the matter preceding clause (i), by striking ``this 
        paragraph'' and by inserting ``the Energy Efficiency Promotion 
        Act of 2007''; and
            (2) in clause (i)--
                    (A) in subclause (I), by striking ``and'' at the 
                end;
                    (B) by redesignating subclause (II) as subclause 
                (III); and
                    (C) by inserting after subclause (I) the following:
                    ``(II) the buildings be designed, to the extent 
                economically feasible and technically practicable, so 
                that the fossil fuel-generated energy consumption of 
                the buildings is reduced, as compared with the fossil 
                fuel-generated energy consumption by a similar Federal 
                building in fiscal year 2003 (as measured by Commercial 
                Buildings Energy Consumption Survey or Residential 
                Energy Consumption Survey data from the Energy 
                Information Agency), by the percentage specified in the 
                following table:


 
 
 
``Fiscal Year                            Percentage Reduction
  2007.................................  50
  2010.................................  60
  2015.................................  70
  2020.................................  80
  2025.................................  90
  2030.................................  100;

                and''.

SEC. 267. APPLICATION OF INTERNATIONAL ENERGY CONSERVATION CODE TO 
              PUBLIC AND ASSISTED HOUSING.

    Section 109 of the Cranston-Gonzalez National Affordable Housing 
Act (42 U.S.C. 12709) is amended--
            (1) in subsection (a)(1)(C), by striking, ``, where such 
        standards are determined to be cost effective by the Secretary 
        of Housing and Urban Development'';
            (2) in subsection (a)(2)--
                    (A) by striking ``the Council of American Building 
                Officials Model Energy Code, 1992'' and inserting 
                ``2006 International Energy Conservation Code''; and
                    (B) by striking ``, and, with respect to 
                rehabilitation and new construction of public and 
                assisted housing funded by HOPE VI revitalization 
                grants under section 24 of the United States Housing 
                Act of 1937 (42 U.S.C. 1437v), the 2003 International 
                Energy Conservation Code'';
            (3) in subsection (b)--
                    (A) in the heading, by striking ``Model Energy 
                Code.--'' and inserting ``International Energy 
                Conservation Code.--'';
                    (B) after ``all new construction'' in the first 
                sentence insert ``and rehabilitation''; and
                    (C) by striking ``, and, with respect to 
                rehabilitation and new construction of public and 
                assisted housing funded by HOPE VI revitalization 
                grants under section 24 of the United States Housing 
                Act of 1937 (42 U.S.C. 1437v), the 2003 International 
                Energy Conservation Code'';
            (4) in subsection (c)--
                    (A) in the heading, by striking ``Model Energy Code 
                and''; and
                    (B) by striking ``, or, with respect to 
                rehabilitation and new construction of public and 
                assisted housing funded by HOPE VI revitalization 
                grants under section 24 of the United States Housing 
                Act of 1937 (42 U.S.C. 1437v), the 2003 International 
                Energy Conservation Code'';
            (5) by adding at the end the following:
    ``(d) Failure To Amend the Standards.--If the Secretaries have not, 
within 1 year after the requirements of the 2006 IECC or the ASHRAE 
Standard 90.1-2004 are revised, amended the standards or made a 
determination under subsection (c) of this section, and if the 
Secretary of Energy has made a determination under section 304 of the 
Energy Conservation and Production Act (42 U.S.C. 6833) that the 
revised code or standard would improve energy efficiency, all new 
construction and rehabilitation of housing specified in subsection (a) 
shall meet the requirements of the revised code or standard.'';
            (6) by striking ``CABO Model Energy Code, 1992'' each place 
        it appears and inserting ``the 2006 IECC''; and
            (7) by striking ``1989'' each place it appears and 
        inserting ``2004''.

SEC. 268. ENERGY EFFICIENT COMMERCIAL BUILDINGS INITIATIVE.

    (a) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Consortium.--The term ``consortium'' means a working 
        group that is comprised of--
                    (A) individuals representing--
                            (i) 1 or more businesses engaged in--
                                    (I) commercial building 
                                development;
                                    (II) construction; or
                                    (III) real estate;
                            (ii) financial institutions;
                            (iii) academic or research institutions;
                            (iv) State or utility energy efficiency 
                        programs;
                            (v) nongovernmental energy efficiency 
                        organizations; and
                            (vi) the Federal Government;
                    (B) 1 or more building designers; and
                    (C) 1 or more individuals who own or operate 1 or 
                more buildings.
            (2) Energy efficient commercial building.--The term 
        ``energy efficient commercial building'' means a commercial 
        building that is designed, constructed, and operated--
                    (A) to require a greatly reduced quantity of 
                energy;
                    (B) to meet, on an annual basis, the balance of 
                energy needs of the commercial building from renewable 
                sources of energy; and
                    (C) to be economically viable.
            (3) Initiative.--The term ``initiative'' means the Energy 
        Efficient Commercial Buildings Initiative.
    (b) Initiative.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary shall enter into an 
        agreement with the consortium to develop and carry out the 
        initiative--
                    (A) to reduce the quantity of energy consumed by 
                commercial buildings located in the United States; and
                    (B) to achieve the development of energy efficient 
                commercial buildings in the United States.
            (2) Goal of initiative.--The goal of the initiative shall 
        be to develop technologies and practices and implement policies 
        that lead to energy efficient commercial buildings for--
                    (A) any commercial building newly constructed in 
                the United States by 2030;
                    (B) 50 percent of the commercial building stock of 
                the United States by 2040; and
                    (C) all commercial buildings in the United States 
                by 2050.
            (3) Components.--In carrying out the initiative, the 
        Secretary, in collaboration with the consortium, may--
                    (A) conduct research and development on building 
                design, materials, equipment and controls, operation 
                and other practices, integration, energy use 
                measurement and benchmarking, and policies;
                    (B) conduct demonstration projects to evaluate 
                replicable approaches to achieving energy efficient 
                commercial buildings for a variety of building types in 
                a variety of climate zones;
                    (C) conduct deployment activities to disseminate 
                information on, and encourage widespread adoption of, 
                technologies, practices, and policies to achieve energy 
                efficient commercial buildings; and
                    (D) conduct any other activity necessary to achieve 
                any goal of the initiative, as determined by the 
                Secretary, in collaboration with the consortium.
    (c) Authorization of Appropriations.--
            (1) In general.--There are authorized to be appropriated 
        such sums as are necessary to carry out this section.
            (2) Additional funding.--In addition to amounts authorized 
        to be appropriated under paragraph (1), the Secretary may 
        allocate funds from other appropriations to the initiative 
        without changing the purpose for which the funds are 
        appropriated.

 Subtitle F--Assisting State and Local Governments in Energy Efficiency

SEC. 271. WEATHERIZATION ASSISTANCE FOR LOW-INCOME PERSONS.

    Section 422 of the Energy Conservation and Production Act (42 
U.S.C. 6872) is amended by striking ``$700,000,000 for fiscal year 
2008'' and inserting ``$750,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2008 
through 2012''.

SEC. 272. STATE ENERGY CONSERVATION PLANS.

    Section 365(f) of the Energy Policy and Conservation Act (42 U.S.C. 
6325(f)) is amended by striking ``fiscal year 2008'' and inserting 
``each of fiscal years 2008 through 2012''.

SEC. 273. UTILITY ENERGY EFFICIENCY PROGRAMS.

    (a) Electric Utilities.--Section 111(d) of the Public Utility 
Regulatory Policies Act of 1978 (16 U.S.C. 2621(d)) is amended by 
adding at the end the following:
            ``(16) Integrated resource planning.--Each electric utility 
        shall--
                    ``(A) integrate energy efficiency resources into 
                utility, State, and regional plans; and
                    ``(B) adopt policies establishing cost-effective 
                energy efficiency as a priority resource.
            ``(17) Rate design modifications to promote energy 
        efficiency investments.--
                    ``(A) In general.--The rates allowed to be charged 
                by any electric utility shall--
                            ``(i) align utility incentives with the 
                        delivery of cost-effective energy efficiency; 
                        and
                            ``(ii) promote energy efficiency 
                        investments.
                    ``(B) Policy options.--In complying with 
                subparagraph (A), each State regulatory authority and 
                each nonregulated utility shall consider--
                            ``(i) removing the throughput incentive and 
                        other regulatory and management disincentives 
                        to energy efficiency;
                            ``(ii) providing utility incentives for the 
                        successful management of energy efficiency 
                        programs;
                            ``(iii) including the impact on adoption of 
                        energy efficiency as 1 of the goals of retail 
                        rate design, recognizing that energy efficiency 
                        must be balanced with other objectives;
                            ``(iv) adopting rate designs that encourage 
                        energy efficiency for each customer class; and
                            ``(v) allowing timely recovery of energy 
                        efficiency-related costs.''.
    (b) Natural Gas Utilities.--Section 303(b) of the Public Utility 
Regulatory Policies Act of 1978 (16 U.S.C. 3203(b)) is amended by 
adding at the end the following:
            ``(5) Energy efficiency.--Each natural gas utility shall--
                    ``(A) integrate energy efficiency resources into 
                the plans and planning processes of the natural gas 
                utility; and
                    ``(B) adopt policies that establish energy 
                efficiency as a priority resource in the plans and 
                planning processes of the natural gas utility.
            ``(6) Rate design modifications to promote energy 
        efficiency investments.--
                    ``(A) In general.--The rates allowed to be charged 
                by a natural gas utility shall align utility incentives 
                with the deployment of cost-effective energy 
                efficiency.
                    ``(B) Policy options.--In complying with 
                subparagraph (A), each State regulatory authority and 
                each nonregulated utility shall consider--
                            ``(i) separating fixed-cost revenue 
                        recovery from the volume of transportation or 
                        sales service provided to the customer;
                            ``(ii) providing to utilities incentives 
                        for the successful management of energy 
                        efficiency programs, such as allowing utilities 
                        to retain a portion of the cost-reducing 
                        benefits accruing from the programs;
                            ``(iii) promoting the impact on adoption of 
                        energy efficiency as 1 of the goals of retail 
                        rate design, recognizing that energy efficiency 
                        must be balanced with other objectives; and
                            ``(iv) adopting rate designs that encourage 
                        energy efficiency for each customer class.''.

SEC. 274. ENERGY EFFICIENCY AND DEMAND RESPONSE PROGRAM ASSISTANCE.

    The Secretary shall provide technical assistance regarding the 
design and implementation of the energy efficiency and demand response 
programs established under this title, and the amendments made by this 
title, to State energy offices, public utility regulatory commissions, 
and nonregulated utilities through the appropriate national 
laboratories of the Department of Energy.

SEC. 275. ENERGY AND ENVIRONMENTAL BLOCK GRANT.

    Title I of the Housing and Community Development Act of 1974 (42 
U.S.C. 5301 et seq.) is amended by adding at the end the following:

``SEC. 123. ENERGY AND ENVIRONMENTAL BLOCK GRANT.

    ``(a) Definitions.--In this section
            ``(1) Eligible entity.--The term `eligible entity' means--
                    ``(A) a State;
                    ``(B) an eligible unit of local government within a 
                State; and
                    ``(C) an Indian tribe.
            ``(2) Eligible unit of local government.--The term 
        `eligible unit of local government' means--
                    ``(A) a city with a population--
                            ``(i) of at least 35,000; or
                            ``(ii) that causes the city to be 1 of the 
                        top 10 most populous cities of the State in 
                        which the city is located; and
                    ``(B) a county with a population--
                            ``(i) of at least 200,000; or
                            ``(ii) that causes the county to be 1 of 
                        the top 10 most populous counties of the State 
                        in which the county is located.
            ``(3) Secretary.--The term `Secretary' means the Secretary 
        of Energy.
            ``(4) State.--The term `State' means--
                    ``(A) a State;
                    ``(B) the District of Columbia;
                    ``(C) the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico; and
                    ``(D) any other territory or possession of the 
                United States.
    ``(b) Purpose.--The purpose of this section is to assist State and 
local governments in implementing strategies--
            ``(1) to reduce fossil fuel emissions created as a result 
        of activities within the boundaries of the States or units of 
        local government;
            ``(2) to reduce the total energy use of the States and 
        units of local government; and
            ``(3) to improve energy efficiency in the transportation 
        sector, building sector, and any other appropriate sectors.
    ``(c)  Program.--
            ``(1) In general.--The Secretary shall provide to eligible 
        entities block grants to carry out eligible activities (as 
        specified under paragraph (2)) relating to the implementation 
        of environmentally beneficial energy strategies.
            ``(2) Eligible activities.--The Secretary, in consultation 
        with the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency, 
        the Secretary of Transportation, and the Secretary of Housing 
        and Urban Development, shall establish a list of activities 
        that are eligible for assistance under the grant program.
            ``(3) Allocation to states and eligible units of local 
        government.--
                    ``(A) In general.--Of the amounts made available to 
                provide grants under this subsection, the Secretary 
                shall allocate--
                            ``(i) 70 percent to eligible units of local 
                        government; and
                            ``(ii) 30 percent to States.
                    ``(B) Distribution to eligible units of local 
                government.--
                            ``(i) In general.--The Secretary shall 
                        establish a formula for the distribution of 
                        amounts under subparagraph (A)(i) to eligible 
                        units of local government, taking into account 
                        any factors that the Secretary determines to be 
                        appropriate, including the residential and 
                        daytime population of the eligible units of 
                        local government.
                            ``(ii) Criteria.--Amounts shall be 
                        distributed to eligible units of local 
                        government under clause (i) only if the 
                        eligible units of local government meet the 
                        criteria for distribution established by the 
                        Secretary for units of local government.
                    ``(C) Distribution to states.--
                            ``(i) In general.--Of the amounts provided 
                        to States under subparagraph (A)(ii), the 
                        Secretary shall distribute--
                                    ``(I) at least 1.25 percent to each 
                                State; and
                                    ``(II) the remainder among the 
                                States, based on a formula, to be 
                                determined by the Secretary, that takes 
                                into account the population of the 
                                States and any other criteria that the 
                                Secretary determines to be appropriate.
                            ``(ii) Criteria.--Amounts shall be 
                        distributed to States under clause (i) only if 
                        the States meet the criteria for distribution 
                        established by the Secretary for States.
                            ``(iii) Limitation on use of state funds.--
                        At least 40 percent of the amounts distributed 
                        to States under this subparagraph shall be used 
                        by the States for the conduct of eligible 
                        activities in nonentitlement areas in the 
                        States, in accordance with any criteria 
                        established by the Secretary.
            ``(4) Report.--Not later than 2 years after the date on 
        which an eligible entity first receives a grant under this 
        section, and every 2 years thereafter, the eligible entity 
        shall submit to the Secretary a report that describes any 
        eligible activities carried out using assistance provided under 
        this subsection.
            ``(5) Authorization of appropriations.--There are 
        authorized to be appropriated such sums as are necessary to 
        carry out this subsection for each of fiscal years 2008 through 
        2012.
    ``(d) Environmentally Beneficial Energy Strategies Supplemental 
Grant Program.--
            ``(1) In general.--The Secretary shall provide to each 
        eligible entity that meets the applicable criteria under 
        subparagraph (B)(ii) or (C)(ii) of subsection (c)(3) a 
        supplemental grant to pay the Federal share of the total costs 
        of carrying out an activity relating to the implementation of 
        an environmentally beneficial energy strategy.
            ``(2) Requirements.--To be eligible for a grant under 
        paragraph (1), an eligible entity shall--
                    ``(A) demonstrate to the satisfaction of the 
                Secretary that the eligible entity meets the applicable 
                criteria under subparagraph (B)(ii) or (C)(ii) of 
                subsection (c)(3); and
                    ``(B) submit to the Secretary for approval a plan 
                that describes the activities to be funded by the 
                grant.
            ``(3) Cost-sharing requirement.--
                    ``(A) Federal share.--The Federal share of the cost 
                of carrying out any activities under this subsection 
                shall be 75 percent.
                    ``(B) Non-federal share.--
                            ``(i) Form.--Not more than 50 percent of 
                        the non-Federal share may be in the form of in-
                        kind contributions.
                            ``(ii) Limitation.--Amounts provided to an 
                        eligible entity under subsection (c) shall not 
                        be used toward the non-Federal share.
            ``(4) Maintenance of effort.--An eligible entity shall 
        provide assurances to the Secretary that funds provided to the 
        eligible entity under this subsection will be used only to 
        supplement, not to supplant, the amount of Federal, State, and 
        local funds otherwise expended by the eligible entity for 
        eligible activities under this subsection.
            ``(5) Authorization of appropriations.--There are 
        authorized to be appropriated such sums as are necessary to 
        carry out this subsection for each of fiscal years 2008 through 
        2012.
    ``(e) Grants to Other States and Communities.--
            ``(1) In general.--Of the total amount of funds that are 
        made available each fiscal year to carry out this section, the 
        Secretary shall use 2 percent of the amount to make competitive 
        grants under this section to States and units of local 
        government that are not eligible entities or to consortia of 
        such units of local government.
            ``(2) Applications.--To be eligible for a grant under this 
        subsection, a State, unit of local government, or consortia 
        described in paragraph (1) shall apply to the Secretary for a 
        grant to carry out an activity that would otherwise be eligible 
        for a grant under subsection (c) or (d).
            ``(3) Priority.--In awarding grants under this subsection, 
        the Secretary shall give priority to--
                    ``(A) States with populations of less than 
                2,000,000; and
                    ``(B) projects that would result in significant 
                energy efficiency improvements, reductions in fossil 
                fuel use, or capital improvements.''.

SEC. 276. ENERGY SUSTAINABILITY AND EFFICIENCY GRANTS FOR INSTITUTIONS 
              OF HIGHER EDUCATION.

    Part G of title III of the Energy Policy and Conservation Act is 
amended by inserting after section 399 (42 U.S.C. 371h) the following:

``SEC. 399A. ENERGY SUSTAINABILITY AND EFFICIENCY GRANTS FOR 
              INSTITUTIONS OF HIGHER EDUCATION.

    ``(a) Definitions.--In this section:
            ``(1) Energy sustainability.--The term `energy 
        sustainability' includes using a renewable energy resource and 
        a highly efficient technology for electricity generation, 
        transportation, heating, or cooling.
            ``(2) Institution of higher education.--The term 
        `institution of higher education' has the meaning given the 
        term in section 2 of the Energy Policy Act of 2005 (42 U.S.C. 
        15801).
    ``(b) Grants for Energy Efficiency Improvement.--
            ``(1) In general.--The Secretary shall award not more than 
        100 grants to institutions of higher education to carry out 
        projects to improve energy efficiency on the grounds and 
        facilities of the institution of higher education, including 
        not less than 1 grant to an institution of higher education in 
        each State.
            ``(2) Condition.--As a condition of receiving a grant under 
        this subsection, an institution of higher education shall agree 
        to--
                    ``(A) implement a public awareness campaign 
                concerning the project in the community in which the 
                institution of higher education is located; and
                    ``(B) submit to the Secretary, and make available 
                to the public, reports on any efficiency improvements, 
                energy cost savings, and environmental benefits 
                achieved as part of a project carried out under 
                paragraph (1).
    ``(c) Grants for Innovation in Energy Sustainability.--
            ``(1) In general.--The Secretary shall award not more than 
        250 grants to institutions of higher education to engage in 
        innovative energy sustainability projects, including not less 
        than 2 grants to institutions of higher education in each 
        State.
            ``(2) Innovation projects.--An innovation project carried 
        out with a grant under this subsection shall--
                    ``(A) involve--
                            ``(i) an innovative technology that is not 
                        yet commercially available; or
                            ``(ii) available technology in an 
                        innovative application that maximizes energy 
                        efficiency and sustainability;
                    ``(B) have the greatest potential for testing or 
                demonstrating new technologies or processes; and
                    ``(C) ensure active student participation in the 
                project, including the planning, implementation, 
                evaluation, and other phases of the project.
            ``(3) Condition.--As a condition of receiving a grant under 
        this subsection, an institution of higher education shall agree 
        to submit to the Secretary, and make available to the public, 
        reports that describe the results of the projects carried out 
        under paragraph (1).
    ``(d) Awarding of Grants.--
            ``(1) Application.--An institution of higher education that 
        seeks to receive a grant under this section may submit to the 
        Secretary an application for the grant at such time, in such 
        form, and containing such information as the Secretary may 
        prescribe.
            ``(2) Selection.--The Secretary shall establish a committee 
        to assist in the selection of grant recipients under this 
        section.
    ``(e) Allocation to Institutions of Higher Education With Small 
Endowments.--Of the amount of grants provided for a fiscal year under 
this section, the Secretary shall provide not less 50 percent of the 
amount to institutions of higher education that have an endowment of 
not more than $100,000,000, with 50 percent of the allocation set aside 
for institutions of higher education that have an endowment of not more 
than $50,000,000.
    ``(f) Grant Amounts.--The maximum amount of grants for a project 
under this section shall not exceed--
            ``(1) in the case of grants for energy efficiency 
        improvement under subsection (b), $1,000,000; or
            ``(2) in the case of grants for innovation in energy 
        sustainability under subsection (c), $500,000.
    ``(g) Authorization of Appropriations.--There are authorized to be 
appropriated such sums as are necessary to carry out this section for 
each of fiscal years 2008 through 2012.''.

SEC. 277. WORKFORCE TRAINING.

    Section 1101 of the Energy Policy Act of 2005 (42 U.S.C. 16411) is 
amended--
            (1) by redesignating subsection (d) as subsection (e); and
            (2) by inserting after subsection (c) the following:
    ``(d) Workforce Training.--
            ``(1) In general.--The Secretary, in cooperation with the 
        Secretary of Labor, shall promulgate regulations to implement a 
        program to provide workforce training to meet the high demand 
        for workers skilled in the energy efficiency and renewable 
        energy industries.
            ``(2) Consultation.--In carrying out this subsection, the 
        Secretary shall consult with representatives of the energy 
        efficiency and renewable energy industries concerning skills 
        that are needed in those industries.''.

SEC. 278. ASSISTANCE TO STATES TO REDUCE SCHOOL BUS IDLING.

    (a) Statement of Policy.--Congress encourages each local 
educational agency (as defined in section 9101(26) of the Elementary 
and Secondary Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 7801(26))) that receives 
Federal funds under the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 
(20 U.S.C. 6301 et seq.) to develop a policy to reduce the incidence of 
school bus idling at schools while picking up and unloading students.
    (b) Authorization of Appropriations.--There are authorized to be 
appropriated to the Secretary, working in coordination with the 
Secretary of Education, $5,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2007 
through 2012 for use in educating States and local education agencies 
about--
            (1) benefits of reducing school bus idling; and
            (2) ways in which school bus idling may be reduced.

   TITLE III--CARBON CAPTURE AND STORAGE RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT, AND 
                             DEMONSTRATION

SEC. 301. SHORT TITLE.

    This title may be cited as the ``Carbon Capture and Sequestration 
Act of 2007''.

SEC. 302. CARBON CAPTURE AND STORAGE RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT, AND 
              DEMONSTRATION PROGRAM.

    Section 963 of the Energy Policy Act of 2005 (42 U.S.C. 16293) is 
amended--
            (1) in the section heading, by striking ``research and 
        development'' and inserting ``and storage research, 
        development, and demonstration'';
            (2) in subsection (a)--
                    (A) by striking ``research and development'' and 
                inserting ``and storage research, development, and 
                demonstration''; and
                    (B) by striking ``capture technologies on 
                combustion-based systems'' and inserting ``capture and 
                storage technologies related to energy systems'';
            (3) in subsection (b)--
                    (A) in paragraph (3), by striking ``and'' at the 
                end;
                    (B) in paragraph (4), by striking the period at the 
                end and inserting ``; and''; and
                    (C) by adding at the end the following:
            ``(5) to expedite and carry out large-scale testing of 
        carbon sequestration systems in a range of geological 
        formations that will provide information on the cost and 
        feasibility of deployment of sequestration technologies.''; and
            (4) by striking subsection (c) and inserting the following:
    ``(c) Programmatic Activities.--
            ``(1) Energy research and development underlying carbon 
        capture and storage technologies and carbon use activities.--
                    ``(A) In general.--The Secretary shall carry out 
                fundamental science and engineering research (including 
                laboratory-scale experiments, numeric modeling, and 
                simulations) to develop and document the performance of 
                new approaches to capture and store, recycle, or reuse 
                carbon dioxide.
                    ``(B) Program integration.--The Secretary shall 
                ensure that fundamental research carried out under this 
                paragraph is appropriately applied to energy technology 
                development activities, the field testing of carbon 
                sequestration, and carbon use activities, including--
                            ``(i) development of new or improved 
                        technologies for the capture of carbon dioxide;
                            ``(ii) development of new or improved 
                        technologies that reduce the cost and increase 
                        the efficacy of the compression of carbon 
                        dioxide required for the storage of carbon 
                        dioxide;
                            ``(iii) modeling and simulation of 
                        geological sequestration field demonstrations;
                            ``(iv) quantitative assessment of risks 
                        relating to specific field sites for testing of 
                        sequestration technologies; and
                            ``(v) research and development of new and 
                        improved technologies for carbon use, including 
                        recycling and reuse of carbon dioxide.
            ``(2) Carbon capture demonstration project.--
                    ``(A) In general.--The Secretary shall carry out a 
                demonstration of large-scale carbon dioxide capture 
                from an appropriate gasification facility selected by 
                the Secretary.
                    ``(B) Link to storage activities.--The Secretary 
                may require the use of carbon dioxide from the project 
                carried out under subparagraph (A) in a field testing 
                validation activity under this section.
            ``(3) Field validation testing activities.--
                    ``(A) In general.--The Secretary shall promote, to 
                the maximum extent practicable, regional carbon 
                sequestration partnerships to conduct geologic 
                sequestration tests involving carbon dioxide injection 
                and monitoring, mitigation, and verification operations 
                in a variety of candidate geological settings, 
                including--
                            ``(i) operating oil and gas fields;
                            ``(ii) depleted oil and gas fields;
                            ``(iii) unmineable coal seams;
                            ``(iv) deep saline formations;
                            ``(v) deep geological systems that may be 
                        used as engineered reservoirs to extract 
                        economical quantities of heat from geothermal 
                        resources of low permeability or porosity; and
                            ``(vi) deep geologic systems containing 
                        basalt formations.
                    ``(B) Objectives.--The objectives of tests 
                conducted under this paragraph shall be--
                            ``(i) to develop and validate geophysical 
                        tools, analysis, and modeling to monitor, 
                        predict, and verify carbon dioxide containment;
                            ``(ii) to validate modeling of geological 
                        formations;
                            ``(iii) to refine storage capacity 
                        estimated for particular geological formations;
                            ``(iv) to determine the fate of carbon 
                        dioxide concurrent with and following injection 
                        into geological formations;
                            ``(v) to develop and implement best 
                        practices for operations relating to, and 
                        monitoring of, injection and storage of carbon 
                        dioxide in geologic formations;
                            ``(vi) to assess and ensure the safety of 
                        operations related to geological storage of 
                        carbon dioxide; and
                            ``(vii) to allow the Secretary to 
                        promulgate policies, procedures, requirements, 
                        and guidance to ensure that the objectives of 
                        this subparagraph are met in large-scale 
                        testing and deployment activities for carbon 
                        capture and storage that are funded by the 
                        Department of Energy.
            ``(4) Large-scale testing and deployment.--
                    ``(A) In general.--The Secretary shall conduct not 
                less than 7 initial large-volume sequestration tests 
                for geological containment of carbon dioxide (at least 
                1 of which shall be international in scope) to validate 
                information on the cost and feasibility of commercial 
                deployment of technologies for geological containment 
                of carbon dioxide.
                    ``(B) Diversity of formations to be studied.--In 
                selecting formations for study under this paragraph, 
                the Secretary shall consider a variety of geological 
                formations across the United States, and require 
                characterization and modeling of candidate formations, 
                as determined by the Secretary.
            ``(5) Preference in project selection from meritorious 
        proposals.--In making competitive awards under this subsection, 
        subject to the requirements of section 989, the Secretary shall 
        give preference to proposals from partnerships among 
        industrial, academic, and government entities.
            ``(6) Cost sharing.--Activities under this subsection shall 
        be considered research and development activities that are 
        subject to the cost-sharing requirements of section 988(b).
            ``(7) Program review and report.--During fiscal year 2011, 
        the Secretary shall--
                    ``(A) conduct a review of programmatic activities 
                carried out under this subsection; and
                    ``(B) make recommendations with respect to 
                continuation of the activities.
    ``(d) Authorization of Appropriations.--There are authorized to be 
appropriated to carry out this section--
            ``(1) $150,000,000 for fiscal year 2008;
            ``(2) $200,000,000 for fiscal year 2009;
            ``(3) $200,000,000 for fiscal year 2010;
            ``(4) $180,000,000 for fiscal year 2011; and
            ``(5) $165,000,000 for fiscal year 2012.''.

SEC. 303. CARBON DIOXIDE STORAGE CAPACITY ASSESSMENT.

    (a) Definitions.--In this section
            (1) Assessment.--The term ``assessment'' means the national 
        assessment of capacity for carbon dioxide completed under 
        subsection (f).
            (2) Capacity.--The term ``capacity'' means the portion of a 
        storage formation that can retain carbon dioxide in accordance 
        with the requirements (including physical, geological, and 
        economic requirements) established under the methodology 
        developed under subsection (b).
            (3) Engineered hazard.--The term ``engineered hazard'' 
        includes the location and completion history of any well that 
        could affect potential storage.
            (4) Risk.--The term ``risk'' includes any risk posed by 
        geomechanical, geochemical, hydrogeological, structural, and 
        engineered hazards.
            (5) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary 
        of the Interior, acting through the Director of the United 
        States Geological Survey.
            (6) Storage formation.--The term ``storage formation'' 
        means a deep saline formation, unmineable coal seam, or oil or 
        gas reservoir that is capable of accommodating a volume of 
        industrial carbon dioxide.
    (b) Methodology.--Not later than 1 year after the date of enactment 
of this Act, the Secretary shall develop a methodology for conducting 
an assessment under subsection (f), taking into consideration--
            (1) the geographical extent of all potential storage 
        formations in all States;
            (2) the capacity of the potential storage formations;
            (3) the injectivity of the potential storage formations;
            (4) an estimate of potential volumes of oil and gas 
        recoverable by injection and storage of industrial carbon 
        dioxide in potential storage formations;
            (5) the risk associated with the potential storage 
        formations; and
            (6) the Carbon Sequestration Atlas of the United States and 
        Canada that was completed by the Department of Energy in April 
        2006.
    (c) Coordination.--
            (1) Federal coordination.--
                    (A) Consultation.--The Secretary shall consult with 
                the Secretary of Energy and the Administrator of the 
                Environmental Protection Agency on issues of data 
                sharing, format, development of the methodology, and 
                content of the assessment required under this title to 
                ensure the maximum usefulness and success of the 
                assessment.
                    (B) Cooperation.--The Secretary of Energy and the 
                Administrator shall cooperate with the Secretary to 
                ensure, to the maximum extent practicable, the 
                usefulness and success of the assessment.
            (2) State coordination.--The Secretary shall consult with 
        State geological surveys and other relevant entities to ensure, 
        to the maximum extent practicable, the usefulness and success 
        of the assessment.
    (d) External Review and Publication.--On completion of the 
methodology under subsection (b), the Secretary shall--
            (1) publish the methodology and solicit comments from the 
        public and the heads of affected Federal and State agencies;
            (2) establish a panel of individuals with expertise in the 
        matters described in paragraphs (1) through (5) of subsection 
        (b) composed, as appropriate, of representatives of Federal 
        agencies, institutions of higher education, nongovernmental 
        organizations, State organizations, industry, and international 
        geoscience organizations to review the methodology and comments 
        received under paragraph (1); and
            (3) on completion of the review under paragraph (2), 
        publish in the Federal Register the revised final methodology.
    (e) Periodic Updates.--The methodology developed under this section 
shall be updated periodically (including at least once every 5 years) 
to incorporate new data as the data becomes available.
    (f) National Assessment.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 2 years after the date of 
        publication of the methodology under subsection (d)(1), the 
        Secretary, in consultation with the Secretary of Energy and 
        State geological surveys, shall complete a national assessment 
        of capacity for carbon dioxide in accordance with the 
        methodology.
            (2) Geological verification.--As part of the assessment 
        under this subsection, the Secretary shall carry out a drilling 
        program to supplement the geological data relevant to 
        determining storage capacity of carbon dioxide in geological 
        storage formations, including--
                    (A) well log data;
                    (B) core data; and
                    (C) fluid sample data.
            (3) Partnership with other drilling programs.--As part of 
        the drilling program under paragraph (2), the Secretary shall 
        enter, as appropriate, into partnerships with other entities to 
        collect and integrate data from other drilling programs 
        relevant to the storage of carbon dioxide in geologic 
        formations.
            (4) Incorporation into natcarb.--
                    (A) In general.--On completion of the assessment, 
                the Secretary of Energy shall incorporate the results 
                of the assessment using the NatCarb database, to the 
                maximum extent practicable.
                    (B) Ranking.--The database shall include the data 
                necessary to rank potential storage sites for capacity 
                and risk, across the United States, within each State, 
                by formation, and within each basin.
            (5) Report.--Not later than 180 days after the date on 
        which the assessment is completed, the Secretary shall submit 
        to the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources of the Senate 
        and the Committee on Science and Technology of the House of 
        Representatives a report describing the findings under the 
        assessment.
            (6) Periodic updates.--The national assessment developed 
        under this section shall be updated periodically (including at 
        least once every 5 years) to support public and private sector 
        decisionmaking.
    (g) Authorization of Appropriations.--There is authorized to be 
appropriated to carry out this section $30,000,000 for the period of 
fiscal years 2008 through 2012.

SEC. 304. CARBON CAPTURE AND STORAGE INITIATIVE.

    (a) Industrial Sources of Carbon Dioxide Defined.--In this section, 
the term ``industrial sources of carbon dioxide'' means one or more 
facilities to--
            (1) generate electric energy from fossil fuels;
            (2) refine petroleum;
            (3) manufacture iron or steel;
            (4) manufacture cement or cement clinker;
            (5) manufacture commodity chemicals (including from coal 
        gasification); or
            (6) manufacture transportation fuels from coal.
    (b) Program Establishment.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary shall carry out a program to 
        demonstrate technologies for the large-scale capture of carbon 
        dioxide from industrial sources of carbon dioxide.
            (2) Scope of award.--An award under this section shall be 
        only for the portion of the project that carries out the large-
        scale capture (including purification and compression) of 
        carbon dioxide, as well as the cost of transportation and 
        injection of carbon dioxide.
            (3) Qualifications for award.--To be eligible for an award 
        under this section, a project proposal must include the 
        following:
                    (A) Capacity.--The capture of not less than eighty-
                five percent of the produced carbon dioxide at the 
                facility, and not less than 500,000 short tons of 
                carbon dioxide per year.
                    (B) Storage agreement.--A binding agreement for the 
                storage of all of the captured carbon dioxide in--
                            (i) a field testing validation activity 
                        under section 963 of the Energy Policy Act of 
                        2005, as amended by this Act; or
                            (ii) other geological storage projects 
                        approved by the Secretary.
                    (C) Purity level.--A purity level of at least 95 
                percent for the captured carbon dioxide delivered for 
                storage.
                    (D) Commitment to continued operation of successful 
                unit.--If the project successfully demonstrates capture 
                and storage of carbon dioxide, a commitment to 
                continued capture and storage of carbon dioxide after 
                the conclusion of the demonstration.
            (4) Cost-sharing.--The cost-sharing requirements of section 
        988 of the Energy Policy Act of 2005 shall apply to this 
        section.
    (c) Authorization of Appropriations.--There is authorized to be 
appropriated to the Secretary to carry out this section $100,000,000 
per year for fiscal years 2009 through 2013.
                                                       Calendar No. 140

110th CONGRESS

  1st Session

                                S. 1321

                          [Report No. 110-65]

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL

   To enhance the energy security of the United States by promoting 
 biofuels, energy efficiency, and carbon capture and storage, and for 
                            other purposes.

_______________________________________________________________________

                              May 7, 2007

                 Read twice and placed on the calendar
</pre></body></html>
