<html><body><pre>
[Congressional Bills 112th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[S. 1294 Introduced in Senate (IS)]

112th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                S. 1294

  To promote the oil independence of the United States, and for other 
                               purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                   IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

                             June 29, 2011

Mr. Merkley (for himself, Mr. Carper, Mr. Udall of New Mexico, and Mr. 
    Bennet) introduced the following bill; which was read twice and 
                  referred to the Committee on Finance

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
  To promote the oil independence of the United States, and for other 
                               purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE; TABLE OF CONTENTS.

    (a) Short Title.--This Act may be cited as the ``Oil Independence 
for a Stronger America Act of 2011''.
    (b) Table of Contents.--The table of contents of this Act is as 
follows:

Sec. 1. Short title; table of contents.
Sec. 2. Definitions.
               TITLE I--NATIONAL ENERGY SECURITY PROGRAM

Sec. 101. National energy security program.
Sec. 102. National Energy Security Council.
                     TITLE II--VEHICLE FUEL ECONOMY

Sec. 201. Vehicle fuel economy.
                 TITLE III--ELECTRIC VEHICLE DEPLOYMENT

Sec. 301. Findings.
Sec. 302. Definitions.
 Subtitle A--National Plug-In Electric Drive Vehicle Deployment Program

Sec. 311. National Plug-In Electric Drive Vehicle Deployment Program.
Sec. 312. National assessment and plan.
Sec. 313. Technical assistance.
Sec. 314. Workforce training.
Sec. 315. Federal fleets.
Sec. 316. Targeted Plug-In Electric Drive Vehicle Deployment 
                            Communities Program.
Sec. 317. Plug-in electric drive vehicle private fleet upgrade program.
                  Subtitle B--Research and Development

Sec. 321. Research and development program.
Sec. 322. Advanced batteries for tomorrow prize.
Sec. 323. Study on the supply of raw materials.
Sec. 324. Study on the collection and preservation of data collected 
                            from plug-in electric drive vehicles.
                       Subtitle C--Miscellaneous

Sec. 331. Utility planning for plug-in electric drive vehicles.
Sec. 332. Loan guarantees.
Sec. 333. Prohibition on disposing of advanced batteries in landfills.
Sec. 334. Plug-In Electric Drive Vehicle Technical Advisory Committee.
Sec. 335. Plug-In Electric Drive Vehicle Interagency Task Force.
                TITLE IV--TRANSPORTATION INFRASTRUCTURE

     Subtitle A--Transportation Options for Families and Businesses

Sec. 401. Oil savings and greenhouse gas emission reductions through 
                            transportation efficiency.
Sec. 402. Investing in transportation greenhouse gas emission reduction 
                            programs.
Sec. 403. Commuter benefits equity.
                   Subtitle B--Freight Transportation

Sec. 411. Freight transportation goal and plan.
Sec. 412. Freight rail congestion grants.
Sec. 413. Rail electrification study.
               TITLE V--ALTERNATIVE TRANSPORTATION FUELS

                     Subtitle A--Advanced Biofuels

Sec. 501. Allowance of investment tax credit for advanced biofuel 
                            facilities.
Sec. 502. Grants for advanced biofuel facility property.
Sec. 503. Inclusion of algae-based biofuel in definition of cellulosic 
                            biofuel.
Sec. 504. Extension of cellulosic biofuel producer credit.
Sec. 505. Extension of special allowance for cellulosic biofuel plant 
                            property.
Sec. 506. Extension of incentives for biodiesel and renewable diesel.
Sec. 507. Extension of alcohol fuels tax credits.
             Subtitle B--Powering Vehicles With Natural Gas

Sec. 511. Credit for qualified natural gas motor vehicles.
Sec. 512. Natural gas vehicle bonds.
Sec. 513. Incentives for manufacturing facilities producing vehicles 
                            fueled by compressed or liquified natural 
                            gas.
Sec. 514. Study of increasing natural gas and liquefied petroleum gas 
                            vehicles in Federal fleet.
             TITLE VI--HEATING OIL AND PROPANE CONSERVATION

Sec. 601. Energy efficiency improvements for heating oil, propane, and 
                            kerosene use in homes and commercial 
                            buildings.
Sec. 602. Renewable biomass thermal energy for commercial buildings.
               TITLE VII--AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS

Sec. 701. Authorization of appropriations.

SEC. 2. DEFINITIONS.

    In this Act:
            (1) Administrator.--The term ``Administrator'' means the 
        Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency.
            (2) Council.--The term ``Council'' means the National 
        Energy Security Council established by section 102.
            (3) National energy security program.--The term ``national 
        energy security program'' means the national energy security 
        program established by section 101.
            (4) National oil independence goal.--The term ``national 
        oil independence goal'' means the national oil independence 
        goal established under section 101(c).
            (5) National oil independence plan.--The term ``national 
        oil independence plan'' means the national oil independence 
        plan established under section 101(d).

               TITLE I--NATIONAL ENERGY SECURITY PROGRAM

SEC. 101. NATIONAL ENERGY SECURITY PROGRAM.

    (a) Establishment.--There is established in the Executive Office of 
the President the national energy security program.
    (b) Mission.--The mission of the national energy security program 
shall be to coordinate the activities and policies of the Federal 
Government to ensure, to the maximum extent practicable, that the 
United States meets--
            (1) goals for reducing oil dependence, oil imports, and oil 
        consumption; and
            (2) other energy policy goals, including goals for--
                    (A) enhancing the competitiveness of the United 
                States in clean energy technology;
                    (B) strengthening clean energy technology 
                manufacturing in the United States;
                    (C) reducing greenhouse gas emissions; and
                    (D) reducing hazardous pollutants.
    (c) National Oil Independence Goal.--
            (1) In general.--Subject to paragraph (2), it is the goal 
        of the United States to reduce oil consumption by the quantity 
        that is equal to or greater than the quantity of oil imported 
        by the United States from outside of North America by calendar 
        year 2030 (as compared to the rate of oil consumption projected 
        for calendar year 2030 as of the date of enactment of this 
        Act).
            (2) Adjustments.--The President, in consultation with the 
        Council--
                    (A) may adjust the numeric goal for calendar year 
                2030 established under paragraph (1);
                    (B) shall ensure that any new goal established 
                under subparagraph (A) represents the maximum 
                practicable oil savings achievable, taking into account 
                other benefits of reducing oil consumption (including 
                economic, security, and environmental benefits) and 
                costs or other economic effects; and
                    (C) if any new goal established under subparagraph 
                (A) is lower than the goal established under paragraph 
                (1), shall establish an additional goal for reducing 
                oil consumption in the United Sates by a quantity that 
                is equal to or greater than the quantity of oil 
                imported by the United States from outside of North 
                America on the fastest timeline practicable, taking 
                into account other benefits of reducing oil consumption 
                (including economic, security, and environmental 
                benefits) and costs or other economic effects.
    (d) National Oil Independence Plan.--
            (1) In general.--The President, in coordination with the 
        Council and the Director of the Office of Management and 
        Budget, shall--
                    (A) develop a national oil independence plan that 
                describes programs and activities that will be 
                implemented to meet or exceed the national oil 
                independence goal and other goals established pursuant 
                to subsection (c);
                    (B) submit the national oil independence plan to 
                Congress not later than 180 days after the date of 
                enactment of this Act; and
                    (C) submit an updated national oil independence 
                plan to Congress every 2 years thereafter.
            (2) Review of federal policies, programs, and 
        authorities.--Not later than 120 days after the date of 
        enactment of this Act, the President, in coordination with the 
        Council and the Director of the Office of Management and 
        Budget, shall review existing programs and authorities of the 
        Federal Government and other applicable policies (including tax 
        policies) to determine--
                    (A)(i) which programs, authorities, or policies 
                could be used to accelerate reductions in oil 
                dependence; and
                    (ii) any means by which the programs, authorities, 
                or policies--
                            (I) could be used to maximize reductions in 
                        oil dependence; or
                            (II) would require modification in order to 
                        be used to maximize reductions in oil 
                        dependence; and
                    (B)(i) which programs, authorities, or policies 
                have the effect of increasing oil consumption and oil 
                dependence or otherwise create barriers to reducing oil 
                consumption and oil dependence; and
                    (ii) the manner by which the programs, authorities, 
                or policies--
                            (I) have the effect of encouraging oil 
                        consumption or oil dependence or otherwise 
                        create barriers to reducing oil consumption and 
                        oil dependence; and
                            (II) could be modified or eliminated to 
                        help meet the goal of reducing oil consumption 
                        and oil dependence.
            (3) Contents.--At a minimum, the national oil independence 
        plan shall--
                    (A) describe the results and conclusions of the 
                review conducted under paragraph (2);
                    (B) as appropriate, include--
                            (i) the use of programs, authorities, or 
                        policies described in paragraph (2)(A); and
                            (ii) if existing authority allows, 
                        proposals to modify or eliminate programs, 
                        authorities, or policies described in paragraph 
                        (2)(B);
                    (C) include recommendations to Congress for 
                legislation that would further--
                            (i) promote reductions in oil consumption 
                        and oil dependence;
                            (ii) reduce barriers to reducing oil 
                        consumption and oil dependence; and
                            (iii) help meet the energy policy goals of 
                        the United States;
                    (D) include a timetable for achieving the national 
                oil independence goal, including interim targets on not 
                less than a biennial basis;
                    (E) a plan for coordinating actions across the 
                Federal Government to ensure, to the maximum extent 
                practicable, that the national oil independence goal is 
                met; and
                    (F) a timeline for issuing rules, Executive orders, 
                or other policy instruments that will implement the 
                recommendations contained the national oil independence 
                plan.
    (e) Annual Requests to Congress.--When submitting annual budget 
requests to Congress, the President shall include--
            (1)(A) requests for sufficient funding for such programs 
        the President considers appropriate to implement the national 
        oil independence plan; and
            (B) if the amount of funding is not sufficient to meet the 
        national oil independence goal, a description of the amount of 
        funding that would be necessary to meet the goal;
            (2)(A) requests for such additional authorities or changes 
        to existing laws or authorities as the President considers 
        appropriate in order to implement the national oil independence 
        plan; and
            (B) if the amount of funding is not sufficient to meet the 
        national oil independence goal, a description of such 
        additional authority or changes to existing laws or authorities 
        as would be necessary to meet the goal; and
            (3) a report on the oil consumption and imports of the 
        United States relative to the national oil independence goal 
        and the interim targets and timelines established in the 
        national oil independence plan.

SEC. 102. NATIONAL ENERGY SECURITY COUNCIL.

    (a) Establishment.--There is established in the Executive Office of 
the President a National Energy Security Council.
    (b) Mission.--The mission of the Council shall be to assist and 
advise the President in--
            (1) establishing the national oil independence goal in 
        numeric terms of barrels per day of oil consumption, based on 
        the most recent consumption estimates by the Energy Information 
        Administration;
            (2) meeting the national oil independence goal;
            (3) developing the national oil independence plan and the 
        requests described in section 3(e);
            (4) coordinating the policies, programs, and activities of 
        the national energy security program in order to implement the 
        national oil independence plan and meet the national oil 
        independence goal; and
            (5) ensuring that policy decisions and programs are 
        consistent with the energy policy goals of the United States.
    (c) Membership.--The membership of the Council shall consist of--
            (1) the Secretary of Energy;
            (2) the Assistant to the President for National Security 
        Affairs;
            (3) the Secretary of Transportation;
            (4) the Administrator;
            (5) the Secretary of the Treasury;
            (6) the Director of the National Economic Council;
            (7) the Secretary of Agriculture;
            (8) the Chair of the Council on Environmental Quality;
            (9) the Secretary of State; and
            (10) the Director of the Office of Science and Technology 
        Policy.
    (d) Chair.--The President shall act as Chair of the Council.

                     TITLE II--VEHICLE FUEL ECONOMY

SEC. 201. VEHICLE FUEL ECONOMY.

    (a) Automobiles.--The Secretary of Transportation, pursuant to the 
authority provided under chapter 329 of title 49, United States Code, 
and the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency, using the 
authority provided under the Clean Air Act (42 U.S.C. 7401 et seq.), 
shall promulgate joint regulations establishing fuel efficiency 
standards and greenhouse gas emissions limitations for each class of 
automobiles subject to regulations under that chapter and manufactured 
for each of model years 2017 through 2030 to maximize reductions in oil 
consumption and greenhouse gas emissions consistent with the criteria 
under those authorities.
    (b) Fuel Economy and Greenhouse Gas Emissions for Nonroad 
Vehicles.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 2 years after the date of 
        enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Transportation and the 
        Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency shall 
        promulgate joint regulations establishing fuel efficiency 
        standards and greenhouse gas emissions limitations for nonroad 
        vehicles to maximize reductions in oil consumption and 
        greenhouse gas emissions.
            (2) Nonroad vehicles.--The nonroad vehicles described in 
        paragraph (1) shall include--
                    (A) passenger and freight rail engines;
                    (B) boat and other marine engines; and
                    (C) off-highway construction vehicles.
            (3) Effective date.--The standards and limitations 
        established under paragraph (1) shall take effect not earlier 
        than 2 years after the date on which the applicable regulations 
        are promulgated.
            (4) Revisions and updates to standards.--The Secretary of 
        Transportation and the Administrator shall establish a timeline 
        for updating the standards and limitations established under 
        paragraph (1) to maximize reductions in oil consumption and 
        greenhouse gas emissions.

                 TITLE III--ELECTRIC VEHICLE DEPLOYMENT

SEC. 301. FINDINGS.

    Congress find that--
            (1) the United States is the largest consumer of petroleum 
        in the world, consuming 19,500,000 barrels per day of petroleum 
        products during 2008;
            (2) high and volatile international oil prices represent a 
        significant and ongoing threat to the economic and national 
        security of the United States;
            (3) many of the nations on which the United States relies 
        for petroleum supplies or that significantly affect the world 
        petroleum market share neither the national interest nor the 
        values of the United States;
            (4) the United States imports more than 50 percent of the 
        petroleum needs of the country each day;
            (5) in 2008, the net deficit of the United States in 
        petroleum trade amounted to more than $380,000,000,000, or 
        nearly 60 percent of the total trade deficit;
            (6) the transportation sector of the United States accounts 
        for over \2/3\ of total national petroleum consumption and is 
        94 percent reliant on petroleum;
            (7) the electrification of the transportation sector 
        represents a direct pathway to significant reduction in 
        petroleum dependence, because passenger cars and light trucks 
        account for more than 60 percent of the transportation 
        petroleum demand and more than 40 percent of total petroleum 
        demand in the United States;
            (8) the electrification of the transportation sector 
        promotes national energy security because the electric power 
        sector uses a diverse range of domestic electricity generation 
        sources;
            (9) plug-in electric drive vehicles, when running on 
        electric power, produce no tailpipe emissions;
            (10) the deployment of 700,000 plug-in electric drive 
        vehicles would result in a petroleum savings of approximately 
        10,000,000 barrels per year compared to the annual petroleum 
        consumption as of the date of enactment of this Act;
            (11) in 2030, the United States could feasibly deploy more 
        than 100,000,000 plug-in electric drive vehicles, which would 
        result in a petroleum savings of more than 1,000,000,000 
        barrels of petroleum per year and greenhouse gas reductions of 
        over 300,000,000 tons of carbon dioxide compared to the annual 
        petroleum consumption and greenhouse gas emissions as of the 
        date of enactment of this Act; and
            (12) a targeted deployment program for plug-in electric 
        drive vehicles that is focused on competitively selected 
        deployment communities--
                    (A) is a critical component of a comprehensive 
                effort to speed plug-in electric drive vehicle 
                penetration rates;
                    (B) will contribute to the larger national effort 
                to deploy plug-in electric drive vehicles;
                    (C) will inform best practices for the wide-scale 
                deployment of plug-in electric drive vehicles; and
                    (D) will substantially reduce the oil consumption 
                of the United States.

SEC. 302. DEFINITIONS.

    (a) In General.--In this title:
            (1) Agency.--The term ``agency'' has the meaning given the 
        term ``Executive agency'' in section 105 of title 5, United 
        States Code.
            (2) Charging infrastructure.--The term ``charging 
        infrastructure'' means any property (not including a building) 
        if the property is used for the recharging of plug-in electric 
        drive vehicles, including electrical panel upgrades, wiring, 
        conduit, trenching, pedestals, and related equipment.
            (3) Committee.--The term ``Committee'' means the Plug-in 
        Electric Drive Vehicle Technical Advisory Committee established 
        by section 334.
            (4) Deployment community.--The term ``deployment 
        community'' means a community selected by the Secretary to be 
        part of the targeted plug-in electric drive vehicles deployment 
        communities program under section 316.
            (5) Electric utility.--The term ``electric utility'' has 
        the meaning given the term in section 3 of the Public Utility 
        Regulatory Policies Act of 1978 (16 U.S.C. 2602).
            (6) Federal-aid system of highways.--The term ``Federal-aid 
        system of highways'' means a highway system described in 
        section 103 of title 23, United States Code.
            (7) Plug-in electric drive vehicle.--The term ``plug-in 
        electric drive vehicle'' has the meaning given the term in 
        section 131(a)(5) of the Energy Independence and Security Act 
        of 2007 (42 U.S.C. 17011(a)(5)).
            (8) Prize.--The term ``Prize'' means the Advanced Batteries 
        for Tomorrow Prize established by section 322.
            (9) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary 
        of Energy.
            (10) Task force.--The term ``Task Force'' means the Plug-in 
        Electric Drive Vehicle Interagency Task Force established by 
        section 335.
    (b) Definition of Plug-In Electric Drive Vehicle.--Section 
131(a)(5) of the Energy Independence and Security Act of 2007 (42 
U.S.C. 17011(a)(5)) is amended--
            (1) by redesignating subparagraphs (A), (B), and (C) as 
        clauses (i), (ii), and (iii), respectively, and indenting 
        appropriately;
            (2) by striking ``means a vehicle that--'' and inserting 
        ``means--
                    ``(A) a vehicle that--'';
            (3) in subparagraph (A)(iii) (as so redesignated), by 
        striking the period at the end and inserting ``; and''; and
            (4) by adding at the end the following:
                    ``(B) any other motor vehicle--
                            ``(i) for which the motive electric power 
                        can be recharged from an external source of 
                        power; and
                            ``(ii) that has a maximum speed of greater 
                        than 25 miles per hour.''.

 Subtitle A--National Plug-In Electric Drive Vehicle Deployment Program

SEC. 311. NATIONAL PLUG-IN ELECTRIC DRIVE VEHICLE DEPLOYMENT PROGRAM.

    (a) In General.--There is established within the Department of 
Energy a national plug-in electric drive vehicle deployment program for 
the purpose of assisting in the deployment of plug-in electric drive 
vehicles.
    (b) Goals.--The goals of the national program described in 
subsection (a) include--
            (1) the reduction and displacement of petroleum use by 
        accelerating the deployment of plug-in electric drive vehicles 
        in the United States;
            (2) the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions by 
        accelerating the deployment of plug-in electric drive vehicles 
        in the United States;
            (3) the facilitation of the rapid deployment of plug-in 
        electric drive vehicles, particularly into the mainstream 
        consumer market;
            (4) the achievement of significant market penetrations by 
        plug-in electric drive vehicles nationally;
            (5) the establishment of models for the rapid deployment of 
        plug-in electric drive vehicles nationally, including models 
        for the deployment of residential, private, and publicly 
        available charging infrastructure;
            (6) the increase of consumer knowledge and acceptance of 
        plug-in electric drive vehicles;
            (7) the encouragement of the innovation and investment 
        necessary to achieve mass market deployment of plug-in electric 
        drive vehicles;
            (8) the facilitation of the integration of plug-in electric 
        drive vehicles into electricity distribution systems and the 
        larger electric grid while maintaining grid system performance 
        and reliability;
            (9) the provision of technical assistance to communities 
        across the United States to prepare for plug-in electric drive 
        vehicles; and
            (10) the support of workforce training across the United 
        States relating to plug-in electric drive vehicles.
    (c) Duties.--In carrying out this subtitle, the Secretary shall--
            (1) provide technical assistance to State, local, and 
        tribal governments that want to create deployment programs for 
        plug-in electric drive vehicles in the communities over which 
        the governments have jurisdiction;
            (2) perform national assessments of the potential 
        deployment of plug-in electric drive vehicles under section 
        312;
            (3) synthesize and disseminate data from the deployment of 
        plug-in electric drive vehicles;
            (4) develop best practices for the successful deployment of 
        plug-in electric drive vehicles;
            (5) carry out workforce training under section 314;
            (6) establish the targeted plug-in electric drive vehicle 
        deployment communities program under section 316; and
            (7) in conjunction with the Task Force, make 
        recommendations to Congress and the President on methods to 
        reduce the barriers to plug-in electric drive vehicle 
        deployment.
    (d) Report.--Not later than 18 months after the date of enactment 
of this Act and biennially thereafter, the Secretary shall submit to 
the appropriate committees of Congress a report on the progress made in 
implementing the national program described in subsection (a) that 
includes--
            (1) a description of the progress made by--
                    (A) the technical assistance program under section 
                313; and
                    (B) the workforce training program under section 
                314; and
            (2) any updated recommendations of the Secretary for 
        changes in Federal programs to promote the purposes of this 
        subtitle.
    (e) National Information Clearinghouse.--The Secretary shall make 
available to the public, in a timely manner, information regarding--
            (1) the cost, performance, usage data, and technical data 
        regarding plug-in electric drive vehicles and associated 
        infrastructure, including information from the deployment 
        communities established under section 316; and
            (2) any other educational information that the Secretary 
        determines to be appropriate.

SEC. 312. NATIONAL ASSESSMENT AND PLAN.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary shall carry out a national 
assessment and develop a national plan for plug-in electric drive 
vehicle deployment that includes--
            (1) an assessment of the maximum feasible deployment of 
        plug-in electric drive vehicles by 2020 and 2030;
            (2) the establishment of national goals for market 
        penetration of plug-in electric drive vehicles by 2020 and 
        2030;
            (3) a plan for providing technical assistance to 
        communities across the United States to prepare for plug-in 
        electric drive vehicle deployment;
            (4) a plan for quantifying the reduction in petroleum 
        consumption and the net impact on greenhouse gas emissions due 
        to the deployment of plug-in electric drive vehicles;
            (5) in consultation with the Task Force, any 
        recommendations to the President and to Congress for changes in 
        Federal programs (including laws, regulations, and 
        guidelines)--
                    (A) to better promote the deployment of plug-in 
                electric drive vehicles; and
                    (B) to reduce barriers to the deployment of plug-in 
                electric drive vehicles; and
            (6) a plan for integrating the successes and barriers to 
        deployment identified by the deployment communities program 
        established under section 316 to prepare communities across the 
        United States for the rapid deployment of plug-in electric 
        drive vehicles;
    (b) Timing.--
            (1) Initial draft.--Not later than 1 year after the date of 
        enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall complete an initial 
        draft of the national plan that includes the matters described 
        in paragraphs (1) through (5) of subsection (a).
            (2) Final version.--Not later than 18 months after the date 
        of enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall complete a final 
        version of the national plan that includes the matters 
        described in paragraphs (1) through (6) of subsection (a).
    (c) Updates.--Not later than 2 years after the date of development 
of the plan described in subsection (a), and not less frequently than 
once every 2 years thereafter, the Secretary shall use market data and 
information from the targeted plug-in electric drive vehicle deployment 
communities program established under section 316 and other relevant 
data to update the plan to reflect real world market conditions.

SEC. 313. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE.

    (a) Technical Assistance to State, Local, and Tribal Governments.--
            (1) In general.--In carrying out this subtitle, the 
        Secretary shall provide, at the request of the Governor, Mayor, 
        county executive, or the designee of such an official, 
        technical assistance to State, local, and tribal governments to 
        assist with the deployment of plug-in electric drive vehicles.
            (2) Requirements.--The technical assistance described in 
        paragraph (1) shall include--
                    (A) training on codes and standards for building 
                and safety inspectors;
                    (B) training on best practices for expediting 
                permits and inspections;
                    (C) education and outreach on frequently asked 
                questions relating to the various types of plug-in 
                electric drive vehicles and associated infrastructure, 
                battery technology, and disposal; and
                    (D) the dissemination of information regarding best 
                practices for the deployment of plug-in electric drive 
                vehicles.
            (3) Priority.--In providing technical assistance under this 
        subsection, the Secretary shall give priority to--
                    (A) communities that have established public and 
                private partnerships, including partnerships comprised 
                of--
                            (i) elected and appointed officials from 
                        each of the participating State, local, and 
                        tribal governments;
                            (ii) relevant generators and distributors 
                        of electricity;
                            (iii) public utility commissions;
                            (iv) departments of public works and 
                        transportation;
                            (v) owners and operators of property that 
                        will be essential to the deployment of a 
                        sufficient level of publicly available charging 
                        infrastructure (including privately owned 
                        parking lots or structures and commercial 
                        entities with public access locations);
                            (vi) plug-in electric drive vehicle 
                        manufacturers or retailers;
                            (vii) third-party providers of charging 
                        infrastructure or services;
                            (viii) owners of any major fleet that will 
                        participate in the program;
                            (ix) as appropriate, owners and operators 
                        of regional electric power distribution and 
                        transmission facilities; and
                            (x) other existing community coalitions 
                        recognized by the Department of Energy;
                    (B) communities that, as determined by the 
                Secretary, have best demonstrated that the public is 
                likely to embrace plug-in electric drive vehicles, 
                giving particular consideration to communities that--
                            (i) have documented waiting lists to 
                        purchase plug-in electric drive vehicles;
                            (ii) have developed projections of the 
                        quantity of plug-in electric drive vehicles 
                        supplied to dealers; and
                            (iii) have assessed the quantity of 
                        charging infrastructure installed or for which 
                        permits have been issued;
                    (C) communities that have shown a commitment to 
                serving diverse consumer charging infrastructure needs, 
                including the charging infrastructure needs for single- 
                and multi-family housing and public and privately owned 
                commercial infrastructure; and
                    (D) communities that have established regulatory 
                and educational efforts to facilitate consumer 
                acceptance of plug-in electric drive vehicles, 
                including by--
                            (i) adopting (or being in the process of 
                        adopting) streamlined permitting and 
                        inspections processes for residential charging 
                        infrastructure; and
                            (ii) providing customer informational 
                        resources, including providing plug-in electric 
                        drive information on community or other Web 
                        sites.
            (4) Best practices.--The Secretary shall collect and 
        disseminate information to State, local, and tribal governments 
        creating plans to deploy plug-in electric drive vehicles on 
        best practices (including codes and standards) that uses data 
        from--
                    (A) the program established by section 316;
                    (B) the activities carried out by the Task Force; 
                and
                    (C) existing academic and industry studies of the 
                factors that contribute to the successful deployment of 
                new technologies, particularly studies relating to 
                alternative fueled vehicles.
            (5) Grants.--
                    (A) In general.--The Secretary shall establish a 
                program to provide grants to State, local, and tribal 
                governments or to partnerships of government and 
                private entities to assist the governments and 
                partnerships--
                            (i) in preparing a community deployment 
                        plan under section 316; and
                            (ii) in preparing and implementing programs 
                        that support the deployment of plug-in electric 
                        drive vehicles.
                    (B) Application.--A State, local, or tribal 
                government that seeks to receive a grant under this 
                paragraph shall submit to the Secretary an application 
                for the grant at such time, in such form, and 
                containing such information as the Secretary may 
                prescribe.
                    (C) Use of funds.--A State, local, or tribal 
                government receiving a grant under this paragraph shall 
                use the funds--
                            (i) to develop a community deployment plan 
                        that shall be submitted to the next available 
                        competition under section 316; and
                            (ii) to carry out activities that encourage 
                        the deployment of plug-in electric drive 
                        vehicles including--
                                    (I) planning for and installing 
                                charging infrastructure, particularly 
                                to develop and demonstrate diverse and 
                                cost-effective planning, installation, 
                                and operations options for deployment 
                                of single family and multifamily 
                                residential, workplace, and publicly 
                                available charging infrastructure;
                                    (II) updating building, zoning, or 
                                parking codes and permitting or 
                                inspection processes;
                                    (III) workforce training, including 
                                the training of permitting officials;
                                    (IV) public education described in 
                                the proposed marketing plan;
                                    (V) supplementing (and not 
                                supplanting) the number of plug-in 
                                electric drive vehicles that are 
                                purchased by State, local, and tribal 
                                governments; and
                                    (VI) any other activities, as 
                                determined to be necessary by the 
                                Secretary.
                    (D) Criteria.--The Secretary shall develop and 
                publish criteria for the selection of technical 
                assistance grants, including requirements for the 
                submission of applications under this paragraph.
    (b) Updating Model Building Codes, Permitting and Inspection 
Processes, and Zoning or Parking Rules.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 1 year after the date of 
        enactment of this Act, the Secretary, in consultation with the 
        American Society of Heating, Refrigerating and Air-Conditioning 
        Engineers, the International Code Council, and any other 
        organizations that the Secretary determines to be appropriate, 
        shall develop and publish guidance for--
                    (A) model building codes for the inclusion of 
                separate circuits for charging infrastructure, as 
                appropriate, in new construction and major renovations 
                of private residences, buildings, or other structures 
                that could provide publicly available charging 
                infrastructure;
                    (B) model construction permitting or inspection 
                processes that allow for the expedited installation of 
                charging infrastructure for purchasers of plug-in 
                electric drive vehicles (including a permitting process 
                that allows a vehicle purchaser to have charging 
                infrastructure installed not later than 1 week after a 
                request); and
                    (C) model zoning, parking rules, or other local 
                ordinances that--
                            (i) facilitate the installation of publicly 
                        available charging infrastructure, including 
                        commercial entities that provide public access 
                        to infrastructure; and
                            (ii) allow for access to publicly available 
                        charging infrastructure.
            (2) Optional adoption.--An applicant for selection for 
        technical assistance under this section or as a deployment 
        community under section 316 shall not be required to use the 
        model building codes, permitting and inspection processes, or 
        zoning, parking rules, or other ordinances included in the 
        report under paragraph (1).
            (3) Smart grid integration.--In developing the model codes 
        or ordinances described in paragraph (1), the Secretary shall 
        consider smart grid integration.

SEC. 314. WORKFORCE TRAINING.

    (a) Maintenance and Support.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary, in consultation with the 
        Committee and the Task Force, shall award grants to 
        institutions of higher education and other qualified training 
        and education institutions for the establishment of programs to 
        provide training and education for vocational workforce 
        development through centers of excellence.
            (2) Purpose.--Training funded under this subsection shall 
        be intended to ensure that the workforce has the necessary 
        skills needed to work on and maintain, and provide emergency 
        assistance relating to, plug-in electric drive vehicles and the 
        infrastructure required to support plug-in electric drive 
        vehicles.
            (3) Scope.--Training funded under this subsection shall 
        include training for--
                    (A) first responders;
                    (B) electricians and contractors who will be 
                installing infrastructure;
                    (C) engineers;
                    (D) code inspection officials; and
                    (E) dealers and mechanics.
    (b) Design.--The Secretary shall award grants to institutions of 
higher education and other qualified training and education 
institutions for the establishment of programs to provide training and 
education in designing plug-in electric drive vehicles and associated 
components and infrastructure to ensure that the United States can lead 
the world in this field.

SEC. 315. FEDERAL FLEETS.

    (a) In General.--Electricity consumed by Federal agencies to fuel 
plug-in electric drive vehicles--
            (1) is an alternative fuel (as defined in section 301 of 
        the Energy Policy Act of 1992 (42 U.S.C. 13218)); and
            (2) shall be accounted for under Federal fleet management 
        reporting requirements, not under Federal building management 
        reporting requirements.
    (b) Assessment and Report.--Not later than 180 days after the date 
of enactment of this Act and every 3 years thereafter, the Federal 
Energy Management Program of the Department of Energy and the General 
Services Administration, in consultation with the Task Force, shall 
complete an assessment of Federal Government fleets, including the 
Postal Service and the Department of Defense, and submit a report to 
Congress that describes--
            (1) for each Federal agency, which types of vehicles the 
        agency uses that would or would not be suitable for near-term 
        and medium-term conversion to plug-in electric drive vehicles, 
        taking into account the types of vehicles for which plug-in 
        electric drive vehicles could provide comparable functionality 
        and lifecycle costs;
            (2) how many plug-in electric drive vehicles could be 
        deployed by the Federal Government in 5 years and in 10 years, 
        assuming that plug-in electric drive vehicles are available and 
        are purchased when new vehicles are needed or existing vehicles 
        are replaced;
            (3) the estimated cost to the Federal Government for 
        vehicle purchases under paragraph (2); and
            (4) a description of any updates to the assessment based on 
        new market data.
    (c) Inventory and Data Collection.--
            (1) In general.--In carrying out the assessment and report 
        under subsection (b), the Federal Energy Management Program, in 
        consultation with the General Services Administration, shall--
                    (A) develop an information request for each agency 
                that operates a fleet of at least 20 motor vehicles; 
                and
                    (B) establish guidelines for each agency to use in 
                developing a plan to deploy plug-in electric drive 
                vehicles.
            (2) Agency responses.--Each agency that operates a fleet of 
        at least 20 motor vehicles shall--
                    (A) collect information on the vehicle fleet of the 
                agency in response to the information request described 
                in paragraph (1); and
                    (B) develop a plan to deploy plug-in electric drive 
                vehicles.
            (3) Analysis of responses.--The Federal Energy Management 
        Program shall--
                    (A) analyze the information submitted by each 
                agency under paragraph (2);
                    (B) approve or suggest amendments to the plan of 
                each agency to ensure that the plan is consistent with 
                the goals and requirements of this title; and
                    (C) submit a plan to Congress and the General 
                Services Administration to be used in developing the 
                pilot program described in subsection (e).
    (d) Budget Request.--Each agency of the Federal Government shall 
include plug-in electric drive vehicle purchases identified in the 
report under subsection (b) in the budget of the agency to be included 
in the budget of the United States Government submitted by the 
President under section 1105 of title 31, United States Code.
    (e) Pilot Program To Deploy Plug-In Electric Drive Vehicles in the 
Federal Fleet.--
            (1) In general.--The Administrator of General Services 
        shall acquire plug-in electric drive vehicles and the requisite 
        charging infrastructure to be deployed in a range of locations 
        in Federal Government fleets, which may include the United 
        States Postal Service and the Department of Defense, during the 
        5-year period beginning on the date of enactment of this Act.
            (2) Data collection.--The Administrator of General Services 
        shall collect data regarding--
                    (A) the cost, performance, and use of plug-in 
                electric drive vehicles in the Federal fleet;
                    (B) the deployment and integration of plug-in 
                electric drive vehicles in the Federal fleet; and
                    (C) the contribution of plug-in electric drive 
                vehicles in the Federal fleet toward reducing the use 
                of fossil fuels and greenhouse gas emissions.
            (3) Report.--Not later than 6 years after the date of 
        enactment of this Act, the Administrator of General Services 
        shall submit to the appropriate committees of Congress a report 
        that--
                    (A) describes the status of plug-in electric drive 
                vehicles in the Federal fleet; and
                    (B) includes an analysis of the data collected 
                under this subsection.
            (4) Public web site.--The Federal Energy Management Program 
        shall maintain and regularly update a publicly available Web 
        site that provides information on the status of plug-in 
        electric drive vehicles in the Federal fleet.
    (f) Acquisition Priority.--Section 507(g) of the Energy Policy Act 
of 1992 (42 U.S.C. 13257(g)) is amended by adding at the end the 
following:
            ``(5) Priority.--The Secretary shall, to the maximum extent 
        practicable, prioritize the acquisition of plug-in electric 
        drive vehicles (as defined in section 131(a) of the Energy 
        Independence and Security Act of 2007 (42 U.S.C. 17011(a)) over 
        nonelectric alternative fueled vehicles.''.
    (g) Maximum Purchase Price of Motor Vehicle.--Section 702 of the 
Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2010 (31 U.S.C. 1343 note; Public Law 
111-117) is amended--
            (1) by striking ``section 16 of the Act of August 2, 1946 
        (60 Stat. 810),'' and inserting ``section 1343(c) of title 31, 
        United States Code,''; and
            (2) by inserting before the period at the end the 
        following: ``: Provided further, That the limits set forth in 
        this section shall not apply to any vehicle that is a 
        commercial vehicle and that operates using an emerging motor 
        vehicle technology, including plug-in hybrid electric and 
        hydrogen fuel cell vehicles''.
    (h) Authorization of Appropriations.--There are authorized to be 
appropriated for the Federal Government to pay for incremental costs to 
purchase or lease plug-in electric drive vehicles and the requisite 
charging infrastructure for Federal fleets such sums as are necessary.

SEC. 316. TARGETED PLUG-IN ELECTRIC DRIVE VEHICLE DEPLOYMENT 
              COMMUNITIES PROGRAM.

    (a) Establishment.--
            (1) In general.--There is established within the national 
        plug-in electric drive deployment program established under 
        section 311 a targeted plug-in electric drive vehicle 
        deployment communities program (referred to in this section as 
        the ``Program'').
            (2) Existing activities.--In carrying out the Program, the 
        Secretary shall coordinate and supplement, not supplant, any 
        ongoing plug-in electric drive deployment activities under 
        section 131 of the Energy Independence and Security Act of 2007 
        (42 U.S.C. 17011).
            (3) Deployment.--
                    (A) In general.--The Secretary shall establish a 
                competitive process to select deployment communities 
                for the Program.
                    (B) Eligible entities.--In selecting participants 
                for the Program under paragraph (1), the Secretary 
                shall only consider applications submitted by State, 
                tribal, or local government entities (or groups of 
                State, tribal, or local government entities).
                    (C) Selection.--Not later than 1 year after the 
                date of enactment of this Act and not later than 1 year 
                after the date on which any subsequent amounts are 
                appropriated for the Program, the Secretary shall 
                select the deployment communities under this paragraph.
                    (D) Termination.--The Program shall be carried out 
                for a 3-year period beginning on the date funding under 
                this title is first provided to the deployment 
                community.
    (b) Goals.--The goals of the Program are--
            (1) to facilitate the rapid deployment of plug-in electric 
        drive vehicles, including--
                    (A) the deployment of 400,000 plug-in electric 
                drive vehicles in the deployment communities selected 
                under paragraph (2);
                    (B) the near-term achievement of significant market 
                penetration in deployment communities; and
                    (C) supporting the achievement of significant 
                market penetration nationally;
            (2) to establish models for the rapid deployment of plug-in 
        electric drive vehicles nationally, including for the 
        deployment of single-family and multifamily residential, 
        workplace, and publicly available charging infrastructure;
            (3) to increase consumer knowledge and acceptance of, and 
        exposure to, plug-in electric drive vehicles;
            (4) to encourage the innovation and investment necessary to 
        achieve mass market deployment of plug-in electric drive 
        vehicles;
            (5) to demonstrate the integration of plug-in electric 
        drive vehicles into electricity distribution systems and the 
        larger electric grid while maintaining or improving grid system 
        performance, security, and reliability;
            (6) to demonstrate protocols and communication standards 
        that facilitate vehicle integration into the grid and provide 
        seamless charging for consumers traveling through multiple 
        utility distribution systems;
            (7) to investigate differences among deployment communities 
        and to develop best practices for implementing vehicle 
        electrification in various communities, including best 
        practices for planning for and facilitating the construction of 
        residential, workplace, and publicly available infrastructure 
        to support plug-in electric drive vehicles;
            (8) to collect comprehensive data on the purchase and use 
        of plug-in electric drive vehicles, including charging profile 
        data at unit and aggregate levels, to inform best practices for 
        rapidly deploying plug-in electric drive vehicles in other 
        locations, including for the installation of charging 
        infrastructure;
            (9) to reduce and displace petroleum use and reduce 
        greenhouse gas emissions by accelerating the deployment of 
        plug-in electric drive vehicles in the United States; and
            (10) to increase domestic manufacturing capacity and 
        commercialization in a manner that will establish the United 
        States as a world leader in plug-in electric drive vehicle 
        technologies.
    (c) Deployment Community Selection Criteria.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary shall ensure, to the maximum 
        extent practicable, that selected deployment communities serve 
        as models of deployment for various communities across the 
        United States.
            (2) Selection.--In selecting communities under this 
        section, the Secretary--
                    (A) shall ensure, to the maximum extent 
                practicable, that--
                            (i) the combination of selected communities 
                        is diverse in population, population density, 
                        demographics, urban and suburban composition, 
                        typical commuting patterns, climate, and type 
                        of utility (including investor-owned, publicly-
                        owned, cooperatively-owned, distribution-only, 
                        and vertically integrated utilities);
                            (ii) the combination of selected 
                        communities is diverse in geographic 
                        distribution, and at least 1 deployment 
                        community is located in each Petroleum 
                        Administration for Defense District;
                            (iii) at least 1 community selected has a 
                        population of less than 500,000;
                            (iv) grants are of a sufficient amount such 
                        that each deployment community will achieve 
                        significant market penetration, particularly 
                        into the mainstream consumer market; and
                            (v) the deployment communities are 
                        representative of other communities across the 
                        United States;
                    (B) is encouraged to select a combination of 
                deployment communities that includes multiple models or 
                approaches for deploying plug-in electric drive 
                vehicles that the Secretary believes are reasonably 
                likely to be effective, including multiple approaches 
                to the deployment of charging infrastructure;
                    (C) in addition to the criteria described in 
                subparagraph (A), may give preference to applicants 
                proposing a greater non-Federal cost share; and
                    (D) when considering deployment community plans, 
                shall take into account previous Department of Energy 
                and other Federal investments to ensure that the 
                maximum domestic benefit from Federal investments is 
                realized.
            (3) Criteria.--
                    (A) In general.--Not later than 120 days after the 
                date of enactment of this Act, and not later than 90 
                days after the date on which any subsequent amounts are 
                appropriated for the Program, the Secretary shall 
                publish criteria for the selection of deployment 
                communities that include requirements that applications 
                be submitted by a State, tribal, or local government 
                entity (or groups of State, tribal, or local government 
                entities).
                    (B) Application requirements.--The criteria 
                published by the Secretary under subparagraph (A) shall 
                include application requirements that, at a minimum, 
                include--
                            (i) achievable goals and methodologies 
                        for--
                                    (I) the number of plug-in electric 
                                drive vehicles to be deployed in the 
                                community;
                                    (II) the expected percentage of 
                                light-duty vehicle sales that would be 
                                sales of plug-in electric drive 
                                vehicles;
                                    (III) the adoption of plug-in 
                                electric drive vehicles (including 
                                medium- or heavy-duty vehicles) in 
                                private and public fleets during the 3-
                                year duration of the Program; and
                                    (IV) a method to generate revenue 
                                to maintain the infrastructure 
                                investments made by the Program after 
                                the termination of the Program;
                            (ii) data that demonstrate that--
                                    (I) the public is likely to embrace 
                                plug-in electric drive vehicles, which 
                                may include--
                                            (aa) the quantity of plug-
                                        in electric drive vehicles 
                                        purchased;
                                            (bb) the number of 
                                        individuals on a waiting list 
                                        to purchase a plug-in electric 
                                        drive vehicle;
                                            (cc) projections of the 
                                        quantity of plug-in electric 
                                        drive vehicles supplied to 
                                        dealers; and
                                            (dd) any assessment of the 
                                        quantity of charging 
                                        infrastructure installed or for 
                                        which permits have been issued; 
                                        and
                                    (II) automobile manufacturers and 
                                dealers will be able to provide and 
                                service the targeted number of plug-in 
                                electric drive vehicles in the 
                                community for the duration of the 
                                program;
                            (iii) clearly defined geographic boundaries 
                        of the proposed deployment area;
                            (iv) a community deployment plan for the 
                        deployment of plug-in electric drive vehicles, 
                        charging infrastructure, and services in the 
                        deployment community;
                            (v) assurances that a majority of the 
                        vehicle deployments anticipated in the plan 
                        will be personal vehicles authorized to travel 
                        on the United States Federal-aid system of 
                        highways, and secondarily, private or public 
                        sector plug-in electric drive fleet vehicles, 
                        but may also include--
                                    (I) private or public sector plug-
                                in electric drive fleet vehicles;
                                    (II) medium- and heavy-duty plug-in 
                                hybrid vehicles; and
                                    (III) any other plug-in electric 
                                drive vehicle authorized to travel on 
                                the United States Federal-aid system of 
                                highways; and
                            (vi) any other merit-based criteria, as 
                        determined by the Secretary.
            (4) Community deployment plans.--Plans for the deployment 
        of plug-in electric drive vehicles shall include--
                    (A) a proposed level of cost sharing in accordance 
                with subsection (d)(2)(C);
                    (B) documentation demonstrating a substantial 
                partnership with relevant stakeholders, including--
                            (i) a list of stakeholders that includes--
                                    (I) elected and appointed officials 
                                from each of the participating State, 
                                local, and tribal governments;
                                    (II) all relevant generators and 
                                distributors of electricity;
                                    (III) State utility regulatory 
                                authorities;
                                    (IV) departments of public works 
                                and transportation;
                                    (V) owners and operators of 
                                property that will be essential to the 
                                deployment of a sufficient level of 
                                publicly available charging 
                                infrastructure (including privately 
                                owned parking lots or structures and 
                                commercial entities with public access 
                                locations);
                                    (VI) plug-in electric drive vehicle 
                                manufacturers or retailers;
                                    (VII) third-party providers of 
                                residential, workplace, private, and 
                                publicly available charging 
                                infrastructure or services;
                                    (VIII) owners of any major fleet 
                                that will participate in the program;
                                    (IX) as appropriate, owners and 
                                operators of regional electric power 
                                distribution and transmission 
                                facilities; and
                                    (X) as appropriate, other existing 
                                community coalitions recognized by the 
                                Department of Energy;
                            (ii) evidence of the commitment of the 
                        stakeholders to participate in the partnership;
                            (iii) a clear description of the role and 
                        responsibilities of each stakeholder; and
                            (iv) a plan for continuing the engagement 
                        and participation of the stakeholders, as 
                        appropriate, throughout the implementation of 
                        the deployment plan;
                    (C) a description of the number of plug-in electric 
                drive vehicles anticipated to be plug-in electric drive 
                personal vehicles and the number of plug-in electric 
                drive vehicles anticipated to be privately owned fleet 
                or public fleet vehicles;
                    (D) a plan for deploying residential, workplace, 
                private, and publicly available charging 
                infrastructure, including--
                            (i) an assessment of the number of 
                        consumers who will have access to private 
                        residential charging infrastructure in single-
                        family or multifamily residences;
                            (ii) options for accommodating plug-in 
                        electric drive vehicle owners who are not able 
                        to charge vehicles at their place of residence;
                            (iii) an assessment of the number of 
                        consumers who will have access to workplace 
                        charging infrastructure;
                            (iv) a plan for ensuring that the charging 
                        infrastructure or plug-in electric drive 
                        vehicle be able to send and receive the 
                        information needed to interact with the grid 
                        and be compatible with smart grid technologies 
                        to the extent feasible;
                            (v) an estimate of the number and 
                        distribution of publicly and privately owned 
                        charging stations that will be publicly or 
                        commercially available;
                            (vi) an estimate of the quantity of 
                        charging infrastructure that will be privately 
                        funded or located on private property; and
                            (vii) a description of equipment to be 
                        deployed, including assurances that, to the 
                        maximum extent practicable, equipment to be 
                        deployed will meet open, nonproprietary 
                        standards for connecting to plug-in electric 
                        drive vehicles that are either--
                                    (I) commonly accepted by industry 
                                at the time the equipment is being 
                                acquired; or
                                    (II) meet the standards developed 
                                by the Director of the National 
                                Institute of Standards and Technology 
                                under section 1305 of the Energy 
                                Independence and Security Act of 2007 
                                (42 U.S.C. 17385);
                    (E) a plan for effective marketing of and consumer 
                education relating to plug-in electric drive vehicles, 
                charging services, and infrastructure;
                    (F) descriptions of updated building codes (or a 
                plan to update building codes before or during the 
                grant period) to include charging infrastructure or 
                dedicated circuits for charging infrastructure, as 
                appropriate, in new construction and major renovations;
                    (G) descriptions of updated construction permitting 
                or inspection processes (or a plan to update 
                construction permitting or inspection processes) to 
                allow for expedited installation of charging 
                infrastructure for purchasers of plug-in electric drive 
                vehicles, including a permitting process that allows a 
                vehicle purchaser to have charging infrastructure 
                installed in a timely manner;
                    (H) descriptions of updated zoning, parking rules, 
                or other local ordinances as are necessary to 
                facilitate the installation of publicly available 
                charging infrastructure and to allow for access to 
                publicly available charging infrastructure, as 
                appropriate;
                    (I) descriptions of incentives for residents in a 
                deployment community who purchase and register a new 
                plug-in electric drive vehicle, in addition to any 
                Federal incentives, including--
                            (i) a rebate of part of the purchase price 
                        of the vehicle;
                            (ii) reductions in sales taxes or 
                        registration fees;
                            (iii) rebates or reductions in the costs of 
                        permitting, purchasing, or installing home 
                        plug-in electric drive vehicle charging 
                        infrastructure; and
                            (iv) rebates or reductions in State or 
                        local toll road access charges;
                    (J) additional consumer benefits, such as preferred 
                parking spaces or single-rider access to high-occupancy 
                vehicle lanes for plug-in electric drive vehicles;
                    (K) a proposed plan for making necessary utility 
                and grid upgrades, including economically sound and 
                cybersecure information technology upgrades and 
                employee training, and a plan for recovering the cost 
                of the upgrades;
                    (L) a description of utility, grid operator, or 
                third-party charging service provider, policies and 
                plans for accommodating the deployment of plug-in 
                electric drive vehicles, including--
                            (i) rate structures or provisions and 
                        billing protocols for the charging of plug-in 
                        electric drive vehicles;
                            (ii) analysis of potential impacts to the 
                        grid;
                            (iii) plans for using information 
                        technology or third-party aggregators--
                                    (I) to minimize the effects of 
                                charging on peak loads;
                                    (II) to enhance reliability; and
                                    (III) to provide other grid 
                                benefits;
                            (iv) plans for working with smart grid 
                        technologies or third-party aggregators for the 
                        purposes of smart charging and for allowing 2-
                        way communication;
                    (M) a deployment timeline;
                    (N) a plan for monitoring and evaluating the 
                implementation of the plan, including metrics for 
                assessing the success of the deployment and an approach 
                to updating the plan, as appropriate; and
                    (O) a description of the manner in which any grant 
                funds applied for under subsection (d) will be used and 
                the proposed local cost share for the funds.
    (d) Applications and Grants.--
            (1) Applications.--
                    (A) In general.--Not later than 150 days after the 
                date of publication by the Secretary of selection 
                criteria described in subsection (c)(3), any State, 
                tribal, or local government, or group of State, tribal, 
                or local governments may apply to the Secretary to 
                become a deployment community.
                    (B) Joint sponsorship.--
                            (i) In general.--An application submitted 
                        under subparagraph (A) may be jointly sponsored 
                        by electric utilities, automobile 
                        manufacturers, technology providers, carsharing 
                        companies or organizations, third-party plug-in 
                        electric drive vehicle service providers, or 
                        other appropriate entities.
                            (ii) Disbursement of grants.--A grant 
                        provided under this subsection shall only be 
                        disbursed to a State, tribal, or local 
                        government, or group of State, tribal, or local 
                        governments, regardless of whether the 
                        application is jointly sponsored under clause 
                        (i).
            (2) Grants.--
                    (A) In general.--In each application, the applicant 
                may request up to $250,000,000 in financial assistance 
                from the Secretary to fund projects in the deployment 
                community.
                    (B) Use of funds.--Funds provided through a grant 
                under this paragraph may be used to help implement the 
                plan for the deployment of plug-in electric drive 
                vehicles included in the application, including--
                            (i) reducing the cost and increasing the 
                        consumer adoption of plug-in electric drive 
                        vehicles through incentives as described in 
                        subsection (c)(4)(I);
                            (ii) planning for and installing charging 
                        infrastructure, including offering additional 
                        incentives as described in subsection 
                        (c)(4)(I);
                            (iii) updating building codes, zoning or 
                        parking rules, or permitting or inspection 
                        processes as described in subparagraphs (F), 
                        (G), and (H) of subsection (c)(4);
                            (iv) workforce training, including training 
                        of permitting officials;
                            (v) public education and marketing 
                        described in the proposed marketing plan;
                            (vi) supplementing (and not supplanting) 
                        the number of plug-in electric drive vehicles 
                        that are purchased by State, local, and tribal 
                        governments; and
                            (vii) necessary utility and grid upgrades 
                        as described in subsection (c)(4)(K).
                    (C) Cost-sharing.--
                            (i) In general.--A grant provided under 
                        this paragraph shall be subject to a minimum 
                        non-Federal cost-sharing requirement of 20 
                        percent.
                            (ii) Non-federal sources.--The Secretary 
                        shall--
                                    (I) determine the appropriate cost 
                                share for each selected applicant; and
                                    (II) require that not less than 20 
                                percent of the cost of an activity 
                                funded by a grant under this paragraph 
                                be provided by a non-Federal source.
                            (iii) Reduction.--The Secretary may reduce 
                        or eliminate the cost-sharing requirement 
                        described in clause (i), as the Secretary 
                        determines to be necessary.
                            (iv) Calculation of amount.--In calculating 
                        the amount of the non-Federal share under this 
                        section, the Secretary--
                                    (I) may include allowable costs in 
                                accordance with the applicable cost 
                                principles, including--
                                            (aa) cash;
                                            (bb) personnel costs;
                                            (cc) the value of a 
                                        service, other resource, or 
                                        third party in-kind 
                                        contribution determined in 
                                        accordance with the applicable 
                                        circular of the Office of 
                                        Management and Budget;
                                            (dd) indirect costs or 
                                        facilities and administrative 
                                        costs; or
                                            (ee) any funds received 
                                        under the power program of the 
                                        Tennessee Valley Authority or 
                                        any Power Marketing 
                                        Administration (except to the 
                                        extent that such funds are made 
                                        available under an annual 
                                        appropriation Act);
                                    (II) shall include contributions 
                                made by State, tribal, or local 
                                government entities and private 
                                entities; and
                                    (III) shall not include--
                                            (aa) revenues or royalties 
                                        from the prospective operation 
                                        of an activity beyond the time 
                                        considered in the grant;
                                            (bb) proceeds from the 
                                        prospective sale of an asset of 
                                        an activity; or
                                            (cc) other appropriated 
                                        Federal funds.
                            (v) Repayment of federal share.--The 
                        Secretary shall not require repayment of the 
                        Federal share of a cost-shared activity under 
                        this section as a condition of providing a 
                        grant.
                            (vi) Title to property.--The Secretary may 
                        vest title or other property interests acquired 
                        under projects funded under this title in any 
                        entity, including the United States.
                    (D) Other federal assistance.--The Secretary shall 
                consider the receipt of other Federal funds received by 
                the applicant in determining the cost share of the 
                applicant.
            (3) Selection.--Not later than 120 days after an 
        application deadline has been established under paragraph (1), 
        the Secretary shall announce the names of the deployment 
        communities selected under this subsection.
    (e) Reporting Requirements.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary, in consultation with the 
        Committee, shall--
                    (A) determine what data will be required to be 
                collected by participants in deployment communities and 
                submitted to the Department to allow for analysis of 
                the deployment communities;
                    (B) provide for the protection of consumer privacy, 
                as appropriate; and
                    (C) develop metrics to evaluate the performance of 
                the deployment communities.
            (2) Provision of data.--As a condition of participation in 
        the Program, a deployment community shall provide any data 
        identified by the Secretary under paragraph (1).
            (3) Reports.--
                    (A) Interim report.--Not later than 3 years after 
                the date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall 
                submit to Congress an interim report that contains--
                            (i) a description of the status of--
                                    (I) the deployment communities and 
                                the implementation of the deployment 
                                plan of each deployment community;
                                    (II) the rate of vehicle 
                                manufacturing deployment and market 
                                penetration of plug-in electric drive 
                                vehicles; and
                                    (III) the deployment of residential 
                                and publicly available infrastructure;
                            (ii) a description of the challenges 
                        experienced and lessons learned from the 
                        program to date, including the activities 
                        described in clause (i); and
                            (iii) an analysis of the data collected 
                        under this subsection.
                    (B) Final report.--On completion of the Program, 
                the Secretary shall submit to Congress a final report 
                that contains--
                            (i) updates on the information described in 
                        subparagraph (A);
                            (ii) a description of the successes and 
                        failures of the Program;
                            (iii) recommendations on whether to promote 
                        further deployment of electric vehicles; and
                            (iv) if additional deployment communities 
                        are recommended, information on--
                                    (I) the number of additional 
                                deployment communities that should be 
                                selected;
                                    (II) the manner in which criteria 
                                for selection should be updated;
                                    (III) the manner in which incentive 
                                structures for deployment should be 
                                changed; and
                                    (IV) whether other forms of onboard 
                                energy storage for electric drive 
                                vehicles should be included.
    (f) Proprietary Information.--The Secretary shall, as appropriate, 
provide for the protection of proprietary information and intellectual 
property rights.
    (g) Conforming Amendment.--Section 166(b)(5) of title 23, United 
States Code, is amended--
            (1) in subparagraph (A), by striking ``Before September 30, 
        2009, the State'' and inserting ``The State''; and
            (2) in subparagraph (B), by striking ``Before September 30, 
        2009, the State'' and inserting ``The State''.

SEC. 317. PLUG-IN ELECTRIC DRIVE VEHICLE PRIVATE FLEET UPGRADE PROGRAM.

    (a) Establishment.--There is established within the national plug-
in electric drive deployment program established under section 311 a 
plug-in electric drive vehicle private fleet upgrade program (referred 
to in this section as the ``Program'').
    (b) Competitive Grants.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary shall establish a 
        competitive process to select electric drive vehicle fleets for 
        the Program to receive grants.
            (2) Eligible entities.--In selecting participants for the 
        Program under paragraph (1), the Secretary shall only consider 
        applications (including joint applications) submitted by 
        companies that--
                    (A) are private, nongovernmental entities;
                    (B) are headquartered in the United States; and
                    (C) plan to purchase, or enter into contracts for 
                hire, not less than 100 plug-in electric drive 
                vehicles.
            (3) Selection criteria.--Not later than 120 days after the 
        date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall publish a 
        set of selection criteria for the grants competition that shall 
        include--
                    (A) offering the highest cost-share relative to the 
                value of the Federal grant offered under the Program;
                    (B) to the maximum extent practicable, serving as 
                models of deployment for other private companies across 
                the United States; and
                    (C) meeting other criteria considered appropriate 
                by the Secretary.
            (4) Applications and grants.--
                    (A) In general.--Not later than 120 days after the 
                date of publication by the Secretary of the selection 
                criteria described in paragraph (3), any company that 
                meets the eligibility criteria described in paragraph 
                (2) may apply to the Secretary to receive a grant.
                    (B) Grants.--
                            (i) In general.--In each application, the 
                        applicant may apply for grants of not more than 
                        $20,000,000.
                            (ii) Use of funds.--Funds provided through 
                        a grant under this subsection may be used--
                                    (I) to purchase plug-in electric 
                                drive vehicles;
                                    (II) to plan for and install 
                                charging infrastructure; and
                                    (III) to carry out other activities 
                                considered appropriate by the 
                                Secretary.
                            (iii) Cost-sharing.--
                                    (I) In general.--A grant provided 
                                under this subsection shall be subject 
                                to a minimum non-Federal cost-sharing 
                                requirement of 80 percent.
                                    (II) Non-federal sources.--The 
                                Secretary shall--
                                            (aa) determine the 
                                        appropriate cost share for each 
                                        selected applicant; and
                                            (bb) subject to subclause 
                                        (III), require that not less 
                                        than 80 percent of the cost of 
                                        an activity funded by a grant 
                                        under this subsection be 
                                        provided from a non-Federal 
                                        source.
                                    (III) Reduction.--The Secretary may 
                                reduce or eliminate the cost-sharing 
                                requirement described in subclause (I), 
                                as the Secretary determines to be 
                                necessary.
                                    (IV) Repayment of federal share.--
                                The Secretary shall not require 
                                repayment of the Federal share of a 
                                cost-shared activity under this section 
                                as a condition of providing a grant.
                                    (V) Title to property.--The receipt 
                                of Federal funds under this section 
                                shall not prohibit the purchaser of a 
                                vehicle, equipment, or other property 
                                from retaining sole, permanent title to 
                                the vehicle, equipment, or property at 
                                the conclusion of the Program.
                            (iv) Other federal assistance.--The 
                        Secretary shall consider the receipt of other 
                        Federal funds by the applicant in determining 
                        the cost share of the applicant.
                    (C) Selection.--Not later than 120 days after the 
                application deadline established under subparagraph 
                (A), the Secretary shall announce the names of the 
                applicants selected to receive grants under this 
                section.
            (5) Reporting requirements.--
                    (A) In general.--The Secretary shall--
                            (i) determine what data will be required to 
                        be collected by participants in the Program and 
                        submitted to the Secretary to permit analysis 
                        of the Program; and
                            (ii) develop metrics to determine the 
                        success of the deployment communities.
                    (B) Provision of data.--As a condition of 
                participation in the Program, an applicant shall 
                provide any data determined by the Secretary under 
                subparagraph (A).
                    (C) Proprietary information.--In carrying out this 
                paragraph, the Secretary shall, as appropriate, provide 
                for the protection of proprietary information and 
                intellectual property rights.
    (c) Loan Guarantees.--Section 1703(b) of the Energy Policy Act of 
2005 (42 U.S.C. 16513(b) is amended by adding at the end the following:
            ``(11) Plug-in electric drive vehicle fleets.''.

                  Subtitle B--Research and Development

SEC. 321. RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM.

    (a) Research and Development Program.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary, in consultation with the 
        Committee, shall establish a program to fund research and 
        development in advanced batteries, plug-in electric drive 
        vehicle components, plug-in electric drive infrastructure, and 
        other technologies supporting the development, manufacture, and 
        deployment of plug-in electric drive vehicles and charging 
        infrastructure.
            (2) Use of funds.--The program may include funding for--
                    (A) the development of low-cost, smart-charging and 
                vehicle-to-grid connectivity technology;
                    (B) the benchmarking and assessment of open 
                software systems using nationally established 
                evaluation criteria; and
                    (C) new technologies in electricity storage or 
                electric drive components for vehicles.
            (3) Report.--Not later than 4 years after the date of 
        enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall submit to Congress a 
        report describing the status of the program described in 
        paragraph (1).
            (4) Supplemental funding.--Funds provided under this 
        section shall supplement (and not supplant) funds made 
        available for research and development under the Vehicles 
        Technology Program of the Department of Energy.
    (b) Secondary Use Applications Program.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary, in consultation with the 
        Committee, shall carry out a research, development, and 
        demonstration program that builds upon any work carried out 
        under section 915 of the Energy Policy Act of 2005 (42 U.S.C. 
        16195) and--
                    (A) identifies possible uses of a vehicle battery 
                after the useful life of the battery in a vehicle has 
                been exhausted;
                    (B) assesses the potential for markets for uses 
                described in subparagraph (A) to develop, as well as 
                any barriers to the development of the markets;
                    (C) identifies the infrastructure, technology, and 
                equipment needed to manage the charging activity of the 
                batteries used in stationary sources; and
                    (D) identifies the potential uses of a vehicle 
                battery--
                            (i) with the most promise for market 
                        development; and
                            (ii) for which market development would be 
                        aided by a demonstration project.
            (2) Report.--Not later than 2 years after the date of 
        enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall submit to the 
        appropriate committees of Congress an initial report on the 
        findings of the program described in paragraph (1), including 
        recommendations for stationary energy storage and other 
        potential applications for batteries used in plug-in electric 
        drive vehicles.
    (c) Secondary Use Demonstration Projects.--
            (1) In general.--Based on the results of the program 
        described in subsection (b), the Secretary, in consultation 
        with the Committee, shall develop guidelines for projects that 
        demonstrate the secondary uses of vehicle batteries.
            (2) Publication of guidelines.--Not later than 30 months 
        after the date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall--
                    (A) publish the guidelines described in paragraph 
                (1); and
                    (B) solicit applications for funding for 
                demonstration projects.
            (3) Grant program.--Not later than 38 months after the date 
        of enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall select proposals 
        for grant funding under this section, based on an assessment of 
        which proposals are mostly likely to contribute to the 
        development of a secondary market for batteries.
    (d) Materials Recycling Study.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary, in consultation with the 
        Committee, shall carry out a study on the recycling of 
        materials from plug-in electric drive vehicles and the 
        batteries used in plug-in electric drive vehicles.
            (2) Report.--Not later than 2 years after the date of 
        enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall submit to the 
        appropriate committees of Congress a report on the findings of 
        the study described in paragraph (1).
    (e) ARPA-E Plug-In Electric Drive Vehicle Research and Development 
Programs.--Funds made available under this section shall be used--
            (1) by the Advanced Research Projects Agency--Energy 
        established by section 5012(b) of the America COMPETES Act (42 
        U.S.C. 16538(b) (referred to in this subsection as ``ARPA-E'') 
        to fund high-risk, high-reward research and development 
        programs supporting the development, manufacture, and 
        deployment of plug-in electric drive vehicles and charging 
        infrastructure, including advanced batteries, plug-in electric 
        drive components, and plug-in electric drive infrastructure; 
        and
            (2) to supplement (and not supplant) funds made available 
        for ARPA-E.

SEC. 322. ADVANCED BATTERIES FOR TOMORROW PRIZE.

    (a) In General.--Not later than 1 year after the date of enactment 
of this Act, as part of the program described in section 1008 of the 
Energy Policy Act of 2005 (42 U.S.C. 16396), the Secretary shall 
establish the Advanced Batteries for Tomorrow Prize to competitively 
award cash prizes in accordance with this section to advance the 
research, development, demonstration, and commercial application of a 
500-mile vehicle battery.
    (b) Battery Specifications.--
            (1) In general.--To be eligible for the Prize, a battery 
        submitted by an entrant shall be--
                    (A) able to power a plug-in electric drive vehicle 
                authorized to travel on the United States Federal-aid 
                system of highways for at least 500 miles before 
                recharging;
                    (B) of a size that would not be cost-prohibitive or 
                create space constraints, if mass-produced; and
                    (C) cost-effective (measured in cost per kilowatt 
                hour), if mass-produced.
            (2) Additional requirements.--The Secretary, in 
        consultation with the Committee, shall establish any additional 
        battery specifications that the Secretary and the Committee 
        determine to be necessary.
    (c) Private Funds.--
            (1) In general.--Subject to paragraph (2) and 
        notwithstanding section 3302 of title 31, United States Code, 
        the Secretary may accept, retain, and use funds contributed by 
        any person, government entity, or organization for purposes of 
        carrying out this subsection--
                    (A) without further appropriation; and
                    (B) without fiscal year limitation.
            (2) Restriction on participation.--An entity providing 
        private funds for the Prize may not participate in the 
        competition for the Prize.
    (d) Technical Review.--The Secretary, in consultation with the 
Committee, shall establish a technical review committee composed of 
non-Federal officers to review data submitted by Prize entrants under 
this section and determine whether the data meets the prize 
specifications described in subsection (b).
    (e) Third Party Administration.--The Secretary may select, on a 
competitive basis, a third party to administer awards provided under 
this section.
    (f) Eligibility.--To be eligible for an award under this section--
            (1) in the case of a private entity, the entity shall be 
        incorporated in and maintain a primary place of business in the 
        United States; and
            (2) in the case of an individual (whether participating as 
        a single individual or in a group), the individual shall be a 
        citizen or lawful permanent resident of the United States.
    (g) Award Amounts.--
            (1) In general.--Subject to the availability of funds to 
        carry out this section, the amount of the Prize shall be 
        $10,000,000.
            (2) Breakthrough achievement awards.--In addition to the 
        award described in paragraph (1), the Secretary, in 
        consultation with the technical review committee established 
        under subsection (d), may award cash prizes, in amounts 
        determined by the Secretary, in recognition of breakthrough 
        achievements in research, development, demonstration, and 
        commercial application of--
                    (A) activities described in subsection (b); or
                    (B) advances in battery durability, energy density, 
                and power density.
    (h) 500-Mile Battery Award Fund.--
            (1) Establishment.--There is established in the Treasury of 
        the United States a fund to be known as the ``500-mile Battery 
        Fund'' (referred to in this section as the ``Fund''), to be 
        administered by the Secretary, to be available without fiscal 
        year limitation and subject to appropriation, to award amounts 
        under this section.
            (2) Transfers to fund.--The Fund shall consist of--
                    (A) such amounts as are appropriated to the Fund 
                under section 701; and
                    (B) such amounts as are described in subsection (c) 
                and that are provided for the Fund.
            (3) Prohibition.--Amounts in the Fund may not be made 
        available for any purpose other than a purposes described in 
        subsection (a).
            (4) Annual reports.--
                    (A) In general.--Not later than 60 days after the 
                end of each fiscal year beginning with fiscal year 
                2012, the Secretary shall submit a report on the 
                operation of the Fund during the fiscal year to--
                            (i) the Committees on Appropriations of the 
                        House of Representatives and of the Senate;
                            (ii) the Committee on Energy and Natural 
                        Resources of the Senate; and
                            (iii) the Committee on Energy and Commerce 
                        of the House of Representatives.
                    (B) Contents.--Each report shall include, for the 
                fiscal year covered by the report, the following:
                            (i) A statement of the amounts deposited 
                        into the Fund.
                            (ii) A description of the expenditures made 
                        from the Fund for the fiscal year, including 
                        the purpose of the expenditures.
                            (iii) Recommendations for additional 
                        authorities to fulfill the purpose of the Fund.
                            (iv) A statement of the balance remaining 
                        in the Fund at the end of the fiscal year.
            (5) Separate appropriations account.--Section 1105(a) of 
        title 31, United States Code, is amended--
                    (A) by redesignating paragraphs (35) and (36) as 
                paragraphs (36) and (37), respectively;
                    (B) by redesignating the second paragraph (33) 
                (relating to obligational authority and outlays 
                requested for homeland security) as paragraph (35); and
                    (C) by adding at the end the following:
            ``(38) a separate statement for the 500-mile Battery Fund 
        established under section 322(h) of the Oil Independence for a 
        Stronger America Act of 2011, which shall include the estimated 
        amount of deposits into the Fund, obligations, and outlays from 
        the Fund.''.

SEC. 323. STUDY ON THE SUPPLY OF RAW MATERIALS.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary of the Interior, in consultation 
with the Secretary and the Task Force, shall conduct a study that--
            (1) identifies the raw materials needed for the manufacture 
        of plug-in electric drive vehicles, batteries, and other 
        components for plug-in electric drive vehicles, and for the 
        infrastructure needed to support plug-in electric drive 
        vehicles;
            (2) describes the primary or original sources and known 
        reserves and resources of those raw materials;
            (3) assesses, in consultation with an independent analysis 
        entity designated by the Secretary, the degree of risk to the 
        manufacture, maintenance, deployment, and use of plug-in 
        electric drive vehicles associated with the supply of those raw 
        materials; and
            (4) identifies pathways to securing reliable and resilient 
        supplies of those raw materials.
    (b) Report.--Not later than 3 years after the date of enactment of 
this Act, the Secretary of the Interior shall submit to Congress a 
report that describes the results of the study.

SEC. 324. STUDY ON THE COLLECTION AND PRESERVATION OF DATA COLLECTED 
              FROM PLUG-IN ELECTRIC DRIVE VEHICLES.

    (a) In General.--Not later than 180 days after the date of 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary, in consultation with the 
Committee, shall enter into an agreement with the National Academy of 
Sciences under which the Academy shall conduct a study that--
            (1) identifies--
                    (A) the data that may be collected from plug-in 
                electric drive vehicles, including data on the 
                location, charging patterns, and usage of plug-in 
                electric drive vehicles;
                    (B) the scientific, economic, commercial, security, 
                and historic potential of the data described in 
                subparagraph (A); and
                    (C) any laws or regulations that relate to the data 
                described in subparagraph (A); and
            (2) analyzes and provides recommendations on matters that 
        include procedures, technologies, and rules relating to the 
        collection, storage, and preservation of the data described in 
        paragraph (1)(A).
    (b) Report.--Not later than 15 months after the date of an 
agreement between the Secretary and the Academy under subsection (a), 
the National Academy of Sciences shall submit to the appropriate 
committees of Congress a report that describes the results of the study 
under subsection (a).

                       Subtitle C--Miscellaneous

SEC. 331. UTILITY PLANNING FOR PLUG-IN ELECTRIC DRIVE VEHICLES.

    (a) In General.--The Public Utility Regulatory Policies Act of 1978 
(16 U.S.C. 2601 et seq.) is amended--
            (1) in section 111(d) (16 U.S.C. 2621(d)), by adding at the 
        end the following:
            ``(20) Plug-in electric drive vehicle planning.--
                    ``(A) Utility plan for plug-in electric drive 
                vehicles.--
                            ``(i) In general.--Not later than 2 years 
                        after the date of enactment of this paragraph, 
                        each electric utility shall develop a plan to 
                        support the use of plug-in electric drive 
                        vehicles in the service area of the electric 
                        utility.
                            ``(ii) Requirements.--A plan under clause 
                        (i) shall investigate--
                                    ``(I) various levels of potential 
                                penetration of plug-in electric drive 
                                vehicles in the utility service area;
                                    ``(II) the potential impacts that 
                                the various levels of penetration and 
                                charging scenarios (including charging 
                                rates and daily hours of charging) 
                                would have on generation, distribution 
                                infrastructure, and the operation of 
                                the transmission grid; and
                                    ``(III) the role of third parties 
                                in providing reliable and economical 
                                charging services.
                            ``(iii) Waiver.--
                                    ``(I) In general.--An electric 
                                utility that determines that the 
                                electric utility will not be impacted 
                                by plug-in electric drive vehicles 
                                during the 5-year period beginning on 
                                the date of enactment of this paragraph 
                                may petition the Secretary to waive 
                                clause (i) for 5 years.
                                    ``(II) Approval.--Approval of a 
                                waiver under subclause (I) shall be in 
                                the sole discretion of the Secretary.
                            ``(iv) Updates.--
                                    ``(I) In general.--Each electric 
                                utility shall update the plan of the 
                                electric utility every 2 years.
                                    ``(II) Resubmission of waiver.--An 
                                electric utility that received a waiver 
                                under clause (iii) and wants the waiver 
                                to continue after the expiration of the 
                                waiver shall be required to resubmit 
                                the waiver.
                            ``(v) Exemption.--If the Secretary 
                        determines that a plan required by a State 
                        regulatory authority meets the requirements of 
                        this paragraph, the Secretary may accept that 
                        plan and exempt the electric utility submitting 
                        the plan from the requirements of clause (i).
                    ``(B) Support requirements.--Each State regulatory 
                authority (in the case of each electric utility for 
                which the authority has ratemaking authority) and each 
                publicly owned utility and cooperative utility shall--
                            ``(i) participate in any local plan for the 
                        deployment of recharging infrastructure in 
                        communities located in the footprint of the 
                        authority or utility;
                            ``(ii) require that charging infrastructure 
                        deployed is interoperable with products of all 
                        auto manufacturers to the maximum extent 
                        practicable; and
                            ``(iii) consider adopting minimum 
                        requirements for deployment of electrical 
                        charging infrastructure and other appropriate 
                        requirements necessary to support the use of 
                        plug-in electric drive vehicles.
                    ``(C) Cost recovery.--Each State regulatory 
                authority (in the case of each electric utility for 
                which the authority has ratemaking authority) and each 
                publicly owned utility and cooperative utility may 
                consider whether, and to what extent, to allow cost 
                recovery for plans and implementation of plans.
                    ``(D) Determination.--Not later than 3 years after 
                the date of enactment of this paragraph, each State 
                regulatory authority (with respect to each electric 
                utility for which the authority has ratemaking 
                authority), and each publicly owned utility and 
                cooperative electric utility, shall complete the 
                consideration, and shall make the determination, 
                referred to in subsection (a) with respect to the 
                standard established by this paragraph.''.
            (2) in section 112(c) (16 U.S.C. 2622(c))--
                    (A) in the first sentence, by striking ``Each 
                State'' and inserting the following:
            ``(1) In general.--Each State'';
                    (B) in the second sentence, by striking ``In the 
                case'' and inserting the following:
            ``(2) Specific standards.--
                    ``(A) Net metering and fossil fuel generation 
                efficiency.--In the case'';
                    (C) in the third sentence, by striking ``In the 
                case'' and inserting the following:
                    ``(B) Time-based metering and communications.--In 
                the case'';
                    (D) in the fourth sentence--
                            (i) by striking ``In the case'' and 
                        inserting the following:
                    ``(C) Interconnection.--In the case''; and
                            (ii) by striking ``paragraph (15)'' and 
                        inserting ``paragraph (15) of section 111(d)'';
                    (E) in the fifth sentence, by striking ``In the 
                case'' and inserting the following:
                    ``(D) Integrated resource planning, rate design 
                modifications, smart grid investments, smart grid 
                information.--In the case''; and
                    (F) by adding at the end the following:
                    ``(E) Plug-in electric drive vehicle planning.--In 
                the case of the standards established by paragraph (20) 
                of section 111(d), the reference contained in this 
                subsection to the date of enactment of this Act shall 
                be deemed to be a reference to the date of enactment of 
                that paragraph.''; and
            (3) in section 112(d) (16 U.S.C. 2622(d)), in the matter 
        preceding paragraph (1), by striking ``(19)'' and inserting 
        ``(20)''.
    (b) Report.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary, in consultation with the 
        Technical Advisory Committee, shall convene a group of utility 
        stakeholders, charging infrastructure providers, third party 
        aggregators, and others, as appropriate, to discuss and 
        determine the potential models for the technically and 
        logistically challenging issues involved in using electricity 
        as a fuel for vehicles, including--
                    (A) accommodation for billing for charging a plug-
                in electric drive vehicle, both at home and at publicly 
                available charging infrastructure;
                    (B) plans for anticipating vehicle to grid 
                applications that will allow batteries in cars as well 
                as banks of batteries to be used for grid storage, 
                ancillary services provision, and backup power;
                    (C) integration of plug-in electric drive vehicles 
                with smart grid, including protocols and standards, 
                necessary equipment, and information technology 
                systems; and
                    (D) any other barriers to installing sufficient and 
                appropriate charging infrastructure.
            (2) Report.--Not later than 2 years after the date of 
        enactment of this Act and biennially thereafter, the Secretary 
        shall submit to the appropriate committees of Congress a report 
        that includes--
                    (A) the issues and model solutions described in 
                paragraph (1); and
                    (B) any other issues that the Task Force and 
                Secretary determine to be appropriate.

SEC. 332. LOAN GUARANTEES.

    (a) Loan Guarantees for Advanced Battery Purchases for Use in 
Stationary Applications.--Subtitle B of title I of the Energy 
Independence and Security Act of 2007 (42 U.S.C. 17011 et seq.) is 
amended by adding at the end the following:

``SEC. 137. LOAN GUARANTEES FOR ADVANCED BATTERY PURCHASES.

    ``(a) Definitions.--In this section:
            ``(1) Qualified automotive battery.--The term `qualified 
        automotive battery' means a battery that--
                    ``(A) has at least 4 kilowatt hours of battery 
                capacity; and
                    ``(B) is designed for use in qualified plug-in 
                electric drive motor vehicles but is purchased for 
                nonautomotive applications.
            ``(2) Eligible entity.--The term `eligible entity' means--
                    ``(A) an original equipment manufacturer;
                    ``(B) an electric utility;
                    ``(C) any provider of range extension 
                infrastructure; or
                    ``(D) any other qualified entity, as determined by 
                the Secretary.
    ``(b) Loan Guarantees.--
            ``(1) In general.--The Secretary shall guarantee loans made 
        to eligible entities for the aggregate purchase of not less 
        than 200 qualified automotive batteries in a calendar year that 
        have a total minimum power rating of 1 megawatt and use 
        advanced battery technology.
            ``(2) Restriction.--As a condition of receiving a loan 
        guarantee under this section, an entity purchasing qualified 
        automotive batteries with loan funds guaranteed under this 
        section shall comply with the provisions of the Buy American 
        Act (41 U.S.C. 10a et seq.).
    ``(c) Regulations.--The Secretary shall promulgate such regulations 
as are necessary to carry out this section.''.
    (b) Loan Guarantees for Charging Infrastructure.--Section 1705(a) 
of the Energy Policy Act of 2005 (42 U.S.C. 16516(a)) is amended by 
adding at the end the following:
            ``(4) Charging infrastructure and networks of charging 
        infrastructure for plug-in drive electric vehicles, if the 
        charging infrastructure will be operational prior to December 
        31, 2016.''.

SEC. 333. PROHIBITION ON DISPOSING OF ADVANCED BATTERIES IN LANDFILLS.

    (a) Definition of Advanced Battery.--
            (1) In general.--In this section, the term ``advanced 
        battery'' means a battery that is a secondary (rechargeable) 
        electrochemical energy storage device that has enhanced energy 
        capacity.
            (2) Exclusions.--The term ``advanced battery'' does not 
        include--
                    (A) a primary nonrechargeable battery; or
                    (B) a lead-acid battery that is used to start or 
                serve as the principal electrical power source for a 
                plug-in electric drive vehicle.
    (b) Requirement.--An advanced battery from a plug-in electric drive 
vehicle shall be disposed of in accordance with the Solid Waste 
Disposal Act (42 U.S.C. 6901 et seq.) (commonly known as the ``Resource 
Conservation and Recovery Act of 1976'').

SEC. 334. PLUG-IN ELECTRIC DRIVE VEHICLE TECHNICAL ADVISORY COMMITTEE.

    (a) In General.--There is established the Plug-in Electric Drive 
Vehicle Technical Advisory Committee to advise the Secretary on the 
programs and activities under this title.
    (b) Mission.--The mission of the Committee shall be to advise the 
Secretary on technical matters, including--
            (1) the priorities for research and development;
            (2) means of accelerating the deployment of safe, 
        economical, and efficient plug-in electric drive vehicles for 
        mass market adoption;
            (3) the development and deployment of charging 
        infrastructure;
            (4) the development of uniform codes, standards, and safety 
        protocols for plug-in electric drive vehicles and charging 
        infrastructure; and
            (5) reporting on the competitiveness of the United States 
        in plug-in electric drive vehicle and infrastructure research, 
        manufacturing, and deployment.
    (c) Membership.--
            (1) Members.--
                    (A) In general.--The Committee shall consist of not 
                less than 12, but not more than 25, members.
                    (B) Representation.--The Secretary shall appoint 
                the members to Committee from among representatives 
                of--
                            (i) domestic industry;
                            (ii) institutions of higher education;
                            (iii) professional societies;
                            (iv) Federal, State, and local governmental 
                        agencies (including the National Laboratories); 
                        and
                            (v) financial, transportation, labor, 
                        environmental, electric utility, or other 
                        appropriate organizations or individuals with 
                        direct experience in deploying and marketing 
                        plug-in electric drive vehicles, as the 
                        Secretary determines to be necessary.
            (2) Terms.--
                    (A) In general.--The term of a Committee member 
                shall not be longer than 3 years.
                    (B) Staggered terms.--The Secretary may appoint 
                members to the Committee for differing term lengths to 
                ensure continuity in the functioning of the Committee.
                    (C) Reappointments.--A member of the Committee 
                whose term is expiring may be reappointed.
            (3) Chairperson.--The Committee shall have a chairperson, 
        who shall be elected by and from the members.
    (d) Review.--The Committee shall review and make recommendations to 
the Secretary on the implementation of programs and activities under 
this title.
    (e) Response.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary shall consider and may adopt 
        any recommendation of the Committee under subsection (c).
            (2) Biennial report.--
                    (A) In general.--Not later than 2 years after the 
                date of enactment of this Act and every 2 years 
                thereafter, the Secretary shall submit to the 
                appropriate committees of Congress a report describing 
                any new recommendations of the Committee.
                    (B) Contents.--The report shall include--
                            (i) a description of the manner in which 
                        the Secretary has implemented or plans to 
                        implement the recommendations of the Committee; 
                        or
                            (ii) an explanation of the reason that a 
                        recommendation of the Committee has not been 
                        implemented.
                    (C) Timing.--The report described in this paragraph 
                shall be submitted by the Secretary at the same time 
                the President submits the budget proposal for the 
                Department of Energy to Congress.
    (f) Coordination.--The Committee shall--
            (1) hold joint annual meetings with the Hydrogen and Fuel 
        Cell Technical Advisory Committee established by section 807 of 
        the Energy Policy Act of 2005 (42 U.S.C. 16156) to help 
        coordinate the work and recommendations of the Committees; and
            (2) coordinate efforts, to the maximum extent practicable, 
        with all existing independent, departmental, and other advisory 
        Committees, as determined to be appropriate by the Secretary.
    (g) Support.--The Secretary shall provide to the Committee the 
resources necessary to carry out this section, as determined to be 
necessary by the Secretary.

SEC. 335. PLUG-IN ELECTRIC DRIVE VEHICLE INTERAGENCY TASK FORCE.

    (a) In General.--Not later than 120 days after the date of 
enactment of this Act, the President shall establish the Plug-in 
Electric Drive Vehicle Interagency Task Force, to be chaired by the 
Secretary and which shall consist of at least 1 representative from 
each of--
            (1) the Office of Science and Technology Policy;
            (2) the Council on Environmental Quality;
            (3) the Department of Energy;
            (4) the Department of Transportation;
            (5) the Department of Defense;
            (6) the Department of Commerce (including the National 
        Institute of Standards and Technology);
            (7) the Environmental Protection Agency;
            (8) the General Services Administration; and
            (9) any other Federal agencies that the President 
        determines to be appropriate.
    (b) Mission.--The mission of the Task Force shall be to ensure 
awareness, coordination, and integration of the activities of the 
Federal Government relating to plug-in electric drive vehicles, 
including--
            (1) plug-in electric drive vehicle research and development 
        (including necessary components);
            (2) the development of widely accepted smart-grid standards 
        and protocols for charging infrastructure;
            (3) the relationship of plug-in electric drive vehicle 
        charging practices to electric utility regulation;
            (4) the relationship of plug-in electric drive vehicle 
        deployment to system reliability and security;
            (5) the general deployment of plug-in electric drive 
        vehicles in the Federal, State, and local governments and for 
        private use;
            (6) the development of uniform codes, standards, and safety 
        protocols for plug-in electric drive vehicles and charging 
        infrastructure; and
            (7) the alignment of international plug-in electric drive 
        vehicle standards.
    (c) Activities.--
            (1) In general.--In carrying out this section, the Task 
        Force may--
                    (A) organize workshops and conferences;
                    (B) issue publications; and
                    (C) create databases.
            (2) Mandatory activities.--In carrying out this section, 
        the Task Force shall--
                    (A) foster the exchange of generic, nonproprietary 
                information and technology among industry, academia, 
                and the Federal Government;
                    (B) integrate and disseminate technical and other 
                information made available as a result of the programs 
                and activities under this title;
                    (C) support education about plug-in electric drive 
                vehicles;
                    (D) monitor, analyze, and report on the effects of 
                plug-in electric drive vehicle deployment on the 
                environment and public health, including air emissions 
                from vehicles and electricity generating units; and
                    (E) review and report on--
                            (i) opportunities to use Federal programs 
                        (including laws, regulations, and guidelines) 
                        to promote the deployment of plug-in electric 
                        drive vehicles; and
                            (ii) any barriers to the deployment of 
                        plug-in electric drive vehicles, including 
                        barriers that are attributable to Federal 
                        programs (including laws, regulations, and 
                        guidelines).
    (d) Agency Cooperation.--A Federal agency--
            (1) shall cooperate with the Task Force; and
            (2) provide, on request of the Task Force, appropriate 
        assistance in carrying out this section, in accordance with 
        applicable Federal laws (including regulations).

                TITLE IV--TRANSPORTATION INFRASTRUCTURE

     Subtitle A--Transportation Options for Families and Businesses

SEC. 401. OIL SAVINGS AND GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSION REDUCTIONS THROUGH 
              TRANSPORTATION EFFICIENCY.

    (a) Environmental Protection Agency.--Part A of title II of the 
Clean Air Act (42 U.S.C. 7521 et seq.) is amended by adding at the end 
the following:

``SEC. 220. OIL SAVINGS AND GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSION REDUCTIONS THROUGH 
              TRANSPORTATION EFFICIENCY.

    ``(a) In General.--The Administrator, in consultation with the 
Secretary of Transportation (referred to in this section as the 
`Secretary'), shall promulgate, and update from time to time, 
regulations to establish--
            ``(1) national transportation-related goals for reducing 
        oil consumption and greenhouse gas emissions that are 
        commensurate with the emission reduction targets established 
        under the Oil Independence for a Stronger America Act of 2011 
        and the amendments made by that Act;
            ``(2) standardized models and related methods, to be used 
        by States, metropolitan planning organizations, and air quality 
        agencies to address oil savings and emission reduction goals, 
        including--
                    ``(A) the development of surface transportation-
                related oil savings and greenhouse gas emission 
                reduction targets pursuant to sections 134 and 135 of 
                title 23, and sections 5303 and 5304 of title 49, 
                United States Code;
                    ``(B) the assessment of projected surface 
                transportation-related oil consumption and greenhouse 
                gas emissions from transportation strategies;
                    ``(C) the assessment of projected surface 
                transportation-related oil consumption and greenhouse 
                gas emissions from State and regional transportation 
                plans;
                    ``(D) the establishment of surface transportation-
                related oil consumption and greenhouse gas emission 
                baselines at national, State, and regional levels; and
                    ``(E) the measurement and assessment of actual 
                surface transportation-related oil consumption and 
                emissions to assess progress toward achievement of oil 
                savings and emission targets at the State and regional 
                levels;
            ``(3) methods for collection of data on transportation-
        related oil consumption and greenhouse gas emissions; and
            ``(4) publication and distribution of successful strategies 
        employed by States, Indian tribes, metropolitan planning 
        organizations, and other entities to reduce transportation-
        related oil consumption and greenhouse gas emissions.
    ``(b) Role of Department of Transportation.--The Secretary, in 
consultation with the Administrator, shall promulgate, and update from 
time to time, regulations--
            ``(1) to improve the ability of transportation planning 
        models and tools, including travel demand models, to address 
        oil consumption and greenhouse gas emissions;
            ``(2) to assess projected surface transportation-related 
        travel activity and transportation strategies from State and 
        regional transportation plans; and
            ``(3) to update transportation planning requirements and 
        approval of transportation plans as necessary to carry out this 
        section.
    ``(c) Consultation and Models.--In promulgating the regulations, 
the Administrator and the Secretary--
            ``(1) shall consult with States, Indian tribes, 
        metropolitan planning organizations, and air quality agencies;
            ``(2) may use existing models and methodologies if the 
        models and methodologies are widely considered to reflect the 
        best practicable modeling or methodological approach for 
        assessing actual and projected transportation-related oil 
        consumption and greenhouse gas emissions from transportation 
        plans and projects; and
            ``(3) shall consider previously developed plans that were 
        based on models and methodologies for reducing oil consumption 
        and greenhouse gas emissions in applying those regulations to 
        the first approvals after promulgation.
    ``(d) Timing.--The Administrator and the Secretary shall--
            ``(1) publish proposed regulations under subsections (a) 
        and (b) not later than 1 year after the date of enactment of 
        this section; and
            ``(2) promulgate final regulations under subsections (a) 
        and (b) not later than 18 months after the date of enactment of 
        this section.
    ``(e) Assessment.--
            ``(1) In general.--At least every 6 years after 
        promulgating final regulations under subsections (a) and (b), 
        the Administrator and the Secretary shall jointly assess 
        current and projected progress in reducing national 
        transportation-related oil consumption and greenhouse gas 
        emissions.
            ``(2) Requirements.--The assessment shall--
                    ``(A) examine the contributions to emission 
                reductions attributable to--
                            ``(i) improvements in vehicle efficiency;
                            ``(ii) greenhouse gas performance of 
                        transportation fuels;
                            ``(iii) reductions in vehicle miles 
                        traveled;
                            ``(iv) changes in consumer demand and use 
                        of transportation management systems; and
                            ``(v) any other greenhouse gas-related 
                        transportation policies enacted by Congress; 
                        and
                    ``(B) include an analysis of the impact of the 
                investments made by each State and metropolitan 
                planning organization through the applicable statewide 
                transportation improvement program and transportation 
                improvement program, respectively, over the most recent 
                6-year period on reducing transportation-related 
                greenhouse gas emissions and oil consumption.
            ``(3) State departments of transportation.--The Secretary 
        shall issue guidance to establish procedures for State 
        departments of transportation to collect and report the data 
        required for the Secretary to carry out the assessment.
            ``(4) Results of assessment.--The Secretary and the 
        Administrator shall consider--
                    ``(A) the results of the assessment conducted under 
                this subsection; and
                    ``(B) based on those results, whether technical or 
                other updates to regulations required under this 
                section and sections 134 and 135 of title 23, and 
                sections 5303 and 5304 of title 49, United States Code, 
                are necessary.''.
    (b) Metropolitan Planning Organizations.--
            (1) Title 23.--Section 134 of title 23, United States Code, 
        is amended--
                    (A) in subsection (a)(1)--
                            (i) by striking ``minimizing'' and 
                        inserting ``reducing''; and
                            (ii) by inserting ``, reliance on oil, 
                        impacts on the environment, transportation-
                        related greenhouse gas emissions,'' after 
                        ``consumption'';
                    (B) in subsection (h)(1)(E)--
                            (i) by inserting ``sustainability, and 
                        livability, reduce surface transportation-
                        related reliance on oil and greenhouse gas 
                        emissions, adapt to the effects of climate 
                        change,'' after ``energy conservation,'';
                            (ii) by inserting ``and public health'' 
                        after ``quality of life''; and
                            (iii) by inserting ``, including housing 
                        and land use patterns'' after ``development 
                        patterns'';
                    (C) in subsection (i)--
                            (i) in paragraph (4)(A)--
                                    (I) by striking ``consult, as 
                                appropriate,'' and inserting 
                                ``cooperate'';
                                    (II) by inserting ``transportation, 
                                public transportation, air quality, 
                                energy, and housing, and shall consult, 
                                as appropriate, with State and local 
                                agencies and Indian tribes responsible 
                                for'' after ``responsible for'' and
                                    (III) by inserting ``public 
                                health,'' after ``conservation,''; and
                            (ii) in paragraph (5)(C)(iii), by inserting 
                        ``and through the Web site of the metropolitan 
                        planning organization, including oil savings 
                        and emission reduction targets and strategies 
                        developed under subsection (k)(6), including an 
                        analysis of the anticipated effects of the 
                        targets and strategies,'' after ``World Wide 
                        Web'';
                    (D) in subsection (j)(5)(A), by striking 
                ``subsection (k)(4)'' and inserting ``subsection 
                (k)(5)''; and
                    (E) in subsection (k)--
                            (i) by redesignating paragraphs (1) through 
                        (5) as paragraphs (2) through (6), 
                        respectively;
                            (ii) by inserting before paragraph (2) (as 
                        so redesignated) the following:
            ``(1) Definitions.--In this subsection:
                    ``(A) Metropolitan planning organization.--The term 
                `metropolitan planning organization' means a 
                metropolitan planning organization described in clause 
                (i) or (ii) of paragraph (7)(B).
                    ``(B) Scenario analysis.--The term `scenario 
                analysis' means the use of a planning tool that--
                            ``(i) develops a range of scenarios 
                        representing various combinations of 
                        transportation strategies, land use strategies, 
                        and development patterns, estimates of how each 
                        of those scenarios would perform in meeting the 
                        oil savings and greenhouse gas emission 
                        reduction targets based on analysis of various 
                        forces (such as health, transportation, 
                        economic or environmental factors, and land 
                        use) that affect growth;
                            ``(ii) includes features such as--
                                    ``(I) the involvement of the 
                                general public, key stakeholders, and 
                                elected officials on a broad scale;
                                    ``(II) the creation of an 
                                opportunity for those participants to 
                                educate each other as to growth trends 
                                and trade-offs, as a means to 
                                incorporate values and feedback into 
                                future plans; and
                                    ``(III) the use of continuing 
                                efforts and ongoing processes; and
                            ``(iii) may include key elements such as--
                                    ``(I) identification of the 
                                considerations shaping planning 
                                decisions and outcomes;
                                    ``(II) determination of patterns of 
                                interaction;
                                    ``(III) creation of scenarios for 
                                discussion purposes;
                                    ``(IV) analysis of implications;
                                    ``(V) evaluation of scenarios; and
                                    ``(VI) use of monitoring 
                                indicators.''; and
                            (iii) by adding at the end the following:
            ``(7) Transportation oil savings and greenhouse gas 
        reduction efforts.--
                    ``(A) In general.--Within a metropolitan planning 
                area serving a transportation management area, the 
                transportation planning process under this section 
                shall address transportation-related oil consumption 
                and greenhouse gas emissions by including oil savings 
                and emission reduction targets and strategies to meet 
                those targets.
                    ``(B) Eligible organizations.--
                            ``(i) Mpos within tmas.--All provisions and 
                        requirements of this section, including the 
                        requirements for transportation oil savings and 
                        greenhouse gas reduction efforts, shall apply 
                        to metropolitan planning organizations that 
                        also serve as transportation management areas.
                            ``(ii) Other mpos.--A metropolitan planning 
                        organization that does not serve as a 
                        transportation management area--
                                    ``(I) may develop transportation 
                                oil savings and greenhouse gas emission 
                                reduction targets and strategies to 
                                meet those targets; and
                                    ``(II) if those targets and 
                                strategies are developed, shall be 
                                subject to all applicable provisions 
                                and requirements of this section and 
                                the Oil Independence for a Stronger 
                                America Act of 2011 and amendments made 
                                by that Act, including requirements of 
                                the transportation oil savings and 
                                greenhouse gas reduction efforts.
                    ``(C) Establishment of targets and criteria.--
                            ``(i) In general.--Not later than 2 years 
                        after the promulgation of the final regulations 
                        required under section 220 of the Clean Air 
                        Act, each metropolitan planning organization 
                        that also serves as a transportation management 
                        area shall develop surface transportation-
                        related oil savings and greenhouse gas emission 
                        reduction targets, as well as strategies to 
                        meet those targets, in consultation with State 
                        air agencies and Indian tribes as part of the 
                        metropolitan transportation planning process 
                        under this section.
                            ``(ii) Multiple designations.--If more than 
                        1 metropolitan planning organization has been 
                        designated within a metropolitan area, each 
                        metropolitan planning organization shall 
                        coordinate with other metropolitan planning 
                        organizations in the same metropolitan area to 
                        develop the targets and strategies described in 
                        clause (i).
                            ``(iii) Minimum requirements.--Each 
                        metropolitan transportation plan developed by a 
                        metropolitan planning organization under clause 
                        (i) shall, within the plan, demonstrate 
                        progress in stabilizing and reducing 
                        transportation-related oil consumption and 
                        greenhouse gas emissions so as to contribute to 
                        the achievement of State targets pursuant to 
                        section 135(f)(9).
                            ``(iv) Requirements for targets and 
                        strategies.--The targets and strategies 
                        developed as part of a plan under this 
                        subparagraph shall, at a minimum--
                                    ``(I) be based on the oil 
                                consumption and emission and travel 
                                demand models and related methodologies 
                                established in the final regulations 
                                required under section 220 of the Clean 
                                Air Act;
                                    ``(II) inventory all sources of 
                                surface transportation-related oil 
                                consumption and greenhouse gas 
                                emissions;
                                    ``(III) apply to those modes of 
                                surface transportation that are 
                                addressed in the planning process under 
                                this section;
                                    ``(IV) be integrated and consistent 
                                with regional transportation plans and 
                                transportation improvement programs; 
                                and
                                    ``(V) be selected through scenario 
                                analysis, and include, pursuant to the 
                                requirements of the transportation 
                                planning process under this section, 
                                transportation investment and 
                                management strategies that reduce oil 
                                consumption and greenhouse gas 
                                emissions from the transportation 
                                sector over the life of the plan, such 
                                as--
                                            ``(aa) efforts to increase 
                                        public transportation 
                                        ridership, including through 
                                        service improvements, capacity 
                                        expansions, and access 
                                        enhancement;
                                            ``(bb) efforts to increase 
                                        walking, bicycling, and other 
                                        forms of nonmotorized 
                                        transportation;
                                            ``(cc) implementation of 
                                        zoning and other land use 
                                        regulations and plans to 
                                        support infill, transit-
                                        oriented development, 
                                        redevelopment, or mixed use 
                                        development;
                                            ``(dd) travel demand 
                                        management programs (including 
                                        carpool, vanpool, or car-share 
                                        projects), transportation 
                                        pricing measures, parking 
                                        policies, and programs to 
                                        promote telecommuting, flexible 
                                        work schedules, and satellite 
                                        work centers;
                                            ``(ee) highway and transit 
                                        operational improvements, 
                                        including intelligent 
                                        transportation systems or other 
                                        operational improvements to 
                                        reduce long-term oil 
                                        consumption and greenhouse gas 
                                        emissions through reduced 
                                        congestion and improved system 
                                        management;
                                            ``(ff) intercity passenger 
                                        rail improvements;
                                            ``(gg) high-speed rail 
                                        improvements and programs;
                                            ``(hh) intercity bus 
                                        improvements;
                                            ``(ii) freight rail 
                                        improvements;
                                            ``(jj) use of materials or 
                                        equipment associated with the 
                                        construction or maintenance of 
                                        transportation projects that 
                                        reduce oil consumption and 
                                        greenhouse gas emissions;
                                            ``(kk) public facilities 
                                        for supplying electricity to 
                                        electric or plug-in hybrid-
                                        electric vehicles;
                                            ``(ll) local street network 
                                        improvements; and
                                            ``(mm) any other effort 
                                        that demonstrates progress in 
                                        reducing transportation-related 
                                        oil consumption and greenhouse 
                                        gas emissions in each 
                                        metropolitan planning 
                                        organization under this 
                                        subsection.
                            ``(v) Identification of projects and 
                        strategies.--The plan developed under this 
                        section shall include a list of projects and 
                        strategies based on the targets and strategies 
                        identified under clause (iv).
                    ``(D) Review and approval.--Not later than 180 days 
                after the date of submission of a plan under this 
                section--
                            ``(i) the Secretary and the Administrator 
                        shall review the plan; and
                            ``(ii) the Secretary shall make a 
                        determination that the plan submitted by a 
                        metropolitan planning organization meets the 
                        requirements of subparagraph (C) if--
                                    ``(I) the Secretary finds that a 
                                metropolitan planning organization has 
                                developed, submitted, and published the 
                                plan of the metropolitan planning 
                                organization pursuant to this section;
                                    ``(II) the Secretary, in 
                                consultation with the Administrator, 
                                determines that the plan is likely to 
                                achieve the targets established by the 
                                metropolitan planning organization 
                                under this subsection; and
                                    ``(III) the development of the plan 
                                complies with the minimum requirements 
                                established under clauses (iii) and 
                                (iv) of subparagraph (C).
                    ``(E) Certification.--
                            ``(i) In general.--Only metropolitan 
                        planning organizations that meet the 
                        requirements of subparagraph (C) shall be 
                        eligible to receive performance grants under 
                        section 402(c) of the Oil Independence for a 
                        Stronger America Act of 2011.
                            ``(ii) Failure to comply.--Failure to 
                        comply with the requirements under subparagraph 
                        (C) shall not impact certification standards 
                        under paragraph (6).''.
            (2) Title 49.--Section 5303 of title 49, United States 
        Code, is amended--
                    (A) in subsection (a)(1)--
                            (i) by striking ``minimizing'' and 
                        inserting ``reducing''; and
                            (ii) by inserting ``, reliance on oil, 
                        impacts on the environment, transportation-
                        related greenhouse gas emissions,'' after 
                        ``consumption'';
                    (B) in subsection (h)(1)(E)--
                            (i) by inserting ``sustainability, and 
                        livability, reduce surface transportation-
                        related reliance on oil and greenhouse gas 
                        emissions, adapt to the effects of climate 
                        change,'' after ``energy conservation,'';
                            (ii) by inserting ``and public health'' 
                        after ``quality of life''; and
                            (iii) by inserting ``, including housing 
                        and land use patterns'' after ``development 
                        patterns'';
                    (C) in subsection (i)--
                            (i) in paragraph (4)(A)--
                                    (I) by striking ``consult, as 
                                appropriate,'' and inserting 
                                ``cooperate'';
                                    (II) by inserting ``transportation, 
                                public transportation, air quality, 
                                energy, and housing, and shall consult, 
                                as appropriate, with State and local 
                                agencies and Indian tribes responsible 
                                for'' after ``responsible for'' and
                                    (III) by inserting ``public 
                                health,'' after ``conservation,''; and
                            (ii) in paragraph (5)(C)(iii), by inserting 
                        ``and through the Web site of the metropolitan 
                        planning organization, including oil savings 
                        and emission reduction targets and strategies 
                        developed under subsection (k)(6), including an 
                        analysis of the anticipated effects of the 
                        targets and strategies,'' after ``World Wide 
                        Web''; and
                    (D) in subsection (k)--
                            (i) by redesignating paragraphs (1) through 
                        (5) as paragraphs (2) through (6), 
                        respectively;
                            (ii) by inserting before paragraph (2) (as 
                        so redesignated) the following:
            ``(1) Definition of metropolitan planning organization.--In 
        this subsection, the term `metropolitan planning organization' 
        means a metropolitan planning organization described in clause 
        (i) or (ii) of paragraph (7)(B).''; and
                            (iii) by adding at the end the following:
            ``(7) Transportation oil savings and greenhouse gas 
        reduction efforts.--
                    ``(A) In general.--Within a metropolitan planning 
                area serving a transportation management area, the 
                transportation planning process under this section 
                shall address transportation-related oil consumption 
                and greenhouse gas emissions by including oil savings 
                and emission reduction targets and strategies to meet 
                those targets.
                    ``(B) Eligible organizations.--
                            ``(i) In general.--The requirements of the 
                        transportation greenhouse gas reduction efforts 
                        shall apply only to metropolitan planning 
                        organizations within a transportation 
                        management area.
                            ``(ii) Development of plan.--A metropolitan 
                        planning organization that does not serve as a 
                        transportation management area--
                                    ``(I) may develop transportation 
                                oil savings and greenhouse gas emission 
                                reduction targets and strategies to 
                                meet those targets; and
                                    ``(II) if those targets and 
                                strategies are developed, shall be 
                                subject to all provisions and 
                                requirements of this section, including 
                                requirements of the transportation oil 
                                savings and greenhouse gas reduction 
                                efforts.
                    ``(C) Establishment of targets and criteria.--
                            ``(i) In general.--Not later than 2 years 
                        after the promulgation of the final regulations 
                        required under section 220 of the Clean Air 
                        Act, each metropolitan planning organization 
                        shall develop surface transportation-related 
                        oil savings and greenhouse gas emission 
                        reduction targets, as well as strategies to 
                        meet those targets, in consultation with State 
                        air agencies and Indian tribes as part of the 
                        metropolitan transportation planning process 
                        under this section.
                            ``(ii) Multiple designations.--If more than 
                        1 metropolitan planning organization has been 
                        designated within a metropolitan area, each 
                        metropolitan planning organization shall 
                        coordinate with other metropolitan planning 
                        organizations in the same metropolitan area to 
                        develop the targets and strategies described in 
                        clause (i).
                            ``(iii) Minimum requirements.--Each 
                        metropolitan transportation plan developed by a 
                        metropolitan planning organization under clause 
                        (i) shall, within the plan, demonstrate 
                        progress in stabilizing and reducing 
                        transportation-related oil consumption and 
                        greenhouse gas emissions so as to contribute to 
                        the achievement of State targets pursuant to 
                        section 135(f)(9) of title 23.
                            ``(iv) Requirements for targets and 
                        strategies.--The targets and strategies 
                        developed as part of a plan under this 
                        subparagraph shall, at a minimum--
                                    ``(I) be based on the oil 
                                consumption and emission models and 
                                related methodologies established in 
                                the final regulations required under 
                                section 220 of the Clean Air Act;
                                    ``(II) inventory all sources of 
                                surface transportation-related oil 
                                consumption and greenhouse gas 
                                emissions;
                                    ``(III) apply to those modes of 
                                surface transportation that are 
                                addressed in the planning process under 
                                this section;
                                    ``(IV) be integrated and consistent 
                                with regional transportation plans and 
                                transportation improvement programs; 
                                and
                                    ``(V) be selected through scenario 
                                analysis (as defined in section 
                                134(k)(1) of title 23), and include, 
                                pursuant to the requirements of the 
                                transportation planning process under 
                                this section, transportation investment 
                                and management strategies that reduce 
                                oil consumption and greenhouse gas 
                                emissions from the transportation 
                                sector over the life of the plan, such 
                                as--
                                            ``(aa) efforts to increase 
                                        public transportation 
                                        ridership, including through 
                                        service improvements, capacity 
                                        expansions, and access 
                                        enhancement;
                                            ``(bb) efforts to increase 
                                        walking, bicycling, and other 
                                        forms of nonmotorized 
                                        transportation;
                                            ``(cc) implementation of 
                                        zoning and other land use 
                                        regulations and plans to 
                                        support infill, transit-
                                        oriented development, 
                                        redevelopment, or mixed use 
                                        development;
                                            ``(dd) travel demand 
                                        management programs (including 
                                        carpool, vanpool, or car-share 
                                        projects), transportation 
                                        pricing measures, parking 
                                        policies, and programs to 
                                        promote telecommuting, flexible 
                                        work schedules, and satellite 
                                        work centers;
                                            ``(ee) highway and transit 
                                        operational improvements, 
                                        including intelligent 
                                        transportation systems or other 
                                        operational improvements to 
                                        reduce long-term oil 
                                        consumption and greenhouse gas 
                                        emissions through reduced 
                                        congestion and improved system 
                                        management;
                                            ``(ff) intercity passenger 
                                        rail improvements;
                                            ``(gg) high-speed rail 
                                        improvements and programs;
                                            ``(hh) intercity bus 
                                        improvements;
                                            ``(ii) freight rail 
                                        improvements;
                                            ``(jj) use of materials or 
                                        equipment associated with the 
                                        construction or maintenance of 
                                        transportation projects that 
                                        reduce oil consumption and 
                                        greenhouse gas emissions;
                                            ``(kk) public facilities 
                                        for supplying electricity to 
                                        electric or plug-in hybrid-
                                        electric vehicles;
                                            ``(ll) local street network 
                                        improvements; and
                                            ``(mm) any other effort 
                                        that demonstrates progress in 
                                        reducing transportation-related 
                                        oil consumption and greenhouse 
                                        gas emissions in each 
                                        metropolitan planning 
                                        organization under this 
                                        subsection.
                            ``(v) Identification of projects and 
                        strategies.--The plan developed under this 
                        section shall include a list of projects and 
                        strategies based on the targets and strategies 
                        identified under clause (iv).
                    ``(D) Review and approval.--Not later than 180 days 
                after the date of submission of a plan under this 
                section--
                            ``(i) the Secretary and the Administrator 
                        shall review the plan; and
                            ``(ii) the Secretary shall make a 
                        determination that the plan submitted by a 
                        metropolitan planning organization meets the 
                        requirements of subparagraph (C) if--
                                    ``(I) the Secretary finds that a 
                                metropolitan planning organization has 
                                developed, submitted, and published the 
                                plan of the metropolitan planning 
                                organization pursuant to this section;
                                    ``(II) the Secretary, in 
                                consultation with the Administrator, 
                                determines that the plan is likely to 
                                achieve the targets established by the 
                                metropolitan planning organization 
                                under this subsection; and
                                    ``(III) the development of the plan 
                                complies with the minimum requirements 
                                established under clauses (iii) and 
                                (iv) of subparagraph (C).
                    ``(E) Certification.--
                            ``(i) In general.--Only metropolitan 
                        planning organizations that meet the 
                        requirements of subparagraph (C) shall be 
                        eligible to receive performance grants under 
                        section 402(c) of the Oil Independence for a 
                        Stronger America Act of 2011.
                            ``(ii) Failure to comply.--Failure to 
                        comply with the requirements under subparagraph 
                        (C) shall not impact certification standards 
                        under paragraph (6).''.
    (c) States.--
            (1) Title 23.--Section 135 of title 23, United States Code, 
        is amended--
                    (A) in subsection (d)(1)(E)--
                            (i) by inserting ``sustainability, and 
                        livability, reduce surface transportation-
                        related oil consumption and greenhouse gas 
                        emissions, adapt to the effects of climate 
                        change,'' after ``energy conservation,'';
                            (ii) by inserting ``and public health'' 
                        after ``quality of life''; and
                            (iii) by inserting ``, including housing 
                        and land use patterns'' after ``development 
                        patterns''; and
                    (B) in subsection (f)--
                            (i) in paragraph (2)(D)(i)--
                                    (I) by striking ``, as appropriate, 
                                in consultation'' and inserting ``in 
                                cooperation'';
                                    (II) by inserting ``State and local 
                                agencies and Indian tribes responsible 
                                for transportation, public 
                                transportation, air quality, energy, 
                                and housing and in consultation with'' 
                                before ``State, tribal''; and
                                    (III) by inserting ``public 
                                health,'' after ``conservation,'';
                            (ii) in paragraph (3)(B)(iii), by inserting 
                        ``and through the Web site of the State, 
                        including oil savings and emission reduction 
                        targets and strategies developed under 
                        paragraph (9) and an analysis of the 
                        anticipated effects of the targets and 
                        strategies'' after ``World Wide Web''; and
                            (iii) by adding at the end the following:
            ``(9) Transportation oil savings and greenhouse gas 
        reduction efforts.--
                    ``(A) In general.--Within a State, the 
                transportation planning process under this section, 
                shall address transportation-related greenhouse gas 
                emissions by including emission reduction targets and 
                strategies to meet those targets.
                    ``(B) Establishment of targets and criteria.--
                            ``(i) In general.--Not later than 2 years 
                        after the promulgation of the final regulations 
                        required under section 220 of the Clean Air 
                        Act, each State shall develop surface 
                        transportation-related oil savings and 
                        greenhouse gas emission reduction targets, as 
                        well as strategies to meet those targets, in 
                        consultation with State air agencies and Indian 
                        tribes as part of the transportation planning 
                        process under this section.
                            ``(ii) Minimum requirements.--Each 
                        transportation plan developed by a State under 
                        clause (i) shall, within the plan, demonstrate 
                        progress in stabilizing and reducing 
                        transportation-related oil consumption and 
                        greenhouse gas emissions in the State so as to 
                        contribute to the achievement of national goals 
                        pursuant to section 220(a)(1) of the Clean Air 
                        Act.
                            ``(iii) Requirements for targets and 
                        strategies.--The targets and strategies 
                        developed as part of a plan under this 
                        subparagraph shall, at a minimum--
                                    ``(I) be based on the oil 
                                consumption and emission models and 
                                related methodologies established in 
                                the final regulations required under 
                                section 220 of the Clean Air Act;
                                    ``(II) inventory all sources of 
                                surface transportation-related oil 
                                consumption and greenhouse gas 
                                emissions;
                                    ``(III) apply to those modes of 
                                surface transportation that are 
                                addressed in the planning process under 
                                this section;
                                    ``(IV) be integrated and consistent 
                                with statewide transportation plans and 
                                statewide transportation improvement 
                                programs; and
                                    ``(V) be selected through scenario 
                                analysis (as defined in section 
                                134(k)(1)), and include, pursuant to 
                                the requirements of the transportation 
                                planning process under this section, 
                                transportation investment and 
                                management strategies that reduce oil 
                                consumption and greenhouse gas 
                                emissions from the transportation 
                                sector over the life of the plan, such 
                                as--
                                            ``(aa) efforts to increase 
                                        public transportation 
                                        ridership, including through 
                                        service improvements, capacity 
                                        expansions, and access 
                                        enhancement;
                                            ``(bb) efforts to increase 
                                        walking, bicycling, and other 
                                        forms of nonmotorized 
                                        transportation;
                                            ``(cc) implementation of 
                                        zoning and other land use 
                                        regulations and plans to 
                                        support infill, transit-
                                        oriented development, 
                                        redevelopment, or mixed use 
                                        development;
                                            ``(dd) travel demand 
                                        management programs (including 
                                        carpool, vanpool, or car-share 
                                        projects), transportation 
                                        pricing measures, parking 
                                        policies, and programs to 
                                        promote telecommuting, flexible 
                                        work schedules, and satellite 
                                        work centers;
                                            ``(ee) highway and transit 
                                        operational improvements, 
                                        including intelligent 
                                        transportation systems or other 
                                        operational improvements to 
                                        reduce congestion and improve 
                                        system management;
                                            ``(ff) intercity passenger 
                                        rail improvements;
                                            ``(gg) high-speed rail 
                                        improvements and programs;
                                            ``(hh) intercity bus 
                                        improvements;
                                            ``(ii) freight rail 
                                        improvements;
                                            ``(jj) use of materials or 
                                        equipment associated with the 
                                        construction or maintenance of 
                                        transportation projects that 
                                        reduce oil consumption and 
                                        greenhouse gas emissions;
                                            ``(kk) public facilities 
                                        for supplying electricity to 
                                        electric or plug-in hybrid-
                                        electric vehicles;
                                            ``(ll) local street network 
                                        improvements; and
                                            ``(mm) any other effort 
                                        that demonstrates progress in 
                                        reducing transportation-related 
                                        oil consumption and greenhouse 
                                        gas emissions.
                            ``(iv) Identification of projects and 
                        strategies.--The plan developed under this 
                        section shall include a list of projects and 
                        strategies based on the targets and strategies 
                        identified under clause (iii).
                    ``(C) Coordination and consultation with public 
                agencies.--Transportation oil savings and greenhouse 
                gas emission targets and plans pursuant to this section 
                shall be developed--
                            ``(i) in coordination with--
                                    ``(I) all metropolitan planning 
                                organizations covered by this section 
                                within the State; and
                                    ``(II) transportation and air 
                                quality agencies within the State;
                            ``(ii) in consultation with representatives 
                        of State and local housing, economic 
                        development, energy, and land use agencies; and
                            ``(iii) in consultation with Indian tribes 
                        contiguous to the State.
                    ``(D) Enforcement.--Not later than 180 days after 
                the date of submission of a plan under this section--
                            ``(i) the Secretary and the Administrator 
                        shall review the plan; and
                            ``(ii) the Secretary shall make a 
                        determination that the plan submitted by a 
                        State meets the requirements of subparagraph 
                        (B) if--
                                    ``(I) the Secretary finds that a 
                                State has developed, submitted, and 
                                published the plan pursuant to this 
                                section;
                                    ``(II) the Secretary, in 
                                consultation with the Administrator, 
                                determines that the plan is likely to 
                                achieve the targets established by the 
                                State under this subsection; and
                                    ``(III) the development of the plan 
                                complies with the minimum requirements 
                                established under clauses (ii) and 
                                (iii) of subparagraph (B).
                    ``(E) Planning finding.--
                            ``(i) In general.--Only States that meet 
                        the requirements of subparagraph (B) shall be 
                        eligible to receive performance grants under 
                        section 402(c) of the Oil Independence for a 
                        Stronger America Act of 2011.
                            ``(ii) Failure to comply.--Failure to 
                        comply with the requirements under subparagraph 
                        (B) shall not impact the planning finding under 
                        subsection (g)(7).''.
            (2) Title 49.--Section 5304 of title 49, United States Code 
        is amended--
                    (A) in subsection (d)(1)(E)--
                            (i) by inserting ``sustainability, and 
                        livability, reduce surface transportation-
                        related oil consumption and greenhouse gas 
                        emissions, adapt to the effects of climate 
                        change,'' after ``energy conservation,'';
                            (ii) by inserting ``and public health'' 
                        after ``quality of life''; and
                            (iii) by inserting ``, including housing 
                        and land use patterns'' after ``development 
                        patterns''; and
                    (B) in subsection (f)--
                            (i) in paragraph (2)(D)(i)--
                                    (I) by striking ``, as appropriate, 
                                in consultation'' and inserting ``in 
                                cooperation'';
                                    (II) by inserting ``State and local 
                                agencies and Indian tribes responsible 
                                for transportation, public 
                                transportation, air quality, and 
                                housing and in consultation with'' 
                                before ``State, tribal''; and
                                    (III) by inserting ``public 
                                health,'' after ``conservation,'';
                            (ii) in paragraph (3)(B)(iii), by inserting 
                        ``and through the Web site of the State, 
                        including oil savings and emission reduction 
                        targets and strategies developed under 
                        paragraph (9) and an analysis of the 
                        anticipated effects of the targets and 
                        strategies'' after ``World Wide Web''; and
                            (iii) by adding at the end the following:
            ``(9) Transportation oil savings and greenhouse gas 
        reduction efforts.--
                    ``(A) In general.--Within a State, the 
                transportation planning process under this section 
                shall address transportation-related oil consumption 
                and greenhouse gas emissions by including oil savings 
                and emission reduction targets and strategies to meet 
                those targets.
                    ``(B) Establishment of targets and criteria.--
                            ``(i) In general.--Not later than 2 years 
                        after the promulgation of the final regulations 
                        required under section 220 of the Clean Air 
                        Act, each State shall develop surface 
                        transportation-related oil savings and 
                        greenhouse gas emission reduction targets, as 
                        well as strategies to meet those targets, in 
                        consultation with State air agencies and Indian 
                        tribes as part of the transportation planning 
                        process under this section.
                            ``(ii) Minimum requirements.--Each 
                        transportation plan developed by a State under 
                        clause (i) shall, within the plan, demonstrate 
                        progress in stabilizing and reducing 
                        transportation-related oil consumption and 
                        greenhouse gas emissions in the State so as to 
                        contribute to the achievement of national 
                        targets pursuant to section 220(a)(1) of the 
                        Clean Air Act.
                            ``(iii) Requirements for targets and 
                        strategies.--The targets and strategies 
                        developed as part of a plan under this 
                        subparagraph shall, at a minimum--
                                    ``(I) be based on the oil 
                                consumption and emission models and 
                                related methodologies established in 
                                the final regulations required under 
                                section 220 of the Clean Air Act;
                                    ``(II) inventory all sources of 
                                surface transportation-related oil 
                                consumption and greenhouse gas 
                                emissions;
                                    ``(III) apply to those modes of 
                                surface transportation that are 
                                addressed in the planning process under 
                                this section;
                                    ``(IV) be integrated and consistent 
                                with statewide transportation plans and 
                                statewide transportation improvement 
                                programs; and
                                    ``(V) be selected through scenario 
                                analysis (as defined in section 
                                134(k)(1) of title 23), and include, 
                                pursuant to the requirements of the 
                                transportation planning process under 
                                this section, transportation investment 
                                and management strategies that reduce 
                                oil consumption and greenhouse gas 
                                emissions from the transportation 
                                sector over the life of the plan, such 
                                as--
                                            ``(aa) efforts to increase 
                                        public transportation 
                                        ridership, including through 
                                        service improvements, capacity 
                                        expansions, and access 
                                        enhancement;
                                            ``(bb) efforts to increase 
                                        walking, bicycling, and other 
                                        forms of nonmotorized 
                                        transportation;
                                            ``(cc) implementation of 
                                        zoning and other land use 
                                        regulations and plans to 
                                        support infill, transit-
                                        oriented development, 
                                        redevelopment, or mixed use 
                                        development;
                                            ``(dd) travel demand 
                                        management programs (including 
                                        carpool, vanpool, or car-share 
                                        projects), transportation 
                                        pricing measures, parking 
                                        policies, and programs to 
                                        promote telecommuting, flexible 
                                        work schedules, and satellite 
                                        work centers;
                                            ``(ee) highway and transit 
                                        operational improvements, 
                                        including intelligent 
                                        transportation systems or other 
                                        operational improvements to 
                                        reduce congestion and improve 
                                        system management;
                                            ``(ff) intercity passenger 
                                        rail improvements;
                                            ``(gg) high-speed rail 
                                        improvements and programs;
                                            ``(hh) intercity bus 
                                        improvements;
                                            ``(ii) freight rail 
                                        improvements;
                                            ``(jj) use of materials or 
                                        equipment associated with the 
                                        construction or maintenance of 
                                        transportation projects that 
                                        reduce oil consumption and 
                                        greenhouse gas emissions;
                                            ``(kk) public facilities 
                                        for supplying electricity to 
                                        electric or plug-in hybrid-
                                        electric vehicles; and
                                            ``(ll) any other effort 
                                        that demonstrates progress in 
                                        reducing transportation-related 
                                        oil consumption and greenhouse 
                                        gas emissions.
                            ``(iv) Identification of projects and 
                        strategies.--The plan developed under this 
                        section shall include a list of projects and 
                        strategies based on the targets and strategies 
                        identified under clause (iii).
                    ``(C) Coordination and consultation with public 
                agencies.--Transportation oil savings and greenhouse 
                gas targets and plans pursuant to this section shall be 
                developed--
                            ``(i) in coordination with--
                                    ``(I) all metropolitan planning 
                                organizations covered by this section 
                                within the State; and
                                    ``(II) transportation and air 
                                quality agencies within the State;
                            ``(ii) in consultation with representatives 
                        of State and local housing, economic 
                        development, energy, and land use agencies; and
                            ``(iii) in consultation with Indian tribes 
                        contiguous to the State.
                    ``(D) Enforcement.--Not later than 180 days after 
                the date of submission of a plan under this section--
                            ``(i) the Secretary and the Administrator 
                        shall review the plan; and
                            ``(ii) the Secretary shall make a 
                        determination that the plan submitted by a 
                        State meets the requirements of subparagraph 
                        (B) if--
                                    ``(I) the Secretary finds that a 
                                State has developed, submitted, and 
                                published the plan pursuant to this 
                                section;
                                    ``(II) the Secretary, in 
                                consultation with the Administrator, 
                                determines that the plan is likely to 
                                achieve the targets established by the 
                                State under this subsection; and
                                    ``(III) the development of the plan 
                                complies with the minimum requirements 
                                established under clauses (ii) and 
                                (iii) of subparagraph (B).
                    ``(E) Planning finding.--
                            ``(i) In general.--Only States that meet 
                        the requirements of subparagraph (B) shall be 
                        eligible to receive performance grants under 
                        section 402(c) of the Oil Independence for a 
                        Stronger America Act of 2011.
                            ``(ii) Failure to comply.--Failure to 
                        comply with the requirements under subparagraph 
                        (B) shall not impact the planning finding under 
                        subsection (g)(7).''.
    (d) Applicability.--Section 304 of the Clean Air Act (42 U.S.C. 
7604) shall not apply to the planning provisions of this section or any 
amendment made by this section.
    (e) Land Use Authority.--Nothing in this section or an amendment 
made by this section--
            (1) infringes on the existing authority of local 
        governments to plan or control land use; or
            (2) provides or transfers authority over land use to any 
        other entity.
    (f) Table of Contents.--The table of contents of title II of the 
Clean Air Act (42 U.S.C. prec. 7401) is amended by adding at the end 
the following:

``Sec. 220. Greenhouse gas emission reductions through transportation 
                            efficiency.''.

SEC. 402. INVESTING IN TRANSPORTATION GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSION REDUCTION 
              PROGRAMS.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary of Transportation (referred to in 
this section as the ``Secretary'') shall distribute funds made 
available to carry out this section to States and metropolitan planning 
organizations to carry out the purposes of this section for each fiscal 
year, including--
            (1) supporting the development and updating of 
        transportation greenhouse gas reduction targets and strategies; 
        and
            (2) providing financial assistance to implement plans 
        approved pursuant to--
                    (A) sections 134(k)(6) and 135(f)(9) of title 23, 
                United States Code; and
                    (B) sections 5303(k)(7) and 5304(f)(9) of title 49, 
                United States Code.
    (b) Allocation for Planning.--
            (1) In general.--Subject to paragraph (2), the Secretary 
        shall distribute not more than 10 percent of the funds 
        available to carry out this section for a fiscal year for 
        metropolitan planning organizations to develop and update 
        transportation plans, including targets and strategies for 
        greenhouse gas emission reduction under--
                    (A) sections 134(k)(6) and 135(f)(9) of title 23, 
                United States Code; and
                    (B) sections 5303(k)(7) and 5304(f)(9) of title 49, 
                United States Code.
            (2) Eligible organizations.--The Secretary shall distribute 
        the funds available under paragraph (1) to metropolitan 
        planning organizations (as defined in section 134(k)(1) of 
        title 23, United States Code) in the proportion that--
                    (A) the population within such a metropolitan 
                planning organization; bears to
                    (B) the total population of all such metropolitan 
                planning organizations.
    (c) Performance Awards.--
            (1) In general.--After distributing funds pursuant to 
        subsection (b)(1), and subject to subsection (h), the Secretary 
        shall distribute the remainder of the funds made available to 
        carry out this section to provide support to States and 
        metropolitan planning organizations.
            (2) Criteria.--In making distributions under this 
        subsection, the Secretary, in consultation with the 
        Administrator, shall develop criteria for making the 
        distribution, taking into consideration, with respect to areas 
        to be covered by the distributions--
                    (A) the quantity of total oil consumption and 
                greenhouse gas emissions to be reduced as a result of 
                implementation of a plan, within a covered area;
                    (B) the quantity of total oil consumption and 
                greenhouse gas emissions to be reduced per capita as a 
                result of the implementation of a plan, within the 
                covered area;
                    (C) the cost-effectiveness of reducing oil 
                consumption and greenhouse gas emissions during the 
                life of the plan;
                    (D) progress toward achieving oil savings and 
                emission reductions target established under--
                            (i) sections 134(k)(6) and 135(f)(9) of 
                        title 23, United States Code; and
                            (ii) sections 5303(k)(7) and 5304(f)(9) of 
                        title 49, United States Code;
                    (E) reductions in oil consumption and greenhouse 
                gas emissions previously achieved by States and 
                metropolitan planning organizations during the 5-year 
                period beginning on the date of enactment of this Act;
                    (F) the extent to which the plan increases 
                transportation options and mobility, particularly for 
                low-income individuals, minorities, the elderly, 
                households without motor vehicles, cost-burdened 
                households, and the disabled;
                    (G) the extent to which projects funded will 
                facilitate development patterns and strategies that 
                reduce oil consumption and greenhouse gas emissions; 
                and
                    (H) other factors, including innovative approaches, 
                minimization of costs, and consideration of economic 
                development, revenue generation, consumer fuel cost-
                savings, and other economic, environmental, and health 
                benefits, as the Secretary determines to be 
                appropriate.
    (d) Requirement for Reduced Oil Consumption and Emissions.--Funds 
received under subsection (c) may be used only to fund strategies that 
demonstrate reductions in oil consumption and greenhouse gas emissions 
that are sustainable over the life of the applicable transportation 
plan.
    (e) Cost-Sharing.--The Federal share of the costs of a project 
receiving Federal financial assistance under this section shall be 80 
percent.
    (f) Compliance With Applicable Laws.--
            (1) In general.--Subject to paragraph (2), a project 
        receiving funds under this section shall comply with all 
        applicable Federal laws (including regulations), including 
        applicable requirements of titles 23 and 49, United States 
        Code.
            (2) Eligibility.--Project eligibility shall be determined 
        in accordance with this section.
            (3) Determination of applicable modal requirements.--The 
        Secretary shall--
                    (A) have the discretion to designate the specific 
                modal requirements that shall apply to a project; and
                    (B) be guided by the predominant modal 
                characteristics of the project in the event that a 
                project has cross-modal application.
    (g) Additional Requirements.--
            (1) In general.--As a condition of the receipt of funds 
        under this section, the interests of public transportation 
        employees affected by the assistance shall be protected under 
        arrangements that the Secretary of Labor determines--
                    (A) to be fair and equitable; and
                    (B) to provide benefits equal to the benefits 
                established under section 5333(b) of title 49, United 
                States Code.
    (h) Miscellaneous.--
            (1) Road-use and congestion pricing measures.--All projects 
        supported by funds made available under this section shall not 
        be subject to section 301 of title 23, United States Code shall 
        be eligible to receive amounts collected through road-use and 
        congestion pricing measures.
            (2) Limitations.--The Administrator may not approve any 
        transportation plan for a project that would be inconsistent 
        with existing design, procurement, and construction guidelines 
        established by the Department of Transportation.
            (3) Transfers.--With the approval of the Secretary, 
        recipients of funds under this section may enter into 
        agreements providing for the transfer of funds or value to 
        private transportation providers or ineligible public entities 
        (such as local governments, air quality agencies, zoning 
        commissions, special districts, and transit agencies) that have 
        statutory responsibility or authority for actions necessary to 
        implement strategies pursuant to--
                    (A) sections 134(k)(6) and 135(f)(9) of title 23, 
                United States Code; and
                    (B) sections 5303(k)(7) and 5304(f)(9) of title 49, 
                United States Code.

SEC. 403. COMMUTER BENEFITS EQUITY.

    (a) Uniform Dollar Limitation for All Types of Transportation 
Fringe Benefits.--
            (1) In general.--Section 132(f)(2) of the Internal Revenue 
        Code of 1986 (relating to limitation on exclusion) is amended--
                    (A) by striking ``$100'' in subparagraph (A) and 
                inserting ``$230'',
                    (B) by striking ``$175'' in subparagraph (B) and 
                inserting ``$230'', and
                    (C) by striking the last sentence.
            (2) Inflation adjustment conforming amendments.--
        Subparagraph (A) of section 132(f)(6) of the Internal Revenue 
        Code of 1986 (relating to inflation adjustment) is amended--
                    (A) by striking the last sentence,
                    (B) by striking ``1999'' and inserting ``2011'', 
                and
                    (C) by striking ``1998'' and inserting ``2010''.
            (3) Effective date.--The amendments made by this section 
        shall apply to taxable years beginning after December 31, 2010.
    (b) Clarification of Federal Employee Benefits.--Section 7905 of 
title 5, United States Code, is amended--
            (1) in subsection (a)--
                    (A) in paragraph (2)(C), by inserting ``and'' after 
                the semicolon;
                    (B) in paragraph (3), by striking ``; and'' and 
                inserting a period; and
                    (C) by striking paragraph (4); and
            (2) in subsection (b)(2), by striking subparagraph (A) and 
        inserting the following:
                    ``(A) a qualified transportation fringe as defined 
                in section 132(f)(1) of the Internal Revenue Code of 
                1986;''.

                   Subtitle B--Freight Transportation

SEC. 411. FREIGHT TRANSPORTATION GOAL AND PLAN.

    (a) Freight Transportation Options Goal.--
            (1) In general.--Subject to paragraph (2), it shall be the 
        goal of the United States to shift at least 10 percent of 
        freight shipped by truck to rail or marine shipping by calendar 
        year 2020.
            (2) Increase.--The Secretary of Transportation may increase 
        the goal established under paragraph (1) based on the 
        evaluation of national freight rail and marine shipping 
        infrastructure and the national freight transportation options 
        plan developed pursuant to subsection (b).
    (b) Freight Transportation Plan.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 18 months after the date of 
        enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Transportation shall 
        develop a national freight transportation options plan.
            (2) Contents.--The plan developed under paragraph (1) shall 
        include--
                    (A) an evaluation of national freight rail and 
                marine shipping infrastructure;
                    (B) an assessment of barriers to increased movement 
                of freight by rail and marine shipping;
                    (C) an identification of areas or corridors in 
                which additional capacity or other infrastructure is 
                needed to allow increased use of freight rail and 
                marine shipping; and
                    (D) a strategic plan for investments in capacity or 
                other measures to encourage increased use of freight 
                rail and marine shipping to meet the goal established 
                under subsection (a).

SEC. 412. FREIGHT RAIL CONGESTION GRANTS.

    (a) In General.--Section 24105 of title 49, United States Code, is 
amended to read as follows:

``SEC. 24105. FREIGHT RAIL CONGESTION GRANTS.

    ``(a) Authority.--The Secretary of Transportation may make grants 
to States for financing the capital costs of facilities, 
infrastructure, and equipment for high priority rail corridor projects 
necessary to reduce congestion in freight rail transportation.
    ``(b) Eligible Projects.--Projects eligible for grants under this 
section shall be covered by a State rail plan and provide public 
benefits (as defined by chapter 27).
    ``(c) Federal Share.--The Federal share of the cost of a project 
financed under this section shall not exceed 80 percent.
    ``(d) Grant Conditions.--The Secretary of Transportation shall 
require each recipient of a grant under this section to comply with the 
applicable grant requirements of section 24405.
    ``(e) Equitable Distribution.--The Secretary shall take such 
measures as are necessary to ensure an equitable geographic 
distribution of funds and an appropriate balance in addressing the 
needs of urban and rural communities.''.
    (b) Table of Sections Amendment.--The table of sections for chapter 
XXX of title 49, United States Code, is amended by striking the item 
relating to section 24105 and inserting the following:

``Sec. 24105. Freight rail congestion grants.''.

SEC. 413. RAIL ELECTRIFICATION STUDY.

    (a) In General.--The Comptroller General of the United States shall 
conduct a study on the benefits and costs of electrification of rail 
corridors, including the role of rail electrification in meeting the 
national oil independence goal established under section 101.
    (b) Report.--Not later than 180 days after the date of enactment of 
this Act, the Comptroller General shall submit to the Committee on 
Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate and the Committee 
on Transportation and Infrastructure of the House of Representatives a 
report describing the results of the study required under subsection 
(a).

               TITLE V--ALTERNATIVE TRANSPORTATION FUELS

                     Subtitle A--Advanced Biofuels

SEC. 501. ALLOWANCE OF INVESTMENT TAX CREDIT FOR ADVANCED BIOFUEL 
              FACILITIES.

    (a) In General.--Subsection (a) of section 48 of the Internal 
Revenue Code of 1986 is amended by adding at the end the following new 
paragraph:
            ``(6) Election to treat qualified advanced biofuel 
        facilities as energy property.--
                    ``(A) In general.--In the case of any qualified 
                property which is part of a qualified advanced biofuel 
                facility investment credit facility--
                            ``(i) such property shall be treated as 
                        energy property for purposes of this section, 
                        and
                            ``(ii) the energy percentage with respect 
                        to such property shall be 30 percent.
                    ``(B) Qualified property.--For purposes of this 
                paragraph, the term `qualified property' means 
                property--
                            ``(i) which is--
                                    ``(I) tangible personal property, 
                                or
                                    ``(II) other tangible property (not 
                                including a building or its structural 
                                components), but only if such property 
                                is used as an integral part of the 
                                qualified investment credit facility, 
                                and
                            ``(ii) with respect to which depreciation 
                        (or amortization in lieu of depreciation) is 
                        allowable.
                    ``(C) Qualified advanced biofuel facility.--For 
                purposes of this paragraph, the term `qualified 
                advanced biofuel facility' means any facility--
                            ``(i) the primary purpose of which is the 
                        production of advanced biofuels which are 
                        transportation-grade fuels,
                            ``(ii) which is originally placed in 
                        service by the taxpayer after the date of the 
                        enactment of this paragraph and before December 
                        31, 2016, and
                            ``(iii) with respect to which the taxpayer 
                        makes an election to have this paragraph apply.
                    ``(D) Advanced biofuels.--For purposes of 
                subparagraph (C), the term `advanced biofuel' means 
                alcohol (as defined in section 40(d)(1)), other than 
                ethanol derived from corn starch, used as a fuel which 
                has lifecycle greenhouse gas emissions (as defined in 
                section 211(o)(1)(H) of the Clean Air Act) at least 50 
                percent less than baseline lifecycle greenhouse gas 
                emissions (as defined in section 211(o)(1)(C) of such 
                Act).''.
    (b) Coordination With Special Allowance for Cellulosic Biofuel 
Plant Property.--Paragraph (8) of section 168(l) of the Internal 
Revenue Code of 1986 is amended by inserting ``or under section 
48(a)(6)'' before the period at the end.
    (c) Effective Date.--The amendments made by this section shall 
apply to property placed in service after the date of the enactment of 
this Act.

SEC. 502. GRANTS FOR ADVANCED BIOFUEL FACILITY PROPERTY.

    Section 1603 of division B of the American Recovery and 
Reinvestment Act of 2009 is amended by adding at the end the following:
    ``(k) Application to Qualified Advanced Biofuel Facility 
Property.--In the case of qualified property (as defined in section 
48(a)(6)(B) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986) which is part of a 
qualified advanced biofuel facility (within the meaning of section 
48(a)(6)(C) of such Code)--
            ``(1) such qualified property shall be treated as specified 
        energy property for purposes of this section, and
            ``(2) in applying this section to such qualified property--
                    ``(A) subsection (a) shall be applied--
                            ``(i) by substituting `the 2-year period 
                        beginning on the date of the enactment of this 
                        subsection' for `2009 or 2010' each place it 
                        appears, and
                            ``(ii) by substituting `after such 2-year 
                        period' for `2010' in paragraph (2) thereof,
                    ``(B) the applicable percentage with respect to 
                such qualified property shall be 30 percent,
                    ``(C) the credit termination date with respect to 
                such qualified property shall be January 1, 2017, and
                    ``(D) subsection (j) shall be applied by 
                substituting `the date which is 9-months after the 2-
                year period described in subsection (k)(2)(A)(i)' for 
                `October 1, 2011'.''.

SEC. 503. INCLUSION OF ALGAE-BASED BIOFUEL IN DEFINITION OF CELLULOSIC 
              BIOFUEL.

    (a) Cellulosic Biofuel Producer Credit.--
            (1) General rule.--Paragraph (4) of section 40(a) of the 
        Internal Revenue Code of 1986 is amended by inserting ``and 
        algae-based'' after ``cellulosic''.
            (2) Definitions.--Paragraph (6) of section 40(b) of such 
        Code is amended--
                    (A) by inserting ``and algae-based'' after 
                ``Cellulosic'' in the heading,
                    (B) by striking subparagraph (A) and inserting the 
                following:
                    ``(A) In general.--The cellulosic and algae-based 
                biofuel producer credit of any taxpayer is an amount 
                equal to the applicable amount for each gallon of--
                            ``(i) qualified cellulosic biofuel 
                        production, and
                            ``(ii) qualified algae-based biofuel 
                        production.'',
                    (C) by redesignating subparagraphs (F), (G), and 
                (H) as subparagraphs (I), (J), and (K), respectively,
                    (D) by inserting ``and algae-based'' after 
                ``cellulosic'' in the heading of subparagraph (I), as 
                so redesignated,
                    (E) by inserting ``or algae-based biofuel, 
                whichever is appropriate,'' after ``cellulosic 
                biofuel'' in subparagraph (J), as so redesignated,
                    (F) by inserting ``and qualified algae-based 
                biofuel production'' after ``qualified cellulosic 
                biofuel production'' in subparagraph (K), as so 
                redesignated, and
                    (G) by inserting after subparagraph (E) the 
                following new subparagraphs:
                    ``(F) Qualified algae-based biofuel production.--
                For purposes of this section, the term `qualified 
                algae-based biofuel production' means any algae-based 
                biofuel which is produced by the taxpayer, and which 
                during the taxable year--
                            ``(i) is sold by the taxpayer to another 
                        person--
                                    ``(I) for use by such other person 
                                in the production of a qualified algae-
                                based biofuel mixture in such other 
                                person's trade or business (other than 
                                casual off-farm production),
                                    ``(II) for use by such other person 
                                as a fuel in a trade or business, or
                                    ``(III) who sells such algae-based 
                                biofuel at retail to another person and 
                                places such algae-based biofuel in the 
                                fuel tank of such other person, or
                            ``(ii) is used or sold by the taxpayer for 
                        any purpose described in clause (i).
                The qualified algae-based biofuel production of any 
                taxpayer for any taxable year shall not include any 
                alcohol which is purchased by the taxpayer and with 
                respect to which such producer increases the proof of 
                the alcohol by additional distillation.
                    ``(G) Qualified algae-based biofuel mixture.--For 
                purposes of this paragraph, the term `qualified algae-
                based biofuel mixture' means a mixture of algae-based 
                biofuel and gasoline or of algae-based biofuel and a 
                special fuel which--
                            ``(i) is sold by the person producing such 
                        mixture to any person for use as a fuel, or
                            ``(ii) is used as a fuel by the person 
                        producing such mixture.
                    ``(H) Algae-based biofuel.--For purposes of this 
                paragraph--
                            ``(i) In general.--The term `algae-based 
                        biofuel' means any liquid fuel, including 
                        gasoline, diesel, aviation fuel, and ethanol, 
                        which--
                                    ``(I) is produced from the biomass 
                                of algal organisms, and
                                    ``(II) meets the registration 
                                requirements for fuels and fuel 
                                additives established by the 
                                Environmental Protection Agency under 
                                section 211 of the Clean Air Act (42 
                                U.S.C. 7545).
                            ``(ii) Algal organism.--The term `algal 
                        organism' means a single- or multi-cellular 
                        organism which is primarily aquatic and 
                        classified as a non-vascular plant, including 
                        microalgae, blue-green algae (cyanobacteria), 
                        and macroalgae (seaweeds).
                            ``(iii) Exclusion of low-proof alcohol.--
                        Such term shall not include any alcohol with a 
                        proof of less than 150. The determination of 
                        the proof of any alcohol shall be made without 
                        regard to any added denaturants.''.
            (3) Conforming amendments.--
                    (A) Subparagraph (D) of section 40(d)(3) of such 
                Code is amended--
                            (i) by inserting ``and algae-based'' after 
                        ``cellulosic'' in the heading,
                            (ii) by inserting ``or (b)(6)(F)'' after 
                        ``(b)(6)(C)'' in clause (ii), and
                            (iii) by inserting ``or algae-based'' after 
                        ``such cellulosic''.
                    (B) Paragraph (6) of section 40(d) of such Code is 
                amended--
                            (i) by inserting ``and algae-based'' after 
                        ``cellulosic'' in the heading, and
                            (ii) by striking the first sentence and 
                        inserting ``No cellulosic and algae-based 
                        biofuel producer credit shall be determined 
                        under subsection (a) with respect to any 
                        cellulosic or algae-based biofuel unless such 
                        cellulosic or algae-based biofuel is produced 
                        in the United States and used as a fuel in the 
                        United States.''
                    (C) Paragraph (3) of section 40(e) of such Code is 
                amended by inserting ``and algae-based'' after 
                ``cellulosic'' in the heading.
                    (D) Paragraph (1) of section 4101(a) of such Code 
                is amended--
                            (i) by inserting ``or algae-based'' after 
                        ``cellulosic'', and
                            (ii) by inserting ``and 40(b)(6)(H), 
                        respectively'' after ``section 40(b)(6)(E)''.
    (b) Special Allowance for Cellulosic Biofuel Plant Property.--
Subsection (l) of section 168 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 is 
amended--
            (1) by inserting ``and Algae-based'' after ``Cellulosic'' 
        in the heading,
            (2) by inserting ``and any qualified algae-based biofuel 
        plant property'' after ``qualified cellulosic biofuel plant 
        property'' in paragraph (1),
            (3) by redesignating paragraphs (4) through (8), as amended 
        by section 501, as paragraphs (6) through (10), respectively,
            (4) by inserting ``or qualified algae-based biofuel plant 
        property'' after ``cellulosic biofuel plant property'' in 
        paragraph (7)(C), as so redesignated,
            (5) by striking ``with respect to'' and all that follows in 
        paragraph (9), as so redesignated, and inserting ``with respect 
        to any qualified cellulosic biofuel plant property and any 
        qualified algae-based biofuel plant property which ceases to be 
        such qualified property.'',
            (6) by inserting ``or qualified algae-based biofuel plant 
        property'' after ``cellulosic biofuel plant property'' in 
        paragraph (10), as so redesignated, and
            (7) by inserting after paragraph (3) the following new 
        paragraphs:
            ``(4) Qualified algae-based biofuel plant property.--The 
        term `qualified algae-based biofuel plant property' means 
        property of a character subject to the allowance for 
        depreciation--
                    ``(A) which is used in the United States solely to 
                produce algae-based biofuel,
                    ``(B) the original use of which commences with the 
                taxpayer after the date of the enactment of this 
                paragraph,
                    ``(C) which is acquired by the taxpayer by purchase 
                (as defined in section 179(d)) after the date of the 
                enactment of this paragraph, but only if no written 
                binding contract for the acquisition was in effect on 
                or before such date, and
                    ``(D) which is placed in service by the taxpayer 
                before January 1, 2014.
            ``(5) Algae-based biofuel.--
                    ``(A) In general.--The term `algae-based biofuel' 
                means any liquid fuel which is produced from the 
                biomass of algal organisms.
                    ``(B) Algal organism.--The term `algal organism' 
                means a single- or multi-cellular organism which is 
                primarily aquatic and classified as a non-vascular 
                plant, including microalgae, blue-green algae 
                (cyanobacteria), and macroalgae (seaweeds).''.
    (c) Effective Dates.--
            (1) Cellulosic biofuel producer credit.--The amendments 
        made by subsection (a) shall apply to fuel produced after the 
        date of the enactment of this Act.
            (2) Special allowance for cellulosic biofuel plant 
        property.--The amendments made by subsection (b) shall apply to 
        property purchased and placed in service after the date of the 
        enactment of this Act.

SEC. 504. EXTENSION OF CELLULOSIC BIOFUEL PRODUCER CREDIT.

    (a) In General.--Subparagraph (K) of section 40(b)(6) of the 
Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as redesignated by section 503(a)(2)(C), 
is amended by striking ``January 1, 2013'' and inserting ``January 1, 
2017''.

SEC. 505. EXTENSION OF SPECIAL ALLOWANCE FOR CELLULOSIC BIOFUEL PLANT 
              PROPERTY.

    (a) In General.--Paragraph (2)(D) of section 168(l) of the Internal 
Revenue Code of 1986 is amended by striking ``January 1, 2013'' and 
inserting ``January 1, 2017''.
    (b) Algae-Based Biofuel.--Paragraph (4)(D) of section 168(l) of the 
Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended by section 503(b)(7), is 
amended by striking ``January 1, 2013'' and inserting ``January 1, 
2017''.
    (c) Effective Date.--The amendments made by this section shall 
apply to property placed in service after the date of the enactment of 
this Act.

SEC. 506. EXTENSION OF INCENTIVES FOR BIODIESEL AND RENEWABLE DIESEL.

    (a) Credits for Biodiesel and Renewable Diesel Used as Fuel.--
Subsection (g) of section 40A of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 is 
amended by striking ``December 31, 2011'' and inserting ``December 31, 
2016''.
    (b) Excise Tax Credits and Outlay Payments for Biodiesel and 
Renewable Diesel Fuel Mixtures.--
            (1) Paragraph (6) of section 6426(c) of the Internal 
        Revenue Code of 1986 is amended by striking ``December 31, 
        2011'' and inserting ``December 31, 2016''.
            (2) Subparagraph (B) of section 6427(e)(6) of the Internal 
        Revenue Code of 1986 is amended by striking ``December 31, 
        2011'' and inserting ``December 31, 2016''.
    (c) Effective Date.--The amendments made by this section shall 
apply to fuel sold or used after December 31, 2011.

SEC. 507. EXTENSION OF ALCOHOL FUELS TAX CREDITS.

    (a) In General.--Paragraph (1) of section 40(e) of the Internal 
Revenue Code of 1986 is amended--
            (1) in subparagraph (A), by striking ``December 31, 2011'' 
        and inserting ``December 31, 2016'', and
            (2) in subparagraph (B), by striking ``January 1, 2012'' 
        and inserting ``January 1, 2017''.
    (b) Rule for Credit for Ethanol Blenders.--Subsection (h) of 
section 40 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (1), by striking ``during calendar years 
        2001 through 2010'' and inserting ``after calendar year 2001'', 
        and
            (2) in paragraph (2), by inserting at the end the following 
        flush sentence:
``In the case of any sale or use after calendar year 2011, the blender 
amount and the low-proof blender amount shall be 0 cents.''.
    (c) Effective Date.--The amendments made by this section shall 
apply to alcohol produced, sold, or used after December 31, 2011.

             Subtitle B--Powering Vehicles With Natural Gas

SEC. 511. CREDIT FOR QUALIFIED NATURAL GAS MOTOR VEHICLES.

    (a) In General.--
            (1) In general.--Subsection (e) of section 30B of the 
        Internal Revenue Code of 1986 (relating to new qualified 
        alternative fuel motor vehicle credit) is amended by adding at 
        the end the following new paragraphs:
            ``(6) Special rules for qualified natural gas motor 
        vehicles.--
                    ``(A) In general.--In the case of a qualified 
                natural gas motor vehicle--
                            ``(i) such motor vehicle shall be treated 
                        as a new qualified alternative fuel motor 
                        vehicle under this subsection,
                            ``(ii) paragraph (3) shall be applied by 
                        multiplying each of the dollar amounts 
                        contained in such paragraph by 2, and
                            ``(iii) the credit allowed under this 
                        subsection shall be transferrable as provided 
                        in subparagraph (B).
                    ``(B) Transferability of credit.--
                            ``(i) In general.--A taxpayer who places in 
                        service qualified natural gas motor vehicle may 
                        transfer the credit allowed under this 
                        subsection with respect to such vehicle through 
                        an assignment to the seller, the manufacturer, 
                        or the lessee of such vehicle. Such transfer 
                        may be revoked only with the consent of the 
                        Secretary.
                            ``(ii) Regulations.--The Secretary shall 
                        prescribe such regulations as necessary to 
                        ensure that any credit transferred under clause 
                        (i) is claimed once and not reassigned by such 
                        other person.
            ``(7) Qualified natural gas motor vehicle.--
                    ``(A) In general.--For purposes of this subsection, 
                the term `qualified natural gas motor vehicle' means 
                any motor vehicle--
                            ``(i) which is described in subparagraph 
                        (B), (C), or (D),
                            ``(ii) the original use of which commences 
                        with the taxpayer,
                            ``(iii) which is acquired by the taxpayer 
                        for use or lease, but not for resale, and
                            ``(iv) which is placed in service before 
                        the date which is 10 years after the date of 
                        the enactment of this paragraph.
                    ``(B) Heavy duty vehicles.--A motor vehicle is 
                described in this subparagraph if such motor vehicle--
                            ``(i) is made by a manufacturer,
                            ``(ii) has a gross vehicle weight rating of 
                        more than 8,500 pounds, and
                            ``(iii) is--
                                    ``(I) only capable of operating on 
                                compressed or liquified natural gas, or
                                    ``(II) capable of operating for 
                                more than 175 miles on 1 fueling of 
                                compressed or liquified natural gas and 
                                is capable of operating on gasoline or 
                                diesel fuel.
                    ``(C) Light and medium duty vehicles.--A motor 
                vehicle is described in this subparagraph if such motor 
                vehicle--
                            ``(i) is made by a manufacturer,
                            ``(ii) has a gross vehicle weight rating of 
                        not more 8,500 pounds,
                            ``(iii) is--
                                    ``(I) only capable of operating on 
                                compressed or liquified natural gas, or
                                    ``(II) capable of operating for 
                                more than 175 miles on 1 fueling of 
                                compressed or liquified natural gas and 
                                is capable of operating on gasoline or 
                                diesel fuel,
                            ``(iv) is of a character subject to 
                        depreciation, and
                            ``(v) is acquired by a taxpayer who--
                                    ``(I) owns and operates not less 
                                than 10 motor vehicles in the course of 
                                a trade or business at the time of the 
                                acquisition, and
                                    ``(II) has placed in service more 
                                than 2 motor vehicles described in 
                                clauses (i) through (iv) or described 
                                in subparagraph (D)(iii) after the date 
                                of the enactment of this paragraph.
                    ``(D) Converted or repowered vehicles.--
                            ``(i) In general.--A motor vehicle is 
                        described in this subparagraph if such motor 
                        vehicle is a motor vehicle described in clause 
                        (ii) or clause (iii) which is converted or 
                        repowered so that it--
                                    ``(I) is only capable of operating 
                                on compressed or liquified natural gas, 
                                or
                                    ``(II) is capable of operating for 
                                more than 175 miles on 1 fueling of 
                                compressed or liquified natural gas and 
                                is capable of operating on gasoline or 
                                diesel fuel, is capable of operating on 
                                compressed or liquefied natural gas.
                            ``(ii) Heavy duty vehicles.--A motor 
                        vehicle is described in this clause if such 
                        motor vehicle--
                                    ``(I) has a gross vehicle weight 
                                rating of more than 8,500 pounds, and
                                    ``(II) was not capable of operating 
                                on compressed or liquified natural gas 
                                before the date of such conversion or 
                                repower.
                            ``(iii) Light and medium duty vehicles.--A 
                        motor vehicle is described in this clause if 
                        such motor vehicle--
                                    ``(I) has a gross vehicle weight 
                                rating of not more 8,500 pounds,
                                    ``(II) was not capable of operating 
                                on compressed or liquified natural gas 
                                before the date of such conversion or 
                                repower,
                                    ``(III) is of a character subject 
                                to depreciation,
                                    ``(IV) is acquired by a taxpayer 
                                who owns and operates not less than 10 
                                motor vehicles in the course of a trade 
                                or business at the time of the 
                                acquisition, and
                                    ``(V) is acquired by a taxpayer who 
                                has placed in service more than 2 motor 
                                vehicles described in subclauses (I) 
                                through (III) or described in 
                                subparagraph (C) after the date of the 
                                enactment of this paragraph.
                            ``(iv) Special rules.--
                                    ``(I) Treatment as new.--For 
                                purposes of this subsection, the 
                                original use of any motor vehicle 
                                described in clause (i) shall be 
                                treated as beginning with the first use 
                                after the date of the conversion or 
                                repower.
                                    ``(II) Rule of construction.--In 
                                the case of a used vehicle which is 
                                converted or repowered, nothing in this 
                                section shall be construed to require 
                                that the motor vehicle be acquired in 
                                the year the credit is claimed under 
                                this section with respect to such 
                                vehicle.
                    ``(E) Special rule.--For purposes of this 
                subsection, in the case of a motor vehicle which--
                            ``(i) is described in subparagraph (C) or 
                        (D)(iii),
                            ``(ii) is placed in service after the date 
                        of the enactment of this paragraph, and
                            ``(iii) is placed in service by a taxpayer 
                        in a taxable year prior to the taxable year in 
                        which such taxpayer places in service the third 
                        such motor vehicle described in subparagraph 
                        (C) or (D)(iii) after such date of enactment.
                such motor vehicle shall be treated as placed in 
                service in the taxable year in which such third motor 
                vehicle is placed in service.''.
            (2) Conforming amendment.--Subparagraph (B) of section 
        30B(e)(5) of such Code is amended by inserting ``(other than a 
        qualified natural gas motor vehicle)'' after ``paragraph (3)''.
    (b) Mixed-Fuel Vehicles.--Subparagraph (C) of section 30B(e)(5) of 
the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 is amended by striking ``a mixed-fuel 
vehicle which operates using'' and all that follows and inserting ``a 
mixed-fuel vehicle which--
                            ``(i) in the case of such a vehicle which 
                        is capable of operating on compressed or 
                        liquified natural gas, operates using at least 
                        65 percent compressed or liquified natural gas 
                        and not more than 35 percent petroleum-based 
                        fuel, and
                            ``(ii) in the case of any other such 
                        vehicle, operates using at least 75 percent 
                        alternative fuel and not more than 25 percent 
                        petroleum-based fuel.''.
    (c) Alternative Minimum Tax Treatment.--Subparagraph (B) of section 
38(c)(4) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 is amended by 
redesignating clauses (i) through (ix) as clauses (ii) through (x), 
respectively, and by inserting after before clause (ii) (as so 
redesignated) the following new clause:
                            ``(i) the amount of the credit determined 
                        under section 30B which is attributable to a 
                        qualified natural gas motor vehicle (as defined 
                        in section 30B(e)(7)).''.
    (d) Effective Date.--The amendments made by this section shall 
apply to property placed in service after the date of the enactment of 
this Act.

SEC. 512. NATURAL GAS VEHICLE BONDS.

    (a) In General.--Subpart I of part IV of subchapter A of chapter 1 
(relating to qualified tax credit bonds) of the Internal Revenue Code 
of 1986 is amended by adding at the end the following new section:

``SEC. 54G. NATURAL GAS VEHICLE BONDS.

    ``(a) Natural Gas Vehicle Bond.--For purposes of this subpart, the 
term `natural gas vehicle bond' means any bond issued as part of an 
issue if--
            ``(1) 100 percent of the available project proceeds of such 
        issue are to be used for capital expenditures incurred by a 
        governmental body for 1 or more qualified natural gas vehicle 
        projects placed in service by such governmental body primarily 
        for governmental or public use,
            ``(2) the bond is issued by a governmental body,
            ``(3) the issuer designates such bond for purposes of this 
        section, and
            ``(4) in lieu of the requirements of section 54A(d)(2), the 
        issue meets the requirements of subsection (c).
    ``(b) Limitation on Amount of Bonds Designated.--
            ``(1) In general.--The maximum aggregate face amount of 
        bonds which may be designated under subsection (a) by any 
        issuer shall not exceed the limitation amount allocated under 
        this subsection to such issuer.
            ``(2) National limitation on amount of bonds designated.--
        There is a national natural gas vehicle bond limitation of 
        $3,000,000,000.
            ``(3) Allocation by secretary.--The Secretary shall 
        allocate the amount described in paragraph (2) among qualified 
        natural gas vehicle projects in such manner as the Secretary 
        determines appropriate.
    ``(c) Special Rules Relating to Expenditures.--
            ``(1) In general.--An issue shall be treated as meeting the 
        requirements of this subsection if, as of the date of issuance, 
        the issuer reasonably expects--
                    ``(A) 100 percent or more of the available project 
                proceeds of such issue are to be spent for 1 or more 
                qualified natural gas vehicle projects within the 5-
                year period beginning on the date of issuance of the 
                natural gas vehicle bond,
                    ``(B) a binding commitment with a third party to 
                spend at least 10 percent of such available project 
                proceeds will be incurred within the 6-month period 
                beginning on the date of issuance of the natural gas 
                vehicle bond, and
                    ``(C) such projects will be completed with due 
                diligence and such available project proceeds will be 
                spent with due diligence.
            ``(2) Extension of period.--Upon submission of a request 
        prior to the expiration of the period described in paragraph 
        (1)(A), the Secretary may extend such period if the issuer 
        establishes that the failure to satisfy the 5-year requirement 
        is due to reasonable cause and the related projects will 
        continue to proceed with due diligence.
            ``(3) Failure to spend required amount of bond proceeds 
        within 5 years.--To the extent that less than 100 percent of 
        the available project proceeds of such issue are expended by 
        the close of the 5-year period beginning on the date of 
        issuance (or if an extension has been obtained under paragraph 
        (2), by the close of the extended period), the issuer shall 
        redeem all of the nonqualified bonds within 90 days after the 
        end of such period. For purposes of this paragraph, the amount 
        of the nonqualified bonds required to be redeemed shall be 
        determined in the same manner as under section 142.
    ``(d) Governmental Body.--For purposes of this section, the term 
`governmental body' means any State, territory, possession of the 
United States, the District of Columbia, Indian tribal government, and 
any political subdivision thereof.
    ``(e) Qualified Natural Gas Vehicle Project.--For purposes of this 
subpart, the term `qualified natural gas vehicle project' means--
            ``(1) 1 or more qualified natural gas vehicles (as defined 
        in section 30B(e)(7)), or
            ``(2) 1 or more qualified alternative fuel vehicle 
        refueling properties which are used to store and or dispense 
        compressed or liquefied natural gas (within the meaning of 
        section 30C(c)).
    ``(f) Termination.--This section shall not apply with respect to 
any bond issued after December 31, 2020.''.
    (b) Conforming Amendments.--
            (1) Paragraph (1) of section 54A(d) of the Internal Revenue 
        Code of 1986 is amended by striking ``or'' at the end of 
        subparagraph (D), by striking the period at the end of 
        subparagraph (E) and inserting ``, or'', and by inserting after 
        subparagraph (E) the following new subparagraph:
                    ``(F) a natural gas vehicle bond,''.
            (2) Subparagraph (C) of section 54A(d)(2) of such Code is 
        amended by striking ``and'' at the end of clause (iv), by 
        striking the period at the end of clause (v) and inserting ``, 
        and'', and by adding at the end the following new clause:
                            ``(vi) in the case of a natural gas vehicle 
                        bond, a purpose specified in section 
                        54H(a)(1).''.
    (c) Clerical Amendment.--The table of sections for subpart I of 
part IV of subchapter A of chapter 1 of such Code is amended by adding 
at the end the following new item:

``Sec. 54G. Natural gas vehicle bonds.''.
    (d) Effective Date.--The amendments made by this section shall 
apply to bonds issued after the date of the enactment of this Act.

SEC. 513. INCENTIVES FOR MANUFACTURING FACILITIES PRODUCING VEHICLES 
              FUELED BY COMPRESSED OR LIQUIFIED NATURAL GAS.

    (a) Deduction for Manufacturing Facilities.--
            (1) In general.--Part VI of subchapter B of chapter 1 of 
        the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 (relating to itemized 
        deductions for individuals and corporations) is amended by 
        inserting after section 179E the following new section:

``SEC. 179F. EXPENSING FOR MANUFACTURING FACILITIES PRODUCING VEHICLES 
              FUELED BY COMPRESSED NATURAL GAS OR LIQUIFIED NATURAL 
              GAS.

    ``(a) Treatment as Expenses.--A taxpayer may elect to treat the 
applicable percentage of the cost of any qualified natural gas vehicle 
manufacturing facility property as an expense which is not chargeable 
to a capital account. Any cost so treated shall be allowed as a 
deduction for the taxable year in which the qualified manufacturing 
facility property is placed in service.
    ``(b) Applicable Percentage.--For purposes of subsection (a), the 
applicable percentage is--
            ``(1) 100 percent, in the case of qualified natural gas 
        vehicle manufacturing facility property which is placed in 
        service before January 1, 2016, and
            ``(2) 50 percent, in the case of qualified natural gas 
        vehicle manufacturing facility property which is placed in 
        service after December 31, 2015, and before January 1, 2021.
    ``(c) Election.--
            ``(1) In general.--An election under this section for any 
        taxable year shall be made on the taxpayer's return of the tax 
        imposed by this chapter for the taxable year. Such election 
        shall be made in such manner as the Secretary may by 
        regulations prescribe.
            ``(2) Election irrevocable.--Any election made under this 
        section may not be revoked except with the consent of the 
        Secretary.
    ``(d) Qualified Natural Gas Vehicle Manufacturing Facility 
Property.--For purposes of this section--
            ``(1) In general.--The term `qualified natural gas vehicle 
        manufacturing facility property' means any qualified property--
                    ``(A) the original use of which commences with the 
                taxpayer,
                    ``(B) which is placed in service by the taxpayer 
                after the date of the enactment of this section and 
                before January 1, 2021, and
                    ``(C) no written binding contract for the 
                construction of which was in effect on or before the 
                date of the enactment of this section.
            ``(2) Qualified property.--
                    ``(A) In general.--The term `qualified property' 
                means any property which is a facility or a portion of 
                a facility used for the production of--
                            ``(i) any qualified natural gas vehicles 
                        (as defined in section 30B(e)(7)), or
                            ``(ii) any eligible component.
                    ``(B) Eligible component.--The term `eligible 
                component' means any component which is designed 
                specifically for use in such a qualified natural gas 
                vehicle.
    ``(e) Special Rule for Dual Use Property.--
            ``(1) In general.--In the case of any qualified natural gas 
        vehicle manufacturing facility property which is used to 
        produce both property described in clauses (i) and (ii) of 
        subsection (d)(2)(A) and property which is not so described, 
        the amount of costs taken into account under subsection (a) 
        shall be reduced by an amount equal to--
                    ``(A) the total amount of such costs (determined 
                before the application of this subsection), multiplied 
                by
                    ``(B) the percentage of property expected to be 
                produced which is not so described.
            ``(2) Regulations.--The Secretary shall prescribe such 
        regulations as are necessary to carry out the purpose of this 
        subsection.''.
            (2) Clerical amendment.--The table of sections of part VI 
        of subchapter B of chapter 1 of the Internal Revenue Code of 
        1986 is amended by inserting after the item relating to section 
        179E the following new item:

``Sec. 179F. Expensing for manufacturing facilities producing vehicles 
                            fueled by compressed natural gas or 
                            liquified natural gas.''.
    (b) Refund of Credit for Prior Year Minimum Tax Liability.--Section 
53 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 (relating to credit for prior 
year minimum tax liability) is amended by adding at the end the 
following new subsection:
    ``(g) Election To Treat Amounts Attributable to Qualified 
Manufacturing Facility.--
            ``(1) In general.--In the case of an eligible taxpayer, the 
        amount determined under subsection (c) for the taxable year 
        (after the application of subsection (e)) shall be increased by 
        an amount equal to the applicable percentage of any qualified 
        natural gas vehicle manufacturing facility property which is 
        placed in service during the taxable year.
            ``(2) Applicable percentage.--For purposes of paragraph 
        (1), the applicable percentage is--
                    ``(A) 35 percent, in the case of qualified natural 
                gas vehicle manufacturing facility property which is 
                placed in service before January 1, 2016, and
                    ``(B) 17.5 percent, in the case of qualified 
                natural gas vehicle manufacturing facility property 
                which is placed in service after December 31, 2015, and 
                before January 1, 2021.
            ``(3) Eligible taxpayer.--For purposes of this subsection, 
        the term `eligible taxpayer' means any taxpayer--
                    ``(A) who places in service qualified natural gas 
                vehicle manufacturing facility property during the 
                taxable year,
                    ``(B) who does not make an election under section 
                179F(c), and
                    ``(C) who makes an election under this subsection.
            ``(4) Other definitions and special rules.--
                    ``(A) Qualified natural gas vehicle manufacturing 
                facility property.--The term `qualified natural gas 
                vehicle manufacturing facility property' has the 
                meaning given such term under section 179F(d).
                    ``(B) Special rule for dual use property.--In the 
                case of any qualified natural gas vehicle manufacturing 
                facility property which is used to produce both 
                qualified property (as defined in section 179F(d)) and 
                other property which is not qualified property, the 
                amount of costs taken into account under paragraph (1) 
                shall be reduced by an amount equal to--
                            ``(i) the total amount of such costs 
                        (determined before the application of this 
                        subparagraph), multiplied by
                            ``(ii) the percentage of property expected 
                        to be produced which is not qualified property.
                    ``(C) Election.--
                            ``(i) In general.--An election under this 
                        subsection for any taxable year shall be made 
                        on the taxpayer's return of the tax imposed by 
                        this chapter for the taxable year. Such 
                        election shall be made in such manner as the 
                        Secretary may by regulations prescribe.
                            ``(ii) Election irrevocable.--Any election 
                        made under this subsection may not be revoked 
                        except with the consent of the Secretary.
            ``(5) Credit refundable.--For purposes of this title (other 
        than this section), the credit allowed by reason of this 
        subsection shall be treated as if it were allowed under subpart 
        C.''.
    (c) Effective Date.--The amendments made by this section shall 
apply to taxable years beginning after the date of the enactment of 
this Act.

SEC. 514. STUDY OF INCREASING NATURAL GAS AND LIQUEFIED PETROLEUM GAS 
              VEHICLES IN FEDERAL FLEET.

    (a) In General.--The Administrator of General Services, in 
consultation with the Administrator and the Secretary, shall conduct a 
study of the means by which the Federal fleet could increase the number 
of light-, medium-, and heavy-duty natural gas and liquefied petroleum 
gas vehicles in the fleet.
    (b) Components.--In conducting the study, the Administrator of 
General Services shall--
            (1) take into consideration Executive Order 13514 (74 Fed. 
        Reg. 52117; relating to Federal leadership in environmental, 
        energy, and economic performance) requiring agencies to meet a 
        30 percent reduction in vehicle fleet petroleum use by 2020;
            (2) assess--
                    (A) the barriers to increasing the number of 
                natural gas and liquefied petroleum gas vehicles in the 
                Federal fleet;
                    (B) the potential for maximizing the use of natural 
                gas and liquefied petroleum gas vehicles in the fleet;
                    (C) the expected reductions in petroleum use and 
                greenhouse gas emissions as part of the potential 
                impacts of increasing natural gas and liquefied 
                petroleum in the fleet; and
                    (D) the lifecycle costs involved in fleet 
                conversions, including the cost savings from reduced 
                fuel consumption;
            (3) provide a separate analysis of the potential costs of 
        installing the specific fueling infrastructure required to 
        increase natural gas and liquefied petroleum gas in the fleet; 
        and
            (4) include feasibility assessments for increasing the 
        number of light-, medium-, and heavy-duty natural gas and 
        liquefied petroleum gas vehicles in the fleet over a base 
        period of 10 years and accelerated periods of 3 and 5 years.
    (c) Report.--Not later than 180 days after the date of enactment of 
this Act, the Administrator of General Services shall submit to the 
appropriate committees of Congress a report on the results of the study 
conducted under this section.

             TITLE VI--HEATING OIL AND PROPANE CONSERVATION

SEC. 601. ENERGY EFFICIENCY IMPROVEMENTS FOR HEATING OIL, PROPANE, AND 
              KEROSENE USE IN HOMES AND COMMERCIAL BUILDINGS.

    (a) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Cost-effective.--The term ``cost-effective'', with 
        respect to an energy efficiency program, means that the program 
        meets the total resource cost test, which requires that the net 
        present value of economic benefits over the life of the program 
        or measure (including avoided supply and delivery costs and 
        deferred or avoided investments) is greater than the net 
        present value of the economic costs over the life of the 
        program, including program costs and incremental costs borne by 
        the energy consumer.
            (2) Department.--The term ``Department'' means the 
        Department of Energy.
            (3) NORA.--The term ``NORA'' means a national oilheat 
        research alliance established pursuant to section 704 of the 
        National Oilheat Research Alliance Act of 2000 (42 U.S.C. 6201 
        note; Public Law 106-469) or a successor entity.
            (4) PERC.--The term ``PERC'' means the Propane Education 
        and Research Council authorized by the Propane Education and 
        Research Act of 1996 (15 U.S.C. 6401 et seq.) or a successor 
        entity.
            (5) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary 
        of Energy.
    (b) Energy Efficiency Improvement for Heating Oil, Propane, and 
Kerosene Program.--
            (1) Establishment.--There is established in the Department 
        the Energy Efficiency Improvement for Heating Oil, Propane, and 
        Kerosene Program under which the Secretary shall provide funds 
        to each State that has elected to participate in programs 
        operated by NORA or PERC to carry out cost-effective energy 
        efficiency programs for homes and buildings that use home 
        heating oil, propane, and kerosene.
            (2) Distribution of funds.--The Secretary shall distribute 
        funds under paragraph (1) among the States based on the 
        relative amount of funds collected in each State under the 
        National Oilheat Research Alliance Act of 2000 (42 U.S.C. 6201 
        note; Public Law 106-469) and the Propane Education and 
        Research Act of 1996 (15 U.S.C. 6401 et seq.).
    (c) Use of Proceeds.--
            (1) In general.--A State shall use the amounts distributed 
        under subsection (b)(2) to carry out cost-effective energy 
        efficiency programs for consumers that use home heating oil, 
        propane, or kerosene for residential or commercial purposes.
            (2) Administration and delivery mechanisms.--In 
        administering a program under this section, a State shall--
                    (A) to the maximum extent practicable, deliver 
                efficiency programs through, or integrated with, 
                existing energy efficiency programs supervised by the 
                State, including, as appropriate, energy efficiency 
                programs administered by parties other than the State;
                    (B) to the maximum extent practicable, coordinate 
                the administration and delivery of energy efficiency 
                programs supported under this section, among other such 
                programs and with existing programs for various fuel 
                types, to deliver comprehensive, fuel-blind, 
                coordinated programs to consumers;
                    (C) ensure that funding provided under this section 
                does not displace or substitute for existing or 
                alternative sources of funding for energy efficiency 
                programs;
                    (D) taking into account subparagraphs (A) through 
                (C), designate 1 or more energy efficiency program 
                administrators for cost-effective home heating oil, 
                propane, and kerosene efficiency programs;
                    (E) designate an existing, or establish a new, 
                stakeholder oversight council or equivalent to review 
                efficiency program designs and efficiency program cost-
                effectiveness and make recommendation for improvement 
                and ensure coordination between efficiency programs for 
                other fuels such as electricity and natural gas;
                    (F) establish methodologies and processes for the 
                manner by which efficiency programs are developed, 
                administered, reviewed, and approved in the State and 
                report to the Secretary annually on the methodologies 
                and processes used to develop, administer, review, and 
                approve home heating oil, propane, and kerosene 
                programs; and
                    (G) ensure that evaluation, monitoring, and 
                verification of the efficiency programs are conducted 
                by an independent third-party annually with reporting 
                to the States, public, and the Secretary.
    (d) Reports.--
            (1) State.--Not later than April 30 of each year, each 
        State that receives funds under this section shall submit to 
        the Secretary a report for the previous calendar year in 
        accordance with such requirements as the Secretary may 
        prescribe that--
                    (A) describes the use by the State of funds 
                provided by this section, including a description of 
                the cost-effective energy efficiency programs funded;
                    (B) demonstrates the consumer savings, cost-
                effectiveness of, and the lifetime and annual energy 
                savings achieved by, energy efficiency programs funded 
                under this section; and
                    (C) includes a report prepared by an independent 
                third party, in accordance with such regulations as the 
                Secretary may issue, evaluating the performance of the 
                cost-effective energy efficiency programs funded under 
                this section, including consumer savings, cost-
                effectiveness of, and the lifetime and annual energy 
                savings of the efficiency programs.
            (2) Secretary.--
                    (A) In general.--Not later than April 30, 2013, and 
                every 2 years thereafter, the Secretary shall submit to 
                Congress a report containing--
                            (i) an evaluation of the consumer savings, 
                        cost-effectiveness of, and the lifetime and 
                        annual energy savings achieved by, energy 
                        efficiency programs funded under this section; 
                        and
                            (ii) recommendations for means of more 
                        effectively achieving consumer savings, cost-
                        effectiveness, and lifetime and annual energy 
                        savings through efficiency programs for home 
                        heating oil, propane, and kerosene consumer for 
                        residential or commercial purposes.
                    (B) Publication.--The Secretary shall make the 
                reports submitted under subparagraph (A) available to 
                the public, including by publishing the reports on the 
                Internet.
    (e) Enforcement.--If the Secretary determines that a State is not 
in compliance with this section, the Secretary may distribute funds 
that would have been distributed to the State under subsection (b)2) 
among the remaining States, on a pro rata basis, for use in carrying 
out programs under this section.

SEC. 602. RENEWABLE BIOMASS THERMAL ENERGY FOR COMMERCIAL BUILDINGS.

    (a) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Commercial building.--
                    (A) In general.--The term ``commercial building'' 
                means a building that--
                            (i) is located in the United States; and
                            (ii) was in existence or initially designed 
                        as of December 31, 2009.
                    (B) Exclusions.--The term ``commercial building'' 
                does not include--
                            (i) a federally owned building; or
                            (ii) a residential building.
            (2) Eligible building.--The term ``eligible building'' 
        means a commercial building or multifamily residential building 
        that uses (or, if under development but not yet constructed, is 
        designed to consume) heating oil or another petroleum product 
        as the primary thermal energy source of the building.
            (3) Multifamily residential building.--
                    (A) In general.--The term ``multifamily residential 
                building'' means a structure of 5 or more dwelling 
                units that--
                            (i) is located in the United States; and
                            (ii) was in existence or initially designed 
                        as of December 31, 2009.
                    (B) Exclusion.--The term ``multifamily residential 
                building'' does not include a federally owned building.
            (4) Program.--The term ``program'' means the renewable 
        biomass thermal energy loan program established under this 
        section.
            (5) Qualified boiler.--The term ``qualified boiler'' means 
        a wood or wood-pellet fired boiler or furnace that--
                    (A) has a capacity of not less than 300,000 Btu per 
                hour; and
                    (B) meets or exceeds 60 percent total system 
                efficiency based on lower heating value.
            (6) Qualified program delivery entity.--The term 
        ``qualified program delivery entity'' means a State, political 
        subdivision of a State, tribal government, energy utility, 
        natural gas utility, nonprofit or community-based organization, 
        energy service company, retailer, or any other qualified entity 
        that--
                    (A) meets the eligibility requirements of this 
                section; and
                    (B) is approved by the State that administers the 
                program in the State.
            (7) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary 
        of Energy.
    (b) Establishment.--The Secretary shall establish a renewable 
biomass thermal energy loan program under which the Secretary shall 
make grants to States to support financial assistance provided by 
qualified program delivery entities for replacing, in eligible 
buildings, thermal energy systems that use heating oil or another 
petroleum product in qualified boilers.
    (c) Eligibility of Qualified Program Delivery Entities.--To be 
eligible to participate in the program, a qualified program delivery 
entity--
            (1) shall offer a financing product under which eligible 
        participants may pay over time for the cost to the owner of an 
        eligible building (after all applicable Federal, State, local, 
        and other rebates or incentives are applied) of replacing or 
        redesigning a thermal energy system that uses heating oil or 
        another petroleum product with a qualified boiler;
            (2) shall offer an incentive or other strategy for 
        encouraging the owner of an eligible building to make energy 
        efficiency improvements to the thermal energy delivery system 
        of an eligible building at the same time as a qualified boiler 
        is installed;
            (3) shall establish standard underwriting criteria to 
        determine the eligibility of program applicants, which criteria 
        shall be consistent with commercially recognized best practices 
        applicable to the form of financial assistance being provided 
        (as determined by the designated entity administering the 
        program in the State); and
            (4) may establish and offer financing mechanisms to pool 
        the needs of multiple eligible buildings into a single finance 
        package in order to lower transactions costs and enable 
        projects in small or low-income municipalities to participate 
        in the program.
    (d) Allocation.--In making funds available to States for each 
fiscal year under this section, the Secretary shall use the formula 
used to allocate funds to States to carry out State energy conservation 
plans established under part D of title III of the Energy Policy and 
Conservation Act (42 U.S.C. 6321 et seq.).
    (e) Qualified Program Delivery Entities.--Before making a grant to 
a State under this section, the Secretary shall require the Governor of 
the State to provide to the Secretary a letter of assurance that the 
State--
            (1) has 1 or more qualified program delivery entities that 
        meet the requirements of this section;
            (2) has established a loan program mechanism that 
        incorporates an effective repayment mechanism, which may 
        include--
                    (A) on-utility-bill repayment;
                    (B) tax assessment or other form of property 
                assessment financing;
                    (C) municipal service charges;
                    (D) energy or energy efficiency services contracts; 
                or
                    (E) alternative contractual repayment mechanisms 
                that have been demonstrated to have appropriate risk 
                mitigation features; and
            (3) will provide, in a timely manner, all information 
        regarding the administration of the program as the Secretary 
        may require to permit the Secretary to meet the reporting 
        requirements of subsection (h).
    (f) Use of Grant Funds.--Grant funds made available to States under 
the program may be used to support financing products offered by 
qualified program delivery entities to eligible participants, by 
providing--
            (1) interest rate reductions;
            (2) loan loss reserves or other forms of credit 
        enhancement;
            (3) revolving loan funds from which qualified program 
        delivery entities may offer direct loans;
            (4) other debt instruments or financial products 
        necessary--
                    (A) to maximize leverage provided through available 
                funds; and
                    (B) to support widespread deployment of qualified 
                boilers; and
            (5) technical assistance delivered for nonprofit or 
        community based organizations and local governments in 
        economically distressed counties, on financing options or 
        project development and design offered to eligible entities, 
        particularly eligible entities located in low-income 
        communities, HUB zones, or other Federal designations aimed at 
        increasing the participation and benefit from Federal programs 
        of underserved or low-income communities.
    (g) Use of Repayment Funds.--In the case of a revolving loan fund 
established by a State described in subsection (f)(3), a qualified 
program delivery entity may use funds repaid by eligible participants 
under the program to provide financial assistance for additional 
eligible participants to make improvements described in subsection (b) 
in a manner that is consistent with this section or other such criteria 
as are prescribed by the State.
    (h) Program Evaluation.--Not later than 180 days after the date of 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall submit to Congress a program 
evaluation that describes--
            (1) how many eligible participants have participated in the 
        program;
            (2) how many jobs have been created through the program, 
        directly and indirectly;
            (3) what steps could be taken to promote further deployment 
        of qualified boilers;
            (4) the quantity of verifiable energy savings, renewable 
        energy deployment, eligible building owner energy bill savings, 
        and other benefits of the program; and
            (5) the performance of the programs carried out by 
        qualified program delivery entities under this section, 
        including information on the rate of default and repayment.

               TITLE VII--AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS

SEC. 701. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.

    There are authorized to be appropriated to carry out this Act and 
the amendments made by this Act such sums as are necessary for each of 
fiscal years 2011 through 2020.
                                 &lt;all&gt;
</pre></body></html>
