<html><body><pre>
[Congressional Bills 116th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H.R. 8632 Introduced in House (IH)]

&lt;DOC&gt;






116th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                H. R. 8632

 To direct the Secretary of Commerce, acting through the Administrator 
of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, to provide for 
  ocean-based climate solutions to reduce carbon emissions and global 
warming; to make coastal communities more resilient; and to provide for 
    the conservation and restoration of ocean and coastal habitats, 
  biodiversity, and marine mammal and fish populations; and for other 
                               purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                            October 20, 2020

  Mr. Grijalva (for himself, Mr. Huffman, Mr. Lowenthal, Mr. Levin of 
  California, Mr. Neguse, Ms. Haaland, Mr. Sablan, Mr. McEachin, Mr. 
 Case, Mrs. Dingell, Ms. Castor of Florida, Ms. Bonamici, Ms. Brownley 
of California, and Ms. Johnson of Texas) introduced the following bill; 
   which was referred to the Committee on Natural Resources, and in 
  addition to the Committees on Science, Space, and Technology, House 
Administration, Ways and Means, Transportation and Infrastructure, and 
  Foreign Affairs, for a period to be subsequently determined by the 
  Speaker, in each case for consideration of such provisions as fall 
           within the jurisdiction of the committee concerned

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
 To direct the Secretary of Commerce, acting through the Administrator 
of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, to provide for 
  ocean-based climate solutions to reduce carbon emissions and global 
warming; to make coastal communities more resilient; and to provide for 
    the conservation and restoration of ocean and coastal habitats, 
  biodiversity, and marine mammal and fish populations; and for other 
                               purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE; TABLE OF CONTENTS.

    (a) Short Title.--This Act may be cited as the ``Ocean-Based 
Climate Solutions Act of 2020''.
    (b) Table of Contents.--The table of contents for this Act is the 
following:

Sec. 1. Short title; table of contents.
Sec. 2. Definitions.
                TITLE I--MARINE AND COASTAL BLUE CARBON

Sec. 101. Blue Carbon Program.
Sec. 102. National map of coastal and marine blue carbon ecosystems.
Sec. 103. Report on blue carbon in the United States.
Sec. 104. Blue Carbon Partnership Grant Program.
Sec. 105. Integrated pilot programs to protect and restore degraded 
                            coastal blue carbon ecosystems.
Sec. 106. Interagency working group.
Sec. 107. Coastal carbon areas of significance.
Sec. 108. Authorization of Smithsonian Institution blue carbon 
                            activities.
Sec. 109. Authorization of appropriations.
Sec. 110. Definitions.
                    TITLE II--MARINE PROTECTED AREAS

Sec. 201. Policy.
Sec. 202. Interagency Task Force.
Sec. 203. Initiate designation process for successful sanctuary 
                            nominations and technical corrections to 
                            the National Marine Sanctuaries Act.
Sec. 204. Increased protection for deep sea corals.
Sec. 205. Marine biodiversity gap analysis.
                       TITLE III--OFFSHORE ENERGY

     Subtitle A--Oil and Gas Leasing in the Outer Continental Shelf

Sec. 301. Prohibition of oil and gas leasing in all areas of the Outer 
                            Continental Shelf.
                 Subtitle B--Offshore Renewable Energy

Sec. 311. Sense of Congress on the importance of offshore wind energy.
Sec. 312. National offshore wind goals.
Sec. 313. Removing roadblocks for data sharing.
Sec. 314. Increasing funding for scientific research.
Sec. 315. Extending collaboration with industry.
Sec. 316. Developing strategies to protect wildlife.
Sec. 317. Offshore wind for the Territories.
Sec. 318. Marine energy research.
Sec. 319. Increasing funding for coastal conservation and resilience.
 TITLE IV--CLIMATE-READY FISHERIES, EFFICIENT FISHERY VESSELS, AND BUY 
                            AMERICAN SEAFOOD

Sec. 401. Sense of Congress.
Sec. 402. Caught in the USA.
Sec. 403. Eliminate fish subsidies in trade agreements.
Sec. 404. Fuel efficient fishing vessels.
Sec. 405. Climate and fisheries research and management program.
Sec. 406. Climate-ready fisheries innovation program.
Sec. 407. Shifting Stocks Task Force.
Sec. 408. Essential fish habitat consultation.
Sec. 409. Ocean Aquaculture Research and Policy Program.
            TITLE V--COASTAL BARRIER RESOURCE ACT AMENDMENTS

Sec. 501. Undeveloped coastal barrier.
Sec. 502. Coastal hazard pilot project.
Sec. 503. Report on expanding Coastal Barrier Resources Act to the 
                            Pacific Coast, including Pacific 
                            Territories and Freely Associated States.
Sec. 504. Require disclosure to prospective buyers that property is in 
                            the Coastal Barrier Resources System.
Sec. 505. Improve Federal agency compliance with Coastal Barrier 
                            Resources Act.
Sec. 506. Excess Federal property.
Sec. 507. Authorization of appropriations.
            TITLE VI--COASTAL ZONE MANAGEMENT ACT AMENDMENTS

Sec. 601. Grants to further achievement of Tribal coastal zone 
                            objectives.
Sec. 602. Eligibility of District of Columbia for Federal funding under 
                            the Coastal Zone Management Act of 1972.
Sec. 603. Coastal and Estuarine Land Conservation Program.
Sec. 604. Coastal Zone Management Fund.
Sec. 605. Authorization of appropriations.
Sec. 606. Amendments to National Estuarine Research Reserve System 
                            program.
                       TITLE VII--INSULAR AFFAIRS

Sec. 701. Definitions.
Sec. 702. Coastal management technical assistance and report.
Sec. 703. Climate Change Insular Research Grant Program.
Sec. 704. Extreme weather and climate outreach to insular areas.
Sec. 705. Coral reefs.
Sec. 706. Ocean and Coastal Mapping Integration Act.
Sec. 707. Office of Insular Affairs Technical Assistance Program.
Sec. 708. Disaster relief Federal cost-share waiver.
          TITLE VIII--STRENGTHENING MARINE MAMMAL CONSERVATION

Sec. 801. Conservation of marine mammals adversely affected by climate 
                            change.
Sec. 802. Vessel speed restrictions in marine mammal habitat.
Sec. 803. Monitoring ocean noise for marine mammal health.
Sec. 804. Grants for seaports to establish programs to reduce the 
                            impacts of vessel traffic and port 
                            operations on marine mammals.
 TITLE IX--INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS, EFFORTS IN THE ARCTIC, AND BUREAU 
              OF INDIAN AFFAIRS TRIBAL RESILIENCE PROGRAM

                  Subtitle A--International Agreements

Sec. 901. United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea.
                   Subtitle B--Efforts in the Arctic

Sec. 911. Reinstatement of Executive Order 13754; Northern Bering Sea 
                            Climate Resilience Area.
Sec. 912. Plan for the United States to cut black carbon emissions to 
                            33 percent below 2013 levels by 2025.
     Subtitle C--Bureau of Indian Affairs Tribal Resilience Program

Sec. 921. Bureau of Indian Affairs Tribal Resilience Program.
               TITLE X--COASTAL RESILIENCY AND ADAPTATION

Sec. 1001. Living Shoreline Grant Program.
Sec. 1002. National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration Research 
                            Programs.
Sec. 1003. Grants for recovering oysters.
Sec. 1004. Improvements to the National Oceans and Coastal Security 
                            Act.
Sec. 1005. Shovel-ready restoration grants for coastlines and 
                            fisheries.
Sec. 1006. Strategic Climate Change Relocation Initiative and Program.
  TITLE XI--OCEAN HEALTH: OCEAN ACIDIFICATION AND HARMFUL ALGAL BLOOMS

        Subtitle A--Coastal Communities Ocean Acidification Act

Sec. 1101. State and United States defined.
Sec. 1102. Coastal community vulnerability assessment.
                  Subtitle B--Ocean Acidification Act

Sec. 1111. Prize competitions.
                     Subtitle C--COAST Research Act

Sec. 1121. Purposes.
Sec. 1122. Definitions.
Sec. 1123. Interagency working group.
Sec. 1124. Strategic research plan.
Sec. 1125. National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration ocean 
                            acidification activities.
Sec. 1126. National Science Foundation ocean acidification activities.
Sec. 1127. National Aeronautics and Space Administration ocean 
                            acidification activities.
Sec. 1128. Authorization of appropriations.
             Subtitle D--South Florida Clean Coastal Waters

Sec. 1131. South Florida harmful algal blooms and hypoxia assessment 
                            and action plan.
   Subtitle E--Protecting Local Communities From Harmful Algal Blooms

Sec. 1141. Algal blooms.
         Subtitle F--Harmful Algal Bloom Essential Forecasting

Sec. 1151. Designating certain harmful algal bloom services as excepted 
                            services under the Anti-Deficiency Act.
Sec. 1152.  Centers of Excellence in Harmful Algal Bloom Research, 
                            Prevention, Response, and Mitigation.
  TITLE XII--NATIONAL OCEAN POLICY, DATA, AND COORDINATED WEBSITE FOR 
                             GRANT PROGRAMS

                Subtitle A--Regional Ocean Partnerships

Sec. 1201. Findings; sense of Congress; purposes.
Sec. 1202. Regional Ocean Partnerships.
              Subtitle B--Data and Scientific Coordination

Sec. 1211. Increased coordination among agencies with respect to data 
                            and monitoring.
Sec. 1212. Interagency Ocean Exploration Committee.
Sec. 1213. Committee on Ocean Policy.
Sec. 1214. Building data sources.
Sec. 1215. National sea level rise risk analysis.
                       Subtitle C--Digital Coast

Sec. 1221. Definitions.
Sec. 1222. Establishment of the Digital Coast.
      Subtitle D--Integrated Coastal and Ocean Observation System

Sec. 1241. Staggered terms for National Integrated Coastal and Ocean 
                            Observation System Advisory Committee.
Sec. 1242. Integrated coastal and ocean observation system cooperative 
                            agreements.
Sec. 1243. Reauthorization of Integrated Coastal and Ocean Observation 
                            System Act of 2009.
Sec. 1244. Advanced Research Projects Agency-Oceans.
         Subtitle E--Centralized Website for Resiliency Grants

Sec. 1251. Centralized website for resiliency grants.
                          TITLE XIII--WETLANDS

                      Subtitle A--Coastal Wetlands

Sec. 1301. Definitions.
Sec. 1302. Coastal and Estuary Resilience Grant Program.
Sec. 1303. Data collection.
Sec. 1304. Outreach and technical assistance.
Sec. 1305. Annual restoration and funding.
Sec. 1306. Prevailing wage requirement.
Sec. 1307. Department of the Interior coastal wetland restoration; 
                            funding.
 TITLE XIV--MEASURES TO ADDRESS GREENHOUSE GAS POLLUTION FROM SHIPPING 
                                VESSELS

Sec. 1401. Greenhouse gas emissions from shipping.
Sec. 1402. Quiet Seas and Clear Skies Vessel Speed Reduction Award 
                            Program.
                     TITLE XV--STUDIES AND REPORTS

Sec. 1501. Deep sea mining.
Sec. 1502. National Academies assessment of oceanic blue carbon.
Sec. 1503. Ocean climate impacts and action report.
Sec. 1504. Report on the ecological and economic effects of high seas 
                            fishing in the ocean areas beyond national 
                            jurisdiction (``ABNJ'').
Sec. 1505. National Academies assessment of public access to the 
                            coasts.
Sec. 1506. Study examining the impact of ocean acidification and other 
                            environmental stressors on estuarine 
                            environments.

SEC. 2. DEFINITIONS.

    In this Act:
            (1) Administrator.--The term ``Administrator'' means the 
        Secretary of Commerce acting through the Administrator of the 
        National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration.
            (2) Exclusive economic zone.--The term ``exclusive economic 
        zone'' means the zone established by Proclamation Numbered 
        5030, dated March 10, 1983.
            (3) Indian tribe.--The term ``Indian Tribe'' has the 
        meaning given such term in section 4 of the Indian Self-
        Determination and Education Assistance Act (25 U.S.C. 5304).
            (4) Institution of higher education.--The term 
        ``institution of higher education'' has the meaning given such 
        term in section 101(a) of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (20 
        U.S.C. 1001(a)).
            (5) National academies.--The term ``National Academies'' 
        means the National Academies of Science, Engineering, and 
        Medicine.
            (6) Restorative ocean aquaculture.--The term ``restorative 
        ocean aquaculture'' means ocean and coastal propagation of 
        seaweed or shellfish farming that generates positive ecological 
        and social impact.
            (7) State.--The term ``State'' means each of the several 
        States, the District of Columbia, and the United States 
        Territories of American Samoa, the Commonwealth of the Northern 
        Mariana Islands, Guam, Puerto Rico, and the United States 
        Virgin Islands.
            (8) United states.--The term ``United States'' means the 
        several States, the District of Columbia, and the United States 
        Territories of American Samoa, the Commonwealth of the Northern 
        Mariana Islands, Guam, Puerto Rico, and the United States 
        Virgin Islands.

                TITLE I--MARINE AND COASTAL BLUE CARBON

SEC. 101. BLUE CARBON PROGRAM.

    (a) Establishment.--The Administrator shall establish and maintain 
a Blue Carbon Program within the National Oceanic and Atmospheric 
Administration for the purposes of furthering conservation objectives 
for fish and wildlife habitat conservation and restoration and coastal 
resilience including the development of ways to incorporate ecosystem 
services from carbon storage into existing domestic and international 
policies, programs, and activities.
    (b) Additional Authority.--In conducting the Program, the 
Administrator may enter into and perform such contracts, leases, 
grants, or cooperative agreements as may be necessary to carry out the 
purposes of this subtitle on such terms as Administrator considers 
appropriate.
    (c) Consultation.--The Administrator shall coordinate activities 
carried out under this section with the Assistant Administrator of the 
National Marine Fisheries Service and the Assistant Administrator of 
the National Ocean Service.
    (d) Activities.--The Administrator shall lead the development and 
coordination of the strategic plan described in section 106(e) and 
conduct the following activities:
            (1) Collaborate with Federal agencies, the interagency 
        working group, State agencies, Tribes, and non-governmental 
        organizations on research, restoration, and protection efforts 
        relating to blue carbon ecosystems.
            (2) Develop a database of blue carbon stocks and fluxes in 
        the United States.
            (3) Assist in exploration of the potential for a market for 
        carbon credits for restoration initiatives, including research 
        and development of protocols.
            (4) Raise awareness of blue carbon ecosystems as a tool to 
        further conservation objectives through education and extension 
        activities.
            (5) Use existing models or develop new models to assess 
        blue carbon storage potential that include quantification, 
        verifiability, additionality as compared to a historical 
        baseline, and permanence of those benefits.
            (6) Quantify current total and net ecosystem carbon storage 
        in coastal and marine areas.
            (7) Project future total and net ecosystem carbon storage 
        under different scenarios influenced by human population 
        growth, sea level rise, and other system-wide changes.
            (8) Develop and use protocols for inclusion of blue carbon 
        projects in carbon markets.
            (9) Protect and restore habitats, waters, and organisms 
        that are long-term carbon sinks or will be subject to habitat 
        change as a result of climate change and development.
            (10) Provide staff and technical expertise to the 
        interagency working group.
            (11) Quantify co-benefits, including flood risk reduction, 
        habitat restoration for endangered and threatened species, 
        maintenance of biodiversity, water quality improvements, 
        habitat maintenance and creation, cycling of nutrients other 
        than carbon, commercial and recreational fishing and boating 
        benefits.
            (12) Assess regional and national ecosystem and 
        socioeconomic impacts of carbon sequestration and storage.
            (13) Research variability, long-term storage, and 
        innovative techniques for effective, long-term, natural ocean 
        or coastal ecosystem-based carbon sequestration.
            (14) Identify blue carbon hot spots.
            (15) Assess legal issues of landownership in blue carbon 
        markets, and develop guidelines to help landowners navigate the 
        requirements of such markets.

SEC. 102. NATIONAL MAP OF COASTAL AND MARINE BLUE CARBON ECOSYSTEMS.

    (a) National Map.--The Administrator, in consultation with the 
interagency working group established under section 106, shall--
            (1) produce, update every 3 years, and maintain a national 
        map and inventory of coastal blue carbon ecosystems including--
                    (A) with respect to each such ecosystem--
                            (i) the species and types of habitat in the 
                        ecosystem;
                            (ii) the condition of such habitats 
                        including whether a habitat is degraded, 
                        drained, eutrophic, or tidally restricted;
                            (iii) type of public or private ownership 
                        and any protected status;
                            (iv) the size of the ecosystem;
                            (v) the salinity boundaries of the 
                        ecosystem;
                            (vi) the tidal boundaries of the ecosystem;
                            (vii) an assessment of carbon sequestration 
                        potential, methane production, and net 
                        greenhouse gas effects of the ecosystem, 
                        including consideration of--
                                    (I) quantification;
                                    (II) verifiability;
                                    (III) additionality, as compared to 
                                a historical baseline; and
                                    (IV) permanence of those benefits;
                            (viii) an assessment of the ecosystem co-
                        benefits, such as fish habitat for commercial, 
                        recreational, and Tribal fisheries, flood risk 
                        reduction, wave stress, storm protection, 
                        shoreline stabilization, public access, water 
                        and air pollution filtration, contributions to 
                        traditional and cultural practices, and 
                        recreational use and benefits of the ecosystem;
                            (ix) the potential for landward migration 
                        of each ecosystem as a result of sea level 
                        rise;
                            (x) any upstream restrictions detrimental 
                        to the watershed process and conditions, 
                        including dams, dikes, and levees;
                            (xi) any upstream pollution sources that 
                        threaten the health of each ecosystem;
                            (xii) proximity to aquaculture uses or 
                        lease areas; and
                            (xiii) a depiction of the effects of human 
                        stressors, including the conversion of coastal 
                        blue carbon ecosystems to other land uses and 
                        the cause of such conversion; and
                    (B) a depiction of the effects of climate change, 
                including sea level rise, ocean acidification, ocean 
                warming, and other environmental stressors on the 
                sequestration rate, carbon storage, and potential of 
                coastal blue carbon ecosystems; and
            (2) in carrying out paragraph (1)--
                    (A) incorporate, to the extent possible, existing 
                and future data collected through federally and State 
                funded research, including data collected from the 
                National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration Coastal 
                Change Analysis Program, United States Fish and 
                Wildlife Service National Wetlands Inventory, United 
                States Geological Survey Land Carbon program, United 
                States Geological Survey and Federal Emergency 
                Management Agency LiDAR information coordination and 
                knowledge program, Department of Energy Biological and 
                Environmental Research program, and Department of 
                Agriculture National Coastal Blue Carbon Assessment; 
                and
                    (B) engage regional experts for additional peer-
                reviewed data to ensure best available scientific 
                information is incorporated.
    (b) Use.--The interagency working group shall use the national map 
and inventory created pursuant to subsection (a)--
            (1) to assess the existing and potential carbon 
        sequestration of different coastal blue carbon ecosystems, and 
        account for any regional differences;
            (2) to assess and quantify emissions from degraded and 
        destroyed coastal blue carbon ecosystems;
            (3) to develop regional assessments and to provide 
        technical assistance to regional, State, Tribal, and local 
        government agencies, regional information coordination entities 
        (as such term is defined in section 12303(6) of the Integrated 
        Coastal and Ocean Observation System Act (33 U.S.C. 3602)), and 
        agencies, organizations, and other entities that support 
        communities that may not have adequate resources, including 
        low-income communities, communities of color, Tribal 
        communities, and rural communities;
            (4) to assess degraded coastal blue carbon ecosystems and 
        their potential for restoration, including developing scenario 
        modeling to identify vulnerable land areas where management, 
        protection, and restoration efforts should be focused, 
        including the potential for an ecosystem to migrate inland to 
        adapt to sea level rise; and
            (5) produce predictions of coastal blue carbon ecosystems 
        and carbon sequestration rates in the context of climate 
        change, environmental stressors, and human stressors.

SEC. 103. REPORT ON BLUE CARBON IN THE UNITED STATES.

    Not later than 1 year after the date of the enactment of this Act 
and every 2 years thereafter, the Administrator, in consultation with 
the interagency working group, shall submit to the Committee on Natural 
Resources of the House of Representatives and the Committee on 
Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate a report containing 
the following:
            (1) A summary of federally funded coastal and marine blue 
        carbon ecosystem research, monitoring, preservation, and 
        restoration activities, including the budget for each of these 
        activities and describe the progress in advancing the national 
        priorities established by the interagency working group.
            (2) With respect to each blue carbon ecosystem--
                    (A) the type;
                    (B) location; and
                    (C) type of ownership, delineated by private lands, 
                State lands, Tribal lands, or Federal.
            (3) An assessment of the vulnerability of coastal and 
        marine blue carbon ecosystems to climate impacts such as sea-
        level rise, acidification, and saltwater intrusion, and other 
        environmental and human stressors, such as development, water 
        pollution, and aquaculture.
            (4) An assessment of the greatest anthropogenic threats to 
        blue carbon ecosystems, including the Federal agency actions 
        that have historically caused and presently cause great adverse 
        effects on such ecosystems.
            (5) An assessment of the carbon sequestration potential of 
        blue carbon ecosystems and the probable changes to 
        sequestration under climate change scenarios.
            (6) An assessment of biophysical, social, and economic 
        impediments including water storage and flood control 
        structures to coastal blue carbon ecosystem protection and 
        restoration and opportunities to restore and enhance the 
        resilience of and sequestration potential of blue carbon 
        ecosystems.
            (7) An assessment of aging or outdated artificial 
        structures, including dikes, levees, dams, culverts, water 
        storage structures, shoreline hardening projects, impediments 
        to fish passage, and other infrastructure that impede the 
        ecological or sequestration functions of blue carbon areas and 
        the feasibility of repairing, retrofitting, or removing such 
        structures.
            (8) The economic, social, and environmental co-benefits 
        that these blue carbon ecosystems provide including--
                    (A) coastal protection from storms and flooding;
                    (B) tourism and recreational use;
                    (C) benefits to fisheries;
                    (D) nutrient removal;
                    (E) number of jobs that are directly or indirectly 
                attributable to blue carbon ecosystems; and
                    (F) total economic activity that is attributable to 
                such blue carbon ecosystems.
            (9) An assessment of the social and economic makeup of the 
        communities served by blue carbon ecosystems.

SEC. 104. BLUE CARBON PARTNERSHIP GRANT PROGRAM.

    (a) Establishment.--The Administrator shall establish a competitive 
grant program entitled the ``Blue Carbon Partnership Grant Program'' 
to, beginning not later than 2 years after the date of enactment of 
this Act, provide funds to eligible entities for projects that--
            (1) protect and restore blue carbon stocks, oceanic blue 
        carbon, and coastal blue carbon ecosystems and increase the 
        long-term carbon storage; and
            (2) contribute to priorities identified in the most recent 
        strategic plan developed by the interagency working group.
    (b) Eligible Recipients.--A person or entity is eligible to receive 
a grant under the grant program if such person is--
            (1) a voluntary private landowner or group of landowners;
            (2) a State agency responsible for managing natural 
        resources or wildlife;
            (3) an Indian Tribe;
            (4) a unit of local government;
            (5) a nonprofit organization or land trust;
            (6) an institution of higher education and research; or
            (7) any group of entities described in paragraphs (1) 
        through (6).
    (c) Requirements.--In administering the grant program under this 
section, the Secretary shall use the criteria, guidelines, contracts, 
reporting requirements, and evaluation metrics developed by the 
interagency working group.
    (d) Selection Criteria.--In evaluating applications for the program 
from eligible entities, the Administrator shall give priority to 
proposed eligible restoration activities that--
            (1) would result in long-term protection and sequestration 
        of carbon stored in coastal and marine environments; and
            (2)(A) would protect key habitats for fish, wildlife, and 
        the maintenance of biodiversity;
            (B) would provide coastal protection from development, 
        storms, flooding, and land-based pollution;
            (C) would protect coastal resources of national, 
        historical, and cultural significance;
            (D) would benefit communities of color, low-income 
        communities, Tribal or Indigenous communities, or rural 
        communities; or
            (E) would capitalize on existing established public/private 
        partnerships.
    (e) Report to Congress.--
            (1) Report required.--The Administrator shall submit 
        annually to Congress a report containing a State-by-State 
        analysis of--
                    (A) the total number of acres of land or water 
                protected or restored through fee title acquisition, 
                easement, restoration or other activities under the 
                program;
                    (B) the status of restoration projects under this 
                program; and
                    (C) the amount of blue carbon captured or protected 
                over a 100-year time period as a result of this 
                program.
            (2) Publication of report.--The Administrator shall make 
        available to the public each report required by paragraph (1).
    (f) Authorization of Appropriations.--There is authorized to be 
appropriated to the Administrator $200,000,000 for each of the fiscal 
years 2021 to 2025 to carry out this section.

SEC. 105. INTEGRATED PILOT PROGRAMS TO PROTECT AND RESTORE DEGRADED 
              COASTAL BLUE CARBON ECOSYSTEMS.

    The Administrator shall--
            (1) establish integrated pilot programs that develop best 
        management practices, including design criteria and performance 
        functions, for coastal and marine blue carbon ecosystem 
        restoration, nature-based adaptation strategies, living 
        shoreline projects, landward progression or migration of 
        coastal blue carbon ecosystems, and identify potential barriers 
        to restoration efforts;
            (2) ensure that the pilot programs cover geographically, 
        ecologically, culturally, and economically representative 
        locations with significant ecological, economic, and social 
        benefits and maximize potential for long-term carbon storage;
            (3) establish a procedure for reviewing applications for 
        the pilot program, taking into account--
                    (A) quantification;
                    (B) verifiability;
                    (C) additionality, as compared to a historical 
                baseline; and
                    (D) permanence of those benefits;
            (4) ensure, through consultation with the interagency 
        working group, that the goals, metrics, monitoring, and 
        outcomes of the pilot programs are communicated to the 
        appropriate State, Tribal, and local governments, and to the 
        general public; and
            (5) coordinate with relevant Federal agencies on the 
        interagency working group to prevent unnecessary duplication of 
        effort among Federal agencies and departments with respect to 
        protection and restoration programs.

SEC. 106. INTERAGENCY WORKING GROUP.

    (a) Establishment.--The National Science and Technology Council 
Subcommittee on Ocean Science and Technology shall establish the 
Interagency Working Group on Coastal and Marine Blue Carbon.
    (b) Purposes.--The interagency working group shall--
            (1) oversee the development of and updates to a national 
        map, including United States Territories, of coastal and marine 
        blue carbon ecosystems, including habitat types with a regional 
        focus in analysis that is usable for local level protection 
        planning and restoration;
            (2) use such map to inform the Administrator of the 
        Environmental Protection Agency's creation of the annual 
        Inventory of U.S. Greenhouse Gas Emissions and Sinks;
            (3) establish national coastal and marine blue carbon 
        ecosystem restoration priorities, including an assessment of 
        current Federal funding being used for restoration and 
        conservation efforts;
            (4) assess the biophysical, social, statutory, regulatory, 
        and economic impediments to coastal and marine blue carbon 
        ecosystem protection and restoration;
            (5) study the effects of climate change and environmental 
        and human stressors on carbon sequestration rates;
            (6) identify priority blue carbon ecosystems for 
        protection;
            (7) develop a national strategy for foundational science 
        necessary to study, synthesize, and evaluate the effects of 
        climate change, environmental, and human stressors on 
        sequestration rates and capabilities of marine blue carbon and 
        coastal blue carbon ecosystems protection;
            (8) develop an assessment of current legal authorities to 
        protect and restore blue carbon ecosystems and make 
        recommendations for additional authorities if current 
        authorities are determined to be insufficient; and
            (9) ensure the continuity, use, and interoperability of 
        data assets through Coastal Carbon Data Clearinghouse of the 
        Smithsonian Institution.
    (c) Membership.--The interagency working group shall be comprised 
of representatives of the following:
            (1) The Administrator.
            (2) The Administrator of the Environmental Protection 
        Agency.
            (3) The Director of the National Science Foundation.
            (4) The Administrator of the National Aeronautics and Space 
        Administration.
            (5) The Director of the United States Geological Survey.
            (6) The Director of the United States Fish and Wildlife 
        Service.
            (7) The Director of the National Park Service.
            (8) The Director of the Bureau of Indian Affairs.
            (9) The Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution.
            (10) The Chief of Engineers of the Army Corps of Engineers.
            (11) The Secretary of Agriculture.
            (12) The Secretary of Defense.
            (13) The Secretary of Transportation.
            (14) The Secretary of State.
            (15) The Secretary of Energy.
            (16) The Administrator of the United States Agency for 
        International Development.
            (17) The Administrator of the Federal Emergency Management 
        Agency.
            (18) The Chair of the Council on Environmental Quality.
    (d) Chair.--The interagency working group shall be chaired by the 
Administrator.
    (e) Strategic Plan.--
            (1) In general.--The Interagency Working group shall create 
        a strategic plan for Federal investments in basic research, 
        development, demonstration, long-term monitoring and 
        stewardship, and deployment of coastal blue carbon ecosystem 
        and marine blue carbon projects for the 5-year period beginning 
        on the date that is 1 year after the date of enactment of this 
        Act. The plan shall include--
                    (A) an assessment of the use of existing Federal 
                programs to protect, restore, enhance, and preserve 
                coastal blue carbon ecosystems;
                    (B) an analysis of potential sea level rise 
                migration corridors for blue carbon ecosystems;
                    (C) an analysis of anticipated fish and wildlife 
                uses of blue carbon ecosystems; and
                    (D) identification of priority strategies and 
                investments for preserving, restoring, and enhancing 
                the resilience and carbon sequestration potential of 
                such blue carbon ecosystems.
            (2) Timing.--The interagency working group shall--
                    (A) submit the strategic plan under paragraph (1) 
                to the Committee on Natural Resources and the Committee 
                on Science, Space, and Technology of the House of 
                Representatives and the Committee on Commerce, Science, 
                and Transportation of the Senate on a date that is not 
                later than 1 year after the date of enactment of this 
                Act; and
                    (B) submit a revised version of such plan to such 
                committees every 5 years thereafter.
            (3) Federal register.--Not less than 90 days before the 
        strategic plan, or any revision thereof, is submitted under 
        paragraph (2), the interagency working group shall publish such 
        plan in the Federal Register and solicit public comments on 
        such plan for a period of not less than 60 days.

SEC. 107. COASTAL CARBON AREAS OF SIGNIFICANCE.

    (a) Designation.--The Administrator, consistent with this section, 
shall designate as a coastal carbon area of significance any area that 
is--
            (1) in the coastal zone (as such term is defined in section 
        304 of the Coastal Zone Management Act of 1972 (16 U.S.C. 
        1453)), in territorial waters of the United States, or in the 
        exclusive economic zone; and
            (2) the location of water, a substrate, or an ecosystem 
        that--
                    (A) provides for long-term storage and 
                sequestration of significant amounts of ecosystem 
                carbon; and
                    (B)(i) limits erosion and future landward 
                migration;
                    (ii) provides a buffer against storm surge, 
                especially for communities of color, low-income 
                communities, and Tribal and Indigenous communities;
                    (iii) provides a spawning, breeding, feeding, or 
                nesting habitat for wildlife; or
                    (iv) is estuarine habitat designated as essential 
                fish habitat under the Magnuson-Stevens Fishery 
                Conservation and Management Act (16 U.S.C. 1601 et 
                seq.).
    (b) Guidelines.--The Administrator, in consultation with the 
interagency working group, shall, not later than 1 year after the date 
of enactment of this Act, establish by regulation guidelines based on 
the best available science to describe and identify coastal carbon 
areas of significance and measures to ensure the protection of coastal 
carbon areas of significance.
    (c) Review and Update.--The Administrator, in consultation with the 
interagency working group, shall review and update guidelines 
established under subsection (b) not less frequently than once every 5 
years or when new information warrants such an update.
    (d) Schedule.--The Administrator, in consultation with the 
interagency working group, shall establish a schedule for the 
identification of coastal carbon areas of significance under subsection 
(b) and for reviews and updates under subsection (c), and shall make 
initial designations of a coastal carbon area of significance in each 
coastal State not later than 1 year after the date of enactment of this 
Act.
    (e) Recommendations and Information.--The Administrator, in 
consultation with the interagency working group, shall, with respect to 
each coastal carbon area of significance, provide recommendations and 
information regarding the adverse impacts and threats to the carbon 
storage, ecosystem services, and habitat capacity of the area, and the 
actions that should be considered to avoid adverse impacts and ensure 
the conservation and enhancement of that area.
    (f) Programs Administered by the Secretary of Commerce.--The 
Administrator, in consultation with the interagency working group, 
shall use programs administered by the Secretary of Commerce to carry 
out this section and ensure the conservation and enhancement of each 
coastal carbon area of significance.
    (g) Requirements for Federal Actions.--With respect to any proposed 
agency action that has the potential to cause an adverse impact on the 
carbon storage, ecosystem services, or habitat capacity of any coastal 
carbon area of significance, each Federal agency shall comply with the 
following requirements:
            (1) Notification.--Such Federal agency shall notify the 
        Administrator of such proposed agency action.
            (2) Determination of adverse impact.--The Administrator, in 
        consultation with the proposing agency and subject to public 
        comment, shall determine whether the proposed agency action 
        will cause an adverse impact on the carbon storage, ecosystem, 
        or habitat of a coastal carbon area of significance.
            (3) Alternative.--With respect to any proposed action the 
        Administrator determines will have an adverse impact under 
        paragraph (2), the proposing agency, in consultation with the 
        Administrator, shall determine whether there is an alternative 
        action that would prevent such adverse impact and fulfill the 
        purpose of the proposed action. The proposing agency shall not 
        take an action that would cause an adverse impact if an 
        alternative that would not cause such adverse impact is 
        available and would fulfill the purpose of such action.
            (4) Carbon storage offsets.--With respect to a proposed 
        action for which the agency determines no alternative is 
        available under paragraph (3), the proposing agency shall--
                    (A) in consultation with the Administrator, take 
                measures to minimize and mitigate such adverse impact;
                    (B) take such action as the Administrator 
                determines necessary to create a coastal or marine blue 
                carbon ecosystem storage offset that, taken in 
                conjunction with the proposed action, results in a long 
                term net increase in carbon storage, lasting an 
                equivalent time period as the carbon storage lost by 
                the adverse impact;
                    (C) demonstrate quantitatively, using the best 
                available science, that the carbon storage offset will 
                result in a net increase in ecological carbon storage 
                and is located in close proximity to the original site 
                to keep the affected communities whole;
                    (D) maintain such carbon storage offset for a 
                period of time to be determined by the Administrator 
                but not less than 100 years; and
                    (E) publish the agency's proposed course of 
                mitigation in the Federal Register for public notice 
                and comment.
    (h) Requirement for Authorization or Appropriation.--Any requests 
for a new authorization or appropriation from a Federal agency 
transmitted to the Office of Management and Budget shall include, if 
such authorization or appropriation may affect a coastal carbon area of 
significance, a certification that such agency will use such 
authorization or appropriation in compliance with this section.
    (i) Required Restrictions.--A Federal agency may not enter into a 
lease, easement, right-of-way, or sale of any land designated as a 
coastal carbon area of significance unless such agency attaches 
appropriate restrictions to the use of the property to protect the 
coastal carbon area of significance.
    (j) Exception.--Preparation, revision, implementation, or 
enforcement of a fishery management plan under the Magnuson-Stevens 
Fishery Conservation and Management Act (16 U.S.C. 1801 et seq.) that 
applies to area that is subject to a prohibition on all bottom-tending 
fishing gear shall not be treated as an action that is subject to 
subsection (g).

SEC. 108. AUTHORIZATION OF SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION BLUE CARBON 
              ACTIVITIES.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution, in 
coordination with the Administrator and the interagency working group, 
shall provide for the long-term stewardship, continuity, use, and 
interoperability of, and access to, data relating to coastal blue 
carbon ecosystems and national mapping, including United States 
Territories and Tribal lands, by supporting the maintenance of the 
Coastal Carbon Data Clearinghouse.
    (b) Coastal Carbon Data Clearinghouse Duties.--Acting through the 
Coastal Carbon Data Clearinghouse, the Secretary of the Smithsonian 
Institution in coordination with the Administrator and interagency 
working group shall process, store, archive, provide access to, and 
incorporate to the extent possible, all coastal and marine blue carbon 
data collected through federally funded research by a Federal agency, 
State, local agency, Tribe, academic scientist, or other relevant 
entity.
    (c) Global and National Data Assets.--The Secretary of the 
Smithsonian Institution, in coordination with the Administrator and the 
interagency working group, shall ensure that existing global and 
national data assets are incorporated into the Coastal Carbon Data 
Clearinghouse to the greatest extent possible.
    (d) Establishment of Standards, Protocols, and Procedures.--The 
Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution, in coordination with the 
Administrator and members of the interagency working group, shall 
establish standards, protocols, and procedures for the processing, 
storing, archiving, and providing access to data in the Coastal Carbon 
Data Clearinghouse and best practices for sharing such data with State, 
local, and Tribal governments, coastal stakeholders, non-Federal 
resource managers, and academia. The Administrator shall publish, 
update, and keep current such data on a publicly available website.
    (e) Digital Tools and Resources.--The Secretary of the Smithsonian 
Institution, in coordination with the Administrator and members of the 
interagency working group, shall develop digital tools and resources to 
support the public use of the Coastal Carbon Data Clearinghouse.
    (f) Authorization of Appropriations.--There are authorized to be 
appropriated to the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution $5,000,000 
for each of fiscal years 2021 through 2025 to carry out this section.

SEC. 109. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.

    There is authorized to be appropriated to the Administrator 
$50,000,000 for each of the fiscal years 2021 to 2025 to carry out this 
title.

SEC. 110. DEFINITIONS.

    In this title:
            (1) Blue carbon stocks.--The term ``blue carbon stocks'' 
        means terrestrial and marine vegetation and underlying sediment 
        that has the capacity to sequester and store atmospheric 
        carbon.
            (2) Coastal blue carbon ecosystem.--The term ``coastal blue 
        carbon ecosystem'' means vegetated coastal habitats including 
        mangroves, tidal marshes, seagrasses, kelp forests, and other 
        tidal or salt-water wetlands that have the capacity to 
        sequester carbon from the atmosphere for a period of not less 
        than 100 years.
            (3) Coastal carbon areas of significance.--The term 
        ``coastal carbon area of significance'' means any area 
        designated by the Administrator under section 107 as a coastal 
        carbon area of significance.
            (4) Grant program.--The term ``grant program'' means the 
        Blue Carbon Partnership Grant Program established pursuant to 
        section 104.
            (5) Interagency working group.--The term ``interagency 
        working group'' means the Interagency Working Group on Coastal 
        Blue Carbon established under section 106.
            (6) Marine blue carbon.--The term `` Marine Blue Carbon'' 
        means the sequestration of carbon in pelagic and deep sea 
        ecosystems, including in sediments and through the ecosystem 
        impacts of increased biomass of large marine wildlife.
            (7) Program.--The term ``Program'' means the Blue Carbon 
        Program required by section 101(a).

                    TITLE II--MARINE PROTECTED AREAS

SEC. 201. POLICY.

    (a) Protection of Habitat.--It is the policy of the United States--
            (1) to prohibit any commercial extractive or destructive 
        human activity in at least 30 percent of the ocean under United 
        States jurisdiction by 2030. The 30 percent shall include 
        existing areas in which commercial extractive and destructive 
        human activities are and continue to be prohibited; and
            (2) to support the adoption and implementation of a global 
        goal to protect at least 30 percent of land and 30 percent of 
        ocean areas by 2030 under the Convention on Biological 
        Diversity.
    (b) Habitats and Ecosystems Subject to Protection.--It is the 
policy of the United States to protect ocean habitats and ecosystems 
that represent--
            (1) the diversity of the United States ocean;
            (2) areas important for conserving and, where appropriate, 
        preserving biodiversity;
            (3) critical breeding, resting, and feeding habitats for 
        wildlife;
            (4) interconnected networks of marine protected areas and 
        wildlife migration corridors;
            (5) areas that will help mitigate the impacts of the 
        climate crisis, including those areas that provide carbon 
        storage, adaptation, and resilience benefits;
            (6) areas that are relatively pristine and least impacted 
        by human activity; and
            (7) areas that help mitigate threats to the United States 
        most vulnerable coastal communities, including protections for 
        natural resources that support the economy and health of 
        communities that rely on a healthy and clean ocean, in 
        particular communities of color, low-income communities, and 
        Tribal and Indigenous communities adversely affected by climate 
        change.
    (c) Considerations in Carrying Out Policy.--A Federal agency 
carrying out the policies described in this section shall seek to carry 
out such policies in a manner that--
            (1) relies on best available science;
            (2) includes meaningful input from States, local 
        communities, and Native American Tribes, and respects Tribal 
        history of sustainable resource management, Indigenous 
        sustainable resource management, Tribal sovereignty, and the 
        right to Tribal self-determination;
            (3) improves access to nature for all people, with an 
        emphasis on increasing access for communities of color and low-
        income communities;
            (4) provides ecological and geographic representation, 
        taking into account that some Fishery Management Councils have 
        taken action to ban the use of all bottom-tending fishing gear 
        and all fishing gear with bycatch rates that adversely affect 
        marine wildlife populations;
            (5) conserves, protects, and restores biodiversity;
            (6) protects ecosystems and the services of ecosystems, 
        restores degraded ecosystems, and maintains ecological 
        functions;
            (7) enhances climate mitigation, adaptation, and 
        resilience, including by protecting ecosystems, species and 
        genetic diversity;
            (8) supports sustainable economic opportunity for people 
        who depend on the ocean for their livelihoods by making the 
        ocean more resilient to climate change and enhancing ecosystem 
        functioning;
            (9) evaluates the negative and positive economic impacts of 
        such policies and considers ways to mitigate such negative 
        impacts;
            (10) considers local and regional input in the design and 
        implementation of protected areas, including input from 
        stakeholders, and considers the cultural values, including 
        seafaring and maritime heritage values, of the United States; 
        and
            (11) provides tools and resources to ensure that protected 
        areas are effectively managed.
    (d) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Communities of color.--The term ``communities of 
        color'' means a geographically distinct area in which the 
        population of any of the following categories of individuals is 
        higher than the average populations of that category for the 
        State in which the community is located:
                    (A) Black.
                    (B) African American.
                    (C) Asian American.
                    (D) Pacific Islander.
                    (E) Other non-White race.
                    (F) Hispanic.
                    (G) Latino.
                    (H) Linguistically isolated.
            (2) Protect and protection.--Each of the terms ``protect'' 
        and ``protection'' means the establishment of enduring measures 
        on land, waters, and oceans that support thriving biodiversity, 
        contribute to climate resilience, and provide ecosystem 
        services, such that their natural character, resources, and 
        functions are conserved, protected, restored and, when shown 
        necessary, enhanced for current and future generations.

SEC. 202. INTERAGENCY TASK FORCE.

    (a) Establishment.--Not later than 45 days after the date of 
enactment of this Act, the President shall establish the 30x30 
Interagency Task Force.
    (b) Chair.--The task force shall be chaired by the chair of the 
Council on Environmental Quality.
    (c) Composition.--The President shall appoint the following 
individuals as members of the task force:
            (1) The Administrator of the Environmental Protection 
        Agency.
            (2) The Administrator.
            (3) The Secretary of the Interior.
            (4) The Secretary of Defense.
            (5) The Secretary of State.
            (6) The Secretary of Energy.
            (7) The Secretary of Homeland Security.
            (8) The Director of the Office of Science and Technology 
        Policy.
    (d) Plan.--Not later than one year after the date on which the task 
force is established, the task force shall--
            (1) develop a plan and schedule consistent with the policy 
        of prohibiting any commercial extractive or destructive human 
        activity on at least 30 percent of the ocean under United 
        States jurisdiction by 2030 that includes--
                    (A) an update to the National Marine Protected Area 
                Center's Marine Protected Area Inventory;
                    (B) the identification of candidate areas for 
                protection that meet one or more of the criteria set 
                out in section 201(b); and
                    (C) annual benchmarks for achieving the policy 
                described in subsection (d)(1); and
            (2) develop a plan to provide technical assistance, data, 
        and other resources for identifying and establishing strongly 
        protected areas of the ocean in areas beyond national 
        jurisdiction that includes--
                    (A) an inventory of areas already protected in 
                areas of the ocean beyond the jurisdiction of the 
                United States, and a description of any activities that 
                are currently allowed in each of the areas; and
                    (B) an inventory of areas that other countries or 
                international governing bodies are considering making a 
                marine protected area.
    (e) Inventory.--The task force shall conduct an inventory of areas 
under United States jurisdiction that are subject to both a prohibition 
on all bottom-tending fishing gear and a prohibition on all fishing 
gear with bycatch rates that adversely affect marine wildlife 
populations, and identify additional prohibitions on nonfishing 
commercial activities in those areas.
    (f) Annual Report.--Not later than 2 years after the date of 
enactment of this Act, and annually thereafter, the task force shall 
submit a report to Congress on the progress of the United States in 
meeting the policy described in subsection (d)(1).
    (g) Agency Plans.--Not later than 180 days after the date on which 
the task force issues a plan under subsection (d), each member of the 
task force shall develop and implement an agency plan for actions to be 
taken to implement such task force plan.
    (h) Public Comment and Consultation.--The development of a plan 
under subsection (e) and the development of a plan under subsection (g) 
shall be subject to public comment and carried out in consultation with 
relevant Regional Fishery Management Councils established under the 
Magnuson-Stevens Fishery Conservation and Management Act (16 U.S.C. 
1801 et seq.).
    (i) Definitions.--In this section the term ``task force'' means the 
30x30 Interagency Task Force established pursuant to subsection (a).

SEC. 203. INITIATE DESIGNATION PROCESS FOR SUCCESSFUL SANCTUARY 
              NOMINATIONS AND TECHNICAL CORRECTIONS TO THE NATIONAL 
              MARINE SANCTUARIES ACT.

    (a) In General.--Not later than 180 days after the date of 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Commerce shall initiate the 
process to designate as a national marine sanctuary under section 304 
of the National Marine Sanctuaries Act (16 U.S.C. 1433) each of the 
areas identified in the Inventory of Successful Nominations of the 
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration as of October 20, 2020.
    (b) Removal of Limitations on Designations.--Section 304 of the 
Marine Protection, Research, and Sanctuaries Act of 1972 (16 U.S.C. 
1434) is amended by striking subsection (f).

SEC. 204. INCREASED PROTECTION FOR DEEP SEA CORALS.

    (a) Designation.--The Administrator shall designate as a Deep Sea 
Coral Marine Conservation Area any area where deep sea coral is found--
            (1) that is--
                    (A) within the waters of the exclusive economic 
                zone; or
                    (B) on the Outer Continental Shelf; and
            (2) in which the Administrator or a Regional Fishery 
        Management Council established under section 302 of the 
        Magnuson-Stevens Fishery Conservation and Management Act (16 
        U.S.C. 1852) has prohibited the use of gear in contact with the 
        ocean bottom, and towed from a vessel, which is moved through 
        the water during fishing in order to capture fish, including 
        otter trawls, beam trawls, hydraulic dredges, non-hydraulic 
        dredges, and seines (with the exception of a purse seine).
    (b) Prohibitions.--Except as provided in subsection (c), the 
following activities are prohibited in a Deep Sea Coral Marine 
Conservation Area--
            (1) exploring for, developing, or producing oil, gas, or 
        minerals;
            (2) using or attempting to use poisons, electrical charges, 
        or explosives in the collection or harvest of any marine 
        resource;
            (3) intentionally introducing or otherwise releasing any 
        non-native species;
            (4) anchoring on any living or dead coral;
            (5) drilling into, dredging, or otherwise altering the 
        seafloor;
            (6) use of bottom trawl nets or other bottom-tending 
        fishing gear; and
            (7) deliberate dumping or discharge of noxious substances, 
        materials that may cause eutrophication, or materials that 
        artificially increase endemic pest outbreaks.
    (c) Exceptions.--Subsection (b) shall not apply to--
            (1) otherwise lawful conduct of the armed forces (as such 
        term is defined in section 101 of title 10, United States Code) 
        unless such conduct is deemed destructive by the Secretary of 
        Commerce to a national marine monument or marine sanctuary;
            (2) an action necessary to respond to an emergency 
        threatening life, property, or the environment, or an activity 
        necessary for a national security or law enforcement purpose; 
        and
            (3) scientific exploration or research activities, subject 
        to such terms and conditions as the Secretaries consider 
        necessary for the care and management of the living and 
        nonliving marine resources of the Conservation Area.
    (d) Analysis.--The Administrator shall, every two years, conduct an 
analysis and provide recommendations to each Regional Fishery 
Management Council established under 302 of the Magnuson-Stevens 
Fishery Conservation and Management Act (16 U.S.C. 1852) as to whether 
any additional area should be protected by a prohibition on the use of 
gear in contact with the ocean bottom, and towed from a vessel, which 
is moved through the water during fishing in order to capture fish, 
including otter trawls, beam trawls, hydraulic dredges, non-hydraulic 
dredges, and seines (with the exception of a purse seine).

SEC. 205. MARINE BIODIVERSITY GAP ANALYSIS.

    (a) In General.--Not later than 90 days after the date of enactment 
of this Act, the Secretary of Commerce and the Secretary of the 
Interior, in coordination with relevant Federal and State agencies, 
shall begin a marine biodiversity gap analysis meeting the requirements 
described in subsection (b) to be completed not later than 18 months 
after such date. Such Secretaries, in coordination with relevant 
Federal and State agencies, shall update such analysis not less 
frequently than every 2 years thereafter.
    (b) Requirements.--The requirements of this subsection are that the 
Marine Biodiversity Gap Analysis shall--
            (1) be consistent with the policy set out in section 201;
            (2) assess habitats, species, and ecosystems across the 
        United States ocean waters and coasts; and
            (3) determine what types of habitats, species, and 
        ecosystems and the percentage of each type of habitat, species, 
        and ecosystem are necessary to protect in order to--
                    (A) protect biodiversity; and
                    (B) mitigate and provide resilience to the impacts 
                of climate change.
    (c) Publication.--The Secretary of Commerce shall publish the 
marine biodiversity gap analysis required by subsection (a) on a public 
website.
    (d) Report.--Biennially, the Secretary of Commerce and Secretary of 
the Interior shall publish a report on candidate areas for protection, 
and on progress for advancing protection of habitats, species, and 
biodiversity identified in the gap analysis required by subsection (a).
    (e) Authorization of Appropriations.--There is authorized to be 
appropriated $2,000,000 in each fiscal year to carry out this section.

                       TITLE III--OFFSHORE ENERGY

     Subtitle A--Oil and Gas Leasing in the Outer Continental Shelf

SEC. 301. PROHIBITION OF OIL AND GAS LEASING IN ALL AREAS OF THE OUTER 
              CONTINENTAL SHELF.

    (a) In General.--Notwithstanding any provision of law, beginning on 
the date of enactment of this section, with respect to any area on the 
Outer Continental Shelf, no agency of the United States or person may 
conduct or authorize any other person to conduct--
            (1) oil and gas preleasing, leasing and related activities; 
        or
            (2) geological or geophysical activities in support of oil, 
        gas, or methane hydrate exploration or development except such 
        activities conducted pursuant to a lease issued before the date 
        of enactment of this section.
    (b) Best Available Technology.--In addition to any other measures 
required by law, the Secretary of the Interior shall require any lessee 
conducting geophysical exploration on the Outer Continental Shelf to 
use the best commercially available technology with respect to reducing 
acoustic pressure levels to conduct such exploration.
    (c) Outer Continental Shelf.--In this section, the term ``Outer 
Continental Shelf'' has the meaning given the term ``outer Continental 
Shelf'' in Section 2 of the Outer Continental Shelf Lands Act (43 
U.S.C. 1331).

                 Subtitle B--Offshore Renewable Energy

SEC. 311. SENSE OF CONGRESS ON THE IMPORTANCE OF OFFSHORE WIND ENERGY.

    (a) Findings.--Congress finds the following:
            (1) Rapid decarbonization of the electric sector is central 
        to stopping global temperature rise at 1.5 degrees Celsius.
            (2) The United States can and must address this crisis by 
        putting people to work building the necessary infrastructure to 
        overcome the climate threat.
            (3) The United States offshore wind resources must be 
        harnessed in order to both rapidly reduce our carbon emissions 
        and put people back to work.
            (4) Deploying 30,000 megawatts of offshore wind by 2030 
        will result in up to 83,000 jobs, $57,000,000,000 of cumulative 
        investment in the United States economy, and $25,000,000,000 in 
        annual economic input.
    (b) Sense of Congress.--It is the sense of Congress that--
            (1) the United States should rapidly build out its offshore 
        wind resources as a key part of achieving a national goal of 
        net zero emissions;
            (2) offshore wind lease areas should be determined by a 
        robust and transparent stakeholder process that incorporates 
        early engagement and input from diverse user groups as well as 
        Federal, State, and local governments;
            (3) offshore wind buildout must ensure ecosystem health and 
        the protection of vulnerable and endangered species; and
            (4) permitting agencies must have sufficient resources to 
        carry out a robust and efficient permitting process.

SEC. 312. NATIONAL OFFSHORE WIND GOALS.

    (a) Targets.--The Secretary of the Interior shall seek to permit--
            (1) not less than 12.5 gigawatts of offshore wind energy 
        production on the Outer Continental Shelf by January 1, 2025; 
        and
            (2) not less than 25 gigawatts of offshore wind energy 
        production on the Outer Continental Shelf by January 1, 2030.
    (b) Report.--The Secretary of the Interior shall report to the 
Committee on Natural Resources of the House of Representatives and the 
Committee on Energy and Natural Resources of the Senate beginning in 
December 2020 and each year thereafter on the Secretary's progress in 
meeting the targets described in subsection (a).

SEC. 313. REMOVING ROADBLOCKS FOR DATA SHARING.

    Section 402(b) of the Magnuson-Stevens Fishery Conservation and 
Management Act (16 U.S.C. 1881a(b)) is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (1)--
                    (A) in subparagraph (G), by striking ``or'';
                    (B) in subparagraph (H), by striking the period at 
                the end and insert ``; or''; and
                    (C) by adding at the end the following:
                    ``(I) to the Secretary of the Interior for use 
                relating to siting, exploration, production, or 
                promotion of offshore wind energy on the Outer 
                Continental Shelf.''; and
            (2) in paragraph (2), by striking ``(H)'' and inserting 
        ``(I)''.

SEC. 314. INCREASING FUNDING FOR SCIENTIFIC RESEARCH.

    (a) In General.--Of the amounts obtained from each lease sale 
beginning on the date that is 60 days after the date of enactment of 
this Act, $5,000,000 shall be available without subsequent 
appropriation to Administrator to fund cooperative research on the 
interaction between wind-development, fisheries, protected species, and 
marine species of mammals, birds, and sea turtles, and the technologies 
for data collection and other scientific and permitting needs deemed 
necessary by the Secretary of Commerce, in consultation with the 
Secretary of the Interior and the Secretary of Energy, to support 
responsible long-term development of offshore wind energy resources on 
the Outer Continental Shelf.
    (b) Conforming Amendment.--Section 9 of the Outer Continental Shelf 
Lands Act (43 U.S.C. 1338) is amended by striking ``all'' and inserting 
``Except as provided in section 314 of the Ocean-Based Climate 
Solutions Act of 2020, all''.

SEC. 315. EXTENDING COLLABORATION WITH INDUSTRY.

    Section 113 of Division G of Public Law 113-7 is amended to read as 
follows:

                        ``contribution authority

    ``Sec. 113. The Secretary of the Interior may accept from public 
and private sources contributions of money and services for use by the 
Bureau of Ocean Energy Management or the Bureau of Safety and 
Environmental Enforcement to conduct work in support of the orderly 
exploration and development of Outer Continental Shelf resources, 
including preparation of environmental documents such as impact 
statements and assessments, studies, and related research, during 
fiscal years--
    ``(1) 2014 through 2024; or
    ``(2) with respect to work supporting offshore wind exploration or 
development, 2014 through 2030.''.

SEC. 316. DEVELOPING STRATEGIES TO PROTECT WILDLIFE.

    Not later than 1 year after the date of enactment of this Act, the 
National Academies shall prepare a report that reviews, compiles, and 
synthesizes existing research and best practices for offshore wind 
development that minimize effects on wildlife and protected species. 
The report shall--
            (1) provide a quantitative assessment of the contributions 
        of offshore wind in reducing carbon emissions in the 
        electricity sector and helping to improve human health and 
        wildlife populations along the Atlantic and Pacific coasts of 
        the United States; and
            (2) provide a quantitative assessment of effectiveness of 
        methods to measure the effects of offshore wind on wildlife and 
        best practices to monitor, avoid, minimize, and mitigate harm 
        to wildlife.

SEC. 317. OFFSHORE WIND FOR THE TERRITORIES.

    (a) Application of Outer Continental Shelf Lands Act With Respect 
to Territories of the United States.--
            (1) In general.--Section 2 of the Outer Continental Shelf 
        Lands Act (43 U.S.C. 1331) is amended--
                    (A) in paragraph (a)--
                            (i) by inserting after ``control'' the 
                        following: ``or lying within the exclusive 
                        economic zone of the United States and the 
                        outer Continental Shelf adjacent to any 
                        territory or possession of the United States''; 
                        and
                            (ii) by adding at the end before the 
                        semicolon the following: ``, except that such 
                        term shall not include any area conveyed by 
                        Congress to a territorial government for 
                        administration'';
                    (B) in paragraph (p), by striking ``and'' after the 
                semicolon at the end;
                    (C) in paragraph (q), by striking the period at the 
                end and inserting ``; and''; and
                    (D) by adding at the end the following:
    ``(r) The term `State' means the several States, the Commonwealth 
of Puerto Rico, Guam, American Samoa, the United States Virgin Islands, 
and the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands.''.
            (2) Exclusions.--Section 18 of the Outer Continental Shelf 
        Lands Act (43 U.S.C. 1344) is amended by adding at the end the 
        following:
    ``(i) This section shall not apply to the scheduling of lease sales 
in the outer Continental Shelf adjacent to the Territories and 
possessions of the United States.''.
    (b) Wind Lease Sales for Areas of Outer Continental Shelf.--The 
Outer Continental Shelf Lands Act (43 U.S.C. 1331 et seq.) is amended 
by adding at the end the following:

``SEC. 33. WIND LEASE SALES FOR AREAS OF OUTER CONTINENTAL SHELF.

    ``(a) Authorization.--The Secretary may conduct wind lease sales on 
the outer Continental Shelf.
    ``(b) Wind Lease Sale Procedure.--Any wind lease sale conducted 
under this section shall be considered a lease under section 8(p).
    ``(c) Wind Lease Sales Off Coasts of Territories of the United 
States.--
            ``(1) Study on feasibility of conducting wind lease 
        sales.--
                    ``(A) In general.--The Secretary shall conduct a 
                study on the feasibility, including the technological 
                and long-term economic feasibility, and the potential 
                environmental effects of, conducting wind lease sales 
                on an area of the outer Continental Shelf within the 
                territorial jurisdiction of American Samoa, Guam, the 
                Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, Puerto 
                Rico, and the Virgin Islands of the United States.
                    ``(B) Consultation.--In conducting the study 
                required in paragraph (A), the Secretary shall 
                consult--
                            ``(i) the National Laboratories, that term 
                        is defined in section 2(3) of the Energy Policy 
                        Act of 2005 (42 U.S.C. 15801(3));
                            ``(ii) the National Oceanic and Atmospheric 
                        Administration, including the Office of 
                        National Marine Sanctuaries and National Marine 
                        Fisheries Service; and
                            ``(iii) the Governor of each of American 
                        Samoa, Guam, the Northern Mariana Islands, 
                        Puerto Rico, and the Virgin Islands of the 
                        United States.
                    ``(C) Publication.--The study required in paragraph 
                (A) shall be published in the Federal Register for 
                public comment for a period of not fewer than 60 days.
                    ``(D) Submission of results.--Not later than 18 
                months after the date of the enactment of this section, 
                the Secretary shall submit the results of the study 
                conducted under subparagraph (A) to:
                            ``(i) the Committee on Energy and Natural 
                        Resources of the Senate;
                            ``(ii) the Committee on Natural Resources 
                        of the House of Representatives; and
                            ``(iii) each of the delegates or resident 
                        commissioners to the House of Representatives 
                        from American Samoa, Guam, the Northern Mariana 
                        Islands, Puerto Rico, and the Virgin Islands of 
                        the United States.
                    ``(E) Public availability.--The Secretary shall 
                publish the study required under subparagraph (A) and 
                results submitted under subparagraph (C) on a public 
                website.
            ``(2) Call for information and nominations.--The Secretary 
        shall issue a call for information and nominations for proposed 
        wind lease sales for areas determined to be feasible under the 
        study conducted under paragraph (1).
            ``(3) Conditional wind lease sales.--
                    ``(A) In general.--For each territory, the 
                Secretary shall conduct not less than 1 wind lease sale 
                on an area of the outer Continental Shelf within the 
                territorial jurisdiction of such territory that meets 
                each of the following criteria:
                            ``(i) The study required under paragraph 
                        (1)(A) concluded that a wind lease sale on the 
                        area is feasible.
                            ``(ii) The Secretary has determined that 
                        the call for information has generated 
                        sufficient interest for the area.
                            ``(iii) The Secretary has consulted with 
                        the Secretary of Defense and other relevant 
                        Federal agencies regarding such a sale.
                            ``(iv) The Secretary has consulted with the 
                        Governor of the territory regarding the 
                        suitability of the area for wind energy 
                        development.
                    ``(B) Exception.--If no area of the outer 
                Continental Shelf within the territorial jurisdiction 
                of a territory meets each of the criteria in clauses 
                (i) through (iii) of subparagraph (A), the requirement 
                under subparagraph (A) shall not apply to such 
                territory.''.

SEC. 318. MARINE ENERGY RESEARCH.

    (a) In General.--Subtitle C of title VI of the Energy Independence 
and Security Act of 2007 (42 U.S.C. 17001 et seq.) is amended to read 
as follows:

``SEC. 631. SHORT TITLE.

    ``This subtitle may be cited as the `Marine Energy Research and 
Development Act'.

``SEC. 632. DEFINITIONS.

    ``In this subtitle:
            ``(1) Eligible entity.--The term `eligible entity' means 
        any of the following entities:
                    ``(A) An institution of higher education.
                    ``(B) A National Laboratory.
                    ``(C) A Federal research agency.
                    ``(D) A State research agency.
                    ``(E) A nonprofit research organization.
                    ``(F) An industrial entity or a multi-institutional 
                consortium thereof.
            ``(2) Institution of higher education.--The term 
        `institution of higher education' has the meaning given such 
        term in section 101 of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (20 
        U.S.C. 1001).
            ``(3) Marine energy.--The term `marine energy' means energy 
        from--
                    ``(A) waves, tides, and currents in oceans, 
                estuaries, and tidal areas;
                    ``(B) free flowing water in rivers, lakes, streams, 
                and man-made channels;
                    ``(C) differentials in salinity and pressure 
                gradients; and
                    ``(D) differentials in water temperature, including 
                ocean thermal energy conversion.
            ``(4) National laboratory.--The term `National Laboratory' 
        has the meaning given such term in section 2(3) of the Energy 
        Policy Act of 2005 (42 U.S.C. 15801(3)).
            ``(5) Microgrid.--The term `microgrid' has the meaning 
        given such term in section 641 of the Energy Independence and 
        Security Act of 2007 (42 U.S.C. 17231).

``SEC. 633. MARINE ENERGY RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT, AND DEMONSTRATION.

    ``(a) In General.--The Secretary, in consultation with the 
Department of Defense, Secretary of Commerce (acting through the Under 
Secretary of Commerce for Oceans and Atmosphere), the Secretary of the 
Interior, and other relevant Federal agencies, shall conduct a program 
of research, development, demonstration, and commercial application of 
marine energy technology, including activities to--
            ``(1) assist technology development to improve the 
        components, processes, and systems used for power generation 
        from marine energy resources at a variety of scales;
            ``(2) establish and expand critical testing infrastructure 
        and facilities necessary to--
                    ``(A) demonstrate and prove marine energy devices 
                at a range of scales in a manner that is cost-effective 
                and efficient; and
                    ``(B) accelerate the technological readiness and 
                commercial application of such devices;
            ``(3) address marine energy resource variability issues, 
        including through the application of energy storage 
        technologies;
            ``(4) advance efficient and reliable integration of marine 
        energy with the electric grid, which may include smart building 
        systems;
            ``(5) identify and study critical short- and long-term 
        needs to maintaining a sustainable marine energy supply chain 
        based in the United States;
            ``(6) increase the reliability, security, and resilience of 
        marine energy technologies;
            ``(7) validate the performance, reliability, 
        maintainability, and cost of marine energy device designs and 
        system components in an operating environment;
            ``(8) consider the protection of critical infrastructure, 
        such as adequate separation between marine energy devices and 
        projects and submarine telecommunications cables, including 
        through the development of voluntary, consensus-based standards 
        for such purposes;
            ``(9) identify opportunities for crosscutting research, 
        development, and demonstration programs between existing energy 
        research programs;
            ``(10) identify and improve, in conjunction with the 
        Secretary of Commerce, acting through the Under Secretary of 
        Commerce for Oceans and Atmosphere, and other relevant Federal 
        Agencies as appropriate, the environmental impact, including 
        potential cumulative environmental impacts, of marine energy 
        technologies, including--
                    ``(A) potential impacts on fisheries and other 
                marine resources; and
                    ``(B) developing technologies, including mechanisms 
                for self-evaluation, and other means available for 
                improving environmental impacts, including potential 
                cumulative environmental impacts;
            ``(11) identify, in consultation with relevant Federal 
        agencies, potential navigational impacts of marine energy 
        technologies and strategies to prevent possible adverse 
        impacts, in addition to opportunities for marine energy systems 
        to aid the United States Coast Guard, such as remote sensing 
        for coastal border security;
            ``(12) develop numerical and physical tools, including 
        models and monitoring technologies, to assist industry in 
        device and system design, installation, operation, and 
        maintenance, including methods to validate such tools;
            ``(13) support materials science as it relates to marine 
        energy technology, such as the development of corrosive-
        resistant materials;
            ``(14) improve marine energy resource forecasting and 
        general understanding of aquatic system behavior, including 
        turbulence and extreme conditions;
            ``(15) develop metrics and voluntary consensus-based 
        standards in coordination with the National Institute of 
        Standards and Technology and appropriate standard development 
        organizations for marine energy components, systems, and 
        projects, including--
                    ``(A) measuring performance of marine energy 
                technologies; and
                    ``(B) characterizing environmental conditions;
            ``(16) enhance integration with hybrid energy systems, 
        including desalination;
            ``(17) identify opportunities to integrate marine energy 
        technologies into new and existing infrastructure; and
            ``(18) develop technology necessary to support the use of 
        marine energy--
                    ``(A) for the generation and storage of power at 
                sea; and
                    ``(B) for the generation and storage of power to 
                promote the resilience of coastal communities, 
                including in applications relating to--
                            ``(i) desalination;
                            ``(ii) disaster recovery and resilience; 
                        and
                            ``(iii) community microgrids in isolated 
                        power systems.
    ``(b) Study of Non-Power Sector Applications for Advanced Marine 
Energy Technologies.--
            ``(1) In general.--The Secretary, in consultation with the 
        Secretary of Transportation and the Secretary of Commerce, 
        shall conduct a study to examine opportunities for research and 
        development in advanced marine energy technologies for non-
        power sector applications, including applications with respect 
        to--
                    ``(A) the maritime transportation sector;
                    ``(B) associated maritime energy infrastructure, 
                including infrastructure that serves ports, to improve 
                system resilience and disaster recovery; and
                    ``(C) enabling scientific missions at sea and in 
                extreme environments, including the Arctic.
            ``(2) Report.--Not later than 1 year after the date of 
        enactment of this section, the Secretary shall submit to the 
        Committee on Energy and Natural Resources of the Senate and the 
        Committee on Science, Space, and Technology of the House of 
        Representatives a report that describes the results of the 
        study conducted under paragraph (1).

``SEC. 634. NATIONAL MARINE ENERGY CENTERS.

    ``(a) Centers.--The Secretary shall award grants, with each grant 
up to $10,000,000 per year, to institutions of higher education (or 
consortia thereof) for--
            ``(1) the continuation and expansion of the research, 
        development, demonstration, testing, and commercial application 
        activities at the National Marine Energy Centers (referred to 
        in this section as `Centers') established as of January 1, 
        2020; and
            ``(2) the establishment of new National Marine Energy 
        Centers.
    ``(b) Location Selection.--In selecting institutions of higher 
education for new Centers, the Secretary shall consider the following 
criteria:
            ``(1) Whether the institution hosts an existing marine 
        energy research and development program.
            ``(2) Whether the institution has proven technical 
        expertise to support marine energy research.
            ``(3) Whether the institution has access to marine 
        resources.
    ``(c) Purposes.--The Centers shall coordinate among themselves, the 
Department, and the National Laboratories to--
            ``(1) advance research, development, demonstration and 
        commercial application of marine energy technologies in 
        response to industry and commercial needs;
            ``(2) support in-water testing and demonstration of marine 
        energy technologies, including facilities capable of testing--
                    ``(A) marine energy systems of various technology 
                readiness levels and scales;
                    ``(B) a variety of technologies in multiple test 
                berths at a single location;
                    ``(C) arrays of technology devices; and
                    ``(D) interconnectivity to an electrical grid, 
                including microgrids; and
            ``(3) collect and disseminate information on best practices 
        in all areas relating to developing and managing marine energy 
        resources and energy systems.
    ``(d) Coordination.--To the extent practicable, the Centers shall 
coordinate their activities with the Secretary of Commerce, acting 
through the Under Secretary of Commerce for Oceans and Atmosphere, and 
other relevant Federal agencies.
    ``(e) Termination.--To the extent otherwise authorized by law, the 
Secretary may terminate funding for a Center described in paragraph (a) 
if such Center is underperforming.

``SEC. 635. ORGANIZATION AND ADMINISTRATION OF PROGRAMS.

    ``(a) Coordination.--In carrying out this subtitle, the Secretary 
shall coordinate activities, and effectively manage cross-cutting 
research priorities across programs of the Department and other 
relevant Federal agencies, including the National Laboratories and the 
National Marine Energy Centers.
    ``(b) Collaboration.--
            ``(1) In general.--In carrying out this subtitle, the 
        Secretary shall collaborate with industry, National 
        Laboratories, other relevant Federal agencies, institutions of 
        higher education, including Minority Serving Institutions, 
        National Marine Energy Centers, Tribal entities, including 
        Alaska Native Corporations, and international bodies with 
        relevant scientific and technical expertise.
            ``(2) Participation.--To the extent practicable, the 
        Secretary shall encourage research projects that promote 
        collaboration between entities specified in paragraph (1) and 
        include entities not historically associated with National 
        Marine Energy Centers, such as Minority Serving Institutions.
            ``(3) International collaboration.--The Secretary of 
        Energy, in coordination with other appropriate Federal and 
        multilateral agencies (including the United States Agency for 
        International Development) shall support collaborative efforts 
        with international partners to promote the research, 
        development, and demonstration of technologies used to develop 
        marine energy resources.
    ``(c) Dissemination of Results and Public Availability.--The 
Secretary shall--
            ``(1) publish the results of projects supported under this 
        subtitle through Department websites, reports, databases, 
        training materials, and industry conferences, including 
        information discovered after the completion of such projects, 
        withholding any industrial proprietary information; and
            ``(2) share results of such projects with the public except 
        to the extent that the information is protected from disclosure 
        under section 552(b) of title 5, United States Code.
    ``(d) Award Frequency.--The Secretary shall solicit applications 
for awards under this subtitle no less frequently than once per fiscal 
year.
    ``(e) Education and Outreach.--In carrying out the activities 
described in this subtitle, the Secretary shall support education and 
outreach activities to disseminate information and promote public 
understanding of marine energy technologies and the marine energy 
workforce, including activities at the National Marine Energy Centers.
    ``(f) Technical Assistance and Workforce Development.--In carrying 
out this subtitle, the Secretary may also conduct, for purposes of 
supporting technical, non-hardware, and information-based advances in 
marine energy development and operations--
            ``(1) technical assistance and analysis activities with 
        eligible entities, including activities that support expanding 
        access to advanced marine energy technologies for rural, 
        Tribal, and low-income communities; and
            ``(2) workforce development and training activities, 
        including to support the dissemination of standards and best 
        practices for enabling marine energy production.
    ``(g) Strategic Plan.--In carrying out the activities described in 
this subtitle, the Secretary shall--
            ``(1) not later than one year after the date of the 
        enactment of the Marine Energy Research and Development Act, 
        draft a plan, considering input from relevant stakeholders such 
        as industry and academia, to implement the programs described 
        in this subtitle and update the plan on an annual basis; and
            ``(2) the plan shall address near-term (up to 2 years), 
        mid-term (up to 7 years), and long-term (up to 15 years) 
        challenges to the advancement of marine energy systems.
    ``(h) Report to Congress.--Not later than 1 year after the date of 
the enactment of this Act, and at least once every 2 years thereafter, 
the Secretary shall provide, and make available to the public and the 
relevant authorizing and appropriations committees of Congress, a 
report on the findings of research conducted and activities carried out 
pursuant to this subtitle, including the most current strategic plan 
under subsection (g) and the progress made in implementing such plan.

``SEC. 636. APPLICABILITY OF OTHER LAWS.

    ``Nothing in this subtitle shall be construed as waiving, 
modifying, or superseding the applicability of any requirement under 
any environmental or other Federal or State law.

``SEC. 637. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.

    ``There are authorized to be appropriated to the Secretary to carry 
out this subtitle--
            ``(1) $112,580,000 for marine energy research, development, 
        and demonstration activities for fiscal year 2021;
            ``(2) $116,303,200 for marine energy research, development, 
        and demonstration activities for fiscal year 2022;
            ``(3) $120,175,562 for marine energy research, development, 
        and demonstration activities for fiscal year 2023;
            ``(4) $124,203,295 for marine energy research, development, 
        and demonstration activities for fiscal year 2024; and
            ``(5) $128,392,869 for marine energy research, development, 
        and demonstration activities for fiscal year 2025.''.
    (b) Conforming Table of Contents Amendment.--The table of contents 
for the Energy Independence and Security Act of 2007 is amended by 
striking the items relating to subtitle C of title VI and inserting the 
following:

          ``Subtitle C--Marine Energy Research and Development

``Sec. 631. Short title.
``Sec. 632. Definitions.
``Sec. 633. Marine energy research, development, and demonstration.
``Sec. 634. National Marine Energy Centers.
``Sec. 635. Organization and administration of programs.
``Sec. 636. Applicability of other laws.
``Sec. 637. Authorization of appropriations.''.
    (c) Conforming Amendments.--
            (1) Energy policy act of 2005.--The Energy Policy Act of 
        2005 (42 U.S.C. 15801 et seq.) is amended--
                    (A) in section 201(a), by striking ``ocean 
                (including tidal, wave, current, and thermal)'' and 
                inserting ``marine'';
                    (B) in section 203(b)(2), by--
                            (i) inserting ``marine energy (as defined 
                        in section 632 of the Energy Independence and 
                        Security Act of 2007) or'' before ``electric 
                        energy''; and
                            (ii) by striking ``ocean (including tidal, 
                        wave, current, and thermal)'';
                    (C) in section 931(a)(2)(E)(i), by striking ``ocean 
                energy, including wave energy'' and inserting ``marine 
                energy (as defined in section 632 of the Energy 
                Independence and Security Act of 2007)''; and
                    (D) in section 1833(a), by striking ``ocean energy 
                resources (including tidal, wave, and thermal energy)'' 
                and inserting ``marine energy resources (within the 
                meaning of section 632 of the Energy Independence and 
                Security Act of 2007)''.
            (2) Energy policy act of 1992.--Section 1212 of the Energy 
        Policy Act of 1992 (42 U.S.C. 13317) is amended--
                    (A) in subsection (a)(4)(A)(i), by striking ``ocean 
                (including tidal, wave, current, and thermal)'' and 
                inserting ``marine energy (as defined in section 632 of 
                the Energy Independence and Security Act of 2007)'';
                    (B) in subsection (b), in the matter preceding 
                paragraph (1), by striking ``ocean (including tidal, 
                wave, current, and thermal)'' and inserting ``marine 
                energy (as defined in section 632 of the Energy 
                Independence and Security Act of 2007)''; and
                    (C) in subsection (e)(1), in the first sentence, by 
                striking ``ocean (including tidal, wave, current, and 
                thermal)'' and inserting ``marine energy (as defined in 
                section 632 of the Energy Independence and Security Act 
                of 2007)''.
            (3) Renewable energy and energy efficiency technology 
        competitiveness act of 1989.--The Renewable Energy and Energy 
        Efficiency Technology Competitiveness Act of 1989 (42 U.S.C. 
        12001 et seq.) is amended--
                    (A) in section 4 (42 U.S.C. 12003)--
                            (i) in subsection (a)(5), by striking 
                        ``Ocean'' and inserting ``Marine''; and
                            (ii) in subsection (c), in the matter 
                        preceding paragraph (1), by striking ``Ocean'' 
                        and inserting ``Marine''; and
                    (B) in section 9(c) (42 U.S.C. 12006(c)), by 
                striking ``ocean,'' and inserting ``marine,''.

SEC. 319. INCREASING FUNDING FOR COASTAL CONSERVATION AND RESILIENCE.

    Section 8(p)(2) of the Outer Continental Shelf Lands Act (43 U.S.C. 
1337(p)(2)) is amended by adding at the end the following:
                    ``(C) With respect to any lease under this 
                subsection for the production of wind energy, 30 
                percent of the revenue from such lease shall be 
                deposited in the National Oceans and Coastal Security 
                Fund established by section 904 of the National Oceans 
                and Coastal Security Act (16 U.S.C. 7503).''.

 TITLE IV--CLIMATE-READY FISHERIES, EFFICIENT FISHERY VESSELS, AND BUY 
                            AMERICAN SEAFOOD

SEC. 401. SENSE OF CONGRESS.

    It is the sense of Congress that--
            (1) American wild-caught seafood is integral to the 
        nation's food supply and to American food security;
            (2) the seafood supply chain is often long and complex;
            (3) American caught and American-processed seafood can be a 
        sustainable healthy source of protein and micronutrients;
            (4) fresh, frozen, dried, and canned domestic seafood can 
        be produced, processed, and transported in a manner that has a 
        low carbon footprint;
            (5) marine species that are small, at lower trophic levels, 
        and pelagic typically have the smallest carbon footprint; and
            (6) therefore, any executive agency that purchases seafood 
        products should, to the extent practicable, buy local American-
        caught or American-harvested and American-processed seafood 
        products from fisheries that are not overfished or experiencing 
        overfishing in order to reduce the greenhouse gas emissions 
        associated with the supply chain of seafood products.

SEC. 402. CAUGHT IN THE USA.

    Section 2(c)(1) of the Act of August 11, 1939 (15 U.S.C. 713c-
3(c)(1)) is amended to read as follows:
            ``(1) The Secretary shall make grants from the fund 
        established under subsection (b) to--
                    ``(A) assist persons in carrying out research and 
                development projects addressed to any aspect of United 
                States fisheries, including harvesting, processing, 
                marketing, and associated infrastructures; or
                    ``(B) assist persons to market and promote the 
                consumption of--
                            ``(i) local or domestic fishery products;
                            ``(ii) environmentally- and climate-
                        friendly fishery products that minimize bycatch 
                        and impacts on marine mammals;
                            ``(iii) invasive species; or
                            ``(iv) well-managed but less known 
                        species.''.

SEC. 403. ELIMINATE FISH SUBSIDIES IN TRADE AGREEMENTS.

    (a) In General.--Section 102(b) of the Bipartisan Congressional 
Trade Priorities and Accountability Act of 2015 (19 U.S.C. 4201(b)) is 
amended by adding at the end the following:
            ``(23) Fish subsidies.--The principal negotiating 
        objectives of the United States with respect to fish subsidies 
        are the following:
                    ``(A) To eliminate subsidies that contribute to 
                overcapacity, overfishing, or illegal, unreported, and 
                unregulated fishing, such as subsidies that--
                            ``(i) increase the marine fishing capacity 
                        of fishing vessels or support the acquisition 
                        of equipment that increases the ability of 
                        fishing vessels to find fish;
                            ``(ii) support the construction of fishing 
                        vessels, importation of fishing vessels, or 
                        government repurchase of fishing vessels 
                        outside of a binding and effective fishing 
                        capacity reduction program that includes the 
                        corresponding elimination of fishing rights and 
                        a binding and effective prohibition on the 
                        reuse of vessels for fishing to increase 
                        capacity in any fishery;
                            ``(iii) affect fish stocks in any fishery--
                                    ``(I) in an overfished or worse 
                                condition;
                                    ``(II) whose stock levels are 
                                declining; or
                                    ``(III) whose stock level status 
                                remains unknown;
                            ``(iv) are provided to fishing enterprises 
                        engaged in long-distance fishing, either on the 
                        high seas or in the exclusive economic zone of 
                        a third country;
                            ``(v) support the transfer or reflagging of 
                        fishing vessels to third countries, including 
                        through the creation of joint ventures with 
                        partners of those countries;
                            ``(vi) are provided to the fishing 
                        enterprises or to owners or operators of 
                        vessels that have been determined to have 
                        engaged in illegal, unreported, and unregulated 
                        fishing by a coastal state or a regional 
                        fisheries management organization; or
                            ``(vii) reduce fuel, insurance, or other 
                        operating costs solely for fishing enterprises.
                    ``(B) To require parties to trade agreements--
                            ``(i) to report to an environmental affairs 
                        committee established under the agreement, on 
                        an annual basis, all marine fishing-related 
                        subsidies provided by the parties, including 
                        fleet capacity and trade data concerning the 
                        fisheries that the subsidies affect;
                            ``(ii) to establish an independent body to 
                        make annual assessments of the health of fish 
                        stocks in each domestic fishery and report such 
                        assessments to such environmental affairs 
                        committee;
                            ``(iii) with respect to shared or 
                        international fisheries in which each party is 
                        involved in fishing activities, to commit to 
                        cooperating with third countries, regional 
                        fisheries management organizations, and 
                        assessment bodies in annual assessments of the 
                        health of fish stocks in such fisheries; and
                            ``(iv) to certify to such environmental 
                        affairs committee that they have made and 
                        continue to make adequate progress toward the 
                        goal of protecting and conserving, through 
                        well-connected and effective system of 
                        protected areas and other effective area-based 
                        conservation measures, at least 30 percent of 
                        the planet by 2030, with the focus on areas 
                        particularly important for biodiversity.
                    ``(C) To require parties to trade agreements that 
                are also members of the World Trade Organization to 
                work collaboratively at the Organization to establish 
                and maintain robust disciplines on fisheries 
                subsidies.''.
    (b) Effective Date.--The amendments made by subsection (a)--
            (1) take effect on the date of the enactment of this Act; 
        and
            (2) apply with respect to negotiations for trade agreements 
        subject to the provisions of section 103 of the Bipartisan 
        Congressional Trade Priorities and Accountability Act of 2015 
        (19 U.S.C. 4202) entered into on or after such date of 
        enactment.

SEC. 404. FUEL EFFICIENT FISHING VESSELS.

    Section 53708(b)(2) of title 46, United States Code, is amended--
            (1) in subparagraph (A) by striking ``or'' at the end;
            (2) in subparagraph (B) by striking ``increased fuel 
        efficiency or improved safety.'' and inserting ``improved 
        safety; or''; and
            (3) by adding at the end the following:
                    ``(C) increasing fuel efficiency and reducing fuel 
                usage, which may include--
                            ``(i) installation of solar panels;
                            ``(ii) engine replacement or retrofit, 
                        including the installation of new fuel-
                        efficient, low-emission engines, including 
                        hybrid electric marine engines or generators;
                            ``(iii) gearbox or propeller replacement;
                            ``(iv) modifications to hull shape; and
                            ``(v) modifications to fishing gear.''.

SEC. 405. CLIMATE AND FISHERIES RESEARCH AND MANAGEMENT PROGRAM.

    Title IV of the Magnuson-Stevens Fishery Conservation and 
Management Act (16 U.S.C. 1881 et seq.) is amended by adding at the end 
the following:

``SEC. 409. CLIMATE AND FISHERIES RESEARCH AND MANAGEMENT PROGRAM.

    ``(a) Establishment of the Program.--The Secretary, in consultation 
with appropriate Regional Fishery Management Councils and in 
coordination with other Federal agencies and educational institutions, 
shall establish a program to identify, develop, and implement adaptive 
strategies, consistent with the requirements of this Act, to improve 
the management of fisheries under current and anticipated impacts of 
climate change. In administering such program, the Secretary shall--
            ``(1) expand and improve fisheries science, monitoring, and 
        data collection in order to support and promote integrated, 
        climate-informed fishery management and ensure that the 
        requirements of this Act are met under changing climatic 
        conditions;
            ``(2) prepare and adapt fishery management for climate 
        change by promoting a precautionary approach to management and 
        supporting the development and use of relevant science and 
        management tools, including forecasting, risk assessment, 
        scenario planning, coupled climate and ecosystem modeling, and 
        management strategy evaluation;
            ``(3) improve agency understanding of stock shifts to 
        inform catch advice, resolve jurisdictional issues, and support 
        achievement of conservation mandates in the face of shifting 
        stocks;
            ``(4) promote the use of climate-informed stock 
        assessments;
            ``(5) provide guidance on the use of climate-responsive 
        control rules in fishery management;
            ``(6) promote management approaches that increase 
        resilience to current and anticipated climate impacts in 
        managed species and marine ecosystems, including by 
        coordinating with and advancing programs to protect genetic 
        diversity and age structure, protect marine habitat, minimize 
        and better account for bycatch, and incorporating into 
        management the ecological role of forage fish in the marine 
        food web;
            ``(7) increase understanding of the socioeconomic impacts 
        of climate change on fishing participants and related 
        industries;
            ``(8) coordinate within the National Oceanic and 
        Atmospheric Administration on issues related to climate change 
        and fisheries, including on data needs and availability;
            ``(9) ensure that the research, resource management, and 
        expenditures to prepare fisheries for climate change promote 
        racial and socioeconomic equity with respect to environmental 
        and economic outcomes across fisheries and regions;
            ``(10) promote the incorporation of climate change into 
        fisheries management at regional fishery management 
        organizations and other international bodies; and
            ``(11) advance other climate change fishery science and 
        management as appropriate.
    ``(b) Evaluation.--The Secretary, in consultation with the 
Councils, shall, not later than 3 years after the date of enactment of 
the Ocean-Based Climate Solutions Act of 2020 and every 3 years 
thereafter, conduct an independent review that will be provided to 
Congress and the public on the results of the program, including--
            ``(1) steps taken to modify or enhance research and data 
        collection programs to better understand the effects of climate 
        change on fishery resources;
            ``(2) steps taken to evaluate various management strategies 
        in the context of future climate scenarios;
            ``(3) how tools and solutions identified by the program 
        have been or will be implemented in fishery science and 
        management; and
            ``(4) the degree to which equity in outcomes of fulfilling 
        programmatic duties was achieved as required by subsection 
        (a)(9).''.

SEC. 406. CLIMATE-READY FISHERIES INNOVATION PROGRAM.

    (a) Climate-Ready Fisheries Innovation Program.--Not later than 1 
year after the date of enactment of this Act, the Administrator shall 
establish a program, including grants, to develop innovative tools and 
approaches designed to increase the adaptive capacity of fishery 
management to the impacts of climate change. In administering such 
program, the Administrator shall--
            (1) develop science and management approaches that address 
        regional and national priorities to improve the conservation 
        and management of fishery resources under current and 
        anticipated climate impacts;
            (2) provide for routine consultation with fishery managers 
        and scientists in order to maximize opportunities to 
        incorporate results of the program in fishery management 
        actions;
            (3) promote adoption of methods developed under the program 
        in fishery management plans developed by the Regional Fishery 
        Management Councils;
            (4) provide information and outreach to the private sector 
        and academic sector to encourage development of tools and 
        approaches to manage the effects of climate change on 
        fisheries; and
            (5) provide information and outreach to fishery 
        participants to increase understanding of and encourage 
        adoption and use of tools and approaches developed under the 
        program.
    (b) Coordination of the Program.--
            (1) The Administrator shall establish a process to ensure 
        coordination with and outreach to--
                    (A) regional offices and science centers of the 
                National Marine Fisheries Service;
                    (B) the Regional Fishery Management Councils;
                    (C) the scientific and statistical committees of 
                such Fishery Management Councils; and
                    (D) other relevant programs, including the 
                cooperative research and management program under 
                Section 318 of the Magnuson-Stevens Fishery 
                Conservation and Management Act (16 U.S.C. 1867), the 
                Integrated Ocean Observing System, and programs within 
                the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration 
                designed to address ocean acidification.
            (2) Such coordination should include identification of 
        multi-year research priorities to study and understand the 
        current and anticipated impacts of climate change on fisheries, 
        fisheries interactions, habitats, fishery participants, 
        fisheries science and monitoring, or other relevant priority. 
        Such priorities should be routinely reviewed in a timeframe not 
        to exceed 5 years and updated as necessary.
    (c) Report.--Every 2 years, beginning 2 years after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Administrator shall transmit a report to the 
Senate Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation and the House 
of Representatives Committee on Natural Resources that--
            (1) describes funding provided to implement this section;
            (2) includes descriptions of and developments in tools and 
        approaches achieved under this section;
            (3) describes how and in which fisheries these tools and 
        approaches have been implemented; and
            (4) describes improvements in fishery climate-readiness 
        associated with implementing this section, as well as proposals 
        to address remaining problems.

SEC. 407. SHIFTING STOCKS TASK FORCE.

    (a) Establishment.--The Administrator shall establish, not later 
than 120 days after the date of enactment of this Act, a task force to 
be known as the ``Shifting Stocks Task Force'' consisting of 10 
members, including 1 member recommended by each of 8 Regional Fishery 
Management Councils and the Highly Migratory Species Advisory Panel and 
the Administrator or their designee.
    (b) Membership.--
            (1) Terms.--Except as provided by paragraph (2), terms of 
        appointed members of the Task Force shall be staggered, shall 
        be 2 years in duration, and no member shall serve more than 3 
        terms.
            (2) Vacancy.--Any member appointed to fill a vacancy 
        occurring before the expiration of the term for which the 
        member's predecessor was appointed shall be appointed only for 
        the remainder of that term.
            (3) Criteria for appointment.--Members appointed to the 
        Task Force shall be Federal employees, State employees, Tribal 
        and Indigenous representatives, academics, or independent 
        experts, shall have strong scientific or technical credentials 
        and experience, and shall not include members of the Regional 
        Fishery Management Councils.
            (4) Travel expenses.--Each member shall receive travel 
        expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, in 
        accordance with applicable provisions under subchapter I of 
        chapter 57 of title 5, United States Code.
            (5) Chairperson.--The chairperson of the Task Force shall 
        be elected by the members.
    (c) Meetings.--The Task Force shall meet not less than 4 times 
annually.
    (d) Staff Support.--Upon request of the Task Force, the 
Administrator may detail on a reimbursable basis personnel to the Task 
Force to assist such Task Force.
    (e) Development of Criteria.--Not later than 1 year after the date 
of enactment of this Act, the Task Force shall develop, in consultation 
with the Administrator and the Regional Fishery Management Councils, 
science-based decision-making criteria to make jurisdiction, 
allocation, and fishery management decisions that minimize the risk of 
overfishing and maximize stock and ecosystem resilience to the effects 
of climate change, are consistent with the national standards, the 
other provisions of the Magnuson-Stevens Fishery Conservation and 
Management Act (16 U.S.C. 1801 et seq.), regulations implementing 
recommendations by international organizations in which the United 
States participates (including but not limited to closed areas, quotas, 
and size limits), and any other applicable law.
    (f) Recommendations.--The Task Force shall make recommendations to 
the Administrator and to the Regional Fishery Management Councils 
recommendations for the allocation and distribution of fishing 
privileges based on the criteria developed under subsection (e).
    (g) Petitions.--Any member of the public may submit a petition to 
request the review of potentially shifting stock. In order to be 
eligible for consideration, a petition must include sufficiently 
descriptive information regarding the stock or stocks in question, the 
jurisdiction or allocation concerns, and any other relevant 
information.
    (h) Petition Review and Recommendation.--
            (1) Determination of sufficient information.--Upon receipt 
        of a petition under subsection (f), the Task Force shall, not 
        later than 60 days after the date of such receipt, determine by 
        majority vote whether the petition contains sufficient 
        information to show that a substantial shift in the 
        distribution of a stock has occurred.
            (2) Review process.--If the Task Force makes a 
        determination under paragraph (1) that a petition contains 
        sufficient information, the Task Force shall review such 
        petition. Such review shall include--
                    (A) a public hearing in the affected region; and
                    (B) a public notice and comment period of not less 
                than 90 days.
            (3) Written recommendation.--Upon completion of a review 
        under paragraph (2), the Task Force shall--
                    (A) determine which Regional Fishery Management 
                Council's or Councils' geographic area of authority the 
                fishery is located in; and
                    (B) submit to the Administrator, each affected 
                Regional Fishery Management Council, and the petitioner 
                written recommendations for allocation and distribution 
                of fishing privileges within the fishery.
            (4) Response.--Upon receipt of a recommendation from the 
        Task Force under paragraph (3), the Administrator shall--
                    (A) begin consultation with the affected Regional 
                Fishery Management Council regarding necessary changes 
                to fishery management plans; and
                    (B) not later than 180 days after the date of 
                receipt of the Task Force's recommendation, ensure that 
                a compliant fishery management plan that fully accounts 
                for the best available science on shifting stocks and 
                the recommendations of the Task Force is created, 
                published, and implemented.
            (5) Publication.--The Task Force shall publish on the 
        internet each petition received under this section, the 
        determination as made under paragraph (1) and any written 
        recommendations produced under paragraph (3).
    (i) Task Force.--In this section, the term ``Task Force'' means the 
Shifting Stocks Task Force established pursuant to subsection (a).

SEC. 408. ESSENTIAL FISH HABITAT CONSULTATION.

    Section 305(b) of the Magnuson-Stevens Fishery Conservation and 
Management Act (16 U.S.C. 1855(b)) is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (1)(A)--
                    (A) by inserting ``every five years'' after 
                ``updating''; and
                    (B) by inserting ``, changes to habitat, in part 
                due to climate change,'' after ``evidence'';
            (2) in paragraph (1)(D), by inserting ``and such agencies 
        shall take action'' after ``agencies'';
            (3) by striking paragraphs (2) through (4) and inserting 
        after paragraph (1) the following:
            ``(2) Consultations regarding federal agency action with 
        adverse effects on essential fish habitat.--
                    ``(A) Requirement to avoid or mitigate adverse 
                effects.--
                            ``(i) Essential fish habitat.--With respect 
                        to any Federal agency action that may have an 
                        adverse affect on essential fish habitat, each 
                        Federal agency shall, in consultation with the 
                        Secretary, ensure that any action authorized, 
                        funded, or undertaken by such agency avoids the 
                        adverse effect of such action on essential fish 
                        habitat or, to the extent that the adverse 
                        effect cannot be avoided, the agency shall 
                        minimize and mitigate the adverse effect.
                            ``(ii) Habitat area of particular 
                        concern.--No Federal agency may authorize, 
                        fund, or undertake an action if such agency 
                        determines, in consultation with the Secretary, 
                        that such action would have an adverse effect 
                        on a habitat area of particular concern.
                    ``(B) Regulations.--The Secretary shall establish 
                regulations for the consultation process required by 
                subparagraph (A), including to ensure that 
                recommendations made by the Secretary pursuant to such 
                subparagraph would result in the avoidance, if 
                possible, of adverse effects on essential fish habitat 
                and, if avoidance is not possible, the minimization and 
                mitigation of any such adverse effects.
            ``(3) Information to council.--The Secretary shall inform 
        each affected Council of any consultation carried out under 
        paragraph (2), including information on the proposed action and 
        any potential adverse effects, and each affected Council--
                    ``(A) may comment on and make recommendations to 
                the Secretary and any Federal or State agency 
                concerning the underlying action if, in the view of the 
                Council, such action may affect the habitat of a 
                fishery resource under the authority of such Council; 
                and
                    ``(B) shall comment on and make recommendations to 
                the Secretary and any Federal or State agency 
                concerning the underlying action if, in the view of the 
                Council, such action is likely to adversely affect the 
                habitat of an anadromous fishery resource under the 
                authority of such Council.
            ``(4) Information from other sources.--
                    ``(A) Receipt of information.--If the Secretary 
                receives information from any source and determines 
                that an action taken, funded, or authorized or proposed 
                to be taken, funded, or authorized by a State or 
                Federal agency may have an adverse effect on an 
                essential fish habitat identified under this Act, the 
                Secretary shall recommend to such agency measures that 
                avoid such adverse effects and minimize or mitigate 
                such adverse effects that cannot be avoided.
                    ``(B) Required response.--Not later than 30 days 
                after receiving a recommendation under subparagraph 
                (A), a Federal, State, or local agency shall provide a 
                detailed response in writing to any Council comment 
                under paragraph (3) and the Secretary regarding the 
                matter. The response shall include a description of 
                measures proposed by the agency for avoiding the 
                adverse effects, or to the extent the adverse effects 
                cannot be avoided, mitigating the adverse effects of 
                the action on such essential fish habitat. In the case 
                of a response that is inconsistent with the 
                recommendations of the Secretary, the Federal agency 
                shall explain how the alternative measures proposed 
                will avoid the adverse effects of such action on 
                essential fish habitat or, to the extent that adverse 
                effects cannot be avoided, mitigate the adverse 
                effects.
                    ``(C) Publication.--The Secretary shall make 
                available to the public--
                            ``(i) any recommendation made under 
                        subparagraph (A) on the date on which such 
                        recommendation is made; and
                            ``(ii) any response made by an agency under 
                        subparagraph (B) on the date on which such 
                        response is received.
            ``(5) Essential fish habitat.--In this subsection, the term 
        `habitat areas of particular concern' means specific types of 
        areas that are part of or within essential fish habitat that--
                    ``(A) provide an important ecological function, 
                including for maintaining and restoring the biomass, 
                demographic, spatial, or genetic characteristics of 
                fish populations;
                    ``(B) are sensitive to human-induced environmental 
                degradation;
                    ``(C) are or will be significantly stressed by 
                human activities;
                    ``(D) due to prevailing or anticipated future 
                environmental conditions, are or may become important 
                to the health of managed species; or
                    ``(E) are rare.''.

SEC. 409. OCEAN AQUACULTURE RESEARCH AND POLICY PROGRAM.

    (a) Establishment.--The Administrator shall establish an Ocean 
Aquaculture Research and Policy Program to address opportunities, 
challenges, and innovation in restorative ocean aquaculture 
development, siting, and operations in the coastal waters and exclusive 
economic zone through--
            (1) investment in research and technical assistance to 
        ensure adverse impacts to the marine environment can be fully 
        understood, anticipated, accounted for, and avoided and impacts 
        to wild-capture fisheries and marine wildlife are minimized 
        during the species selection, design, development, siting, and 
        operation of aquaculture facilities; and
            (2) the development and application of best management 
        practices to ensure the species selection, design, development, 
        siting, and operation of restorative ocean aquaculture 
        maximizes potential benefits while minimizing potential adverse 
        impacts to the marine environment and wild-capture fisheries.
    (b) Use of Existing Programs.--The Administrator shall use existing 
grant and research programs to support the design, development, siting, 
and operation of restorative ocean aquaculture using best management 
practices to maximize potential benefits and minimize potential adverse 
impacts to the marine environment.
    (c) Prioritization in Other Programs.--In carrying out other 
programs relating to aquaculture research and development, the 
Administrator shall prioritize restorative ocean aquaculture, including 
in carrying out--
            (1) the Small Business Innovation Research Program of the 
        National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration;
            (2) National Sea Grant College Program; and
            (3) section 2 of the Act of August 11, 1939 (15 U.S.C. 
        713c-3).
    (d) Prioritization Within the Program.--In carrying out this 
section, the Administrator shall prioritize support for research and 
technology development that includes--
            (1) design analyses of restorative aquaculture systems to 
        maximize ecosystem benefits while avoiding adverse impacts to 
        the marine environment and wild-capture fisheries and marine 
        wildlife;
            (2) spatial analyses to understand and evaluate where 
        siting of restorative aquaculture can minimize adverse impacts 
        to migratory birds and waterbirds, marine birds and mammals, 
        endangered species, and other aspects of the marine ecosystem;
            (3) monitoring both the individual and cumulative 
        environmental impacts of current and proposed small scale 
        aquaculture operations to inform potential impacts of large-
        scale operations and siting;
            (4) offshore monitoring, remediation, and mitigation 
        technology development; and
            (5) understanding and preparing for impacts that climate 
        change may have on design development, siting, and operations 
        of restorative aquaculture facilities and the marine 
        environment.
    (e) Report.--Not later than 1 year after the date of the enactment 
of this Act, the National Academies shall submit to the Administrator 
and to Congress a report that reviews, compiles, and synthesizes 
existing technologies and assessments of restorative ocean aquaculture 
to further inform ongoing research and technical assistance funded 
under subsection (c).
    (f) Content.--The report required by subsection (e) shall include 
the following:
            (1) A quantitative assessment of the capacity for 
        sequestering and storing significant amounts of carbon from the 
        atmosphere and ocean to mitigate the impacts of climate change.
            (2) A comprehensive assessment of the blue carbon potential 
        for an aquaculture project, including its potential 
        environmental impacts, including cumulative impacts, to native 
        marine species and marine habitat and the potential adverse 
        wildlife interactions likely to result from the use of 
        restorative aquaculture technologies in use or under 
        development worldwide.
            (3) A comprehensive assessment of the potential impacts, 
        including cumulative impacts, to wild-capture fisheries and 
        marine wildlife and the productivity thereof likely to result 
        from the use of restorative aquaculture technologies in use or 
        under development worldwide.
            (4) An assessment of any known ecosystems services that 
        have been derived from restorative ocean aquaculture and 
        design, including siting and size parameters that maximize 
        those benefits.
            (5) A detailed discussion of the mitigation measures 
        available currently to reduce any negative environmental or 
        wild-capture fisheries and marine wildlife impacts identified 
        and their degree of efficacy, as well as the real-time facility 
        monitoring options available.
            (6) Recommendations of regionally relevant siting, 
        installation, and operations standards necessary to ensure that 
        restorative ocean aquaculture facilities are developed and 
        operated in a manner which minimizes impacts to the marine 
        environment and avoids and minimizes harmful interactions with 
        marine wildlife and habitat or conflict with other existing 
        ocean-user groups.
            (7) Economic analysis identifying the potential benefits 
        and impacts to commercial and recreational fishing and ocean 
        recreation industries resulting from restorative ocean 
        aquaculture.
            (8) Recommendations for further research and assessments 
        that should be supported.
            (9) A sustainability classification system to assess the 
        various types of restorative aquaculture on a range of life 
        cycle ecological and social benefits and provides a composite 
        score with which to rank such types of restorative aquaculture.

            TITLE V--COASTAL BARRIER RESOURCE ACT AMENDMENTS

SEC. 501. UNDEVELOPED COASTAL BARRIER.

    Section 3(1) of the Coastal Barrier Resources Act (16 U.S.C. 
3502(1)) is amended--
            (1) by striking ``means'' and inserting ``includes'';
            (2) in subparagraph (A), by inserting ``bluff,'' after 
        ``barrier spit,''; and
            (3) in subparagraph (B), by inserting ``including areas 
        that are and will be vulnerable to coastal hazards, such as 
        flooding, storm surge, wind, erosion, and sea level rise'' 
        after ``nearshore waters''.

SEC. 502. COASTAL HAZARD PILOT PROJECT.

    (a) In General.--
            (1) Project.--The Secretary of the Interior shall carry out 
        a coastal hazard pilot project to produce draft maps of areas 
        which could be added to the John H. Chafee Coastal Barrier 
        Resources System that are and will be vulnerable to coastal 
        hazards, such as flooding, storm surge, wind, erosion and sea 
        level rise, and areas not in such System to which barriers and 
        associated habitats are likely to migrate as sea level rises.
            (2) Number of units.--The coastal hazard pilot project 
        shall consist of the creation of maps for no more than 10 
        percent of the System, one-third of which shall be otherwise 
        protected areas as that term is defined in section 12 of the 
        Coastal Barrier Improvement Act of 1990 (16 U.S.C. 3503 note; 
        Public Law 101-591).
    (b) Report.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 2 years after the date of 
        enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall submit to the 
        Committee on Environment and Public Works of the Senate and the 
        Committee on Natural Resources of the House of Representatives 
        a report describing the results of the coastal hazard pilot 
        project and the criteria and costs of completing coastal hazard 
        maps for the entire System.
            (2) Contents.--The report shall include a description of--
                    (A) the final recommended maps created under the 
                coastal hazard pilot project;
                    (B) recommendations for the adoption of the digital 
                maps created under this section by Congress;
                    (C) a summary of the comments received from the 
                Governors of the States, other government officials, 
                and the public regarding the maps; and
                    (D) a description of the criteria and the amount of 
                funding necessary for completing coastal hazard maps 
                for the entire System.
    (c) Consultation.--The Secretary shall prepare the report required 
under subsection (b)--
            (1) in consultation with the Governors of the States in 
        which any System units and otherwise protected areas are 
        located; and
            (2) after--
                    (A) providing an opportunity for the submission of 
                public comments; and
                    (B) considering any public comments submitted under 
                subparagraph (A).

SEC. 503. REPORT ON EXPANDING COASTAL BARRIER RESOURCES ACT TO THE 
              PACIFIC COAST, INCLUDING PACIFIC TERRITORIES AND FREELY 
              ASSOCIATED STATES.

    (a) Report.--Not later than 1 year after the date of enactment of 
this Act, the Secretary shall prepare and submit a report to Congress 
on ways to protect undeveloped coastal barriers along the Pacific Coast 
of the United States, including in the Pacific Territories and Freely 
Associated States. Such study shall examine the potential for loss of 
human life and damage to fish, wildlife, and other natural resources, 
and the potential for the wasteful expenditure of Federal revenues, 
along the Pacific Coast, giving particular attention to tsunami, flood, 
erosion, and storm damage, and sea level rise impacts.
    (b) Contents.--The report required under subsection (a) shall 
evaluate ways in which the definition of the term ``undeveloped coastal 
barrier'' under section 3 of the Coastal Barrier Resources Act (16 
U.S.C. 3502) could be expanded to more accurately address the geology 
and functions of coastal barriers in areas along the Pacific Coast, 
including in the Pacific Territories and Freely Associated States, 
including the ways in which coastal bluffs, rocky outcroppings, 
beaches, wetlands, estuaries, coral reefs, mangroves, and other 
landforms in such areas function as coastal barriers by absorbing storm 
impacts, protecting inland communities from sea level rise impacts, 
providing habitat, and being subject to erosion.
    (c) Preparation and Submission of Maps.--
            (1) Preparation.--As soon as practicable after the date of 
        enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall prepare maps 
        identifying the boundaries of those undeveloped coastal 
        barriers of the United States along the Pacific Coast, 
        including in the Pacific Territories and Freely Associated 
        States.
            (2) Submission to congress.--Not later than 2 years after 
        the date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall submit 
        to Congress maps identifying the boundaries of those 
        undeveloped coastal barriers of the United States along the 
        Pacific Coast, including the Pacific Territories and Freely 
        Associated States, that the Secretary considers to be 
        appropriate for inclusion in the John H. Chafee Coastal Barrier 
        Resources System.
    (d) Pacific Territories and Freely Associated States Defined.--In 
this section the term ``Pacific Territories and Freely Associated 
States'' means each of American Samoa, Guam, the Republic of the 
Marshall Islands, the Federated States of Micronesia, and Palau.

SEC. 504. REQUIRE DISCLOSURE TO PROSPECTIVE BUYERS THAT PROPERTY IS IN 
              THE COASTAL BARRIER RESOURCES SYSTEM.

    Section 5 of the Coastal Barrier Resources Act (16 U.S.C. 3504) is 
amended by adding at the end the following:
    ``(c) Disclosure of Limitations.--
            ``(1) Requirement.--No person shall sell any interest in 
        real property located in the System unless the person has 
        disclosed to the buyer that the property is in the System and 
        subject to the limitations under this section.
            ``(2) Notification to the secretary.--Not later than 30 
        days after the date of sale of any interest in real property 
        located in the System, the seller shall notify the Secretary 
        using the online system required by paragraph (3) of such sale 
        and shall certify to the Secretary that such seller complied 
        with the requirements of paragraph (1).
            ``(3) Online reporting system.--Not later than 30 days 
        after the date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall 
        establish and maintain an online reporting system to facilitate 
        notifications to the Secretary required by paragraph (2).
            ``(4) Civil penalty.--Any person who violates this 
        subsection shall be subject to a civil penalty of not more than 
        $10,000.''.

SEC. 505. IMPROVE FEDERAL AGENCY COMPLIANCE WITH COASTAL BARRIER 
              RESOURCES ACT.

    (a) In General.--Section 7(b) of the Coastal Barrier Resources Act 
(16 U.S.C. 3506(b)) is amended to read as follows:
    ``(b) Reports and Certification.--
            ``(1) The head of each Federal agency affected by this Act 
        shall annually report to the Committees and the Secretary that 
        such agency is in compliance with this Act.
            ``(2) Certification.--The Secretary shall annually certify 
        whether each such agency is in compliance with this Act.
            ``(3) Failure to comply.--If the Secretary certifies that 
        an agency is not in compliance with this Act, the head of the 
        agency shall report to Congress not later than 90 days after 
        the date of such certification regarding how the agency will 
        achieve compliance.''.
    (b) Technical Correction.--Section 3 of the Coastal Barrier 
Resources Act (16 U.S.C. 3502) is amended by striking ``Committee on 
Resources'' and inserting ``Committee on Natural Resources''.

SEC. 506. EXCESS FEDERAL PROPERTY.

    Section 4(e) of the Coastal Barrier Resources Act (16 U.S.C. 
3503(e)) is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (1), by striking ``an undeveloped'' each 
        place such term appears and inserting ``a''; and
            (2) by adding at the end the following:
            ``(3) Coastal barrier defined.--In this subsection, the 
        term `coastal barrier' means--
                    ``(A) a depositional geologic feature (such as a 
                bay barrier, tombolo, barrier spit, or barrier island) 
                that--
                            ``(i) is subject to wave, tidal, and wind 
                        energies; and
                            ``(ii) protects landward aquatic habitats 
                        from direct wave attack; and
                    ``(B) all associated aquatic habitats including the 
                adjacent wetlands, marshes, estuaries, inlets, and 
                nearshore waters.''.

SEC. 507. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.

    Section 9 of the Coastal Barrier Resources Act (16 U.S.C. 3508) is 
amended by striking ``$2,000,000'' and all that follows through the end 
of the sentence and inserting ``$5,000,000 for each of fiscal years 
2021 through 2025.''.

            TITLE VI--COASTAL ZONE MANAGEMENT ACT AMENDMENTS

SEC. 601. GRANTS TO FURTHER ACHIEVEMENT OF TRIBAL COASTAL ZONE 
              OBJECTIVES.

    (a) Grants Authorized.--The Coastal Zone Management Act of 1972 (16 
U.S.C. 1451 et seq.) is amended by adding at the end the following:

   ``grants to further achievement of tribal coastal zone objectives

    ``Sec. 320. 
    ``(a) Grants Authorized.--The Secretary may award competitive 
grants to Indian Tribes to further achievement of the objectives of 
such a Tribe for such Tribe's Tribal coastal zone.
    ``(b) Cost Share.--
            ``(1) In general.--The Federal share of the cost of any 
        activity carried out with a grant under this section shall be--
                    ``(A) in the case of a grant of less than $200,000, 
                100 percent of such cost; and
                    ``(B) in the case of a grant of $200,000 or more, 
                95 percent of such cost, except as provided in 
                paragraph (2).
            ``(2) Waiver.--The Secretary may waive the application of 
        paragraph (1)(B) with respect to a grant to an Indian Tribe, or 
        otherwise reduce the portion of the share of the cost of an 
        activity required to be paid by an Indian Tribe under such 
        paragraph, if the Secretary determines that the Tribe does not 
        have sufficient funds to pay such portion.
    ``(c) Compatibility.--The Secretary may not award a grant under 
this section unless the Secretary determines that the activities to be 
carried out with the grant are compatible with this title and that the 
grantee has consulted with the affected coastal state regarding the 
grant objectives and purposes.
    ``(d) Authorized Objectives and Purposes.--Amounts awarded as a 
grant under this section shall be used for 1 or more of the objectives 
and purposes authorized under subsections (b) and (c), respectively, of 
section 306A.
    ``(e) Funding.--Of amounts appropriated to carry out this Act, 
$5,000,000 is authorized to carry out this section for each of fiscal 
years 2021 through 2025.
    ``(f) Definitions.--In this section:
            ``(1) Indian land.--The term `Indian land' has the meaning 
        given such term in section 2601 of the Energy Policy Act of 
        1992 (25 U.S.C. 3501).
            ``(2) Indian tribe.--The term `Indian Tribe' means an 
        Indian Tribe, as that term is defined in section 4 of the 
        Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act (25 
        U.S.C. 5304).
            ``(3) Tribal coastal zone.--The term `Tribal coastal zone' 
        means any Indian land of an Indian Tribe that is within the 
        coastal zone.
            ``(4) Tribal coastal zone objective.--The term `Tribal 
        coastal zone objective' means, with respect to an Indian Tribe, 
        any of the following objectives:
                    ``(A) Protection, restoration, or preservation of 
                areas in the Tribal coastal zone of such Tribe that 
                hold--
                            ``(i) important ecological, cultural, or 
                        sacred significance for such Tribe; or
                            ``(ii) traditional, historic, and esthetic 
                        values essential to such Tribe.
                    ``(B) Preparing and implementing a special area 
                management plan and technical planning for important 
                coastal areas.
                    ``(C) Any coastal or shoreline stabilization 
                measure, including any mitigation measure, for the 
                purpose of public safety, public access, or cultural or 
                historical preservation.''.
    (b) Guidance.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Commerce shall issue guidance 
for the program established under the amendment made by subsection (a), 
including the criteria for awarding grants under such program based on 
consultation with Indian Tribes (as that term is defined in that 
amendment).
    (c) Use of State Grants To Fulfill Tribal Objectives.--Section 
306A(c)(2) of the Coastal Zone Management Act of 1972 (16 U.S.C. 
1455a(c)(2)) is amended by striking ``and'' after the semicolon at the 
end of subparagraph (D), by striking the period at the end of 
subparagraph (E) and inserting ``; and'', and by adding at the end the 
following:
                    ``(F) fulfilling any Tribal coastal zone objective 
                (as that term is defined in section 320).''.
    (d) Other Programs Not Affected.--Nothing in this section and the 
amendments made by this section may be construed to affect the ability 
of an Indian Tribe to apply for, receive assistance under, or 
participate in any program authorized by the Coastal Zone Management 
Act of 1972 (16 U.S.C. 1451 et seq.) or other related Federal laws.

SEC. 602. ELIGIBILITY OF DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA FOR FEDERAL FUNDING UNDER 
              THE COASTAL ZONE MANAGEMENT ACT OF 1972.

    Section 304(4) of the Coastal Zone Management Act of 1972 (16 
U.S.C. 1453(4)) is amended by inserting ``the District of Columbia,'' 
after ``the term also includes''.

SEC. 603. COASTAL AND ESTUARINE LAND CONSERVATION PROGRAM.

    Section 307A of the Coastal Zone Management Act of 1972 (16 U.S.C. 
1456-1) is amended--
            (1) by striking the heading and inserting ``coastal and 
        estuarine land conservation program'';
            (2) by amending subsection (a) to read as follows:
    ``(a) In General.--The Secretary may conduct a Coastal and 
Estuarine Land Conservation Program, in cooperation with State, 
regional, and other units of government, for the purposes of protecting 
important coastal and estuarine areas that--
            ``(1) have significant conservation, recreation, coastal 
        access, ecological, historical, or aesthetic value;
            ``(2) are threatened by conversion from their natural, 
        undeveloped, or recreational state to other uses; or
            ``(3) could be managed or restored to effectively conserve, 
        enhance, or restore ecological function or mitigate climate 
        change.'';
            (3) in subsection (c)--
                    (A) by amending paragraph (7) to read as follows:
            ``(7) Priority shall be given to lands that--
                    ``(A) can be effectively managed and protected and 
                that have significant ecological value;
                    ``(B)(i) are under an imminent threat of conversion 
                to a use that will degrade or otherwise diminish their 
                natural, undeveloped, or recreational state;
                    ``(ii) serve to mitigate the adverse impacts caused 
                by coastal population growth in the coastal 
                environment;
                    ``(iii) are within a national estuarine research 
                reserve designated under section 315, a national 
                wildlife refuge, or a national estuary program, or are 
                proposed for designation as such a reserve or other 
                such protected area; or
                    ``(iv) are under threat due to climate change or 
                may serve to mitigate the adverse effects of climate 
                change, including through the storage of blue carbon, 
                and to facilitate inland migration of coastal 
                ecosystems in response to sea level rise; and
                    ``(C) to the maximum extent practicable, benefit 
                communities that may not have adequate resources to 
                prepare for or respond to coastal hazards or to access 
                the coastline, including low income communities, 
                communities of color, Tribal and Indigenous 
                communities, and rural communities.''; and
                    (B) in paragraph (10), by striking ``triennially'' 
                and inserting ``every 5 years'';
            (4) in subsection (f)--
                    (A) in paragraph (2)(B), by inserting ``for any 
                territory of the United States that is unable to 
                provide the match,'' after ``community,''; and
                    (B) in paragraph (4)--
                            (i) in subparagraph (A)(i), by striking 
                        ``meets the criteria set forth in section 
                        2(b)'' and inserting ``the goals set forth in 
                        subsection (b)''; and
                            (ii) in subparagraph (C), by striking 
                        ``(A)'' and inserting ``subparagraph (A)'';
            (5) in subsection (h), by striking the second sentence; and
            (6) in subsection (l), by striking ``fiscal years 2009 
        through 2013'' and inserting ``2021 through 2025''.

SEC. 604. COASTAL ZONE MANAGEMENT FUND.

    Section 308 of Coastal Zone Management Act of 1972 (16 U.S.C. 
1456a) is amended to read as follows:

                     ``coastal zone management fund

    ``Sec. 308. 
    ``(a) Establishment.--There is established a fund, to be known as 
the `Coastal Zone Management Fund', which shall consist of fees 
deposited into the Fund under section 307(i)(3) and any other funds 
appropriated to the Fund.
    ``(b) Grants for Post-Disaster Response to Severe Coastal Flood 
Events.--
            ``(1) In general.--In response to a major disaster declared 
        under the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency 
        Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5121 et seq.) as a result of flood 
        and related damages in the coastal zone of a State, the 
        Secretary may issue a grant to such State for a purpose 
        described in paragraph (2).
            ``(2) Eligible uses.--A State may use funds provided under 
        this subsection to--
                    ``(A) improve resilience to future severe coastal 
                flood hazards including activities and projects related 
                to--
                            ``(i) publicly owned infrastructure;
                            ``(ii) residential and commercial 
                        structures;
                            ``(iii) natural infrastructure; or
                            ``(iv) waste disposal sites and industrial 
                        facilities;
                    ``(B) assess damages after a major disaster 
                described in paragraph (1);
                    ``(C) plan, design, or engineer a project to--
                            ``(i) restore, expand, install, or relocate 
                        natural infrastructure;
                            ``(ii) remove damaged assets, restore sites 
                        to safe conditions, and select alternative 
                        sites; or
                            ``(iii) facilitate the landward migration 
                        of coastal ecosystems; or
                    ``(D) implement a project described by subparagraph 
                (C).
            ``(3) Federal share.--The Secretary may issue a grant under 
        this subsection for an amount not to exceed--
                    ``(A) 90 percent of the cost of an activity 
                described in subparagraph (A) or (B) of paragraph (2);
                    ``(B) except as provided in subparagraph (C), 60 
                percent of the cost of an activity described in 
                paragraph (2)(D);
                    ``(C) 75 percent of the cost of an activity 
                provided for in a plan approved under subsection (d); 
                or
                    ``(D) 100 percent of the cost of any activity 
                described in subparagraph (A), (B), or (C) of paragraph 
                (2) responding to the effects of a severe coastal flood 
                in a disadvantaged community that is identified in a 
                plan approved under subsection (d).
    ``(c) Grants for Severe Coastal Flood Hazard Planning.--
            ``(1) In general.--The Secretary, at the request of a 
        Governor of a coastal state, may use amounts in the Fund to 
        issue a grant to a coastal state with an approved coastal zone 
        management program for the timely response to a severe coastal 
        flood hazard.
            ``(2) Proposal.--To be considered for a grant under this 
        section, a State shall submit a grant proposal to the Secretary 
        in a time, place, and manner determined by the Secretary. Such 
        proposal shall--
                    ``(A) describe the risks that severe coastal flood 
                hazards pose in the State and goals for reducing loss 
                of life and property and sustaining coastal ecosystems 
                in response to these risks;
                    ``(B) include consideration of related plans 
                including the Coastal Zone Management Plan of the 
                State, the Hazard Mitigation Plan of the State, and the 
                severe coastal flood hazard preparedness plans, if any, 
                of neighboring States;
                    ``(C) be developed in conjunction with local 
                governments in the coastal zone of the State and 
                provided for public review and comment on the plan, 
                including holding a public hearing and engaging 
                disadvantaged communities; and
                    ``(D) be substantially consistent with the guidance 
                issued under subsection (e)(1)(C).
            ``(3) Criteria.--In determining the amount of a grant under 
        this subsection, the Secretary shall consider the--
                    ``(A) area and population of the coastal zone of 
                the applicant State;
                    ``(B) the risks that severe coastal flood hazards 
                pose to the State; and
                    ``(C) the reduction of severe coastal flood hazards 
                expected as a result of the proposal.
            ``(4) Limitation on amount of funds to be awarded.--Grants 
        made pursuant to this subsection in any fiscal year shall not 
        exceed 50 percent of the funds in the Fund as a result of 
        appropriations pursuant to subsection (j)(1).
            ``(5) Federal share.--
                    ``(A) In general.--Except as provided in 
                subparagraph (B), the Federal share of the cost of an 
                activity funded by a grant issued under this subsection 
                shall not exceed--
                            ``(i) 75 percent of the cost of the 
                        activity; or
                            ``(ii) 85 percent of the cost of the 
                        activity in the case of a State that has 
                        enacted a requirement for the disclosure of 
                        severe coastal flood hazards, including sea 
                        level rise, that meets criteria for such 
                        disclosure established by the Secretary, to 
                        buyers of real estate in the coastal zone.
                    ``(B) Exception.--The Secretary may reduce or waive 
                the matching requirement under paragraph (5) if a 
                coastal state submits a written request to the 
                Secretary for a waiver with a justification as to why 
                the State cannot meet the match requirement, and the 
                Secretary determines such justification sufficient to 
                waive such requirement.
    ``(d) Grants for Severe Coastal Flood Hazard Plan Implementation.--
            ``(1) The Secretary, at the Secretary's discretion or at 
        the request of the Governor of a State, may use amounts in the 
        Fund to issue grants to a coastal state with a severe coastal 
        flood hazard preparedness plan approved under to subsection (d) 
        to implement the approved plan.
            ``(2) Activities eligible for funding under this subsection 
        include:
                    ``(A) conducting a public awareness campaign to 
                inform the public and decision-makers about severe 
                coastal flood hazards;
                    ``(B) developing, enacting, and administering a 
                state or local law prohibiting new and significantly 
                expanded development in areas at risk of severe coastal 
                flood hazards;
                    ``(C) developing, enacting, and administering a 
                state requirement for disclosure of severe coastal 
                flood hazards, including sea level rise, to buyers of 
                real estate;
                    ``(D) making grants to local governments, or 
                regional consortiums of local governments, to implement 
                the state plan, including development of local or 
                regional plans and site-specific plans or projects; and
                    ``(E) planning, designing, and implementing 
                projects to--
                            ``(i) protect existing public 
                        infrastructure and residential and commercial 
                        properties, including built structures, natural 
                        infrastructure, and living shorelines;
                            ``(ii) relocate infrastructure or 
                        structures at risk of damage by severe coastal 
                        flood hazards, restore such sites to safe 
                        conditions, and select alternative sites;
                            ``(iii) remove structures damaged by severe 
                        coastal flood hazards and restore such site to 
                        safe conditions;
                            ``(iv) protect waste disposal facilities in 
                        areas at risk of severe coastal flood hazards 
                        or relocate such facilities to alternative 
                        sites; and
                            ``(v) facilitate the landward migration of 
                        coastal ecosystems.
            ``(3) Grants made pursuant to this subsection shall be in 
        response to an annual request for proposals. In determining the 
        amount of a grant, the Secretary shall consider--
                    ``(A) the area and population of the coastal zone 
                of the State;
                    ``(B) the risks that severe coastal flood hazards 
                pose in the State and the reduction of coastal flood 
                hazards expected as a result of the proposal;
                    ``(C) demonstration of innovative approaches to 
                preparing for severe coastal flood hazards; and
                    ``(D) benefits to disadvantaged communities 
                identified in a plan approved pursuant to subsection 
                (d).
            ``(4) A grant under this subsection shall be limited to 75 
        percent of the cost of the proposal, except that the Secretary 
        may reduce or waive the such matching requirement if a coastal 
        state submits to the Secretary in writing a request for a 
        waiver with a justification as to why the State cannot meet the 
        match requirement, and the Secretary agrees with the 
        justification and grants the waiver.
    ``(e) Technical Support to States.--
            ``(1) The Secretary shall take such actions as the 
        Secretary determines necessary to support States in carrying 
        out this section, including at a minimum the following:
                    ``(A) Periodic assessment of storm flood risk and 
                relative sea level and lake level changes along the 
                United States coastline, including estimates of changes 
                in storm intensity and relative sea or lake levels by 
                2040, 2060, 2080, and 2100.
                    ``(B) Operation of an online mapping tool to 
                describe areas at risk of temporary flooding from 
                future coastal storms and permanent inundation as a 
                result of sea or long term lake level changes.
                    ``(C) Publication, not later than 1 year after the 
                date of enactment of this section and periodically 
                thereafter, of guidance for the development of State 
                plans developed pursuant to subsection (d).
                    ``(D) Establishment, not later than 1 year after 
                the date of enactment of this section, of minimum 
                criteria for disclosure of severe coastal flood 
                hazards, including sea level rise, to buyers of real 
                estate in the coastal zone.
                    ``(E) Creation, not later than 1 year after the 
                date of enactment of this section, and periodic 
                updating, of an online dashboard describing the key 
                features of State or local government requirements for 
                disclosure of severe coastal flood hazards to buyers of 
                real estate.
                    ``(F) Establishment, not later than 1 year after 
                the date of enactment of this section, after 
                consultation with the Administrator of the 
                Environmental Protection Agency, of standards for 
                restoration to safe conditions of sites from which 
                infrastructure or other structures have been relocated.
            ``(2) The guidance developed by the Secretary pursuant to 
        subparagraph (C) of paragraph (1) of this subsection shall, at 
        a minimum--
                    ``(A) provide information States need to establish 
                State-specific estimates of severe coastal flood 
                hazards, including more severe storms and relative sea 
                and lake levels, and planning targets for such hazards 
                for the years 2040, 2060, 2080, and 2100;
                    ``(B) describe approaches the State should consider 
                to prohibit new or expanded development in areas at 
                risk of severe coastal flood hazards;
                    ``(C) outline considerations for State grants to 
                support local governments in the coastal zone, or 
                consortiums of such governments acting on a regional 
                basis, in developing or implementing parts of a plan 
                pursuant to subsection (d);
                    ``(D) describe methods for evaluation of response 
                options including construction of structures to protect 
                assets and relocation to alternative sites, including 
                cost comparison in the context of available resources, 
                and related considerations;
                    ``(E) review options for establishing priorities 
                for removal of damaged or abandoned structures and 
                restoration of sites to safe conditions;
                    ``(F) describe social justice policies and 
                practices the State should consider adopting, including 
                criteria for identifying disadvantaged communities 
                within the coastal zone of the State and the policies 
                and practices the State should consider adopting to 
                assure that interests of such communities are addressed 
                in State plans developed pursuant to this section;
                    ``(G) identify areas in coastal communities, or 
                other locations in the State, that have minimal severe 
                coastal flood hazards, that are appropriate for 
                relocation of people and assets, and can sustain the 
                identity and cultural heritage of relocated 
                communities;
                    ``(H) provide information and practices for 
                identifying coastal areas that are important to the 
                successful landward migration of ecosystems in response 
                to severe coastal flood hazards and measures for 
                protecting these migration pathways;
                    ``(I) identify tools to identify waste disposal 
                sites and related sites that pose a risk of water 
                pollution as a result of severe coastal flood hazards 
                and describe practices the State should consider to 
                protect or relocate such facilities or sites; and
                    ``(J) describe opportunities to improve public 
                access to the shoreline as a result of improved 
                preparedness for severe coastal flood hazards.
    ``(f) Administration.--The Secretary may use amounts in the Fund 
for expenses incident to the administration of this section, in an 
amount not to exceed $250,000 or 3 percent of the amount in the Fund, 
whichever is less, for each year.
    ``(g) Report to Congress.--The Secretary shall, not later than 3 
years after the date of enactment of this section and every 3 years 
thereafter, submit to the Committee on Natural Resources of the United 
States House of Representatives and the Committee on Commerce of the 
United States Senate a report describing the development of plans and 
projects under this section, changes in severe coastal flood hazards, 
including changes to risks to disadvantaged communities, and making 
recommendations to better respond to these challenges.
    ``(h) Definitions.--For the purposes of this section:
            ``(1) The term `severe coastal flood hazards' means 
        temporary flooding resulting from coastal storms and storm 
        surge, tsunamis, and changing lake levels and permanent 
        inundation from rising sea levels and land subsidence, 
        including landward migration of shorelines impacting 
        residential and commercial property, infrastructure, and 
        ecosystems.
            ``(2) The term `natural infrastructure' means coastal 
        wetlands, beaches, dunes, marshes, mangrove forests, municipal 
        green infrastructure, and living shorelines.
            ``(3) The term `publicly owned infrastructure' means 
        buildings, structures, and facilities and appurtenances of 
        drinking water, sewage treatment, natural gas, or electric 
        power utilities owned by a municipal, county, or State 
        government or a combination of such governments.
            ``(4) The term `waste disposal site' means a publicly or 
        privately owned solid waste landfill or disposal site, 
        hazardous waste landfill of disposal site, sites included on 
        the National Priorities List developed under the Comprehensive 
        Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act of 
        1980, and sites for the disposal of coal combustion residuals 
        from coal-fired power plants, provided that such sites are 
        identified in a plan developed and approved under subsection 
        (d).
            ``(5) The term `disadvantaged communities' means areas of 
        the coastal state identified in a plan approved under 
        subsection (d) which disproportionately suffer from a 
        combination of economic, health, and environmental burdens 
        including poverty, high unemployment, air and water pollution, 
        presence of hazardous wastes as well as high incidence of 
        asthma and heart disease.
            ``(6) The term `living shoreline' means a protected, 
        stabilized coastal edge made of natural materials such as 
        plants designed to provide wildlife habitat, as well as natural 
        resilience to shorelines.
            ``(7) The term `municipal green infrastructure' has the 
        meaning provided in 33 U.S. Code Sec.  1362 (27).
            ``(8) The term `safe conditions' refers to standards for 
        restoration of sites from which infrastructure or structures 
        are relocated established by the Secretary pursuant to 
        subsection (f)(1)(F) are protective of human health and the 
        environment.
    ``(i) Authorization of Appropriations.--
            ``(1) There is authorized to be appropriated into the Fund 
        for use by the Secretary $100,000,000 for each of fiscal years 
        2021 through 2025, which shall remain available until expended 
        without fiscal year limitation.
            ``(2) There is authorized to be appropriated into the Fund 
        for use by the Secretary to respond to a major disaster 
        declared under the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and 
        Emergency Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5121 et seq.) such sums as 
        may be necessary. Funds appropriated pursuant to this paragraph 
        may only be used to make grants to the state or states in which 
        the major disaster occurred and shall remain available until 
        expended without fiscal year limitation.''.

SEC. 605. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.

    Section 318(a) of the Coastal Zone Management Act of 1972 (16 
U.S.C. 1464) is amended to read as follows:
    ``(a) Sums Appropriated to the Secretary.--There are authorized to 
be appropriated to the Secretary, to remain available until expended--
            ``(1) for grants under sections 306, 306A, and 309, 
        $95,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2021 through 2025; and
            ``(2) for grants under section 315, $37,000,000 for each of 
        fiscal years 2021 through 2025.''.

SEC. 606. AMENDMENTS TO NATIONAL ESTUARINE RESEARCH RESERVE SYSTEM 
              PROGRAM.

    (a) Designation of Additional Reserves.--Not later than 5 years 
after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Commerce 
shall designate not less than 5 new national estuarine reserves under 
section 315 of the Coastal Zone Management Act of 1972 (16 U.S.C. 1461) 
that ensure the National Estuarine Research Reserve System includes 
areas in--
            (1) all biogeographic regions of the United States; and
            (2) each coastal state (as that term is defined in that 
        Act).
    (b) Guidelines for Tracking and Modeling the Impacts of Climate 
Change.--Section 315(c) of the Coastal Zone Management Act of 1972 (16 
U.S.C. 1461(c)) is amended--
            (1) by redesignating paragraphs (3) through (5) as 
        paragraphs (4) through (6); and
            (2) by inserting after paragraph (2) the following:
            ``(3) the establishment of coordinated long-term data 
        monitoring and methods throughout the System for tracking and 
        modeling the impacts of climate change on estuarine systems, 
        including impacts on lake levels and sea levels;''.
    (c) Promotion and Coordination of Estuarine Research.--Section 
315(d) of the Coastal Zone Management Act of 1972 (16 U.S.C. 1461(d)) 
is amended by striking ``and'' after the semicolon at the end of 
paragraph (1), by striking the period at the end of paragraph (2) and 
inserting a semicolon, and by adding at the end the following:
            ``(3) establishing and managing the Margaret A. Davidson 
        Graduate Research Fellowship to provide, subject to the 
        availability of appropriations, financial assistance to 
        graduate research that utilizes the national estuarine research 
        reserves;
            ``(4) establishing a Central Data Management office and 
        System Science Collaborative; and
            ``(5) carrying out monitoring, education, extension, and 
        coastal training programs throughout the System.''.
    (d) Land Acquisition and Construction.--Section 315 of the Coastal 
Zone Management Act of 1972 (16 U.S.C. 1461) is amended by adding at 
the end the following:
    ``(h) Land Acquisition and Construction.--The Secretary may use 
funds authorized under section 318 for land acquisition and the 
construction and renovations of facilities required to meet delivery of 
System programs and services, or to meet changing needs of program 
under this title. Such construction must incorporate green design 
principles, materials, energy efficiency, and adaptive reuse 
strategies, and the development of innovative coastal technology and 
management strategies that enhance resilience of System facilities and 
lands.''.

                       TITLE VII--INSULAR AFFAIRS

SEC. 701. DEFINITIONS.

    In this title:
            (1) Freely associated states.--The term ``Freely Associated 
        States'' means the Republic of the Marshall Islands, the 
        Federated States of Micronesia, and the Republic of Palau.
            (2) Territories.--The term ``Territories'' means American 
        Samoa, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, Guam, 
        Puerto Rico, and the Virgin Islands of the United States.

SEC. 702. COASTAL MANAGEMENT TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AND REPORT.

    (a) Technical Assistance.--
            (1) In general.--The Administrator shall provide technical 
        assistance to the Territories and Freely Associated States to 
        enhance such entities' coastal management and climate change 
        programs.
            (2) Authorization of appropriations.--To carry out this 
        subsection there is authorized to be appropriated to the 
        Administrator $5,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2021 through 
        2025.
    (b) Annual Report.--The Administrator shall submit an annual report 
to the Committee on Natural Resources of the House of Representatives 
and the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the 
Senate on the status of--
            (1) wetland, mangrove, and estuary conditions in the 
        Territories and Freely Associated States; and
            (2) climate change impacts, including ecological, economic 
        and cultural impacts, in the Territories and Freely Associated 
        States.

SEC. 703. CLIMATE CHANGE INSULAR RESEARCH GRANT PROGRAM.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary of Commerce, acting through the 
Administrator, shall establish a Climate Change Insular Research Grant 
Program to provide grants to institutions of higher education in the 
Territories and Freely Associated States for monitoring, collecting, 
synthesizing, analyzing, and publishing local climate change data.
    (b) Authorization of Appropriations.--To carry out this section 
there is authorized to be appropriated to the Secretary $5,000,000 for 
each of fiscal years 2021 and 2022.

SEC. 704. EXTREME WEATHER AND CLIMATE OUTREACH TO INSULAR AREAS.

    (a) Technical Assistance and Outreach.--
            (1) In general.--The Administrator shall provide technical 
        assistance and outreach to insular areas of the United States 
        through the San Juan, Tiyan, and Pago Pago Weather Forecast 
        Offices of the National Weather Service. For the purposes of 
        this section, the Administrator may also employ other agency 
        entities as the Administrator deems necessary, in order to 
        improve weather data collection, produce more accurate tropical 
        weather forecasts, and provide science, data, information, and 
        impact-based decision support services to reduce hurricane and 
        typhoon impacts in the Territories and Freely Associated 
        States.
            (2) Authorization of appropriations.--To carry out this 
        subsection there is authorized to be appropriated to the 
        Secretary $5,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2021 through 
        2025.
    (b) Grants.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary of Commerce, acting through 
        the Administrator, may provide grants to academic, nonprofit, 
        and local entities to conduct climate change research in the 
        Territories and Freely Associated States.
            (2) Included grant purpose.--The purpose of a grant under 
        this subsection may include research on oceanic heat content to 
        assess past and future hurricane and typhoon trends.
            (3) Authorization of appropriations.--To carry out this 
        subsection there is authorized to be appropriated to the 
        Secretary $5,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2021 through 
        2025.

SEC. 705. CORAL REEFS.

    (a) Prize Competitions.--The Director of the Office of Science and 
Technology Policy shall work with the head of each Federal agency 
represented on the U.S. Coral Reef Task Force established under 
Executive Order 13089 (63 Fed. Reg. 32701) to establish prize 
competitions that promote coral reef research and conservation in the 
Territories and Freely Associated States.
    (b) Waiver of Matching Requirement.--Section 204(b) of the Coral 
Reef Conservation Act of 2000 (16 U.S.C. 6403(b)) is amended--
            (1) by striking the enumerator and heading for paragraph 
        (2) and inserting the following:
            ``(2) Waivers.--
                    ``(A) Need and benefit.--''; and
            (2) by adding at the end of paragraph (2) the following:
                    ``(B) Sustaining coral reef management and 
                monitoring.--The Secretary shall waive all the matching 
                requirement under paragraph (2) for grants to implement 
                State and territorial coral reef conservation 
                cooperative agreements to sustain coral reef management 
                and monitoring in Florida, Hawaii, American Samoa, the 
                Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, Guam, 
                Puerto Rico, and the Virgin Islands of the United 
                States.''.

SEC. 706. OCEAN AND COASTAL MAPPING INTEGRATION ACT.

    (a) Effects of Climate Change on Insular Areas.--Section 12204 of 
the Ocean and Coastal mapping Integration Act (33 U.S.C. 3503) is 
amended--
            (1) in paragraph (12) by striking ``and'';
            (2) in paragraph (13) by striking the period at the end and 
        inserting ``; and''; and
            (3) by adding at the end the following:
            ``(14) The study of insular areas and the effects of 
        climate change, particularly in bioluminescent bodies of 
        water.''.
    (b) Reauthorization.--Section 12207 of the Ocean and Coastal 
Mapping Integration Act (33 U.S.C. 3506) is amended--
            (1) in subsection (a) by striking ``this subtitle'' and all 
        that follows through the end of the subsection and inserting 
        ``this subtitle $45,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2021 
        through 2025.''; and
            (2) in subsection (b), by striking ``this subtitle'' and 
        all that follows through the end of the subsection and 
        inserting ``this subtitle $45,000,000 for each of fiscal years 
        2021 through 2025.''.

SEC. 707. OFFICE OF INSULAR AFFAIRS TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROGRAM.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary of the Interior shall, acting 
through the Office of Insular Affairs Technical Assistance Program, 
shall provide technical assistance for climate change planning, 
mitigation, and adaptation to Territories and Freely Associated States 
under the jurisdiction of such Program.
    (b) Authorization of Appropriations.--There is authorized to be 
appropriated to the Secretary of the Interior $5,000,000 for each of 
fiscal years 2021 through 2025.

SEC. 708. DISASTER RELIEF FEDERAL COST-SHARE WAIVER.

    Any funding made available to Territories and Freely Associated 
States for disaster relief, long-term recovery, restoration of 
infrastructure and housing, economic revitalization, and mitigation 
pursuant to the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency 
Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5121 et seq.) shall not be subject to a non-
Federal share funding requirement.

          TITLE VIII--STRENGTHENING MARINE MAMMAL CONSERVATION

SEC. 801. CONSERVATION OF MARINE MAMMALS ADVERSELY AFFECTED BY CLIMATE 
              CHANGE.

    (a) In General.--The Marine Mammal Protection Act of 1974 (16 
U.S.C. 1361 et seq.) is amended by inserting after section 120 the 
following:

``SEC. 121. CONSERVATION OF MARINE MAMMALS ADVERSELY AFFECTED BY 
              CLIMATE CHANGE.

    ``(a) Climate Impact Management Plans.--
            ``(1) Within 18 months after the date of enactment of this 
        section, the Secretary, in consultation with the Marine Mammal 
        Commission, shall publish in the Federal Register, after notice 
        and opportunity for public comment, a list of those marine 
        mammal species and population stocks in waters under the 
        jurisdiction of the United States for which climate change, 
        alone or in combination or interaction with other factors, has 
        more than a remote possibility of resulting in a decline in 
        population abundance, of impeding population recovery, or of 
        reducing carrying capacity. The list shall identify--
                    ``(A) any species or population stock for which 
                such impacts are likely to occur within 20 years;
                    ``(B) any species or population stock listed as a 
                threatened species or endangered species under the 
                Endangered Species Act of 1973 (16 U.S.C. 1531 et seq.) 
                for which such impacts have more than a remote 
                possibility of occurring within 100 years; and
                    ``(C) any other species or population stock for 
                which such impacts have more than a remote possibility 
                of occurring within 100 years.
            ``(2)(A) The Secretary, in consultation with the Marine 
        Mammal Commission, shall review the list adopted pursuant to 
        paragraph (1) at least once every 5 years, or more frequently 
        if significant new information becomes available, and, after 
        notice and opportunity for public comment, shall publish a 
        revised list in the Federal Register.
            ``(B) Within 12 months after receiving the petition of an 
        interested person under section 553(e) of title 5, United 
        States Code, to add a marine mammal species or population stock 
        to the list published under paragraph (1), the Secretary, in 
        consultation with the Marine Mammal Commission and after notice 
        and opportunity for public comment, shall publish in the 
        Federal Register its finding of whether the petitioned action 
        is warranted. If the petitioned action is deemed warranted, the 
        Secretary shall publish at the same time the revision adding 
        such species or population stock.
            ``(3) The list published under paragraph (1), and any 
        revisions thereto made in accordance with paragraph (2), shall 
        include a determination of whether a climate impact management 
        plan will promote the conservation of species or stocks listed 
        pursuant to paragraph (1)(C).
            ``(4)(A)(i) The Secretary shall publish in the Federal 
        Register a draft climate impact management plan, and proposed 
        regulations implementing the plan, for each marine mammal 
        species or population stock--
                    ``(I) listed under paragraph (1)(A), within 18 
                months after the listing;
                    ``(II) listed under paragraph (1)(B), within 30 
                months after the listing; and
                    ``(III) listed under paragraph (1)(C) of this 
                subsection, within 5 years after the listing if the 
                Secretary determines that such a plan will promote the 
                conservation of the species or stock.
            ``(ii) Each draft climate impact management plan shall be 
        developed in consultation with the Marine Mammal Commission 
        and, as appropriate, other Federal agencies, and shall be made 
        available for public review and comment for a period not to 
        exceed 90 days.
            ``(iii) No later than 120 days after the close of the 
        comment period required under clause (ii), the Secretary shall 
        issue a final climate impact management plan and implementing 
        regulations that are consistent with the other provisions of 
        this section and, to the full extent available under the 
        Secretary's authorities under this Act and other statutes, 
        implement the conservation and management measures identified 
        in the plan.
            ``(B) Each management plan under subparagraph (A) shall 
        include a comprehensive strategy for mitigating the direct and 
        indirect effects of climate change and increasing resiliency in 
        the species or population stock, and shall identify 
        conservation and management measures to--
                    ``(i) mitigate to the extent possible the direct 
                adverse effects of climate change on such species and 
                population stocks and their prey;
                    ``(ii) monitor, reduce, and prevent interactions 
                with fisheries and other human activities that may 
                occur as a result of changes in marine mammal 
                distribution or other indirect effects of climate 
                change;
                    ``(iii) increase resiliency by materially reducing 
                other human impacts on such species and population 
                stocks, including but not limited to the reduction of 
                incidental taking of marine mammals and of the 
                degradation of the habitat of such species and 
                population stocks, and by managing prey species to 
                improve the availability of prey to such species and 
                population stocks; and
                    ``(iv) take any other action as may be necessary to 
                implement the strategy set forth in the plan.
            ``(C) Each management plan under subparagraph (A) shall 
        include objective, measurable criteria for evaluating the 
        effectiveness and sufficiency of such measures to meet the 
        purposes of this Act.
            ``(D) All other Federal agencies shall, in consultation 
        with and with the assistance of the Secretary, utilize their 
        authorities in furtherance of the strategy and conservation and 
        management measures set forth in climate impact management 
        plans developed under this subsection and ensure that their 
        actions do not conflict or interfere with the objectives of 
        such management plans. The Secretary shall consult with the 
        Marine Mammal Commission and, as may be warranted, other 
        agencies in the implementation of such plans.
            ``(E) When appropriate, the Secretary may, and is 
        encouraged to, integrate climate impact management plans into 
        conservation plans adopted under section 115(b) or recovery 
        plans adopted under section 4(f) of the Endangered Species Act 
        of 1973 (16 U.S.C. 1533(f)).
            ``(F) The Secretary shall review climate impact management 
        plans and implementing regulations at least once every 5 years, 
        and shall revise and amend them as necessary to meet the goals 
        and requirements of this section. Any changes shall be subject 
        to the procedures and requirements applicable to the adoption 
        of the initial plans and regulations.
            ``(5) The Secretary shall report to Congress 4 years after 
        the date of enactment of this section, and every 2 years 
        thereafter, on--
                    ``(A) actions taken to implement this section;
                    ``(B) any backlog in meeting the schedule set forth 
                in this subsection for adopting, reviewing, and 
                implementing climate impact management plans, or 
                additional resources necessary to address any such 
                backlog; and
                    ``(C) the effectiveness of implementation and 
                sufficiency of the measures adopted in climate impact 
                management plans, and any recommendations for improving 
                the process or the applicable legislation.
    ``(b) Monitoring of Climate Impacts.--The Secretary shall establish 
a program to monitor the adverse impacts of climate change on marine 
mammals. The purposes of the monitoring program shall be to--
            ``(1) improve models of projected future changes in marine 
        mammal distribution and densities resulting from climate 
        change;
            ``(2) identify and monitor interactions with fisheries and 
        other human activities that may occur as a result of changes in 
        marine mammal distribution or other effects of climate change;
            ``(3) monitor the abundance of species and population 
        stocks, to an extent sufficient to detect a 20 percent 
        population decline over 20 years;
            ``(4) improve understanding of the impacts of climate 
        change on marine mammal species and population stocks; and
            ``(5) assess the direct and indirect contributions of 
        marine mammals to carbon reduction, including through carbon 
        sequestration and nutrient cycling.
    ``(c) Promulgation of Regulations for Listing Marine Mammals 
Adversely Impacted by Climate Change.--The Secretary shall, within 120 
days after the date of the enactment of this section--
            ``(1) publish in the Federal Register for public comment, 
        for a period of not less than 60 days, regulations for listing 
        marine mammal species and population stocks adversely impacted 
        by climate change, alone or in combination or interaction with 
        other factors, as described in paragraphs (1) and (2) of 
        subsection (a), taking into account both quantitative and 
        qualitative indicators of adverse impacts of climate change and 
        human activities on such species and stocks, including--
                    ``(A) direct and indirect mortality and serious 
                injury;
                    ``(B) loss or degradation of habitat;
                    ``(C) changes in the distribution or availability 
                of prey;
                    ``(D) changes in the distribution of marine mammal 
                species and population stocks;
                    ``(E) decreased genetic diversity or reproductive 
                success;
                    ``(F) increased susceptibility to pathogens; and
                    ``(G) increased likelihood of interactions with 
                fisheries and other human activities; and
            ``(2) no later than 90 days after the close of the period 
        for such public comment, publish in the Federal Register final 
        regulations for listing marine mammals as required by paragraph 
        (a), to be reviewed at least once every three years.
    ``(d) Lack of Quantitative Information.--The lack of quantitative 
information shall not be a basis for a determination under subsection 
(c) that a species or population stock is not adversely impacted by 
climate change, alone or in combination or interaction with other 
factors, as described in paragraphs (1) and (2) of subsection (a).
    ``(e) Estimation of Potential Biological Removal.--
            ``(1) The Secretary, in estimating the potential biological 
        removal level in stock assessments prepared in accordance with 
        section 117, shall take account of the adverse impacts of 
        climate change in determining the recovery factor applied to 
        each stock.
            ``(2) The Secretary, in preparing stock assessments in 
        accordance with section 117, shall reexamine the stock 
        definition and geographic range of marine mammal species and 
        population stocks to identify climate-related changes in 
        spatial distribution and stock definition and to identify how 
        such changes may affect human impacts to the species.
    ``(f) Authority To Enter Into Agreements.--The Secretary shall--
            ``(1) periodically review the status of agreements with 
        foreign governments under section 108(a) concerning the 
        management of transboundary marine mammal species and 
        population stocks, and their prey species, that are or may be 
        affected by climate change; and
            ``(2) through the Secretary of State, initiate the 
        amendment of any such agreement, or negotiations for the 
        development of bilateral or multinational agreements, 
        consistent with the goals and policies of this section.
    ``(g) Construction.--This section shall not be construed to limit 
or restrict any other responsibility of the Secretary or of any other 
person under this Act or any other statute.''.
    (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of contents in the first section 
of such Act is amended by inserting after the item relating to section 
120 the following:

``Sec. 121. Conservation of marine mammals adversely affected by 
                            climate change.''.

SEC. 802. VESSEL SPEED RESTRICTIONS IN MARINE MAMMAL HABITAT.

    (a) In General.--The Administrator shall, in coordination with the 
Commandant of the Coast Guard and applying the best available 
scientific information, shall designate areas of importance to marine 
mammals and establish for each such area a seasonal or year-round 
mandatory vessel speed limit of 10 knots or less for all vessels 
greater than or equal to 49 feet in overall length operating in such 
area.
    (b) Areas of Importance.--Areas to be designated under subsection 
(a)--
            (1) shall include--
                    (A) the important feeding, breeding, calving, 
                rearing, or migratory habitat for strategic stocks of 
                marine mammals, including all areas designated as 
                critical habitat for any marine mammal under section 4 
                of the Endangered Species Act of 1973 (16 U.S.C. 1533); 
                and
                    (B) areas of high marine mammal mortality, injury, 
                or harassment, including the disruption of vocalization 
                patterns and masking of biologically important sounds, 
                caused by vessel ship strikes or underwater vessel 
                noise; and
            (2) may include--
                    (A) any area designated as a National Marine 
                Sanctuary, National Marine Monument, National Park, or 
                National Wildlife Refuge; and
                    (B) areas of high marine mammal primary 
                productivity with year-round or seasonal aggregations 
                of marine mammals to which this section applies.
    (c) Deadline for Regulations.--Not later than 24 months after the 
date of enactment of this Act, the Administrator shall designate such 
areas and issue such regulations as are necessary to carry out this 
section and to designate areas of importance pursuant to this section, 
consistent with notice and comment requirements under chapter 5 of 
title 5, United States Code.
    (d) Modifying or Designating New Areas of Importance.--
            (1) The Administrator shall issue regulations to modify or 
        designate the areas of importance under this section within 180 
        days after the issuance of regulations to establish or to 
        modify critical habitat for strategic stocks of marine mammals 
        pursuant to the Endangered Species Act of 1973 (16 U.S.C. 1531 
        et seq.).
            (2) The Administrator shall reexamine the areas of 
        importance designated under this section every five years 
        following the initial issuance of the regulations to determine 
        if the best available scientific information warrants 
        modification or designation of areas of importance, and shall 
        publish any revisions in the Federal Register after notice and 
        opportunity for public comment.
            (3) Within 90 days after receiving the petition of an 
        interested person under 553(e) of title 5, United States Code, 
        to designate, modify, or add an area of importance under this 
        section, the Administrator shall make a finding as to whether 
        the petition presents substantial scientific information 
        indicating that the petitioned action may be warranted. The 
        Administrator shall promptly publish such finding in the 
        Federal Register for comment. Within 180 days after the close 
        of comments, the Administrator shall publish in the Federal 
        Register a finding of whether the petitioned action is 
        warranted and, if the Administrator determines that the 
        petitioned action is warranted, shall publish draft regulations 
        designating the area of importance and any relevant technical 
        control operations pursuant to subsection (j). Within 180 days 
        after the close of comments on the draft regulations, the 
        Administrator shall issue final regulations designating the 
        area of importance and any relevant technical control 
        operations pursuant to subsection (j).
    (e) Exceptions for Safe Maneuvering and Using Authorized 
Technology.--
            (1) The restriction established under subsection (a) shall 
        not apply to a vessel operating at a speed necessary to 
        maintain safe maneuvering speed if such speed is justified 
        because the vessel is in an area where oceanographic, 
        hydrographic, or meteorological conditions severely restrict 
        the maneuverability of the vessel and the need to operate at 
        such speed is confirmed by the pilot on board or, when a vessel 
        is not carrying a pilot, the master of the vessel. If a 
        deviation from the applicable speed limit is necessary pursuant 
        to this subsection, the reasons for the deviation, the speed at 
        which the vessel is operated, the latitude and longitude of the 
        area, and the time and duration of such deviation shall be 
        entered into the logbook of the vessel. The master of the 
        vessel shall attest to the accuracy of the logbook entry by 
        signing and dating it.
            (2)(A) The speed limit established under subsection (a) 
        shall not apply to a vessel operating using technology 
        authorized by regulations issued by the Administrator under 
        subparagraph (B).
            (B) The Administrator may issue regulations authorizing a 
        vessel to operate using technology specified by the 
        Administrator under this subparagraph if the Administrator 
        determines that such operation is at least as effective as the 
        speed limit under subsection (a) in reducing mortality and 
        injury to marine mammals and the disturbance of marine mammal 
        habitat.
    (f) Applicability.--The speed restriction established under 
subsection (a)--
            (1) shall apply to all vessels subject to the jurisdiction 
        of the United States, and all other vessels entering or 
        departing a port or place subject to the jurisdiction of the 
        United States; and
            (2) shall not apply to--
                    (A) United States vessels engaged in military 
                readiness activities; or
                    (B) law enforcement vessels of the Federal 
                Government, when engaged in law enforcement or search 
                and rescue duties.
    (g) Automatic Identification Systems.--Section 70114(a) of title 
46, United States Code, is amended to read as follows:
            ``(1) Subject to paragraph (2), the following vessels, 
        while operating on the navigable waters of the United States, 
        in the United States exclusive economic zone, and on the high 
        seas, shall be equipped with and operate an automatic 
        identification system under regulations prescribed by the 
        Secretary:
                    ``(A) A self-propelled commercial vessel of at 
                least 49 feet overall in length.
                    ``(B) A vessel carrying more than a number of 
                passengers for hire determined by the Secretary.
                    ``(C) A towing vessel of more than 26 feet overall 
                in length and 600 horsepower.
                    ``(D) Any other vessel for which the Secretary 
                decides that an automatic identification system is 
                necessary for the safe navigation of the vessel.''.
    (h) Adjudicative Enforcement Process.--
            (1) In general.--It is unlawful for any vessel identified 
        in subsection (f)(1) to violate the speed restriction 
        established in subsection (a).
            (2) Regulations required.--Not later than 24 months after 
        the date enactment of this Act, the Administrator shall issue 
        such regulations as are necessary to create a process for 
        investigating and adjudicating violations of paragraph (1).
            (3) Filing of complaint.--Any entity may file a complaint 
        regarding a violation of this section in a manner determined 
        appropriate by the Administrator, upon which the Administrator 
        shall initiate an investigation.
            (4) Statutory construction.--Nothing in this Act shall be 
        construed as modifying, limiting, or superseding enforcement 
        processes established under the Endangered Species Act of 1973 
        (16 U.S.C. 1531 et seq.) or the Marine Mammal Protection Act of 
        1972 (16 U.S.C. 1361 et seq.).
    (i) Penalties.--Any person found to have violated this section 
shall be held liable for their actions. A finding of willful violation 
or a finding of reckless disregard for restrictions implemented 
pursuant to this section may warrant civil penalties--
            (1) including fines up to and including the statutory 
        maximum civil penalties and criminal fines identified under the 
        Endangered Species Act of 1973 (16 U.S.C. 1531 et seq.) and the 
        Marine Mammal Protection Act of 1972 (16 U.S.C. 1361 et seq.); 
        and
            (2) in the case of a vessel subject to the jurisdiction of 
        the United States, may include--
                    (A) suspension or rescission of vessel operation 
                license;
                    (B) suspension or revocation of fishing permits; 
                and
                    (C) revocation of incidental take permits.
    (j) Technical Control Operations.--In carrying out this section, 
the Administrator, in consultation with the Secretary of Homeland 
Security, Secretary of Defense, Secretary of Transportation, and 
Secretary of the Interior, may implement technical control operations 
to complement vessel speed reductions' goal of reduced risk to 
vulnerable marine species. Such operations which may include--
            (1) temporary, seasonal, or dynamic area closures;
            (2) gear restrictions or modification requirements;
            (3) limitations on volume of vessel traffic; and
            (4) the establishment of additional size-specific speed 
        limits beyond the limit in subsection (a).
    (k) Statutory Construction.--
            (1) Nothing in this section shall be interpreted or 
        implemented in a manner that--
                    (A) subject to paragraph (2), preempts or modifies 
                any obligation of any person subject to the provisions 
                of this title to act in accordance with applicable 
                State laws, except to the extent that those laws are 
                inconsistent with any provision of this title, and then 
                only to the extent of the inconsistency;
                    (B) affects or modifies any obligation under 
                Federal law; or
                    (C) preempts or supersedes the Final Rule To 
                Implement Speed Restrictions to Reduce the Threat of 
                Ship Collisions With North Atlantic Right Whales, 
                codified at section 224.105 of title 50, Code of 
                Federal Regulations, except for actions that are more 
                protective than the Final Rule and further reduce the 
                risk of take to North Atlantic right whales.
            (2) The Administrator may determine whether inconsistencies 
        referred to in paragraph (1)(A) exist, but may not determine 
        that any State law is inconsistent with any provision of this 
        title if the Administrator determines that such law gives 
        greater protection to covered marine species and their habitat.

SEC. 803. MONITORING OCEAN NOISE FOR MARINE MAMMAL HEALTH.

    (a) In General.--The Administrator shall maintain and expand an 
Ocean Noise Reference Station Network, utilizing and coordinating with 
the Integrated Ocean Observing System to--
            (1) provide grants to expand the deployment of Federal and 
        non-Federal observation systems capable of collecting 
        measurements of underwater sound in high-priority ocean and 
        coastal locations for purposes of monitoring and analyzing 
        baselines and trends in the underwater soundscape to protect 
        and manage marine life;
            (2) continue to develop and apply standardized forms of 
        measurements to assess sounds produced by marine animals, 
        physical processes, and anthropogenic activities; and
            (3) coordinate and make accessible to the public the 
        datasets, modeling and analysis, and user-driven products and 
        tools, resulting from observations of underwater sound funded 
        through grants authorized by this section.
    (b) Authorization of Appropriations.--There is authorized to be 
appropriated to the Administrator to support integrated ocean 
observations activities carried out under this section, $1,000,000 for 
each of fiscal years 2021 through 2025.

SEC. 804. GRANTS FOR SEAPORTS TO ESTABLISH PROGRAMS TO REDUCE THE 
              IMPACTS OF VESSEL TRAFFIC AND PORT OPERATIONS ON MARINE 
              MAMMALS.

    (a) In General.--The Administrator shall, within 6 months of the 
date of enactment of this Act, establish a grant program to provide 
assistance to up to ten seaports to develop and implement mitigation 
measures that will lead to a quantifiable reduction in threats to 
marine mammals from shipping activities and port operations.
    (b) Eligible Uses.--Grants provided under this section may be used 
to develop and carry out activities that quantifiably reduce threats 
and enhance the habitats of marine mammals by--
            (1) reducing underwater noise related to marine traffic;
            (2) reducing ship strike mortality and other physical 
        disturbances;
            (3) enhancing marine mammal habitat, including the habitat 
        for prey of marine mammals; or
            (4) monitoring underwater noise, vessel interactions with 
        marine mammals, or other types of monitoring that are 
        consistent with reducing the threats to and enhancing the 
        habitats of marine mammals.
    (c) Priority.--The Administrator shall prioritize assistance under 
this section for projects that--
            (1) assist ports with higher relative threat levels to 
        vulnerable marine mammals from vessel traffic;
            (2) project higher levels of--
                    (A) reduction of noise from vessels; and
                    (B) reduction of disturbance or ship strike 
                mortality risk; or
            (3) allow eligible entities to conduct risk assessments, 
        and track progress toward threat reduction and habitat 
        enhancement.
    (d) Outreach.--The Administrator shall conduct outreach to seaports 
to provide information on how to apply for assistance under this 
section, the benefits of the program under this section, and 
facilitation of best practices and lessons learned.
    (e) Eligible Entities.--A person shall be eligible for assistance 
under this section if the person is--
            (1) a port authority for a seaport;
            (2) a State, regional, local, or Tribal agency that has 
        jurisdiction over a maritime port authority or a seaport; or
            (3) a private or government entity, applying for a grant 
        awarded under this section in collaboration with another entity 
        described in paragraph (1) or (2), that owns or operates a 
        maritime terminal.
    (f) Report.--The Administrator shall submit annually to the 
Committee on Natural Resources of the House of Representatives, and the 
Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate, a 
report that includes the following:
            (1) The name and location of each entity receiving a grant.
            (2) Amount of each grant.
            (3) The name and location of the seaport in which the 
        activities took place.
            (4) A description of the activities carried out with the 
        grant funds.
            (5) An estimate of the impact of the project to reduce 
        threats or enhance habitat of marine mammals.
    (g) Authorization of Appropriations.--There is authorized to be 
appropriated to the Administrator for carrying out this section, 
$4,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2021 through 2025, to remain 
available until expended.

 TITLE IX--INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS, EFFORTS IN THE ARCTIC, AND BUREAU 
              OF INDIAN AFFAIRS TRIBAL RESILIENCE PROGRAM

                  Subtitle A--International Agreements

SEC. 901. UNITED NATIONS CONVENTION ON THE LAW OF THE SEA.

    It is the sense of the House of Representatives that--
            (1) the United States Senate should give its advice and 
        consent to the ratification of the United Nations Convention on 
        the Law of the Sea (UNCLOS), adopted by the Third United 
        Nations Conference on the Law of the Sea in December 1982 and 
        entered into force in November 1994, to establish a treaty 
        regime to govern activities on, over, and under the world's 
        oceans;
            (2) UNCLOS builds on four 1958 Law of the Sea conventions 
        to which the United States is a party, namely--
                    (A) the Convention on the Territorial Sea and the 
                Contiguous Zone;
                    (B) the Convention on the High Seas;
                    (C) the Convention on the Continental Shelf; and
                    (D) the Convention on Fishing and Conservation of 
                the Living Resources of the High Seas;
            (3) UNCLOS and an associated 1994 agreement relating to 
        implementation of the treaty were transmitted to the Senate on 
        October 6, 1994;
            (4) in the absence of advice and consent from the Senate, 
        the United States is not a party to UNCLOS nor to the 
        associated 1994 agreement;
            (5) becoming a party to UNCLOS would give the United States 
        standing to participate in discussions relating to the treaty 
        and thereby improve the ability of the United States to 
        intervene as a full party in disputes relating to navigational 
        rights and defend United States interpretations of the treaty's 
        provisions, including those relating to the rights of coastal 
        states to regulate foreign military activities in their 
        exclusive economic zones;
            (6) becoming a party to the treaty would improve the 
        ability of the United States to achieve the environmental, 
        social, and economic purposes of supporting the implementation 
        and enforcement of international fisheries agreements and the 
        protection of highly migratory species under the Magnuson 
        Stevens Act, the Shark Conservation Act, and the High Seas 
        Driftnet Fishing Moratorium Protection Act; and
            (7) relying on customary international norms to defend 
        United States interests or relying on other countries to assert 
        claims on behalf of the United States at the Hague Convention 
        is insufficient to defend and uphold United States sovereign 
        rights and interests under UNCLOS.

                   Subtitle B--Efforts in the Arctic

SEC. 911. REINSTATEMENT OF EXECUTIVE ORDER 13754; NORTHERN BERING SEA 
              CLIMATE RESILIENCE AREA.

    Beginning on the date of the enactment of this Act--
            (1) section 4(c) of Executive Order 13795 of April 28, 
        2017, shall have no force or effect; and
            (2) Executive Order 13754 of December 9, 2016 (relating to 
        Northern Bering Sea Climate Resilience), shall have the force 
        and effect of law.

SEC. 912. PLAN FOR THE UNITED STATES TO CUT BLACK CARBON EMISSIONS TO 
              33 PERCENT BELOW 2013 LEVELS BY 2025.

    (a) Findings.--Congress finds that--
            (1) black carbon is a highly potent greenhouse gas that is 
        likely responsible for about a quarter of the warming the 
        Arctic has experienced over the last century;
            (2) black carbon particles have a short lifecycle in the 
        atmosphere but trap heat far more powerfully than carbon 
        dioxide; and
            (3) when black carbon falls on land and sea ice, it darkens 
        surfaces and thus absorbs more heat, causing ice to melt at a 
        faster rate.
    (b) Sense of Congress.--It is the sense of Congress that the United 
States should honor its commitment to the Arctic Council to cut black 
carbon emissions by 2025 to a level that is between 25 and 33 percent 
below the levels emitted by the United States in 2013.
    (c) In General.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of State, in consultation with the 
Secretary of Transportation, the Administrator, and the Administrator 
of the Environmental Protection Agency, shall submit to the appropriate 
congressional committees and make available to the public a plan for 
the United States to cut black carbon emissions by 2025 to a level that 
is between 25 and 33 percent below the levels emitted by the United 
States in 2013 that describes--
            (1) the measures the Federal Government will take to 
        achieve such targeted emissions level; and
            (2) how the United States may use multilateral and 
        bilateral diplomatic tools to encourage and assist other member 
        countries of the Arctic Council to fulfill the goals announced 
        in 2017.
    (d) Updates to Plan.--Not later than 1 year after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, and annually thereafter, the Secretary of State, 
in consultation with the Secretary of Transportation, the 
Administrator, and the Administrator of the Environmental Protection 
Agency, shall submit to the appropriate congressional committees and 
make available to the public a report on the progress made toward 
implementing the plan submitted pursuant to subsection (c).
    (e) Appropriate Congressional Committees Defined.--In this section, 
the term ``appropriate congressional committees'' means--
            (1) the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the Committee on 
        Natural Resources, and the Committee on Energy and Commerce of 
        the House of Representatives; and
            (2) the Committee on Foreign Relations, the Committee on 
        Commerce, the Committee on Environment and Public Works, and 
        the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources of the Senate.
    (f) Public Comment.--The Secretary of State shall--
            (1) before submitting such plan and report to the 
        appropriate congressional committees--
                    (A) publish the plan and the report in the Federal 
                Register; and
                    (B) provide a period of at least 90 days for public 
                comment on each of the plan and the report; and
            (2) after each such period for public comment, continue to 
        make the proposed plan and report, as well as the comments 
        received, available to the public on regulations.gov (or any 
        successor website).

     Subtitle C--Bureau of Indian Affairs Tribal Resilience Program

SEC. 921. BUREAU OF INDIAN AFFAIRS TRIBAL RESILIENCE PROGRAM.

    (a) Establishment.--The Secretary of the Interior (hereafter in 
this subtitle referred to as the ``Secretary'') shall establish a 
program--
            (1) to improve the resilience of Indian Tribes to the 
        effects of a changing climate;
            (2) to support Native American leaders in building strong 
        communities that are resilient to climate change;
            (3) to ensure agency effectiveness in fulfilling Federal 
        Indian trust responsibilities in the face of climate change; 
        and
            (4) to ensure the development of modern, cost-effective 
        infrastructure in Tribal communities.
    (b) Grants.--
            (1) Authority.--As part of the program established under 
        subsection (a), the Secretary shall to the extent funds are 
        made available through Acts of appropriation make multiyear 
        grants to Indian Tribes for eligible activities described in 
        this paragraph (2).
            (2) Eligible activities.--Grants under this subsection may 
        be used for the following in Indian communities and on Indian 
        land:
                    (A) Development and delivery of adaptation 
                training.
                    (B) Adaptation planning, vulnerability assessments, 
                emergency preparedness planning, and monitoring.
                    (C) Capacity building through travel support for 
                training, technical sessions, and cooperative 
                management forums.
                    (D) Travel support for participation in ocean and 
                coastal planning.
                    (E) Development of science-based information and 
                tools to enable adaptive resource management and the 
                ability to plan for resilience.
                    (F) Relocation of villages or other communities 
                experiencing or susceptible to coastal or river erosion 
                and flooding.
                    (G) Construction of infrastructure to support 
                emergency evacuations related to climate change.
                    (H) Restoration of ecosystems and construction of 
                natural and nature-based features to address risks from 
                coastal and riverine flooding and erosion.
                    (I) Restoration, relocation, repair of 
                infrastructure damaged by melting permafrost or coastal 
                or river erosion and flooding.
                    (J) Installation and management of energy systems 
                that reduce energy costs and greenhouse gas emissions 
                compared to the energy systems in use before that 
                installation and management.
                    (K) Construction and maintenance of social or 
                cultural infrastructure that supports resilience.
            (3) Applications.--An Indian Tribe desiring a grant under 
        this subsection shall submit to the Secretary an application at 
        such time, in such manner, and containing such information as 
        the Secretary may require, including a description of the 
        eligible activities to be undertaken using the grant.
    (c) Interagency Cooperation.--The Secretary, the Secretary of 
Commerce, and the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency 
shall establish under the White House Council on Native American 
Affairs an interagency subgroup on Tribal resilience, which shall--
            (1) work with Indian Tribes to collect and share data and 
        information, including traditional ecological knowledge, about 
        how the effects of a changing climate are relevant to Indian 
        Tribes; and
            (2) identify opportunities for the Federal Government to 
        improve collaboration and assist with adaptation and mitigation 
        efforts that promote resilience.
    (d) Tribal Resilience Liaison.--The Secretary shall establish a 
Tribal resilience liaison--
            (1) to coordinate with Indian Tribes and relevant Federal 
        agencies regarding the program under this section, grant 
        opportunities related to the program, climate adaptation, and 
        climate resilience planning; and
            (2) to help ensure Tribal engagement in climate 
        conversations at the Federal level.
    (e) Authorization of Appropriations.--There is authorized to be 
appropriated to carry out this section, $200,000,000 for each of fiscal 
years 2021 through 2025.

               TITLE X--COASTAL RESILIENCY AND ADAPTATION

SEC. 1001. LIVING SHORELINE GRANT PROGRAM.

    (a) Establishment.--The Administrator shall make grants to eligible 
entities for purposes of--
            (1) designing and implementing large- and small-scale, 
        climate-resilient living shoreline projects; and
            (2) applying innovative uses of natural materials and 
        systems to protect coastal communities, habitats, and natural 
        system functions.
    (b) Project Proposals.--To be eligible to receive a grant under 
this section, an eligible entity shall--
            (1) submit to the Administrator a proposal for a living 
        shoreline project, including monitoring, data collection, and 
        measurable performance criteria with respect to the project;
            (2) demonstrate to the Administrator that the entity has 
        any permits or other authorizations from local, State, and 
        Federal Government agencies necessary to carry out the living 
        shoreline project or provide evidence demonstrating general 
        support from such agencies; and
            (3) include an engagement or education component that seeks 
        and solicits feedback from the local or regional community most 
        directly affected by the proposal.
    (c) Project Selection.--
            (1) Development of criteria.--The Administrator shall 
        select eligible entities to receive grants under this section 
        based on criteria developed by the Administrator, in 
        consultation with relevant offices of the National Oceanic and 
        Atmospheric Administration, such as the Office of Habitat 
        Conservation, the Office for Coastal Management, and the 
        Restoration Center.
            (2) Considerations.--In developing criteria under paragraph 
        (1) to evaluate a proposed living shoreline project, the 
        Administrator shall take into account--
                    (A) the potential of the project to protect the 
                community and maintain the viability of the 
                environment, such as through protection of ecosystem 
                functions, environmental benefits, or habitat types, in 
                the area where the project is to be carried out;
                    (B) the historic and future environmental 
                conditions of the project site, particularly those 
                environmental conditions affected by climate change;
                    (C) the net ecological benefits of the project 
                including the potential of the project to contribute to 
                carbon sequestration;
                    (D) the ability of the entity proposing the project 
                to demonstrate the potential of the project to protect 
                the coastal community where the project is to be 
                carried out, including through--
                            (i) mitigating the effects of erosion;
                            (ii) attenuating the impact of coastal 
                        storms and storm surge;
                            (iii) mitigating shoreline flooding;
                            (iv) mitigating the effects of sea level 
                        rise, accelerated land loss, and extreme tides;
                            (v) sustaining, protecting, or restoring 
                        the functions and habitats of coastal 
                        ecosystems;
                            (vi) protecting important cultural sites or 
                        values; or
                            (vii) such other forms of coastal 
                        protection as the Administrator considers 
                        appropriate; and
                    (E) the potential of the project to support 
                resiliency at a military installation or community 
                infrastructure supportive of a military installation 
                (as such terms are defined in section 2391 of title 10, 
                United States Code).
            (3) Priority.--In selecting living shoreline projects to 
        receive grants under this section, the Administrator shall give 
        priority consideration to a proposed project to be conducted in 
        an area--
                    (A) for which the President has declared, during 
                the 10-year period preceding the submission of the 
                proposal for the project under subsection (b), that a 
                major disaster exists pursuant to section 401 of the 
                Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency 
                Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5170) because of a hurricane, 
                tropical storm, coastal storm, or flooding;
                    (B) that has a documented history of coastal 
                erosion or frequent coastal inundation during that 10-
                year period; or
                    (C) that includes communities that may not have 
                adequate resources to prepare for or respond to coastal 
                hazards, including low income communities, communities 
                of color, Tribal communities, Indigenous communities, 
                and rural communities.
            (4) Minimum standards.--
                    (A) In general.--The Administrator shall develop 
                minimum standards to be used in selecting eligible 
                entities to receive grants under this section, taking 
                into account--
                            (i) the considerations described in 
                        paragraph (2);
                            (ii) the need for such standards to be 
                        general enough to accommodate concerns relating 
                        to specific project sites; and
                            (iii) the consideration of an established 
                        eligible entity program with systems to 
                        disburse funding from a single grant to support 
                        multiple small-scale projects.
                    (B) Consultations.--In developing standards under 
                subparagraph (A), the Administrator--
                            (i) shall consult with relevant offices of 
                        the National Oceanic and Atmospheric 
                        Administration, such as the Office of Habitat 
                        Conservation, the Office for Coastal 
                        Management, and the Restoration Center; and
                            (ii) may consult with--
                                    (I) relevant interagency councils, 
                                such as the Estuary Habitat Restoration 
                                Council;
                                    (II) Tribes and Tribal 
                                organizations;
                                    (III) State coastal management 
                                agencies; and
                                    (IV) relevant nongovernmental 
                                organizations.
    (d) Use of Funds.--A grant awarded under this section to an 
eligible entity to carry out a living shoreline project may be used by 
the eligible entity only--
            (1) to carry out the project, including administration, 
        design, permitting, entry into negotiated indirect cost rate 
        agreements, and construction;
            (2) to monitor, collect, and report data on the performance 
        (including performance over time) of the project, in accordance 
        with standards issued by the Administrator under subsection 
        (f)(2); or
            (3) to incentivize landowners to engage in living shoreline 
        projects.
    (e) Cost-Sharing.--
            (1) In general.--Except as provided in paragraph (2), an 
        eligible entity that receives a grant under this section to 
        carry out a living shoreline project shall provide, from non-
        Federal sources, funds or other resources (such as land or 
        conservation easements or in-kind matching from private 
        entities) valued at not less than 50 percent of the total cost, 
        including administrative costs, of the project.
            (2) Reduced matching requirement for certain communities.--
        The Administrator may reduce or waive the matching requirement 
        under paragraph (1) for an eligible entity representing a 
        community or nonprofit organization if--
                    (A) the eligible entity submits to the 
                Administrator in writing--
                            (i) a request for such a reduction and the 
                        amount of the reduction; and
                            (ii) a justification for why the entity 
                        cannot meet the matching requirement; and
                    (B) the Administrator agrees with the 
                justification.
    (f) Monitoring and Reporting.--
            (1) In general.--The Administrator shall require each 
        eligible entity receiving a grant under this section (or a 
        representative of the entity) to carry out a living shoreline 
        project--
                    (A) to transmit to the Administrator data collected 
                under the project;
                    (B) to monitor the project and to collect data on--
                            (i) the ecological and economic benefits of 
                        the project and the protection provided by the 
                        project for the coastal community where the 
                        project is carried out, including through--
                                    (I) mitigating the effects of 
                                erosion;
                                    (II) attenuating the impact of 
                                coastal storms and storm surge;
                                    (III) mitigating shoreline 
                                flooding;
                                    (IV) mitigating the effects of sea 
                                level rise, accelerated land loss, and 
                                extreme tides;
                                    (V) sustaining, protecting, or 
                                restoring the functions and habitats of 
                                coastal ecosystems; or
                                    (VI) such other forms of coastal 
                                protection as the Administrator 
                                considers appropriate; and
                            (ii) the performance of the project in 
                        providing such protection;
                    (C) to make data collected under the project 
                available on a publicly accessible internet website of 
                the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration; 
                and
                    (D) not later than 1 year after the entity receives 
                the grant, and annually thereafter until the completion 
                of the project, to submit to the Administrator a report 
                on--
                            (i) the measures described in subparagraph 
                        (B); and
                            (ii) the effectiveness of the project in 
                        increasing protection of the coastal community 
                        where the project is carried out through living 
                        shorelines techniques, including--
                                    (I) a description of--
                                            (aa) the project;
                                            (bb) the activities carried 
                                        out under the project; and
                                            (cc) the techniques and 
                                        materials used in carrying out 
                                        the project; and
                                    (II) data on the performance of the 
                                project in providing protection to that 
                                coastal community.
            (2) Guidelines.--In developing guidelines relating to 
        paragraph (1)(C), the Administrator shall consider how 
        additional data could safely be collected before and after 
        major disasters or severe weather events to measure project 
        performance and project recovery.
            (3) Standards.--
                    (A) In general.--Not later than 90 days after the 
                date of the enactment of this Act, the Administrator 
                shall, in consultation with relevant offices of the 
                National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, 
                relevant interagency councils, and relevant 
                nongovernmental organizations, issue standards for the 
                monitoring, collection, and reporting under subsection 
                (d)(2) of data regarding the performance of living 
                shoreline projects for which grants are awarded under 
                this section.
                    (B) Reporting.--The standards issued under 
                subparagraph (A) shall require an eligible entity 
                receiving a grant under this section to report the data 
                described in that subparagraph to the Administrator on 
                a regular basis.
    (g) Authorization of Appropriations.--There is authorized to be 
appropriated to the Administrator $50,000,000 for each of fiscal years 
2021 through 2025 for purposes of carrying out this section.
    (h) Minimum Required Funds for Shoreline Projects Located Within 
the Great Lakes.--The Secretary shall use not less than 10 percent of 
the funds awarded under this section for grants to projects located in 
the Great Lakes.
    (i) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Eligible entity.--The term ``eligible entity'' means 
        any of the following:
                    (A) A unit of a State or local government.
                    (B) An organization described in section 501(c)(3) 
                of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 that is exempt 
                from taxation under section 501(a) of such Code.
                    (C) An Indian Tribe (as defined in section 4 of the 
                Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act 
                (25 U.S.C. 5304)).
            (2) Living shoreline project.--The term ``living shoreline 
        project''--
                    (A) means a project that--
                            (i) restores or stabilizes a shoreline, 
                        including marshes, wetlands, and other 
                        vegetated areas that are part of the shoreline 
                        ecosystem, by using natural materials and 
                        systems to create buffers to attenuate the 
                        impact of coastal storms, currents, flooding, 
                        and wave energy and to prevent or minimize 
                        shoreline erosion while providing a net 
                        ecological benefit to ecosystems and habitats;
                            (ii) incorporates as many natural elements 
                        as possible, such as native wetlands, kelp 
                        forests, submerged aquatic plants, corals, 
                        oyster shells, native grasses, shrubs, or 
                        trees;
                            (iii) utilizes techniques that incorporate 
                        ecological and coastal engineering principles 
                        in shoreline stabilization; and
                            (iv) to the extent possible, maintains or 
                        restores existing natural slopes and 
                        connections between uplands and adjacent 
                        wetlands or surface waters;
                    (B) may include the use of--
                            (i) natural elements, such as sand, wetland 
                        plants, logs, oysters or other shellfish, 
                        submerged aquatic vegetation, corals, native 
                        grasses, shrubs, trees, or coir fiber logs;
                            (ii) project elements that provide 
                        ecological benefits to coastal ecosystems and 
                        habitats in addition to shoreline protection; 
                        and
                            (iii) structural materials, such as stone, 
                        concrete, wood, vinyl, oyster domes, or other 
                        approved engineered structures in combination 
                        with natural materials; and
                    (C) may include a project that expands upon or 
                restores natural living shorelines or existing living 
                shoreline projects.
            (3) State.--The term ``State'' means each of the several 
        States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto 
        Rico, the United States Virgin Islands, Guam, American Samoa, 
        and the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands.

SEC. 1002. NATIONAL OCEANIC AND ATMOSPHERIC ADMINISTRATION RESEARCH 
              PROGRAMS.

    (a) Coastal Science and Assessment: Competitive External 
Research.--
            (1) In general.--The Administrator shall carry out an 
        extramural competitively awarded grants program (referred to in 
        this section as the ``Program'') focused on interdisciplinary 
        coastal resilience and sustainability in accordance with 
        subsection (b).
            (2) Objective.--The objective of the Program shall be to 
        develop scalable, best practices--
                    (A) to prepare more resilient, sustainable coastal 
                communities; and
                    (B) to reduce disaster recovery costs.
            (3) Collaboration.--The Secretary shall conduct the Program 
        in collaboration with business and industry, government 
        agencies, academic institutions, and coastal community 
        stakeholders.
            (4) Eligibility.--To be eligible for a grant under the 
        Program, an applicant must be an institution of higher 
        education, nonprofit organization, State, local, or Tribal 
        government, for-profit organization, United States territory, 
        or Federal agency that has statutory authority to receive 
        transfers of funds.
    (b) Coastal Resilience Research Competitive Grants.--
            (1) In general.--The Administrator shall establish an 
        annual competitive grants program that gives priority to 
        coastal resilience research projects that focus on--
                    (A) protecting life and critical infrastructure;
                    (B) developing decision-support tools useful to 
                coastal communities;
                    (C) determining societal, ecological, and 
                resiliency benefits of coastal restoration and natural, 
                nature-based, and man-made infrastructure, and how 
                these benefits affect the sustainability of coastal 
                ecosystems;
                    (D) volunteer and community-science monitoring of 
                coastal and marine resources as part of efforts to 
                protect coastal communities from sea level rise;
                    (E) monitoring and developing ecosystem-based 
                approaches to managing coastal ecosystems to promote 
                sustainability;
                    (F) assessing and enhancing the capacity of human 
                communities to adapt to coastal natural disasters;
                    (G) assessing coastal vulnerability and risk;
                    (H) evaluating adaptation and restoration 
                approaches to reduce risk, including through the use of 
                natural, nature-based, and man-made features;
                    (I) minimizing costs associated with damages 
                incurred from natural disasters, flooding, and sea 
                level rise; and
                    (J) developing curriculum for new programs in 
                coastal restoration at public community colleges and 
                within college Sea Grant programs to train the new 
                coastal restoration workforce.
            (2) Critical infrastructure.--In this paragraph, the term 
        ``critical infrastructure'' means infrastructure, including 
        natural or nature-based infrastructure, the destruction or 
        damaging of which would have a debilitating impact on national 
        security or economic security, undermine community resiliency 
        and adaptation, or threaten public health or safety.
            (3) Natural and nature-based features.--The term 
        ``natural'' or ``nature-based features'' means coastal 
        wetlands, beaches, dunes, marshes, mangrove forests, municipal 
        green infrastructure, and living shorelines.
    (c) Donations.--The Administrator may accept and use donations of 
funds to implement this section.

SEC. 1003. GRANTS FOR RECOVERING OYSTERS.

    (a) Establishment.--The Administrator shall establish a grant 
program (in this section referred to as the ``Program'') under which 
the Administrator shall award grants to eligible entities for the 
purpose of conducting research on the conservation, restoration, or 
management of oysters in estuarine ecosystems.
    (b) Application.--To be eligible to receive a grant under this 
section, an eligible entity shall submit to the Administrator an 
application at such time, in such manner, and containing such 
information as the Administrator may require.
    (c) Allocation of Grant Funds.--
            (1) In general.--The Administrator shall award a grant 
        under the Program to eligible entities that submit an 
        application under subsection (b).
            (2) Matching requirement.--
                    (A) In general.--Except as provided in subparagraph 
                (B), the total amount of Federal funding received under 
                the Program by an eligible entity may not exceed 85 
                percent of the total cost of the research project for 
                which the funding was awarded. For the purposes of this 
                subparagraph, the non-Federal share of project costs 
                may be provided by in-kind contributions and other 
                noncash support.
                    (B) Waiver.--The Administrator may waive all or 
                part of the requirement in subparagraph (A) if the 
                Administrator determines that no reasonable means are 
                available through which an eligible entity applying for 
                a grant under this section can meet such requirement 
                and the probable benefit of such research project 
                outweighs the public interest in such requirement.
            (3) Equitable distribution.--The Administrator shall 
        ensure, to the maximum extent practicable, that grant funding 
        under this section is apportioned according to the historic 
        baseline oyster population of each estuary of the United 
        States.
    (d) Definitions.--In this section, the following definitions apply:
            (1) Academic community.--The term ``academic community'' 
        means faculty, researchers, professors, and representatives of 
        State-accredited colleges and universities.
            (2) Eligible entity.--The term ``eligible entity'' means a 
        member of the academic community, the seafood industry, a 
        relevant nonprofit organization, or a relevant State agency, 
        that is proposing or conducting a research project on the 
        conservation, restoration, or management of oysters in an 
        estuarine ecosystem developed through consultation with a 
        member of the academic community, a member of the seafood 
        industry, a relevant nonprofit organization, or a relevant 
        State agency.
            (3) Historic baseline.--The term ``historic baseline'' 
        means the estimated population of oysters in an estuary in 
        1850.
            (4) Nonprofit organization.--The term ``nonprofit 
        organization'' means an organization described in section 
        501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 and exempt from 
        tax under section 501(a) of such Code.
            (5) Seafood industry.--The term ``seafood industry'' means 
        shellfish growers, shellfish harvesters, commercial fishermen, 
        and recreational fishermen.
    (e) Authorization of Appropriations.--There is authorized to be 
appropriated to the Administrator $6,000,000 for each of the fiscal 
years 2021 through 2025 to carry out this section.

SEC. 1004. IMPROVEMENTS TO THE NATIONAL OCEANS AND COASTAL SECURITY 
              ACT.

    (a) Definition of Tidal Shoreline Refined.--Section 902 of the 
National Oceans and Coastal Security Act (16 U.S.C. 7501) is amended--
            (1) by amending paragraph (7) to read as follows:
            ``(7) Tidal shoreline.--The term `tidal shoreline' means a 
        `tidal shoreline' or a `Great Lake shoreline' as such terms are 
        used in section 923.110(c)(2)(i) of title 15, Code of Federal 
        Regulations, or a similar successor regulation.''; and
            (2) by adding at the end the following:
            ``(8) Indian tribe.--The term `Indian Tribe' has the 
        meaning given the term `Indian tribe' in section 4 of the 
        Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act (25 
        U.S.C. 5304).
            ``(9) Blue carbon.--The term `blue carbon' means the 
        ability of an ocean or coastal ecosystem, habitat, or other 
        natural resource to absorb, capture, and contain atmospheric 
        carbon dioxide.''.
    (b) Improvements to National Oceans and Coastal Security Fund.--
            (1) Establishment of fund required.--Subsection (a) of 
        section 904 of such Act (16 U.S.C. 7503) is amended by 
        inserting ``and jointly manage'' after ``establish''.
            (2) Deposits.--Paragraph (1) of subsection (b) of section 
        904 is amended to read as follows:
            ``(1) In general.--There shall be deposited into the Fund, 
        which shall constitute the assets of the Fund, amounts as 
        follows:
                    ``(A) Amounts transferred to the Fund under section 
                908.
                    ``(B) Such other amounts as may be appropriated or 
                otherwise made available to carry out this Act.''.
            (3) Expenditures.--Section 904 of such Act (16 U.S.C. 7503) 
        is amended by striking subsection (d) and inserting the 
        following:
    ``(d) Expenditure.--
            ``(1) Of the amounts deposited into the Fund for each 
        fiscal year, if those funds are equal to or greater than 
        $100,000,000--
                    ``(A) not more than 80 percent may be used for the 
                award of grants under subsection (b) of section 906;
                    ``(B) not more than 20 percent may be used for the 
                award of grants under subsection (c) of such section; 
                and
                    ``(C) not more than 4 percent may be used by the 
                Administrator and the National Fish and Wildlife 
                Foundation (Foundation) for administrative expenses to 
                carry out this chapter, which amount shall be divided 
                between the Administrator and the Foundation pursuant 
                to an agreement reached and documented by both the 
                Administrator and the Foundation.
            ``(2) Of the amounts deposited into the Fund for each 
        fiscal year, if those funds are less than $100,000,000, all 
        funds shall be used for the award of grants under subsection 
        (c) of section 906 and no more than 4 percent may be used by 
        the Administrator and the Foundation for administrative 
        expenses to carry out this chapter, which amount shall be 
        divided between the Administrator and the Foundation pursuant 
        to an agreement reached and documented by both the 
        Administrator and the Foundation.''.
    (c) Eligible Uses of the Fund.--Section 905 of such Act (16 U.S.C. 
7504) is amended to read as follows:

``SEC. 905. ELIGIBLE USES.

    ``(a) In General.--Amounts in the Fund may be allocated by the 
Administrator and the Foundation to support programs and activities 
intended to protect, conserve, restore, better understand, and utilize 
ocean and coastal resources and coastal infrastructure, including 
scientific research, resiliency and spatial planning, data-sharing, and 
other programs and activities carried out in coordination with Federal 
and State departments or agencies, including the following:
            ``(1) Ocean, coastal, and Great Lakes restoration and 
        protection, including efforts to address potential impacts of 
        sea level change, sedimentation, erosion, changes in ocean 
        chemistry, hurricanes and other extreme weather, flooding, and 
        changes in ocean temperature to natural resources, communities, 
        and coastal economies.
            ``(2) Restoration, protection, or maintenance of living 
        ocean, coastal, and Great Lakes resources and their habitats, 
        including habitats and ecosystems that provide blue carbon 
        benefits.
            ``(3) Planning for and managing coastal development to 
        enhance ecosystem and community integrity, or to minimize 
        impacts from sea level change, hurricanes and other extreme 
        weather, flooding, and coastal erosion.
            ``(4) Projects to address management, planning, or 
        resiliency and readiness issues which are regional or 
        interstate in scope, such as regional ocean partnerships or 
        similar bodies.
            ``(5) Efforts that contribute to the understanding of 
        ecological, economic, societal, and national security threats 
        driven by changes to the oceans, coasts, and Great Lakes.
            ``(6) Efforts to preserve, protect, and collect data, 
        including but not limited to public ocean and coastal data 
        portals, that would support sustainable water-dependent 
        commercial activities including commercial fishing, 
        recreational fishing businesses, aquaculture, boat building, or 
        other coastal-related businesses.
            ``(7) Efforts to assist coastal States in repositioning, 
        relocating or deploying natural or nature-based features to 
        enhance the resiliency of critical coastal transportation, 
        emergency response, water, electrical, and other 
        infrastructure, that are already subject to or face increased 
        future risks of hurricanes, coastal flooding, coastal erosion, 
        or sea level change to ensure the economic security, safety, 
        and ecological well-being of the coasts of the United States.
            ``(8) Acquiring property or interests in property if--
                    ``(A) the area is located within a coastal county 
                or adjacent county;
                    ``(B) the funds made available under this subtitle 
                are used to acquire land or interest in land by 
                purchase, exchange, or donation from a willing seller;
                    ``(C) the Governor of the State in which the 
                property or interests in property are acquired approves 
                of the acquisition; and
                    ``(D) such property or interest is acquired in a 
                manner that will ensure such property or interest will 
                be administered to support the purposes of this Act.
            ``(9) Protection and modification of critical coastal 
        public infrastructure affected by erosion, hurricanes or other 
        extreme weather, flooding, or sea level change.
            ``(10) Assistance for small businesses and communities that 
        are dependent on coastal tourism as eligible efforts that help 
        coastal economies minimize impacts from sea level rise and 
        disasters.
            ``(11) Projects that use natural and nature-based 
        approaches for enhancing the resiliency of wastewater and 
        stormwater infrastructure as eligible critical infrastructure 
        projects (as compared to just general water infrastructure, 
        which can also include drinking water systems).
            ``(12) Technical assistance to help develop comprehensive 
        resilience and mitigation plans as an eligible funding effort.
    ``(b) Matching Requirement.--The Administrator and the Foundation 
shall require a non-Federal match for all awards made under section 
906(c) from the Fund.
    ``(c) Prohibition on Use of Funds for Litigation.--No funds made 
available under this Act may be used to fund litigation against the 
Federal Government.''.
    (d) Grants.--
            (1) Administration.--Subsection (a)(1) of section 906 of 
        such Act (16 U.S.C. 7505) is amended--
                    (A) by amending subparagraph (B) to read as 
                follows:
                    ``(B) Selection procedures and criteria for the 
                awarding of grants under this section that require 
                consultation with the Administrator and the Secretary 
                of the Interior.'';
                    (B) by amending subparagraph (C)(ii) to read as 
                follows:
                            ``(ii) under subsection (c) to entities 
                        including States, local governments, regional 
                        and interstate collaboratives, associations, 
                        nonprofit and for-profit private entities, 
                        public-private partnerships, academic 
                        institutions, and Indian Tribes.'';
                    (C) in subparagraph (F), by striking ``year if 
                grants have been awarded in that year'' and inserting 
                ``5 years''; and
                    (D) by adding at the end the following:
                    ``(I) A method to give special consideration in 
                reviewing proposals to projects with either direct or 
                indirect coastal or marine blue carbon benefits and an 
                accounting methodology to quantify these benefits for 
                the purposes of the annual report required under 
                section 907.''.
            (2) Grants to coastal states.--Subsection (b) of section 
        906 of such Act (16 U.S.C. 7505) is amended to read as follows:
    ``(b) Grants to Coastal States.--
            ``(1) In general.--Subject to section 904(d)(1) and 
        paragraphs (3) and (4) of this subsection, the Administrator 
        and the Foundation shall award grants to eligible coastal 
        States based on the following formula:
                    ``(A) 50 of the funds are allocated equally among 
                such coastal States.
                    ``(B) 25 percent of the funds are allocated on the 
                basis of the ratio of tidal shoreline miles in a 
                coastal State to the tidal shoreline miles of all 
                coastal States.
                    ``(C) 25 percent of the funds are allocated on the 
                basis of the ratio of population density of the coastal 
                counties of a coastal State to the average population 
                density of all coastal counties based on the most 
                recent data available by the U.S. Census Bureau.
            ``(2) Eligible coastal states.--For purposes of this 
        subsection, an eligible coastal State is any coastal state as 
        defined in section 304 of the Coastal Zone Management Act of 
        1972 (16 U.S.C. 1453).
            ``(3) Maximum allocation to states.--Notwithstanding 
        paragraph (1), not more than 5 percent of the total funds 
        distributed under this subsection may be allocated to any 
        single State. Any amount exceeding this limit shall be 
        redistributed equally among the remaining eligible coastal 
        States.
            ``(4) Requirement to submit plans.--
                    ``(A) In general.--To be eligible to receive a 
                grant under this subsection, an eligible coastal State 
                shall submit to the Administrator for review and 
                approval, a 5-year plan, which shall include the 
                following:
                            ``(i) Criteria to determine eligibility for 
                        entities which may receive grants under this 
                        subsection.
                            ``(ii) A description of the competitive 
                        process the coastal State will use in 
                        allocating funds received from the Fund, except 
                        in the case of allocating funds under paragraph 
                        (7), which shall include--
                                    ``(I) a description of the relative 
                                roles of and consistency with the State 
                                coastal zone management program 
                                approved under the Coastal Zone 
                                Management Act of 1972 (16 U.S.C. 1451 
                                et seq.), if the coastal State has such 
                                a plan, and any State Sea Grant 
                                Program, if the State has such program; 
                                and
                                    ``(II) a demonstration that such 
                                competitive process is consistent with 
                                the application and review procedures 
                                established by the Administrator and 
                                Foundation under subsection (a)(1).
                            ``(iii) A process to certify that the 
                        project or program and the awarding of a 
                        contract for the expenditure of amounts 
                        received under this paragraph are consistent 
                        with the standard procurement rules and 
                        regulations governing a comparable project or 
                        program in that State, including all applicable 
                        competitive bidding and audit requirements.
                            ``(iv) Procedures to make publicly 
                        available on the internet a list of all 
                        projects supported by the Fund, that includes 
                        at a minimum the grant recipient, grant amount, 
                        project description, and project status.
                    ``(B) Updates.--As a condition of receiving a grant 
                under this subsection, a coastal State shall submit to 
                the Administrator, not less frequently than once every 
                5 years, an update to the plan submitted by the coastal 
                State under subparagraph (A) for the 5-year period 
                immediately following the most recent submittal under 
                this paragraph.
            ``(5) Opportunity for public comment.--In determining 
        whether to approve a plan or an update to a plan described in 
        subparagraph (A) or (B) of paragraph (5), the Administrator or 
        the Foundation shall provide the opportunity for, and take into 
        consideration, public input and comment on the plan.
            ``(6) Indian tribes.--As a condition on receipt of a grant 
        under this subsection, a State that receives a grant under this 
        subsection shall ensure that Indian Tribes in the State are 
        eligible to participate in the competitive process described in 
        the State's plan under paragraph (5)(A)(ii).
            ``(7) Nonparticipation by a state.--In any year, if an 
        eligible coastal State or geographic area described in 
        paragraph (4)(B) does not submit the plan required by paragraph 
        (5) or declines the funds distributed under this subsection, 
        the funds that would have been allocated to the State or area 
        shall be redistributed equally among the remaining eligible 
        coastal States and geographic areas.''.
            (3) National grants for oceans, coasts, and great lakes.--
        Subsection (c)(2) of such section is amended--
                    (A) in subparagraph (B)--
                            (i) in clause (ii), by striking ``; and'' 
                        and inserting a semicolon;
                            (ii) by redesignating clause (iii) as 
                        clause (iv); and
                            (iii) by inserting after clause (ii) the 
                        following:
                            ``(iii) nongovernmental organizations; 
                        and''; and
                    (B) by adding at the end the following:
                    ``(C) Cap on state funding.--The amount of a grant 
                awarded under this subsection shall not count toward 
                the cap on funding to States through grants awarded 
                under subsection (b).''.
    (e) Annual Report.--Section 907 of the National Oceans and Coastal 
Security Act (16 U.S.C. 7506) is amended--
            (1) by amending paragraph (3) of subsection (b) to read as 
        follows:
            ``(3) a description of the expenditures made from the Fund 
        for the fiscal year, including the purpose of the expenditures; 
        and''; and
            (2) by adding at the end the following:
            ``(4) an estimate of blue carbon benefits, in tons of 
        carbon dioxide, expected through grants awarded to projects 
        that received special consideration under section 906 due to 
        their blue carbon potential.''.
    (f) Funding.--Section 908 of such Act (16 U.S.C. 7507) is amended 
to read as follows:

``SEC. 908. FUNDING.

    ``There is authorized to be appropriated $100,000,000 to carry out 
this title for fiscal year 2020 and each fiscal year thereafter.''.

SEC. 1005. SHOVEL-READY RESTORATION GRANTS FOR COASTLINES AND 
              FISHERIES.

    (a) Establishment.--The Secretary shall establish a grant program 
to provide funding and technical assistance to eligible entities for 
purposes of carrying out a project described in subsection (d).
    (b) Project Proposal.--To be considered for a grant under this 
section, an eligible entity shall submit a grant proposal to the 
Secretary in a time, place, and manner determined by the Secretary. 
Such proposal shall include monitoring, data collection, and measurable 
performance criteria with respect to the project.
    (c) Development of Criteria.--The Secretary shall select eligible 
entities to receive grants under this section based on criteria 
developed by the Secretary, in consultation with relevant offices of 
the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, such as the Office 
of Habitat Conservation and the Office for Coastal Management.
    (d) Eligible Projects.--A project is described by this section if--
            (1) the purpose of the project is to restore a marine, 
        estuarine, coastal, or Great Lake habitat, including--
                    (A) restoration of habitat to protect or recover a 
                species that is threatened, endangered, or a species of 
                concern under the Endangered Species Act of 1973 (16 
                U.S.C. 1531 et seq.);
                    (B) through the removal or remediation of marine 
                debris, including derelict vessels and fishing gear, in 
                coastal and marine habitats; or
                    (C) for the benefit of--
                            (i) shellfish;
                            (ii) fish, including diadromous fish; or
                            (iii) coral reef; or
            (2) provides adaptation to climate change, including by 
        constructing or protecting ecological features or nature-based 
        infrastructure that protects coastal communities from sea level 
        rise, coastal storms, or flooding, and blue carbon projects.
    (e) Priority.--In determining which projects to fund under this 
section, the Secretary shall give priority to a proposed project--
            (1) that would stimulate the economy;
            (2) for which the applicant can demonstrate that the grant 
        will fund work that will begin not more than 90 days after the 
        date of the award;
            (3) for which the applicant can demonstrate that the grant 
        will fund work that will employ fishermen who have been 
        negatively impacted by the COVID-19 pandemic or pay a fisherman 
        for the use of a fishing vessel;
            (4) for which the applicant can demonstrate that any 
        preliminary study or permit required before the project can 
        begin has been completed or can be completed shortly after an 
        award is made; or
            (5) that includes communities that may not have adequate 
        resources including low income communities, communities of 
        color, Tribal communities, Indigenous communities, and rural 
        communities.
    (f) Authorization of Appropriations.--There is authorized to be 
appropriated to the Secretary of Commerce $3,000,000,000 for fiscal 
year 2020 to carry out this section, to remain available until 
expended.
    (g) Definitions.--
            (1) Eligible entity.--In this Act, ``eligible entity'' 
        means a nonprofit, a for-profit business, an institution of 
        higher education, or a State, local, Tribal, or Territorial 
        government.
            (2) Fishermen.--The term ``fishermen'' means commercial or 
        for-hire fishermen or oyster farmers.
            (3) Secretary.--In this section, the term ``Secretary'' 
        means the Secretary of Commerce, acting through the 
        Administrator of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric 
        Administration.

SEC. 1006. STRATEGIC CLIMATE CHANGE RELOCATION INITIATIVE AND PROGRAM.

    (a) Establishment of Initiative.--The Chairman of the Council on 
Environmental Quality (in this section referred to as the ``Chair'') of 
the Council on Environmental Quality shall establish a Strategic 
Climate Change Relocation Initiative (in this section referred to as 
the ``Initiative'') for the purposes of coordinating Federal agency 
activities to identify and assist communities that have expressed 
affirmative interest in relocation due to health, safety, and 
environmental impacts from climate change, including hurricanes, 
flooding, sea level rise, and repeat wildfires.
    (b) Director.--The Chair shall appoint a Strategic Climate 
Relocation Director to manage the Initiative.
    (c) Consultation.--The Chair shall coordinate and consult with 
Federal agencies conducting activities related to this section 
including the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, the 
Department of the Interior, including the Bureau of Indian Affairs, the 
Environmental Protection Agency, the Federal Emergency Management 
Agency, the Department of Housing and Urban Development, the Denali 
Commission, the Corps of Engineers, the Office of Management and 
Budget, the National Economic Council, the National Security Council, 
the White House Council on Native American Affairs Interagency Subgroup 
on Tribal Resilience, and other Federal agencies as appropriate.
    (d) External Advisory Panel.--The Chair shall establish an external 
advisory panel that may include community leaders, non-governmental 
organizations, State and local government representatives, Tribal 
leaders, Indigenous community representatives, climate adaptation 
professionals, and other relevant experts as appropriate.
    (e) Report to Congress.--Not later than 2 years after the date of 
enactment of this Act, the Chair shall submit a report to Congress 
recommending key elements of a Strategic Climate Change Relocation 
Program to identify and assist communities that have expressed 
affirmative interest in relocation due to health, safety, and 
environmental impacts from climate change. The report shall--
            (1) identify--
                    (A) areas where climate change impacts make 
                relocation a likely climate change adaptation strategy;
                    (B) communities that have expressed affirmative 
                interest in relocation (in this section referred to as 
                ``sending communities''); and
                    (C) potential relocation areas and communities that 
                have expressed interest in attracting climate migrants 
                (in this section referred to as ``receiving 
                communities'');
            (2) propose criteria to qualify for climate relocation 
        assistance, with preference given to disadvantaged communities 
        where community members have indicated a preference for retreat 
        which would otherwise be challenged to relocate;
            (3) describe the roles and responsibilities of specific 
        Federal agencies in implementing the Strategic Climate Change 
        Relocation Program and how the Program should be coordinated 
        with applicable State and Federal agency plans and programs and 
        identify Federal programs that can be tailored to incentivize 
        self-identification of communities as receiving areas;
            (4) outline the role that State and local governments 
        should play in implementing the Strategic Climate Change 
        Relocation Program, including identification of areas or 
        communities where people leaving areas vulnerable to climate 
        change can consider locating, and the specific resources needed 
        to prepare those communities to be receiving communities in 
        terms of Federal investment in infrastructure, affordable 
        housing, and social services;
            (5) summarize existing Federal and State programs for 
        purchase of individual properties vulnerable to the impacts of 
        climate change and propose how these programs might be 
        restructured, improved, or expanded to incentivize climate 
        change relocation;
            (6) describe measures that governments or other 
        organizations can take to reduce the psychological stress 
        associated with relocation to preserve or support the 
        historical and cultural identity of communities being relocated 
        and to restore and conserve areas that are relocated from as 
        publicly accessible natural assets, and how Federal programs 
        will support these efforts;
            (7) identify and recommend measures to overcome how 
        institutional barriers, such as Federal programs that do not 
        account for Tribal sovereignty, constrain Tribal communities' 
        ability to pursue self-determined management of their resources 
        and built environment;
            (8) identify measures that Congress, Federal agencies, or 
        State and local governments should take to discourage or 
        restrict new development and hard structural measures in areas 
        vulnerable to such significant climate change impacts that they 
        are likely to require a solution that includes relocation, in 
        particular, where the Federal Government could establish 
        stricter funding requirements for post-disaster funding that 
        require updated building codes and land use strategies 
        reflecting climate risk;
            (9) describe existing policies and clarify responsibilities 
        of governments in complying with obligations to protect private 
        property, including providing just compensation for any taking 
        of private property;
            (10) propose an application process, available online, for 
        States and communities to express affirmative interest in 
        climate relocation assistance, either as a leaving community or 
        receiving community;
            (11) provide guidance on and identify additional funding 
        for operations and maintenance requirements for vacated land, 
        and identify the resources needed to prioritize public access, 
        recreational spaces, or conservation areas;
            (12) review efficacy of existing flood mitigation 
        strategies on reducing flood risk to human populations, and 
        identify opportunities to coordinate blue-green infrastructure 
        solutions with buyout programs that increase the resilience of 
        remaining residents; and
            (13) outline the amount and timing of Federal funding that 
        is expected to be needed to implement the Climate Change 
        Relocation Program.
    (f) Development of Report to Congress.--In developing the report 
required under subsection (e), the Chair shall--
            (1) provide for public review and comment of a draft of the 
        report;
            (2) consult with organizations representing State and local 
        governments;
            (3) consult with the external advisory panel; and
            (4) evaluate projects implemented under the National 
        Disaster Resilience Competition administered by the Department 
        of Housing and Urban Development.
    (g) Climate Change Strategic Relocation Program Pilot Projects.--
Within 2 years after the date of the submission of the report under 
subsection (e), the Chair shall establish and carry out pilot projects 
based upon the recommendations included in such report.
    (h) Subsequent Periodic Reports to Congress.--Within three years 
after the date of the submission of the report under subsection (e), 
and every three years thereafter, the Chair shall submit to Congress a 
report evaluating progress in the implementation of the Climate Change 
Relocation Program and making recommendations for needed changes to the 
Program.

  TITLE XI--OCEAN HEALTH: OCEAN ACIDIFICATION AND HARMFUL ALGAL BLOOMS

        Subtitle A--Coastal Communities Ocean Acidification Act

SEC. 1101. STATE AND UNITED STATES DEFINED.

    Section 12403 of the Federal Ocean Acidification Research And 
Monitoring Act of 2009 (33 U.S.C. 3702) is amended--
            (1) by redesignating paragraph (3) as paragraph (4);
            (2) by inserting after paragraph (2) the following:
            ``(3) State.--The term `State' means each State of the 
        United States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of 
        Puerto Rico, American Samoa, Guam, the Commonwealth of the 
        Northern Mariana Islands, the Virgin Islands of the United 
        States, and any other territory or possession of the United 
        States.''; and
            (3) by adding at the end the following:
            ``(5) United states.--The term `United States' means the 
        States, collectively.''.

SEC. 1102. COASTAL COMMUNITY VULNERABILITY ASSESSMENT.

    (a) In General.--Section 12406 of the Federal Ocean Acidification 
Research And Monitoring Act of 2009 (33 U.S.C. 3705) is amended--
            (1) in subsection (a), by inserting ``(referred to in this 
        section as the `Program')'' after ``acidification program'';
            (2) by redesignating subsection (b) as subsection (d); and
            (3) by inserting after subsection (a) the following:
    ``(b) Community Vulnerability Assessment.--
            ``(1) In general.--Not later than 180 days after the date 
        of enactment of the Ocean-Based Climate Solutions Act of 2020 
        and every 7 years subsequent, the Secretary, through the 
        `Program', shall conduct an ocean acidification coastal 
        community vulnerability assessment, and issue a corresponding 
        public report.
            ``(2) Requirements.--The assessment conducted under 
        paragraph (1) shall--
                    ``(A) identify the United States coastal 
                communities, including island communities, low-
                population rural communities, and subsistence 
                communities, that are most dependent on coastal and 
                ocean resources that may be impacted by ocean 
                acidification;
                    ``(B) assess the nature of the social and economic 
                vulnerabilities of those communities, including the 
                economic effect on local or regional commercial 
                fisheries and recreational opportunities and over what 
                timescales such effects will be felt;
                    ``(C) identify the ocean acidification impacts that 
                might harm those communities, both in isolation and in 
                conjunction with other changing ocean conditions, 
                including effects from changes in ocean and coastal 
                marine resources that are not managed by the Federal 
                Government;
                    ``(D) identify key knowledge gaps where research 
                could be devoted to better understand the possible 
                impacts of ocean acidification on those communities, 
                the risks and threats facing those communities, and 
                possible adaptation strategies for those communities; 
                and
                    ``(E) be conducted in collaboration with experts, 
                traditional knowledge experts, and individuals who are 
                familiar with the unique economic, social, ecological, 
                geographic, and resource concerns of coastal 
                communities in the United States, including 
                representatives from--
                            ``(i) the National Marine Fisheries Service 
                        and the Office for Coastal Management of the 
                        National Oceanic and Atmospheric 
                        Administration;
                            ``(ii) National Integrated Coastal and 
                        Ocean Observation System regional information 
                        coordination entities established under section 
                        12304(c)(4) of the Integrated Coastal and Ocean 
                        Observation System Act of 2009 (33 U.S.C. 
                        3603(c)(4));
                            ``(iii) regional ocean acidification 
                        networks; and
                            ``(iv) State sea grant programs (as defined 
                        in section 203 of the National Sea Grant 
                        College Program Act (33 U.S.C. 1122)).
    ``(c) Support for State and Local Vulnerability Assessments and 
Strategic Research Planning.--In carrying out the Program, the 
Secretary shall collaborate with State, local, and Tribal government 
entities that are conducting or have completed vulnerability 
assessments, strategic research planning, or other similar activities 
related to ocean acidification and its impacts on coastal communities, 
for the purpose of--
            ``(1) determining whether such activities can be used as a 
        model for other communities; and
            ``(2) identifying opportunities for the National Oceanic 
        and Atmospheric Administration and other relevant Federal 
        agencies to support such activities.''.
    (b) Ongoing Input Mechanism.--Section 12404(b)(5) of the Federal 
Ocean Acidification Research And Monitoring Act of 2009 (33 U.S.C. 
3703(b)(5)) is amended--
            (1) by striking ``including information'' and inserting the 
        following: ``including--
                    ``(A) information'';
            (2) by striking the period at the end and inserting ``; 
        and''; and
            (3) by adding at the end the following:
                    ``(B) an ongoing mechanism that allows affected 
                industry members, coastal stakeholders, non-Federal 
                resource managers, community acidification networks, 
                Indigenous knowledge groups, and scientific experts not 
                employed by the Federal Government to provide input on 
                research, data, and monitoring that is necessary to 
                support on-the-ground management, decision making, and 
                adaptation related to ocean acidification and the 
                effects of such acidification.''.
    (c) Strategic Research Plan.--Section 12405 of the Federal Ocean 
Acidification Research And Monitoring Act of 2009 (33 U.S.C. 3704) is 
amended--
            (1) in subsection (b)--
                    (A) in paragraph (8), by striking ``and'' at the 
                end;
                    (B) in paragraph (9), by striking the period at the 
                end and inserting ``; and''; and
                    (C) by adding at the end the following:
            ``(10) make recommendations to conduct research in areas, 
        including the social sciences and economics, to address the key 
        knowledge gaps identified in the community vulnerability 
        assessment report conducted under section 12406(b).''; and
            (2) in subsection (e), by inserting ``, Tribal governments, 
        Indigenous and traditional knowledge experts,'' after 
        ``industry''.
    (d) Authorization of Appropriations.--Section 12409(a) of the 
Federal Ocean Acidification Research And Monitoring Act of 2009 (33 
U.S.C. 3708(a)) is amended to read as follows:
    ``(a) National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration.--There are 
authorized to be appropriated to the National Oceanic and Atmospheric 
Administration to carry out the purposes of this subtitle $2,700,000 
for each of fiscal years 2021 through 2025.''.
    (e) Report on Support for State and Local Vulnerability Assessments 
and Strategic Research Planning.--Not later than 180 days after the 
date of the enactment of this Act, the Administrator shall submit to 
Congress a report detailing the efforts of the National Oceanic and 
Atmospheric Administration to support State, local, and Tribal 
community vulnerability assessments, strategic research and planning, 
and monitoring needs, pursuant to section 12406(c) of the Federal Ocean 
Acidification Research And Monitoring Act of 2009 (as added by 
subsection (a)).

                  Subtitle B--Ocean Acidification Act

SEC. 1111. PRIZE COMPETITIONS.

    Section 12404 of the Federal Ocean Acidification Research And 
Monitoring Act of 2009 (33 U.S.C. 3703) is amended by adding at the end 
the following:
    ``(d) Prize Competitions.--
            ``(1) In general.--Any Federal agency with a representative 
        serving on the interagency working group established under this 
        section may, either individually or in cooperation with 1 or 
        more agencies, carry out a program to award prizes 
        competitively under section 24 of the Stevenson-Wydler 
        Technology Innovation Act of 1980 (15 U.S.C. 3719). An agency 
        seeking to carry out such a program shall carry out such 
        program in coordination with the chair of such interagency 
        working group.
            ``(2) Purposes.--Any prize competition carried out under 
        this subsection shall be for the purpose of stimulating 
        innovation to advance our Nation's ability to understand, 
        research, or monitor ocean acidification or its impacts, or to 
        develop management or adaptation options for responding to 
        ocean acidification.
            ``(3) Priority programs.--Priority shall be given to 
        establishing programs under this section that address 
        communities, environments, or industries that are in distress 
        due to the impacts of ocean acidification, including--
                    ``(A) the development of monitoring or management 
                options for communities or industries that are 
                experiencing significant financial hardship;
                    ``(B) the development of adaptation options to 
                alleviate economic harm and job loss caused by ocean 
                acidification;
                    ``(C) the development of measures to help 
                vulnerable communities or industries, with an emphasis 
                on rural communities and businesses; and
                    ``(D) the development of adaptation and management 
                options for impacted shellfish industries.''.

                     Subtitle C--COAST Research Act

SEC. 1121. PURPOSES.

    (a) In General.--Section 12402(a) of the Federal Ocean 
Acidification Research And Monitoring Act of 2009 (33 U.S.C. 3701(a)) 
is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (1)--
                    (A) in the matter preceding subparagraph (A), by 
                striking ``development and coordination'' and inserting 
                ``coordination and implementation'';
                    (B) in subparagraph (A), by striking 
                ``acidification on marine organisms'' and inserting 
                ``acidification and coastal acidification on marine 
                organisms''; and
                    (C) in subparagraph (B), by striking ``establish'' 
                and all that follows through the semicolon and 
                inserting ``maintain and advise an interagency 
                research, monitoring, and public outreach program on 
                ocean acidification and coastal acidification;'';
            (2) in paragraph (2), by striking ``establishment'' and 
        inserting ``maintenance'';
            (3) in paragraph (3), by inserting ``and coastal 
        acidification'' after ``ocean acidification''; and
            (4) in paragraph (4), by inserting ``and coastal 
        acidification that take into account other environmental and 
        anthropogenic stressors'' after ``ocean acidification''.
    (b) Technical and Conforming Amendment.--Section 12402 of the 
Federal Ocean Acidification Research And Monitoring Act of 2009 (33 
U.S.C. 3701(a)) is amended by striking ``(a) Purposes.--''.

SEC. 1122. DEFINITIONS.

    Section 12403 of the Federal Ocean Acidification Research And 
Monitoring Act of 2009 (33 U.S.C. 3702) is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (1), by striking ``of the Earth's oceans'' 
        and all that follows before the period at the end and inserting 
        ``and changes in the water chemistry of the Earth's oceans, 
        coastal estuaries, and waterways caused by carbon dioxide from 
        the atmosphere and the breakdown of organic matter'';
            (2) in paragraph (3), by striking ``Joint Subcommittee on 
        Ocean Science and Technology of the National Science and 
        Technology Council'' and inserting ``National Science and 
        Technology Council Subcommittee on Ocean Science and 
        Technology'';
            (3) by redesignating paragraphs (1), (2), and (3) as 
        paragraphs (2), (3), and (4), respectively;
            (4) by inserting before paragraph (2), as so redesignated, 
        the following new paragraph:
            ``(1) Coastal acidification.--The term `coastal 
        acidification' means the combined decrease in pH and changes in 
        the water chemistry of coastal oceans, estuaries, and other 
        bodies of water from chemical inputs (including carbon dioxide 
        from the atmosphere), freshwater inputs, and excess nutrient 
        run-off from land and coastal atmospheric pollution that result 
        in processes that release carbon dioxide, acidic nitrogen, and 
        sulfur compounds as byproducts which end up in coastal 
        waters.''; and
            (5) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
            ``(5) State.--The term `State' means each State of the 
        United States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of 
        Puerto Rico, American Samoa, Guam, the Commonwealth of the 
        Northern Mariana Islands, the Virgin Islands of the United 
        States, and any other territory or possession of the United 
        States.''.

SEC. 1123. INTERAGENCY WORKING GROUP.

    Section 12404 of the Federal Ocean Acidification Research And 
Monitoring Act of 2009 (33 U.S.C. 3703) is amended--
            (1) in the heading, by striking ``subcommittee'' and 
        inserting ``working group'';
            (2) in subsection (a)--
                    (A) in paragraph (1), by striking ``Joint 
                Subcommittee on Ocean Science and Technology of the 
                National Science and Technology Council shall 
                coordinate Federal activities on ocean acidification 
                and'' and insert ``Subcommittee shall'';
                    (B) in paragraph (2), by striking ``Wildlife 
                Service,'' and inserting ``Wildlife Service, the Bureau 
                of Ocean Energy Management, the Environmental 
                Protection Agency, the Department of Agriculture, the 
                Department of State, the Department of Energy, the 
                Department of the Navy, the National Park Service, the 
                Bureau of Indian Affairs, the National Institute of 
                Standards and Technology, the Smithsonian 
                Institution,''; and
                    (C) in paragraph (3), in the heading, by striking 
                ``Chairman'' and inserting ``Chair'';
            (3) in subsection (b)--
                    (A) in paragraph (1), by inserting ``, including 
                the efforts of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric 
                Administration to facilitate such implementation'' 
                after ``of the plan'';
                    (B) in paragraph (2)--
                            (i) in subparagraph (A), by inserting ``and 
                        coastal acidification'' after ``ocean 
                        acidification''; and
                            (ii) in subparagraph (B), by inserting 
                        ``and coastal acidification'' after ``ocean 
                        acidification'';
                    (C) in paragraph (4), by striking ``; and'' and 
                inserting a semicolon;
                    (D) in paragraph (5)--
                            (i) by striking ``developed'' and inserting 
                        ``and coastal acidification developed''; and
                            (ii) by striking the period at the end and 
                        inserting ``and coastal acidification; and''; 
                        and
                    (E) by adding at the end the following new 
                paragraph:
            ``(6) ensure that each of the Federal agencies represented 
        on the interagency working group--
                    ``(A) participates in the Ocean Acidification 
                Information Exchange established under paragraph (5); 
                and
                    ``(B) delivers data and information to support the 
                data archive system established under section 
                12406(d).'';
            (4) in subsection (c), in paragraph (2)--
                    (A) by inserting ``, and to the Office of 
                Management and Budget,'' after ``House of 
                Representatives''; and
                    (B) in subparagraph (B), by striking ``the 
                interagency research'' and inserting ``interagency 
                strategic research'';
            (5) by redesignating subsection (c) as subsection (d); and
            (6) by inserting after subsection (b) the following:
    ``(c) Advisory Board.--
            ``(1) Establishment.--The Chair of the Subcommittee shall 
        establish an Ocean Acidification Advisory Board.
            ``(2) Duties.--The Advisory Board shall--
                    ``(A) not later than 180 days before the 
                Subcommittee submits the most recent report under 
                subsection (d)(2)--
                            ``(i) review such report;
                            ``(ii) submit an analysis of such report to 
                        the Subcommittee for consideration in the final 
                        report submitted under subsection (d)(2); and
                            ``(iii) concurrently with the 
                        Subcommittee's final submission of the report 
                        under subsection (d)(2), the Advisory Board 
                        shall submit a copy of the analysis provided to 
                        the Subcommittee to the Committee on Commerce, 
                        Science, and Transportation of the Senate, the 
                        Committee on Science, Space, and Technology of 
                        the House of Representatives, and the Committee 
                        on Natural Resources of the House of 
                        Representatives;
                    ``(B) not later than 180 days before the 
                Subcommittee submits the most recent strategic research 
                plan under subsection (d)(3) to Congress--
                            ``(i) review such plan;
                            ``(ii) submit an analysis of such plan and 
                        the implementation thereof to the Subcommittee 
                        for consideration in the final strategic 
                        research plan submitted under subsection 
                        (d)(3); and
                            ``(iii) concurrently with the 
                        Subcommittee's final submission of the 
                        strategic research plan under subsection 
                        (d)(3), the Advisory Board shall submit a copy 
                        of the analysis provided to the Subcommittee to 
                        the Committee on Commerce, Science, and 
                        Transportation of the Senate, the Committee on 
                        Science, Space, and Technology of the House of 
                        Representatives, and the Committee on Natural 
                        Resources of the House of Representatives;
                    ``(C) provide ongoing advice to the Subcommittee 
                and the interagency working group on matters related to 
                Federal activities on ocean acidification and coastal 
                acidification;
                    ``(D) advise the Subcommittee and the interagency 
                working group on--
                            ``(i) efforts to coordinate research and 
                        monitoring activities related to ocean 
                        acidification and coastal acidification; and
                            ``(ii) the best practices for the standards 
                        developed for data archiving under section 
                        12406(e);
                    ``(E) publish in the Federal Register a charter;
                    ``(F) provide the Library of Congress with--
                            ``(i) the charter described in subparagraph 
                        (E);
                            ``(ii) any schedules and minutes for 
                        meetings of the Advisory Board;
                            ``(iii) any documents that are approved by 
                        the Advisory Board; and
                            ``(iv) any reports and analysis prepared by 
                        the Advisory Board; and
                    ``(G) establish a publicly accessible web page on 
                the website of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric 
                Administration, that contains the information described 
                in clauses (i) through (iv) of subparagraph (F).
            ``(3) Membership.--The Advisory Board shall consist of 24 
        members as follows:
                    ``(A) Two representatives of the shellfish and crab 
                industry.
                    ``(B) One representative of the finfish industry.
                    ``(C) One representative of seafood processors.
                    ``(D) Three representatives from academia, 
                including both natural and social sciences.
                    ``(E) One representative of recreational fishing.
                    ``(F) One representative of relevant 
                nongovernmental organizations.
                    ``(G) Six representatives from relevant State, 
                local, and Tribal governments.
                    ``(H) One representative from the Alaska Ocean 
                Acidification Network.
                    ``(I) One representative from the California 
                Current Acidification Network.
                    ``(J) One representative from the Northeast Coastal 
                Acidification Network.
                    ``(K) One representative from the Southeast Coastal 
                Acidification Network.
                    ``(L) One representative from the Gulf of Mexico 
                Coastal Acidification Network.
                    ``(M) One representative from the Mid-Atlantic 
                Coastal Acidification Network.
                    ``(N) One representative from the Pacific Islands 
                Ocean Observing System or similar entity representing 
                the island Territories and possessions of the United 
                States in the Pacific Ocean, and the State of Hawaii.
                    ``(O) One representative from the Caribbean 
                Regional Association for Coastal Ocean Observing or a 
                similar entity representing Puerto Rico and the United 
                States Virgin Islands.
                    ``(P) One representative from the National Oceanic 
                and Atmospheric Administration shall serve as an ex-
                officio member of the Advisory Board without a vote.
            ``(4) Appointment of members.--The Chair of the 
        Subcommittee shall--
                    ``(A) appoint members to the Advisory Board (taking 
                into account the geographical interests of each 
                individual to be appointed as a member of the Advisory 
                Board to ensure that an appropriate balance of 
                geographical interests are represented by the members 
                of the Advisory Board) who--
                            ``(i) represent the interest group for 
                        which each seat is designated;
                            ``(ii) demonstrate expertise on ocean 
                        acidification or coastal acidification and its 
                        scientific, economic, industry, cultural, and 
                        community impacts; and
                            ``(iii) have a record of distinguished 
                        service with respect to ocean acidification or 
                        coastal acidification, and such impacts;
                    ``(B) give consideration to nominations and 
                recommendations from the members of the interagency 
                working group and the public for such appointments; and
                    ``(C) ensure that an appropriate balance of 
                scientific, industry, and geographical interests are 
                represented by the members of the Advisory Board.
            ``(5) Term of membership.--Each member of the Advisory 
        Board--
                    ``(A) shall be appointed for a 5-year term; and
                    ``(B) may be appointed to more than 1 term.
            ``(6) Chair.--The Chair of the Subcommittee shall appoint 1 
        member of the Advisory Board to serve as the Chair of the 
        Advisory Board.
            ``(7) Meetings.--Not less than once each calendar year, the 
        Advisory Board shall meet at such times and places as may be 
        designated by the Chair of the Advisory Board, in consultation 
        with the Chair of the Subcommittee and the Chair of the 
        interagency working group.
            ``(8) Briefing.--The Chair of the Advisory Board shall 
        brief the Subcommittee and the interagency working group on the 
        progress of the Advisory Board as necessary.
            ``(9) Federal advisory committee act.--Section 14 of the 
        Federal Advisory Committee Act shall not apply to the Advisory 
        Board.''.

SEC. 1124. STRATEGIC RESEARCH PLAN.

    Section 12405 of the Federal Ocean Acidification Research And 
Monitoring Act of 2009 (33 U.S.C. 3704) is amended--
            (1) in subsection (a)--
                    (A) by striking ``acidification'' each place it 
                appears and inserting ``acidification and coastal 
                acidification'';
                    (B) in the first sentence--
                            (i) by inserting ``, and not later than 
                        every 5 years thereafter'' after ``the date of 
                        enactment of this Act'';
                            (ii) by inserting ``address the 
                        socioeconomic impacts of ocean acidification 
                        and coastal acidification and to'' after 
                        ``mitigation strategies to''; and
                            (iii) by striking ``marine ecosystems'' 
                        each place it appears and inserting 
                        ``ecosystems''; and
                    (C) in the second sentence, by inserting ``and 
                recommendations made by the Advisory Board in the 
                review of the plan required under section 
                12404(c)(2)(B)(i)'' after ``subsection (d)'';
            (2) in subsection (b)--
                    (A) in paragraph (1), by inserting ``and social 
                sciences'' after ``among the ocean sciences'';
                    (B) in paragraph (2)--
                            (i) in subparagraph (A), by striking 
                        ``impacts'' and inserting ``impacts, including 
                        trends of changes in ocean chemistry,'';
                            (ii) in subparagraph (B)--
                                    (I) by striking ``improve the 
                                ability to assess the'' and inserting 
                                ``assess the short-term and long-
                                term''; and
                                    (II) by striking ``; and'' at the 
                                end and inserting a semicolon;
                            (iii) by amending subparagraph (C) to read 
                        as follows:
                    ``(C) provide information for the--
                            ``(i) development of adaptation and 
                        mitigation strategies to address the 
                        socioeconomic impacts of ocean acidification 
                        and coastal acidification;
                            ``(ii) conservation of marine organisms and 
                        ecosystems;
                            ``(iii) assessment of the effectiveness of 
                        such adaptation and mitigation strategies; 
                        and''; and
                            (iv) by adding at the end the following new 
                        subparagraph:
                    ``(D) improve research on--
                            ``(i) ocean acidification and coastal 
                        acidification;
                            ``(ii) the interactions between and effects 
                        of multiple combined stressors including 
                        changes in water chemistry, changes in sediment 
                        delivery, hypoxia, and harmful algal blooms, on 
                        ocean acidification and coastal acidification; 
                        and
                            ``(iii) the effect of environmental 
                        stressors on marine resources and 
                        ecosystems;'';
                    (C) in paragraph (3)--
                            (i) in subparagraph (F), by striking 
                        ``database development'' and inserting ``data 
                        management'';
                            (ii) in subparagraph (H) by striking 
                        ``and'' at the end; and
                            (iii) by adding at the end the following 
                        new subparagraphs:
                    ``(J) assessment of adaptation and mitigation 
                strategies; and
                    ``(K) education and outreach activities;'';
                    (D) in paragraph (4), by striking ``set forth'' and 
                inserting ``ensure an appropriate balance of 
                contribution in establishing'';
                    (E) in paragraph (5), by striking ``reports'' and 
                inserting ``the best available peer-reviewed scientific 
                reports'';
                    (F) in paragraph (6)--
                            (i) by inserting ``and coastal 
                        acidification'' after ``ocean acidification''; 
                        and
                            (ii) by striking ``of the United States'' 
                        and inserting ``within the United States'';
                    (G) in paragraph (7), by striking ``outline budget 
                requirements'' and inserting ``estimate costs 
                associated for full implementation of each element of 
                the plan by fiscal year'';
                    (H) in paragraph (8)--
                            (i) by inserting ``and coastal 
                        acidification'' after ``ocean acidification'' 
                        each place it appears;
                            (ii) by striking ``its'' and inserting 
                        ``their''; and
                            (iii) by striking ``; and'' at the end and 
                        inserting a semicolon;
                    (I) in paragraph (9), by striking the period at the 
                end and inserting ``; and''; and
                    (J) by adding at the end the following new 
                paragraph:
            ``(10) describe monitoring needs necessary to support 
        potentially affected industry members, coastal stakeholders, 
        fishery management councils and commissions, non-Federal 
        resource managers, and scientific experts on decision making 
        and adaptation related to ocean acidification and coastal 
        acidification.'';
            (3) in subsection (c)--
                    (A) in paragraph (1)(C), by striking ``surface'';
                    (B) in paragraph (2), by inserting ``and coastal 
                acidification'' after ``ocean acidification'' each 
                place it appears;
                    (C) in paragraph (3)--
                            (i) by striking ``input, and'' and 
                        inserting ``inputs,'';
                            (ii) by inserting ``, marine food webs,'' 
                        after ``marine ecosystems''; and
                            (iii) by inserting ``, and modeling that 
                        supports fisheries management'' after ``marine 
                        organisms'';
                    (D) in paragraph (5), by inserting ``and coastal 
                acidification'' after ``ocean acidification''; and
                    (E) by adding at the end the following new 
                paragraph:
            ``(6) Research to understand related and cumulative 
        stressors and other biogeochemical processes occurring in 
        conjunction with ocean acidification and coastal 
        acidification.''; and
            (4) by striking subsection (e) and inserting the following:
    ``(e) Advisory Board Evaluation.--Not later than 180 days before a 
plan is submitted to Congress, the Subcommittee shall provide the 
Advisory Board established under section 12404(c) a copy of the plan 
for purposes of review under paragraph (2)(B)(i) of such section.
    ``(f) Publication and Public Comment.--Not later than 90 days 
before the strategic research plan, or any revision thereof, is 
submitted to Congress, the Subcommittee shall publish the plan in the 
Federal Register and provide an opportunity for submission of public 
comments for a period of not less than 60 days.''.

SEC. 1125. NATIONAL OCEANIC AND ATMOSPHERIC ADMINISTRATION OCEAN 
              ACIDIFICATION ACTIVITIES.

    Section 12406 of the Federal Ocean Acidification Research And 
Monitoring Act of 2009 (33 U.S.C. 3705) is amended--
            (1) in subsection (a)--
                    (A) in the matter preceding paragraph (1), by 
                inserting ``coordination,'' after ``research, 
                monitoring,'';
                    (B) in paragraph (1)--
                            (i) in subparagraph (B)--
                                    (I) by inserting ``including the 
                                Integrated Ocean Observing System and 
                                the ocean observing assets of other 
                                Federal and State agencies,'' after 
                                ``ocean observing assets,''; and
                                    (II) by inserting ``and agency and 
                                department missions, prioritizing the 
                                location of monitoring instruments, 
                                assets, and projects to maximize the 
                                efficiency of resources and to optimize 
                                understanding of socioeconomic impacts 
                                and ecosystem health'' after ``research 
                                program'';
                            (ii) in subparagraph (C)--
                                    (I) by striking ``adaptation'' and 
                                inserting ``adaptation and 
                                mitigation''; and
                                    (II) by inserting ``and supporting 
                                socioeconomically vulnerable 
                                communities and industries'' after 
                                ``marine ecosystems'';
                            (iii) in subparagraph (E), by striking 
                        ``its impacts'' and inserting ``their 
                        respective impacts'';
                            (iv) in subparagraph (F), by striking 
                        ``monitoring and impacts research'' and 
                        inserting ``research, monitoring, and 
                        adaptation and mitigation strategies''; and
                            (v) by adding at the end the following new 
                        subparagraph:
                    ``(G) research to improve understanding of the 
                effect of--
                            ``(i) other environmental stressors on 
                        ocean acidification and coastal acidification;
                            ``(ii) multiple environmental stressors on 
                        living marine resources and coastal ecosystems; 
                        and
                            ``(iii) adaptation and mitigation 
                        strategies to address the socioeconomic impacts 
                        of ocean acidification and coastal 
                        acidification.'';
                    (C) in paragraph (2), by striking ``critical 
                research projects that explore'' and inserting 
                ``critical research and education projects that explore 
                and communicate''; and
                    (D) in paragraphs (1) and (2), by striking 
                ``acidification'' each place it appears and inserting 
                ``acidification and coastal acidification''; and
            (2) by adding at the end the following new subsections:
    ``(c) Relationship to Interagency Working Group.--The National 
Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration shall serve as the lead Federal 
agency responsible for coordinating the Federal response to ocean 
acidification and coastal acidification, by--
            ``(1) leading the interagency working group in implementing 
        the strategic research plan under section 12405;
            ``(2) coordinating monitoring and research efforts among 
        Federal agencies in cooperation with State, local, and Tribal 
        government and international partners;
            ``(3) maintaining an Ocean Acidification Information 
        Exchange described under section 12404(b)(5) to allow for 
        information to be electronically accessible, including 
        information--
                    ``(A) on ocean acidification developed through or 
                used by the ocean acidification program described under 
                section 12406(a); or
                    ``(B) that would be useful to State governments, 
                local governments, Tribal governments, resource 
                managers, policymakers, researchers, and other 
                stakeholders in mitigating or adapting to the impacts 
                of ocean acidification and coastal acidification; and
            ``(4) establishing and maintaining the data archive system 
        under subsection (d).
    ``(d) Data Archive System.--
            ``(1) Management.--The Secretary, in coordination with 
        members of the interagency working group, shall provide for the 
        long-term stewardship of, and access to, data relating to ocean 
        acidification and coastal acidification by establishing and 
        maintaining a data archive system that the National Center for 
        Environmental Information uses to process, store, archive, 
        provide access to, and incorporate to the extent possible, such 
        data collected--
                    ``(A) through relevant federally funded research; 
                and
                    ``(B) by a Federal agency, State agency, local 
                agency, Tribe, academic scientist, volunteer scientist, 
                or industry organization.
            ``(2) Existing global or national data assets.--In 
        establishing and maintaining the data archive system under 
        paragraph (1), the Secretary shall ensure that existing global 
        or national data assets (including the data assets maintained 
        by the National Centers for Environmental Information, the 
        Integrated Ocean Observing System, and other existing data 
        systems within Federal agencies) are incorporated to the 
        greatest extent possible.
    ``(e) Standards, Protocols, and Procedures.--With respect to the 
data described in subsection (d), the Secretary, in coordination with 
members of the interagency working group, shall establish and revise as 
necessary the standards, protocols, or procedures for--
            ``(1) processing, storing, archiving, and providing access 
        to such data;
            ``(2) the interoperability and intercalibration of such 
        data;
            ``(3) the collection of any metadata underlying such data; 
        and
            ``(4) sharing such data with State, local, and Tribal 
        government programs, potentially affected industry members, 
        coastal stakeholders, fishery management councils and 
        commissions, non-Federal resource managers, and academia.
    ``(f) Dissemination of Ocean Acidification Data and Coastal 
Acidification Data.--The Secretary, in coordination with members of the 
interagency working group, shall disseminate the data described under 
subsection (d) to the greatest extent practicable by sharing such data 
on full and open access exchanges, including the Ocean Acidification 
Information Exchange described in section 12404(b)(5).
    ``(g) Requirement.--Recipients of grants from the National Oceanic 
and Atmospheric Administration under this subtitle that collect data 
described under subsection (d) shall--
            ``(1) collect such data in accordance with the standards, 
        protocols, or procedures established pursuant to subsection 
        (e); and
            ``(2) submit such data to the data archive system under 
        subsection (d), in accordance with any rules promulgated by the 
        Secretary.''.

SEC. 1126. NATIONAL SCIENCE FOUNDATION OCEAN ACIDIFICATION ACTIVITIES.

    Section 12407 of the Federal Ocean Acidification Research And 
Monitoring Act of 2009 (33 U.S.C. 3706) is amended--
            (1) by striking ``ocean acidification'' each place it 
        appears and inserting ``ocean acidification and coastal 
        acidification'';
            (2) in subsection (a)--
                    (A) in the matter preceding paragraph (1)--
                            (i) by striking ``continue'' and all that 
                        follows through ``which shall'';
                            (ii) by striking ``proposals for research'' 
                        and inserting ``proposals for the 
                        researching''; and
                            (iii) by striking ``its impacts'' and 
                        inserting ``their respective impacts'';
                    (B) in paragraph (1), by striking ``marine 
                ecosystems'' and inserting ``ecosystems'';
                    (C) in paragraph (2), by striking ``; and'' at the 
                end and inserting a semicolon;
                    (D) in paragraph (3)--
                            (i) by striking ``and its impacts'' and 
                        inserting ``and their respective impacts''; and
                            (ii) by striking the period at the end and 
                        inserting ``; and''; and
                    (E) by adding at the end the following new 
                paragraph:
            ``(4) adaptation and mitigation strategies to address 
        socioeconomic effects of ocean acidification and coastal 
        acidification.''; and
            (3) by adding at the end the following:
    ``(d) Requirement.--Recipients of grants from the National Science 
Foundation under this subtitle that collect data described under 
section 12406(d) shall--
            ``(1) collect data in accordance with the standards, 
        protocols, or procedures established pursuant to section 
        12406(e); and
            ``(2) submit such data to the Director and the Secretary, 
        in accordance with any rules promulgated by the Director or the 
        Secretary.''.

SEC. 1127. NATIONAL AERONAUTICS AND SPACE ADMINISTRATION OCEAN 
              ACIDIFICATION ACTIVITIES.

    Section 12408 of the Federal Ocean Acidification Research And 
Monitoring Act of 2009 (33 U.S.C. 3707) is amended--
            (1) by striking ``ocean acidification'' each place it 
        appears and inserting ``ocean acidification and coastal 
        acidification'';
            (2) in subsection (a), by striking ``its impacts'' and 
        inserting ``their respective impacts''; and
            (3) by adding at the end the following new subsection:
    ``(d) Requirement.--Researchers from the National Aeronautics and 
Space Administration under this subtitle that collect data described 
under section 12406(d) shall--
            ``(1) collect such data in accordance with the standards, 
        protocols, or procedures established pursuant to section 
        12406(e); and
            ``(2) submit such data to the Administrator and the 
        Secretary, in accordance with any rules promulgated by the 
        Administrator or the Secretary.''.

SEC. 1128. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.

    Section 12409 of the Federal Ocean Acidification Research And 
Monitoring Act of 2009 (33 U.S.C. 3708) is amended--
            (1) in subsection (a), by striking ``subtitle--'' and all 
        that follows through paragraph (4) and inserting the following: 
        ``subtitle $30.5 million for each of the fiscal years 2021 
        through 2025.''; and
            (2) in subsection (b), by striking ``subtitle--'' and all 
        that follows through paragraph (4) and inserting the following: 
        ``subtitle $20 million for each of the fiscal years 2021 
        through 2025.''.

             Subtitle D--South Florida Clean Coastal Waters

SEC. 1131. SOUTH FLORIDA HARMFUL ALGAL BLOOMS AND HYPOXIA ASSESSMENT 
              AND ACTION PLAN.

    (a) In General.--The Harmful Algal Bloom and Hypoxia Research and 
Control Act of 1998 (33 U.S.C. 4001 et seq.) is amended--
            (1) by redesignating sections 605 (33 U.S.C. 4005) through 
        609 (33 U.S.C. 4009) as sections 606 through 610, respectively; 
        and
            (2) by inserting after section 604 (33 U.S.C. 4004) the 
        following:

``SEC. 605. SOUTH FLORIDA HARMFUL ALGAL BLOOMS AND HYPOXIA.

    ``(a) South Florida.--In this section, the term `South Florida' 
means--
            ``(1) all lands and waters within the administrative 
        boundaries of the South Florida Water Management District;
            ``(2) regional coastal waters, including Biscayne Bay, the 
        Caloosahatchee Estuary, St. Lucie Estuary, Florida Bay, and 
        Indian River Lagoon; and
            ``(3) the Florida Reef Tract.
    ``(b) Integrated Assessment.--
            ``(1) Interim integrated assessment.--Not later than 540 
        days after the date of enactment of the Ocean-Based Climate 
        Solutions Act of 2020, the Task Force, in accordance with the 
        authority under section 603, shall complete and submit to 
        Congress and the President an interim integrated assessment.
            ``(2) Final integrated assessment.--Not later than 3 years 
        after the date of the enactment of the Ocean-Based Climate 
        Solutions Act of 2020, the Task Force shall finalize, and 
        submit to Congress and the President, the interim integrated 
        assessment required under paragraph (1).
            ``(3) Contents of the integrated assessment.--The 
        integrated assessment required under paragraphs (1) and (2) 
        shall examine the causes, consequences, and potential 
        approaches to reduction of harmful algal blooms and hypoxia in 
        South Florida, and the status of, and gaps within, current 
        harmful algal bloom and hypoxia research, monitoring, 
        management, prevention, response, and control activities that 
        directly affect the region by--
                    ``(A) Federal agencies;
                    ``(B) State agencies;
                    ``(C) regional research consortia;
                    ``(D) academia;
                    ``(E) private industry;
                    ``(F) nongovernmental organizations; and
                    ``(G) Indian Tribes (as defined in section 4 of the 
                Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act 
                (25 U.S.C. 5304)).
    ``(c) Action Plan.--
            ``(1) In general.--Not later than 3 years and 6 months 
        after the date of the enactment of the Ocean-Based Climate 
        Solutions Act of 2020, the Task Force shall develop and submit 
        to Congress an action plan, based on the integrated assessment 
        under subsection (b), for reducing, mitigating, and controlling 
        harmful algal blooms and hypoxia in South Florida.
            ``(2) Contents.--The action plan submitted under paragraph 
        (1) shall--
                    ``(A) address the monitoring needs identified in 
                the integrated assessment under subsection (b);
                    ``(B) include a timeline and budgetary requirements 
                for deployment of future assets;
                    ``(C) identify requirements for the development and 
                verification of South Florida harmful algal bloom and 
                hypoxia models, including--
                            ``(i) all assumptions built into the 
                        models; and
                            ``(ii) data quality methods used to ensure 
                        the best available data are utilized; and
                    ``(D) include a plan to implement a remote 
                monitoring network and early warning system for 
                alerting local communities in the region to harmful 
                algal bloom risks that may impact human health.
            ``(3) Requirements.--In developing the action plan 
        submitted under paragraph (1), the Task Force shall--
                    ``(A) consult with the State of Florida, and 
                affected local and Tribal governments;
                    ``(B) consult with representatives from regional 
                academic, agricultural, industry, and other stakeholder 
                groups;
                    ``(C) ensure that such plan complements and does 
                not duplicate activities conducted by other Federal or 
                State agencies, including the South Florida Ecosystem 
                Restoration Task Force;
                    ``(D) identify critical research for reducing, 
                mitigating, and controlling harmful algal bloom events 
                and their effects;
                    ``(E) evaluate cost-effective, incentive-based 
                partnership approaches;
                    ``(F) ensure that such plan is technically sound 
                and cost-effective;
                    ``(G) use existing research, assessments, reports, 
                and program activities; and
                    ``(H) publish a draft summary of the action plan 
                required by paragraph (1) in the Federal Register not 
                less than 180 days before submitting such plan to 
                Congress.
            ``(4) The Task Force shall submit, beginning 2 years after 
        the date on which the action plan required by paragraph (1) is 
        submitted to Congress, biennial progress reports on steps taken 
        to meet the objectives of such action plan to Congress.''.
    (b) Clerical Amendment and Correction.--The table of contents in 
section 2 of the Coast Guard Authorization Act of 1998 (Public Law 105-
383) is amended by striking the items relating to title VI and 
inserting the following new items:

              ``TITLE VI--HARMFUL ALGAL BLOOMS AND HYPOXIA

``Sec. 601. Short title.
``Sec. 602. Findings.
``Sec. 603. Assessments.
``Sec. 603A. National Harmful Algal Bloom and Hypoxia Program.
``Sec. 603B. Comprehensive research plan and action strategy.
``Sec. 604. Northern Gulf of Mexico hypoxia.
``Sec. 605. South Florida harmful algal blooms and hypoxia.
``Sec. 606. Great Lakes hypoxia and harmful algal blooms.
``Sec. 607. Protection of States' Rights.
``Sec. 608. Effect on other Federal authority.
``Sec. 609. Definitions.
``Sec. 610. Authorization of appropriations.''.

   Subtitle E--Protecting Local Communities From Harmful Algal Blooms

SEC. 1141. ALGAL BLOOMS.

    Section 102(2) of the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and 
Emergency Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5122) is amended by striking ``or 
drought'' and inserting ``drought, or algal blooms''.

         Subtitle F--Harmful Algal Bloom Essential Forecasting

SEC. 1151. DESIGNATING CERTAIN HARMFUL ALGAL BLOOM SERVICES AS EXCEPTED 
              SERVICES UNDER THE ANTI-DEFICIENCY ACT.

    (a) In General.--Section 603A of the Harmful Algal Bloom and 
Hypoxia Research and Control Act of 1998 (33 U.S.C. 4002) is amended by 
adding at the end the following subsection:
    ``(j) Anti-Deficiency Act Applied to Harmful Algal Bloom 
Services.--Any services by an officer or employee under this chapter, 
including web services and server processing, for the Harmful Algal 
Bloom forecast system of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric 
Administration shall be deemed, for purposes of section 1342 of title 
31, United States Code, services for emergencies involving the safety 
of human life or the protection of property.''.
    (b) Application.--The amendment made by subsection (a) shall apply 
to any lapse in appropriations beginning on or after the date of 
enactment of this Act.

SEC. 1152. CENTERS OF EXCELLENCE IN HARMFUL ALGAL BLOOM RESEARCH, 
              PREVENTION, RESPONSE, AND MITIGATION.

    (a) Establishment.--Not later than one year after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Commerce, acting through the 
Administrator of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, 
shall designate organizations as National Centers of Excellence in 
Harmful Algal Bloom Research, Prevention, Response, and Mitigation.
    (b) Purpose.--The purpose of the Centers is--
            (1) to further understanding of harmful algal blooms;
            (2) to further understanding of the impacts of harmful 
        algal blooms on public health, including the health of at-risk 
        populations;
            (3) to further the ability to research, forecast, and 
        monitor harmful algal blooms;
            (4) to formalize and enhance existing partnerships and 
        collaborations among institutions of higher education, research 
        entities, local, State, Territorial, and Tribal agencies, and 
        the Federal Government;
            (5) to further the prevention, control, and mitigation of 
        harmful algal blooms;
            (6) to transition harmful algal bloom research and 
        forecasting from observational to operational use; and
            (7) to address existing and emerging harmful algal bloom 
        issues as the Administrator considers appropriate.
    (c) Eligibility for Designations.--To be eligible for designation 
under this section, an organization must--
            (1) be an institution of higher education, as that term is 
        defined in section 101(a) of the Higher Education Act of 1965 
        (20 U.S.C. 1001(a)); a State, Territorial, or Tribal research 
        agency; a nonprofit laboratory or other research entity; or a 
        consortium of such eligible institutions;
            (2) have demonstrated expertise and success in harmful 
        algal bloom research, monitoring, forecasting, prevention, or 
        response efforts;
            (3) have demonstrated ability to collaborate with local, 
        State, Territorial, and Tribal governments and Federal agencies 
        on harmful algal blooms; and
            (4) be located in an area that is economically and 
        environmentally impacted by harmful algal blooms.
    (d) Requirements for Designations.--In designating National Centers 
of Excellence under this section the Administrator shall--
            (1) consult with the Inter-Agency Task Force on Harmful 
        Algal Blooms and Hypoxia;
            (2) ensure regional balance by designating National Centers 
        in a variety of locations throughout the United States, 
        including the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto 
        Rico, American Samoa, Guam, the Commonwealth of the Northern 
        Mariana Islands, the United States Virgin Islands, and other 
        Territories and possessions of the United States; and
            (3) avoid duplication of other harmful algal bloom 
        research.
    (e) Effective Period, Review, and Renewal.--Each designation of an 
organization as a National Center of Excellence under this section--
            (1) shall be effective for 5 years;
            (2) shall be reviewed by the Secretary, acting through the 
        Administrator of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric 
        Administration, in the fourth year of such effective period; 
        and
            (3) following such review, may be renewed for an additional 
        5-year period.
    (f) Annual Reports.--The Secretary shall require and publish an 
annual activity report from each National Center of Excellence.
    (g) Authorization of Appropriations.--To carry out this section, 
including for providing funding to National Centers of Excellence 
designated under this section, there is authorized to be appropriated 
to the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration $12,500,000 for 
each of fiscal years 2021 through 2025, of which not more than 5 
percent may be available each fiscal year for administrative expenses.

  TITLE XII--NATIONAL OCEAN POLICY, DATA, AND COORDINATED WEBSITE FOR 
                             GRANT PROGRAMS

                Subtitle A--Regional Ocean Partnerships

SEC. 1201. FINDINGS; SENSE OF CONGRESS; PURPOSES.

    (a) Findings.--Congress makes the following findings:
            (1) The ocean and coastal waters of the United States are 
        foundational to the economy, security, global competitiveness, 
        and well-being of the United States and continuously serve the 
        people of the United States and other countries as an important 
        source of food, energy, economic productivity, recreation, 
        culture, beauty, and enjoyment.
            (2) Over many years, the resource productivity and water 
        quality of the ocean and coastal areas of the United States 
        have been diminished by pollution, increasing population 
        demands, economic development, and natural and man-made hazard 
        events, both acute and chronic.
            (3) Ocean and coastal areas of the United States are 
        managed by State and Federal resource agencies and regulated on 
        an interstate and regional scale by various overlapping Federal 
        authorities, thereby creating a significant need for interstate 
        coordination to enhance regional priorities, including the 
        ecological and economic health of those areas.
            (4) Regional Ocean Partnerships, established by coastal 
        states working in close coordination with Federal agencies, 
        regional fisheries managers, and Tribal governments, help 
        coordinate interstate responses to critical ocean issues that 
        extend beyond individual State boundaries.
            (5) Regional Ocean Partnerships have improved understanding 
        of climate change's impact on fish and shellfish populations, 
        have invested in identifying indicators of ocean health and 
        addressing coastal mitigation, and have played leading roles in 
        the creation and upkeep of regional ocean data portals that 
        allow for improved understanding of ocean use synergies and 
        trade-offs.
            (6) Regional Ocean Partnerships engage in coordinated 
        efforts to protect and enhance the health of living resources 
        and engage the public in stewardship of ocean and coastal 
        areas.
            (7) The coordination offered by Regional Ocean Partnerships 
        is particularly critical in the era of climate change, with 
        coastal and ocean resources under threat and as demand for 
        offshore resources increases.
    (b) Purposes.--The purposes of this subtitle are as follows:
            (1) To complement and expand cooperative voluntary efforts 
        intended to manage and restore ocean and coastal areas spanning 
        across multiple State boundaries.
            (2) To expand Federal support for monitoring, data 
        management, and restoration activities in ocean and coastal 
        areas.
            (3) To commit the United States to a comprehensive 
        cooperative program to achieve improved water quality in, and 
        improvements in the productivity of living resources of, all 
        coastal ecosystems.
            (4) To authorize Regional Ocean Partnerships as 
        intergovernmental coordinators for shared interstate and 
        regional priorities relating to the collaborative management of 
        the large marine ecosystems, thereby reducing duplication of 
        efforts and maximizing opportunities to leverage support in the 
        ocean and coastal regions.
            (5) To enable Regional Ocean Partnerships, or designated 
        fiscal management entities of such partnerships, to receive 
        Federal funding to conduct the scientific research, 
        conservation and restoration activities, and priority 
        coordination on shared regional priorities necessary to achieve 
        the purposes described in paragraphs (1) through (4).

SEC. 1202. REGIONAL OCEAN PARTNERSHIPS.

    (a) Definitions.--In this subtitle:
            (1) Coastal state.--The term ``coastal state'' has the 
        meaning given that term in section 304 of the Coastal Zone 
        Management Act of 1972 (16 U.S.C. 1453).
            (2) Indian tribe.--The term ``Indian Tribe'' has the 
        meaning given to the term ``Indian tribe'' in section 4 of the 
        Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act (25 
        U.S.C. 5304).
    (b) Regional Ocean Partnerships.--
            (1) In general.--A coastal state may participate in a 
        Regional Ocean Partnership with 1 or more other coastal states 
        that share a common ocean or coastal area with the coastal 
        state, without regard to whether the coastal states are 
        contiguous.
            (2) Application.--The Governor of a coastal state or the 
        Governors of a group of coastal states may apply to the 
        Secretary of Commerce, on behalf of a partnership, for the 
        partnership to receive designation as a Regional Ocean 
        Partnership if the partnership--
                    (A) meets the requirements under paragraph (3); and
                    (B) submits an application for such designation in 
                such manner, in such form, and containing such 
                information as the Secretary may require.
            (3) Requirements.--A partnership is eligible for 
        designation as a Regional Ocean Partnership by the Secretary 
        under paragraph (2) if the partnership--
                    (A) is established to coordinate the interstate 
                management of coastal resources;
                    (B) focuses on the environmental issues affecting 
                the ocean and coastal areas of the members 
                participating in the partnership;
                    (C) complements existing State coastal and ocean 
                management efforts on an interstate scale, focusing on 
                shared regional priorities;
                    (D) does not have a regulatory function; and
                    (E) is not duplicative of an existing Regional 
                Ocean Partnership designated under paragraph (4), as 
                determined by the Secretary.
            (4) Designation of certain entities as regional ocean 
        partnerships.--Notwithstanding paragraph (2) or (3), the 
        following entities are designated as Regional Ocean 
        Partnerships:
                    (A) The Gulf of Mexico Alliance, comprised of the 
                States of Alabama, Florida, Louisiana, Mississippi, and 
                Texas.
                    (B) The Northeast Regional Ocean Council, comprised 
                of the States of Maine, Vermont, New Hampshire, 
                Massachusetts, Connecticut, and Rhode Island.
                    (C) The Mid-Atlantic Regional Council on the Ocean, 
                comprised of the States of New York, New Jersey, 
                Delaware, Maryland, and Virginia.
                    (D) The West Coast Ocean Alliance, comprised of the 
                States of California, Oregon, and Washington and the 
                coastal Indian Tribes therein.
    (c) Governing Bodies of Regional Ocean Partnerships.--
            (1) In general.--A Regional Ocean Partnership designated 
        under subsection (b) shall be governed by a governing body.
            (2) Membership.--A governing body described in paragraph 
        (1)--
                    (A) shall be comprised, at a minimum, of voting 
                members from each coastal state participating in the 
                Regional Ocean Partnership, designated by the Governor 
                of the coastal state; and
                    (B) may include such other members as the 
                partnership considers appropriate.
    (d) Functions.--A Regional Ocean Partnership designated under 
subsection (b) may perform the following functions:
            (1) Promote coordination of the actions of the agencies of 
        coastal states participating in the partnership with the 
        actions of the appropriate officials of Federal agencies and 
        State and Tribal governments in developing strategies--
                    (A) to conserve living resources, expand and 
                protect valuable habitats, enhance coastal resilience, 
                and address such other issues related to the shared 
                ocean or coastal area as are determined to be a shared, 
                regional priority by those States; and
                    (B) to manage regional data portals and develop 
                associated data products for purposes that support the 
                priorities of the partnership.
            (2) In cooperation with appropriate Federal and State 
        agencies, Tribal governments, and local authorities, develop 
        and implement specific action plans to carry out coordination 
        goals.
            (3) Coordinate and implement priority plans and projects, 
        and facilitate science, research, modeling, monitoring, data 
        collection, and other activities that support the goals of the 
        partnership through the provision of grants and contracts under 
        subsection (e).
            (4) Engage, coordinate, and collaborate with relevant 
        governmental entities and stakeholders to address ocean and 
        coastal related matters that require interagency or 
        intergovernmental solutions.
            (5) Implement engagement programs for public information, 
        education, and participation to foster stewardship of the 
        resources of the ocean and coastal areas, as relevant.
            (6) Develop and make available, through publications, 
        technical assistance, and other appropriate means, information 
        pertaining to cross-jurisdictional issues being addressed 
        through the coordinated activities of the partnership.
            (7) Serve as a liaison with, and provide information to, 
        international counterparts, as appropriate on priority issues 
        for the partnership.
    (e) Grants and Contracts.--
            (1) In general.--A Regional Ocean Partnership designated 
        under subsection (b) may, in coordination with existing Federal 
        and State management programs, from amounts made available to 
        the partnership by the Administrator or the head of another 
        Federal agency--
                    (A) provide grants to eligible persons described in 
                paragraph (2) for the purposes described in paragraph 
                (3); and
                    (B) enter into contracts with such persons for such 
                purposes.
            (2) Eligible persons.--The eligible persons described in 
        this paragraph are the following:
                    (A) Indian Tribes.
                    (B) State and local governments.
                    (C) Nongovernmental organizations.
                    (D) Institutions of higher education.
                    (E) Individuals.
                    (F) Private entities.
            (3) Purposes.--The purposes described in this paragraph 
        include any of the following:
                    (A) Monitoring the water quality and living 
                resources of multi-State ocean and coastal ecosystems 
                and to coastal communities.
                    (B) Researching and addressing the effects of 
                natural and human-induced environmental changes to--
                            (i) ocean and coastal ecosystems; and
                            (ii) coastal communities.
                    (C) Developing and executing cooperative strategies 
                that--
                            (i) address regional data issues identified 
                        by the partnership; and
                            (ii) will result in more effective 
                        management of common ocean and coastal areas.
    (f) Reports and Assessments.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 5 years after the date of 
        the enactment of this Act, and every 5 years thereafter until 
        2040, the Administrator, in coordination with the Regional 
        Ocean Partnerships designated under subsection (b), shall--
                    (A) assess the effectiveness of the partnerships in 
                supporting regional priorities relating to the 
                management of common ocean and coastal areas; and
                    (B) submit to Congress a report on that assessment.
            (2) Report requirements.--The report required under 
        paragraph (1)(B) shall include the following:
                    (A) An assessment of the overall status of the work 
                of the Regional Ocean Partnerships designated under 
                subsection (b).
                    (B) An assessment of the effectiveness of the 
                strategies that the Regional Ocean Partnerships are 
                supporting or implementing and the extent to which the 
                priority needs of the regions covered by such 
                partnerships are being met through such strategies.
                    (C) Such recommendations as the Administrator may 
                have for the improvement of efforts of the Regional 
                Ocean Partnerships to support the purposes of this Act.
                    (D) An assessment of how the efforts of the 
                Regional Ocean Partnerships support or enhance Federal 
                and State efforts in line with the purposes of this 
                Act.
                    (E) Recommendations for improvements to the 
                collective strategies that support the purposes of this 
                Act in coordination and consultation with all relevant 
                Federal, State, and Tribal entities.
    (g) Availability of Federal Funds.--In addition to amounts made 
available to Regional Ocean Partnerships designated under subsection 
(b) by the Administrator under this section, the head of any other 
Federal agency may provide grants to, enter into contracts with, or 
otherwise provide funding to such partnerships.
    (h) Authorities.--Nothing in this section establishes any new legal 
or regulatory authority of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric 
Administration or of the Regional Ocean Partnerships designated under 
subsection (b), other than--
            (1) the authority of the Administrator to provide amounts 
        to the partnerships; and
            (2) the authority of the partnerships to provide grants and 
        enter into contracts under subsection (e).
    (i) Funding.--
            (1) In general.--Of amounts authorized to be appropriated 
        to the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, the 
        Administrator may make the following amounts available to 
        Regional Ocean Partnerships designated under subsection (b) or 
        designated fiscal management entities of such partnerships to 
        carry out activities of the partnerships under this Act:
                    (A) $10,000,000 for fiscal year 2021.
                    (B) $10,100,000 for fiscal year 2022.
                    (C) $10,202,000 for fiscal year 2023.
                    (D) $10,306,040 for fiscal year 2024.
                    (E) $10,412,160 for fiscal year 2025.
                    (F) $10,520,404 for fiscal year 2026.
            (2) Distribution of amounts.--Amounts made available under 
        paragraph (1) shall be divided evenly among the Regional Ocean 
        Partnerships designated under subsection (b).
            (3) Availability of amounts.--Amounts made available under 
        paragraph (1) shall remain available until expended.

              Subtitle B--Data and Scientific Coordination

SEC. 1211. INCREASED COORDINATION AMONG AGENCIES WITH RESPECT TO DATA 
              AND MONITORING.

    (a) Interagency Ocean Observation Committee.--In addition to its 
responsibilities as of the date of the enactment of this Act, and in 
consultation with the associated advisory committee authorized by 
section 12304(d) of the Integrated Coastal and Ocean Observation System 
Act of 2009 (33 U.S.C. 3603(d)), the Interagency Ocean Observation 
Committee shall--
            (1) work with international coordinating bodies, as 
        necessary, to ensure robust, direct measurements of the Great 
        Lakes, oceans, bays, estuaries, and coasts, including 
        oceanographic data;
            (2) coordinate supercomputing capacity, data storage 
        capacity, and public access across agencies; and
            (3) support cross-agency and multi-platform synergy, by 
        coordinating overlapping data collection by satellites, buoys, 
        submarines, gliders, vessels, and other data collection 
        vehicles and technologies.
    (b) Federal Geographic Data Committee.--In addition to its 
responsibilities as of the date of the enactment of this Act, and in 
consultation with the National Geospatial Advisory Committee, the 
Federal Geographic Data Committee shall--
            (1) work with international coordinating bodies, as 
        necessary, to ensure robust, continuous measurements of the 
        Great Lakes, oceans, bays, estuaries, and coasts, including 
        satellite and geospatial data;
            (2) coordinate supercomputing capacity, data storage 
        capacity, and public access across agencies;
            (3) develop and deploy cross-agency, real-time, 
        standardized, centralized, archived, open-source, and publicly 
        available databases (using declassified information to the 
        extent possible) for all federally funded observational and 
        model data, using the example of the World Ocean Database; and
            (4) support new and old data and metadata certification, 
        quality assurance, quality control, integration, and archiving.
    (c) Interagency Committee on Ocean and Coastal Mapping.--In 
addition to its responsibilities as of the date of the enactment of 
this Act, and in consultation with its associated advisory panel 
authorized by section 12203(g) of the Ocean and Coastal Mapping 
Integration Act (33 U.S.C. 3502(g)), the Interagency Committee on Ocean 
and Coastal Mapping shall--
            (1) work with international coordinating bodies, as 
        necessary, to ensure robust, continuous satellite and direct 
        measurements of the Great Lakes, oceans, bays, estuaries, and 
        coasts, including bathymetric data;
            (2) coordinate supercomputing capacity, data storage 
        capacity, and public access across agencies;
            (3) make recommendations on how to make data, metadata, and 
        model output accessible to a broader public audience, including 
        through geographic information system layers, graphics, and 
        other visuals; and
            (4) develop and initiate a research agenda to improve 
        understanding of inundation risks to coastal areas as a result 
        of the climate crisis and to meet the information needs of 
        decision-makers as such decision-makers consider how to 
        appropriately adapt and increase resilience to such effects.

SEC. 1212. INTERAGENCY OCEAN EXPLORATION COMMITTEE.

    (a) Establishment.--The President shall establish a committee to 
promote the exploration and improved understanding of the oceans, to be 
known as the ``Interagency Ocean Exploration Committee''.
    (b) Membership.--The Interagency Ocean Exploration Committee shall 
be composed of not fewer than 1 senior-level representative from each 
of the following Federal agencies:
            (1) The Department of the Navy.
            (2) The Department of the Interior.
            (3) The Department of Commerce.
            (4) The Coast Guard.
            (5) The Office of Management and Budget.
            (6) The Council on Environmental Quality.
            (7) The Office of Science and Technology Policy.
            (8) The Department of State.
            (9) The National Science Foundation.
            (10) The National Aeronautics and Space Administration.
            (11) The Subcommittee on Ocean Science and Technology of 
        the National Science and Technology Council.
            (12) The elements of the intelligence community (as defined 
        in section 3 of the National Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 
        3003)), as the President considers appropriate.
    (c) Duties.--The Interagency Ocean Exploration Committee shall--
            (1) cultivate public-private partnerships, including with 
        Federal agencies, academic institutions, nongovernmental 
        organizations, technology companies, and international 
        partners, to develop and deploy advanced technologies to 
        explore and characterize the oceans; and
            (2) coordinate the application of existing innovative 
        technologies and development of emerging technologies to 
        promote the understanding, mapping, and collection of data 
        describing the oceans and the changes the oceans are 
        experiencing and are anticipated to experience in the future, 
        such as changes in temperature, salinity, oxygenation, and 
        acidity, and the biological consequences of those changes.

SEC. 1213. COMMITTEE ON OCEAN POLICY.

    (a) Establishment.--There is established in the Executive Office of 
the President a Committee on Ocean Policy, which--
            (1) succeeds the Ocean Policy Committee established on June 
        19, 2018, by Executive Order 13840 (83 Fed. Reg. 29431; 
        relating to ocean policy);
            (2) shall continue the activities of that committee as it 
        was in existence on the day before the date of the enactment of 
        this Act; and
            (3) shall carry out the functions described in subsection 
        (b).
    (b) Functions.--The Committee on Ocean Policy shall--
            (1) facilitate coordination and integration of Federal 
        activities in ocean and coastal waters to inform ocean policy 
        and identify priority ocean research, technology, and data 
        needs;
            (2) engage and collaborate with stakeholders, including 
        Regional Ocean Partnerships, to address ocean-related matters 
        that may require interagency or intergovernmental solutions;
            (3) evaluate threats to coastal communities from storm and 
        sea level rise and define, implement, and coordinate needed 
        policies and programs to advance national preparedness for and 
        resilience to more severe storms and rising sea levels; and
            (4) coordinate Federal agencies to ensure Federal 
        activities in ocean and coastal waters promote healthy 
        ecosystems for fisheries and wildlife conservation that are 
        resilient to the impacts of climate change and provide for 
        climate benefits.

SEC. 1214. BUILDING DATA SOURCES.

    (a) Engaging Indigenous, Subsistence, and Fishing Communities.--
            (1) In general.--The Administrator shall establish 
        opportunities to engage Indigenous, subsistence, and fishing 
        communities to understand the needs of those communities and to 
        provide improved products and services that are practical and 
        useful to those communities, including collecting and 
        integrating traditional ecological data and narrative records 
        into national and regional datasets.
            (2) Data rights.--In carrying out paragraph (1), the 
        Administrator shall--
                    (A) consider issues relating to data ownership; and
                    (B) ensure that Indigenous, subsistence, and 
                fishing communities retain any specific rights or 
                ownership of data provided to Federal agencies.
    (b) Report to Congress.--
            (1) Report required.--Not later than 1 year after the date 
        of the enactment of this Act, the Administrator shall submit to 
        Congress a report identifying potential opportunities to 
        encourage voluntary actions and partnerships between the 
        National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration and non-Federal 
        partners to increase and enhance data collection.
            (2) Opportunities for partnership.--The opportunities 
        described in paragraph (1) may include opportunities that can 
        be pursued in conjunction with Federal permits, leases, and 
        other actions requiring Federal approval or funding, such as 
        partnering with companies to acquire and share bathymetric data 
        or supplying fishermen with sensors that can collect data 
        through fishing gear.

SEC. 1215. NATIONAL SEA LEVEL RISE RISK ANALYSIS.

    (a) Purposes.--The Administrator shall establish a National Coastal 
Data Information System to--
            (1) combine existing observations, modeling, predictions, 
        products and services into an integrated framework for 
        producing and maintaining authoritative and timely data, maps 
        and information services which quantify and communicate coastal 
        flood risk to the States;
            (2) develop and strengthen partnerships with organizations 
        that represent end users within coastal communities, including 
        other Federal agencies, to better assess information gaps and 
        needs relating to the risk posed by the rising sea level; and
            (3) produce new information products and services, targeted 
        to end-user needs, that allow coastal communities across the 
        United States to plan for present and future coastal flood 
        risk.
    (b) Report.--The Administrator shall, not less than 180 days after 
the date of enactment of this section and every 3 years thereafter, 
provide the Committee on Natural Resources of the House of 
Representatives with a report containing holistic analysis of the need 
to expand observations, modeling, predictions, products and services 
to--
            (1) improve the understanding of changing coastal flood 
        risk, including the impacts of sea level rise; and
            (2) track and report how observed rates of sea level rise 
        compare to the sea level rise predictions published within the 
        National Climate Assessments.

                       Subtitle C--Digital Coast

SEC. 1221. DEFINITIONS.

    In this subtitle:
            (1) Coastal region.--The term ``coastal region'' means the 
        area of United States waters extending inland from the 
        shoreline to include coastal watersheds and seaward to the 
        territorial sea.
            (2) Coastal state.--The term ``coastal State'' has the 
        meaning given the term ``coastal state'' in section 304 of the 
        Coastal Zone Management Act of 1972 (16 U.S.C. 1453).
            (3) Federal geographic data committee.--The term ``Federal 
        Geographic Data Committee'' means the interagency committee 
        that promotes the coordinated development, use, sharing, and 
        dissemination of geospatial data on a national basis.
            (4) Remote sensing and other geospatial.--The term ``remote 
        sensing and other geospatial'' means collecting, storing, 
        retrieving, or disseminating graphical or digital data 
        depicting natural or manmade physical features, phenomena, or 
        boundaries of the Earth and any information related thereto, 
        including surveys, maps, charts, satellite and airborne remote 
        sensing data, images, LiDAR, and services performed by 
        professionals such as surveyors, photogrammetrists, 
        hydrographers, geodesists, cartographers, and other such 
        services.

SEC. 1222. ESTABLISHMENT OF THE DIGITAL COAST.

    (a) Establishment.--
            (1) In general.--The Administrator shall establish a 
        program for the provision of an enabling platform that 
        integrates geospatial data, decision-support tools, training, 
        and best practices to address coastal management issues and 
        needs. Under the program, the Administrator shall strive to 
        enhance resilient communities, ecosystem values, and coastal 
        economic growth and development by helping communities address 
        their issues, needs, and challenges through cost-effective and 
        participatory solutions.
            (2) Designation.--The program established under paragraph 
        (1) shall be known as the ``Digital Coast'' (in this section 
        referred to as the ``program'').
    (b) Program Requirements.--In carrying out the program, the 
Administrator shall ensure that the program provides data integration, 
tool development, training, documentation, dissemination, and archiving 
by--
            (1) making data and resulting integrated products developed 
        under this section readily accessible via the Digital Coast 
        internet website of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric 
        Administration, the GeoPlatform.gov and data.gov internet 
        websites, and such other information distribution technologies 
        as the Administrator considers appropriate;
            (2) developing decision-support tools that use and display 
        resulting integrated data and provide training on use of such 
        tools;
            (3) documenting such data to Federal Geographic Data 
        Committee standards; and
            (4) archiving all raw data acquired under this title at the 
        appropriate National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration 
        data center or such other Federal data center as the 
        Administrator considers appropriate.
    (c) Coordination.--The Administrator shall coordinate the 
activities carried out under the program to optimize data collection, 
sharing and integration, and to minimize duplication by--
            (1) consulting with coastal managers and decision-makers 
        concerning coastal issues, and sharing information and best 
        practices, as the Administrator considers appropriate, with--
                    (A) coastal States;
                    (B) local and Tribal governments; and
                    (C) representatives of academia, the private 
                sector, and nongovernmental organizations;
            (2) consulting with other Federal agencies, including 
        interagency committees, on relevant Federal activities, 
        including activities carried out under the Ocean and Coastal 
        Mapping Integration Act (33 U.S.C. 3501 et seq.), the Coastal 
        Zone Management Act of 1972 (16 U.S.C. 1451 et seq.), the 
        Integrated Coastal and Ocean Observation System Act of 2009 (33 
        U.S.C. 3601 et seq.), and the Hydrographic Services Improvement 
        Act of 1998 (33 U.S.C. 892 et seq.);
            (3) participating, pursuant to section 216 of the E-
        Government Act of 2002 (Public Law 107-347; 44 U.S.C. 3501 
        note), in the establishment of such standards and common 
        protocols as the Administrator considers necessary to assure 
        the interoperability of remote sensing and other geospatial 
        data with all users of such information within--
                    (A) the National Oceanic and Atmospheric 
                Administration;
                    (B) other Federal agencies;
                    (C) State, Tribal, and local governments; and
                    (D) the private sector;
            (4) coordinating with, seeking assistance and cooperation 
        of, and providing liaison to the Federal Geographic Data 
        Committee pursuant to Office of Management and Budget Circular 
        A-16 and Executive Order No. 12906 of April 11, 1994 (59 Fed. 
        Reg. 17671), as amended by Executive Order No. 13286 of 
        February 28, 2003 (68 Fed. Reg. 10619); and
            (5) developing and maintaining a best practices document 
        that sets out the best practices used by the Administrator in 
        carrying out the program and providing such document to the 
        United States Geological Survey, the Corps of Engineers, and 
        other relevant Federal agencies.
    (d) Filling Needs and Gaps.--In carrying out the program, the 
Administrator shall--
            (1) maximize the use of remote sensing and other geospatial 
        data collection activities conducted for other purposes and 
        under other authorities;
            (2) focus on filling data needs and gaps necessary to 
        improve coastal management, increase resilience, and enhance 
        decision making for coastal communities, including with respect 
        to areas that, as of the date of enactment of this Act, were 
        underserved by coastal data and the areas of the Arctic that 
        are under the jurisdiction of the United States;
            (3) pursuant to the Ocean and Coastal Mapping Integration 
        Act (33 U.S.C. 3501 et seq.), support continued improvement in 
        existing efforts to coordinate the acquisition and integration 
        of key data sets needed for coastal management and other 
        purposes, including--
                    (A) coastal elevation data;
                    (B) land use and land cover data;
                    (C) socioeconomic and human use data;
                    (D) critical infrastructure data;
                    (E) structures data;
                    (F) living resources and habitat data;
                    (G) cadastral data; and
                    (H) aerial imagery; and
            (4) integrate the priority supporting data set forth under 
        paragraph (3) with other available data for the benefit of the 
        broadest measure of coastal resource management constituents 
        and applications.
    (e) Financial Agreements and Contracts.--
            (1) In general.--In carrying out the program, the 
        Administrator--
                    (A) may enter into financial agreements to carry 
                out the program, including--
                            (i) support to non-Federal entities that 
                        participate in implementing the program; and
                            (ii) grants, cooperative agreements, 
                        interagency agreements, contracts, or any other 
                        agreement on a reimbursable or non-reimbursable 
                        basis, with other Federal, Tribal, State, and 
                        local governmental and nongovernmental 
                        entities; and
                    (B) may, to the maximum extent practicable, enter 
                into such contracts with private sector entities for 
                such products and services as the Administrator 
                determines may be necessary to collect, process, and 
                provide remote sensing and other geospatial data and 
                products for purposes of the program.
            (2) Fees.--
                    (A) Assessment and collection.--The Administrator 
                may assess and collect fees to conduct any planned 
                training, workshop, or conference that advances the 
                purposes of the program.
                    (B) Amounts.--The amount of a fee under this 
                paragraph may not exceed the sum of costs incurred, or 
                expected to be incurred, by the Administrator as a 
                direct result of the conduct of the training, workshop, 
                or conference, including for subsistence expenses 
                incidental to the training, workshop, or conference, as 
                applicable.
                    (C) Use of fees.--Amounts collected by the 
                Administrator in the form of fees under this paragraph 
                may be used to pay for--
                            (i) the costs incurred for conducting an 
                        activity described in subparagraph (A); or
                            (ii) the expenses described in subparagraph 
                        (B).
            (3) Survey and mapping.--Contracts entered into under 
        paragraph (1)(B) shall be considered ``surveying and mapping'' 
        services as such term is used in and as such contracts are 
        awarded by the Administrator in accordance with the selection 
        procedures in chapter 11 of title 40, United States Code.
    (f) Ocean Economy.--The Administrator may establish publicly 
available tools that track ocean and Great Lakes economy data for each 
coastal State.

      Subtitle D--Integrated Coastal and Ocean Observation System

SEC. 1241. STAGGERED TERMS FOR NATIONAL INTEGRATED COASTAL AND OCEAN 
              OBSERVATION SYSTEM ADVISORY COMMITTEE.

    Section 12304(d)(3)(B) of the Integrated Coastal and Ocean 
Observation System Act of 2009 (33 U.S.C. 3603(d)(3)(B)) is amended--
            (1) by striking ``Members'' and inserting the following:
                            ``(i) In general.--Except as provided in 
                        clause (ii), members''; and
            (2) by adding at the end the following:
                            ``(ii) Staggered terms.--The Administrator 
                        may appoint or reappoint a member for a partial 
                        term of 1 or 2 years in order to establish a 
                        system of staggered terms. The Administrator 
                        may appoint or reappoint a member under this 
                        clause only once. A member appointed or 
                        reappointed to a partial term under this clause 
                        may not serve more than 1 full term.''.

SEC. 1242. INTEGRATED COASTAL AND OCEAN OBSERVATION SYSTEM COOPERATIVE 
              AGREEMENTS.

    Section 12305(a) of the Integrated Coastal and Ocean Observation 
System Act of 2009 (33 U.S.C. 3604(a)) is amended by inserting 
``disburse appropriated funds to,'' after ``agreements, with,''.

SEC. 1243. REAUTHORIZATION OF INTEGRATED COASTAL AND OCEAN OBSERVATION 
              SYSTEM ACT OF 2009.

    Section 12311 of the Integrated Coastal and Ocean Observation 
System Act of 2009 (33 U.S.C. 3610) is amended by striking ``for fiscal 
years 2009 through 2013 such sums as are necessary'' and inserting 
``$47,500,000 for each of fiscal years 2021 through 2025''.

SEC. 1244. ADVANCED RESEARCH PROJECTS AGENCY-OCEANS.

    (a) Agreement.--Not later than 45 days after the date of the 
enactment of this section, the Administrator shall seek to enter into 
an agreement with the National Academy of Sciences to conduct the 
comprehensive assessment under subsection (b).
    (b) Comprehensive Assessment.--
            (1) In general.--Under an agreement between the 
        Administrator and the National Academy of Sciences under this 
        section, the National Academy of Sciences shall conduct a 
        comprehensive assessment of the need for and feasibility of 
        establishing an Advanced Research Projects Agency-Oceans (ARPA-
        O).
            (2) Elements.--The comprehensive assessment carried out 
        pursuant to paragraph (1) shall include--
                    (A) an assessment of how an ARPA-O could help 
                overcome the long-term and high-risk technological 
                barriers in the development of ocean technologies, with 
                the goal of enhancing the economic, ecological, and 
                national security of the United States through the 
                rapid development of technologies that result in--
                            (i) improved data collection, monitoring, 
                        and prediction of the ocean environment, 
                        including sea ice conditions;
                            (ii) overcoming barriers to the application 
                        of new and improved technologies, such as high 
                        costs and scale of operational missions;
                            (iii) improved management practices for 
                        protecting ecological sustainability;
                            (iv) improved national security capacity;
                            (v) improved technology for fishery 
                        population assessments;
                            (vi) expedited processes between and among 
                        Federal agencies to successfully identify, 
                        transition, and coordinate research and 
                        development output to operations, applications, 
                        commercialization, and other uses; and
                            (vii) ensuring that the United States 
                        maintains a technological lead in developing 
                        and deploying advanced ocean technologies;
                    (B) an evaluation of the organizational structures 
                under which an ARPA-O could be organized, which takes 
                into account--
                            (i) best practices for new research 
                        programs;
                            (ii) metrics and approaches for periodic 
                        program evaluation;
                            (iii) capacity to fund and manage external 
                        research awards; and
                            (iv) options for oversight of the activity 
                        through a Federal agency, an interagency 
                        organization, nongovernmental organization, or 
                        other institutional arrangement; and
                    (C) an estimation of the scale of investment 
                necessary to pursue high priority ocean technology 
                projects.
    (c) Report.--Not later than 18 months after the date of enactment 
of this section, the Administrator shall submit to Congress a report on 
the comprehensive assessment conducted under subsection (b).

         Subtitle E--Centralized Website for Resiliency Grants

SEC. 1251. CENTRALIZED WEBSITE FOR RESILIENCY GRANTS.

    (a) Centralized Website.--Not later than 6 months after the date of 
enactment of this subsection, the Administrator shall maintain a 
publicly available website that includes--
            (1) hyperlinks to all grants administered by the National 
        Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration and hyperlinks to other 
        Federal agencies that offer similar grants to assist States and 
        local communities with resiliency, adaptation, and mitigation 
        of climate change and sea level rise; and
            (2) with respect to each such grant, the contact 
        information for an individual who can offer assistance to 
        States and local government.
    (b) Outreach.--The Administrator shall conduct outreach activities 
to inform State, Tribal, and local governments of the resiliency, 
adaptation, and mitigation grants.

                          TITLE XIII--WETLANDS

                      Subtitle A--Coastal Wetlands

SEC. 1301. DEFINITIONS.

    In this subtitle:
            (1) Coastal wetland.--The term ``coastal wetland'' means 
        estuarine vegetated coastal habitat, including salt marsh, 
        seagrass, mangrove, and other vegetated marine habitats.
            (2) Indian tribe.--The term ``Indian Tribe'' has the 
        meaning given the term ``Indian tribe'' in section 4 of the 
        Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act (25 
        U.S.C. 5304).
            (3) Natural infrastructure.--The term ``natural 
        infrastructure'' means infrastructure that--
                    (A) uses, restores, or emulates natural ecological 
                processes; and
                    (B)(i) is created through the action of natural 
                physical, geological, biological, and chemical 
                processes over time;
                    (ii) is created by human design, engineering, and 
                construction to emulate or act in concert with natural 
                processes; or
                    (iii) involves the use of plants, soils, and other 
                natural features, including through the creation, 
                restoration, or preservation of vegetated areas using 
                materials appropriate to the region to manage 
                stormwater and runoff, to attenuate flooding and storm 
                surges, and for other related purposes.
            (4) Nonprofit organization.--The term ``nonprofit 
        organization'' means an organization that is described in 
        section 501(c) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 and exempt 
        from tax under section 501(a) of such Code.
            (5) Program.--The term ``Program'' means the Coastal and 
        Estuary Resilience Grant Program as established by section 
        1302.
            (6) Restoration.--The term ``restoration'' means renewing, 
        enhancing, or replacing degraded, damaged, vulnerable, or 
        destroyed wetlands to improve the long-term ecosystem function 
        and resilience through active human intervention and action, 
        such as--
                    (A) improving hydrological conditions (such as by 
                removing tidal barriers, improving connectivity, or 
                changing water levels);
                    (B) altering sediment supply (such as through the 
                beneficial use of dredge material, thin-layer spraying, 
                or reconnecting river sediment);
                    (C) changing salinity characteristics;
                    (D) improving water quality (such as by reducing 
                excess nutrients, sedimentation, or contaminants);
                    (E) planting of native plants, removal of invasive 
                species, and other improved management practices;
                    (F) controlling erosion of wetland edges; and
                    (G) enabling future inland migration as sea levels 
                rise, including through the enhancement of adjacent 
                fresh-water wetlands.

SEC. 1302. COASTAL AND ESTUARY RESILIENCE GRANT PROGRAM.

    (a) Establishment.--The Administrator shall establish a program, to 
be known as the ``Coastal and Estuary Resilience Grant Program'', under 
which the Secretary awards grants to entities that are eligible under 
subsection (b) to fund coastal wetland restoration and natural 
infrastructure projects that are eligible under subsection (c).
    (b) Eligible Entities.--An entity is eligible to apply for a grant 
under the Program if the entity is an institution of higher education, 
a nonprofit organization, a State or local government, or an Indian 
Tribe.
    (c) Eligible Projects.--A project is eligible for a grant under the 
Program if the project is designed to--
            (1) reduce net greenhouse gases through--
                    (A) the long-term sequestration of additional 
                carbon dioxide through--
                            (i) the active restoration of degraded 
                        coastal wetland; and
                            (ii) the protection of threatened coastal 
                        wetland;
                    (B) the halting of ongoing carbon dioxide 
                emissions, and the resumption of the natural rate of 
                carbon capture, through the restoration of drained 
                coastal wetland; or
                    (C) the halting of ongoing methane emissions, and 
                the resumption of the natural rate of carbon storage, 
                through the restoration of formerly tidal wetland that 
                has lost tidal connectivity and become fresh wetland 
                (commonly known as ``impounded wetland''); or
            (2) provide for ecosystem adaptation to the effects of sea 
        level rise and other climate effects through--
                    (A) facilitating landward migration of wetlands in 
                response to rising sea levels; or
                    (B) enhancing ecosystem resilience to flooding, 
                ocean acidification, or coastal storms.
    (d) Grant Evaluation Criteria.--In reviewing applications for 
grants under the Program, the Administrator shall give priority to 
projects that exhibit the highest potential to--
            (1) mitigate greenhouse gas emissions long-term by--
                    (A) reducing greenhouse gas emissions; or
                    (B) capturing and storing greenhouse gases;
            (2) reinforce ecosystem resilience and adaptation by--
                    (A) preparing for sea level rise in order to reduce 
                vulnerability to sea level rise and erosion;
                    (B) supporting resilience against flooding and sea 
                level rise; or
                    (C) restoring or enhancing ecosystem function; or
            (3) provide economic and social co-benefits by--
                    (A) reducing the potential impact and damage of 
                storms on the built environment;
                    (B) advancing environmental justice by reducing the 
                disproportionate impacts of environmental hazards on 
                communities of color, Indigenous communities, and low-
                income communities;
                    (C) providing jobs in coastal communities;
                    (D) prioritizing natural infrastructure;
                    (E) incorporating collaborative partnerships; or
                    (F) involving local communities in project planning 
                and implementation.
    (e) Eligible Costs.--A grant awarded under the Program shall be 
available for all phases of the development, implementation, and 
monitoring of projects that are eligible under subsection (c), 
including--
            (1) preliminary community engagement, planning, and 
        prioritization;
            (2) preliminary design and site assessment, including--
                    (A) assessments of feasibility;
                    (B) planning; and
                    (C) community engagement;
            (3) final design and permitting;
            (4) restoration and project implementation; and
            (5) monitoring, reporting, and stewardship.
    (f) Reporting.--
            (1) In general.--An entity that receives a grant under the 
        Program for a project shall--
                    (A) collect data on the development and 
                implementation of the project and stewardship following 
                completion of the project; and
                    (B) submit that data to the Administrator for 
                inclusion in the database required by section 1303(a).
            (2) Report after project completion.--Not later than 1 year 
        after the completion of a project for which a grant is provided 
        under the Program, the entity that received the grant shall 
        submit to the Administrator a report on the outputs, outcomes, 
        and impacts of the project, including with respect to--
                    (A) the amount of area restored;
                    (B) the estimated net climate benefit;
                    (C) benefits to nearby communities; and
                    (D) involvement of partners and communities.
    (g) Monitoring.--The Administrator shall establish guidelines 
providing for monitoring a project for which a grant is provided under 
the Program for the 10-year period after the grant is awarded.
    (h) Role of National Fish and Wildlife Foundation.--In carrying out 
the Program, the Administrator may consult, partner, or otherwise 
coordinate with the National Fish and Wildlife Foundation established 
by section 2(a) of the National Fish and Wildlife Foundation 
Establishment Act (16 U.S.C. 3701(a)).

SEC. 1303. DATA COLLECTION.

    (a) Database.--
            (1) In general.--The Administrator shall maintain a coastal 
        wetland restoration database to collect information about 
        projects that receive grants under the Program.
            (2) Design.--The Administrator shall design the database 
        required by paragraph (1) to collect performance metrics on the 
        development and implementation of projects that receive grants 
        under the Program and stewardship following completion of such 
        projects to evaluate the success of those projects and inform 
        the design of future projects in an adaptive manner.
            (3) Included metrics.--The database required by paragraph 
        (1) shall include standardized metrics for reporting such as--
                    (A) acres restored, protected, or created;
                    (B) habitat type;
                    (C) restoration technique;
                    (D) estimated net greenhouse gas reduction effect;
                    (E) jobs created;
                    (F) quantified ecosystem services;
                    (G) the economic benefits of wetlands; and
                    (H) other metrics selected by the Administrator.
            (4) Public availability.--The Administrator shall make 
        products of the database publicly available and disseminate 
        important findings to the public.
    (b) Inventory of Coastal Wetland.--The Administrator shall compile 
an inventory of coastal wetland.

SEC. 1304. OUTREACH AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE.

    The Administrator shall establish a technical assistance program to 
help entities outside of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric 
Administration in all phases of coastal wetland restoration project 
work, including outreach to potential applicants for grants under 
section 1302.

SEC. 1305. ANNUAL RESTORATION AND FUNDING.

    (a) Acreage Requirements.--To the maximum extent practicable, the 
Secretary of Commerce shall award grants under the Program to conduct 
coastal wetland restoration on 1,500,000 acres over 10 years.
    (b) Funding.--For each of fiscal years 2021-2025, there is 
authorized to be appropriated $200,000,000 to remain available until 
expended for the Administrator to carry out this subtitle.

SEC. 1306. PREVAILING WAGE REQUIREMENT.

    Any contractor or subcontractor entering into a service contract in 
connection with a project under the Program shall--
            (1) be treated as a Federal contractor or subcontractor for 
        purposes of chapter 67 of title 41, United States Code 
        (commonly known as the ``McNamara-O'Hara Service Contract Act 
        of 1965''); and
            (2) pay each class of employee employed by the contractor 
        or subcontractor wages and fringe benefits at rates in 
        accordance with prevailing rates for the class in the locality, 
        or, where a collective-bargaining agreement covers the 
        employee, in accordance with the rates provided for in the 
        agreement, including prospective wage increases provided for in 
        the agreement.

SEC. 1307. DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR COASTAL WETLAND RESTORATION; 
              FUNDING.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary of the Interior shall conduct 
coastal wetland restoration on land managed by the Director of the 
United States Fish and Wildlife Service or the Director of the National 
Park Service to achieve at least 1 of the following:
            (1) The sequestration of additional carbon dioxide 
        through--
                    (A) the active restoration of degraded coastal 
                wetland; and
                    (B) the protection of threatened coastal wetland.
            (2) The halting of ongoing carbon dioxide emissions, and 
        the resumption of the natural rate of carbon capture, through 
        the restoration of drained coastal wetland.
            (3) The halting of ongoing methane emissions, and the 
        resumption of the natural rate of carbon storage, through the 
        restoration of formerly tidal wetland that has lost tidal 
        connectivity and become fresh wetland (commonly known as 
        ``impounded wetland'').
    (b) Funding.--
            (1) In general.--For each fiscal year, there is authorized 
        to be appropriated--
                    (A) for coastal wetland restoration on land managed 
                by the Director of the United States Fish and Wildlife 
                Service $200,000,000; and
                    (B) for coastal wetland restoration on land managed 
                by the Director of the National Park Service 
                $200,000,000.
            (2) Receipt and acceptance.--The Secretary of the Interior 
        shall be entitled to receive, shall accept, and shall use to 
        carry out this section in accordance with paragraph (1) the 
        funds transferred under that paragraph, without further 
        appropriation.

 TITLE XIV--MEASURES TO ADDRESS GREENHOUSE GAS POLLUTION FROM SHIPPING 
                                VESSELS

SEC. 1401. GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS FROM SHIPPING.

    (a) Application.--The monitoring, reporting, and verification 
requirements of this section shall apply to all vessels of 5,000 gross 
tons or more calling at, leaving, or transiting between, or at berth 
at, ports in the United States, regardless of flag.
    (b) Vessel Reporting.--A vessel shall measure and monitor on a per-
voyage basis, and report to the Administrator and to the vessel's flag-
State on an annual basis, the following metrics:
            (1) Total CO2 emitted by the vessel inside the United 
        States exclusive economic zone.
            (2) Average CO2 emissions per transport work, defined as 
        gCO2/tonne-nautical mile, and average CO2 emissions per 
        distance, defined as gCO2/nautical-mile.
    (c) Acceptable Methods for Measuring, Monitoring, and Reporting.--
            (1) The Secretary shall develop a list of acceptable 
        methods for measuring, monitoring, and reporting metrics listed 
        in subsection (b).
            (2) The Secretary, to the maximum extent practicable, shall 
        ensure consistency of such methods with similar reporting 
        schemes developed by the European Union and the International 
        Maritime Organization to reduce any duplicative burden on 
        shippers.
            (3) Acceptable methods included in the list could include 
        the following:
                    (A) Bunker Delivery Note (BDN) and periodic 
                stocktakes of fuel tanks.
                    (B) Bunker fuel tank monitoring on board.
                    (C) Flowmeters for applicable combustion processes.
                    (D) Direct CO2 emissions measurements.
    (d) Annual Report by Secretary.--The Secretary shall publish an 
annual report on emissions from vessels covered under this section, 
accompanied by an explanation intended to facilitate public 
understanding of the vessel shipping sector's CO2 emissions and energy 
efficiency.
    (e) Regulations.--Before promulgation of regulations under this 
section, reports issued under this section shall be reviewed to ensure 
that regulatory changes will not create the risk of increased CO2 
emissions.

SEC. 1402. QUIET SEAS AND CLEAR SKIES VESSEL SPEED REDUCTION AWARD 
              PROGRAM.

    (a) Findings.--The Congress finds the following:
            (1) 49 marine mammal species are considered depleted under 
        the Marine Mammal Protection Act of 1972, and of those species, 
        42 are listed as threatened or endangered under the Endangered 
        Species Act of 1973.
            (2) Climate change is altering marine mammal migration 
        routes and timing.
            (3) Hundreds of threatened and endangered marine mammals, 
        including North Atlantic right whales and blue whales, die from 
        vessel strikes each year.
            (4) Underwater noise generated by vessels has increased 
        significantly since 1950, impeding foraging, breeding, 
        communication, and other behaviors of marine animals, including 
        of threatened species and endangered species.
            (5) Slower ship speeds reduce the lethality of vessel 
        strikes on marine life, moderate underwater noise, and provide 
        climate benefits through reduced fuel consumption and lower 
        particulate emissions.
            (6) In 2019, the Vessel Speed Reduction Program in the 
        Santa Barbara Channel region and the San Francisco Bay region 
        saved over 17,000 metric tons of greenhouse gas emissions, with 
        349 vessels from 15 different companies slowing their speeds 
        for over 99,000 nautical miles.
    (b) In General.--Not later than 12 months after the date of 
enactment of this Act, the Administrator shall establish the Quiet Seas 
and Clear Skies Program (in this section referred to as the 
``Program'') to--
            (1) reduce air pollution, harmful underwater vessel noise, 
        and the risk of fatal marine mammal ship strikes by encouraging 
        voluntary reduction in the speed of eligible vessels operating 
        within the Exclusive Economic Zone of the United States; and
            (2) annually award Quiet Seas and Clear Skies Excellence 
        Awards under subsection (d) for verified successful 
        participation in, and compliance with, the Program by shipping 
        companies.
    (c) Program Requirements.--The Administrator shall develop and 
publish in the Federal Register requirements for voluntary 
participation in the Program by eligible shipping companies, including 
the following:
            (1) Program area.--Geographic areas covered by the Program 
        shall include all waters of the United States Exclusive 
        Economic Zone, except for areas specified in section 802 of 
        this Act.
            (2) Fleet requirement.--At least 75 percent of eligible 
        vessels owned by a shipping company must participate and be in 
        compliance with paragraph (3) in order to be eligible for an 
        Award under subsection (d).
            (3) Speed limits.--The Administrator shall, based upon the 
        best available scientific information and meaningful 
        consultation with the Commandant of the Coast Guard, shipping 
        companies, and experts in air quality and marine mammal 
        conservation, prescribe maximum speeds by engine tier for 
        eligible vessels participating in the Program, except when 
        directed by the Coast Guard to proceed in excess of the speed 
        requirements of the Program for safety purposes, that would--
                    (A) obtain a significant reduction in greenhouse 
                gas and particulate pollution emissions from shipping 
                vessels;
                    (B) protect marine life; and
                    (C) reduce ocean noise.
            (4) Certification.--The Administrator shall establish 
        protocols for shipping companies to certify compliance with the 
        Program requirement to be eligible for an Award under 
        subsection (d).
    (d) Annual Awards.--Under the Program, the Director shall annually 
award Quiet Seas and Clear Skies Excellence Awards to shipping 
companies whose fleets that have participated in, and complied with the 
requirements of, the Program during the preceding year.
    (e) Official Seal.--The Administrator shall create an official seal 
to be recognized as the symbol of excellence in compliance with the 
Program, that--
            (1) may be used by shipping companies with eligible vessels 
        for which a Quiet Seas and Clear Skies Excellence Award is 
        awarded under this section;
            (2) includes the name of the shipping company; and
            (3) includes the year for which such Award was made.
    (f) Limitations.--Nothing in this section shall be construed to--
            (1) require participation in the Program; or
            (2) authorize any action that affects navigation safety.
    (g) Definition of Eligible Vessel.--In this section, the term 
``eligible vessel'' means a vessel greater than or equal to 65 feet in 
overall length.
    (h) Authorization of Appropriations.--To carry out this section 
there is authorized to be appropriated to the Administrator to carry 
out this section $4,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2021 through 2025.

                     TITLE XV--STUDIES AND REPORTS

SEC. 1501. DEEP SEA MINING.

    Not later than 90 days after the date of enactment of this Act, the 
Administrator shall seek to enter into an agreement with the National 
Academies to conduct a comprehensive assessment and approximate 
quantification of the greenhouse gas emissions associated with deep 
seabed mining, including emissions possible from the release of 
greenhouse gases sequestered in the seabed.

SEC. 1502. NATIONAL ACADEMIES ASSESSMENT OF OCEANIC BLUE CARBON.

    Not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, 
the Administrator shall seek to enter into an agreement with the 
National Academies to conduct a comprehensive assessment of oceanic 
blue carbon, including--
            (1) the impacts of marine species decline on carbon 
        sequestration potential in ocean ecosystems, an estimate of the 
        global carbon dioxide mitigation potential of protecting or 
        recovering populations of fish and marine mammals, and the 
        ecological considerations of such conservation strategies;
            (2) an analysis of the geologic stores of carbon in the 
        deep seafloor environment, including current and potential 
        natural long-term carbon storage, identification of gaps in 
        scientific understanding regarding such geologic carbon 
        storage; and
            (3) the potential impacts to oceanic blue carbon storage by 
        human activities including energy development activities, deep 
        sea mining, deep sea carbon capture technology, and other 
        disturbances to the sea floor.

SEC. 1503. OCEAN CLIMATE IMPACTS AND ACTION REPORT.

    (a) Report.--Not later than 1 year after the date of enactment of 
this Act, and annually thereafter, the National Oceanic and Atmospheric 
Administration, in coordination with all other relevant agencies, shall 
submit to Congress a report on the impacts of climate change on the 
ocean and on coastal ecosystems and the steps the United States is 
taking to minimize such impacts. Such report shall include consolidated 
data from all line offices in the National Oceanic and Atmospheric 
Administration, and from other relevant Federal agencies and sources.
    (b) Impacts.--The report required by subsection (a) shall include 
baseline information as well as trends, in a format that can be 
compared from year to year, on ocean and coastal impacts including--
            (1) changes and the rate of change of pH levels and acidity 
        in the coastal and ocean waters of the United States;
            (2) average sea surface temperatures in the United States 
        exclusive economic zone;
            (3) average sea floor temperatures in the United States 
        exclusive economic zone;
            (4) average sea level rise;
            (5) number and duration of marine heat waves occurring in 
        the United States exclusive economic zone;
            (6) number, duration, location, and the attributable cause 
        of harmful algal blooms occurring in the coastal and ocean 
        waters of the United States;
            (7) number, duration, size and location of hypoxic zones 
        occurring in the coastal and ocean waters of the United States;
            (8) number and location of coral bleaching events in the 
        United States exclusive economic zone;
            (9) estimates of coral cover loss in the United States 
        exclusive economic zone;
            (10) number, location, and severity of hurricanes impacting 
        the United States;
            (11) number, location, and duration of coastal flooding 
        events;
            (12) changes in coastal land cover and other ecosystem 
        changes as a result of inundation, erosion, storms, and sea 
        level rise; and
            (13) changes in marine species abundance and distribution 
        as a result of ocean warming, acidification, and other impacts 
        of climate change.

SEC. 1504. REPORT ON THE ECOLOGICAL AND ECONOMIC EFFECTS OF HIGH SEAS 
              FISHING IN THE OCEAN AREAS BEYOND NATIONAL JURISDICTION 
              (``ABNJ'').

    (a) In General.--Not later than 1 year after the date of enactment 
of this Act, the Administrator, in coordination with the Secretary of 
State, shall seek to enter into an agreement with the National 
Academies under which the National Academies shall--
            (1) study the challenges and opportunities associated with 
        implementing a global moratorium on high seas commercial 
        fishing;
            (2) evaluate the ecological, social, and economic effects 
        of a global moratorium on high seas commercial fishing;
            (3) estimate the scope and volume of illegal, unregulated, 
        and unreported (IUU) fishing occurring on the high seas 
        fishing;
            (4) evaluate the percentage of United States seafood 
        imports originating from High Seas fishing, from both legally 
        reported and IUU fishing; and
            (5) evaluate the greenhouse gas emissions associated with 
        the high seas fishing and high seas fishing fleets.
    (b) Elements.--The study and evaluation conducted pursuant to the 
agreement entered into under subsection (a) shall address--
            (1) the feasibility of implementing a global moratorium on 
        high seas commercial fishing, including--
                    (A) legal authorities that exist under the United 
                Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea and other 
                implementation instruments to implement a moratorium on 
                high seas commercial fishing;
                    (B) the nations and vessels likely to refuse or 
                otherwise fail to comply with such a moratorium, 
                including estimates of catch levels by those nations 
                and vessels relative to overall international catch; 
                and
                    (C) available enforcement mechanisms and 
                surveillance technology that could be used to enforce 
                such a moratorium; and
            (2) the range of effects that would be expected to result 
        from a moratorium on high seas commercial fishing, including--
                    (A) identification of fish stocks that would be 
                affected, changes in exploitation of those stocks, and 
                net effect on the biomass of those stocks;
                    (B) ecosystem effects on non-target species, 
                including marketable and non-marketable bycatch, forage 
                species, corals, other invertebrates, marine mammals, 
                and sea turtles;
                    (C) changes in global carbon emissions from reduced 
                fishing vessel transits and from increased fish carbon 
                capture and improved high seas ecosystem functioning;
                    (D) amounts of subsidies that support high seas 
                commercial fishing by the top 12 nations that currently 
                conduct high seas fishing by volume;
                    (E) effects on global fisheries revenues and 
                profits overall and the effects on fisheries revenues 
                and profits for developing nations;
                    (F) effects on seafood availability for United 
                States consumers;
                    (G) effects on revenues and profits for domestic 
                fishermen; and
                    (H) effects on the scope and volume of IUU fishing 
                occurring on the high seas.
    (c) Report.--
            (1) In general.--The agreement entered into under 
        subsection (a) shall require the National Academies to submit 
        to the Secretary of Commerce, not later than 2 years after 
        entering into the agreement, a report that describes the 
        results of the study and evaluation conducted pursuant to the 
        agreement.
            (2) Public availability.--The Secretary of commerce shall 
        publish the report received under paragraph (1) on a public 
        website.

SEC. 1505. NATIONAL ACADEMIES ASSESSMENT OF PUBLIC ACCESS TO THE 
              COASTS.

    Not later than 90 days after the date of enactment of this Act, the 
Administrator shall seek to enter into an agreement with the National 
Academies to conduct a comprehensive assessment on public access to the 
Nation's coasts, including the Great Lakes' coasts. The assessment 
shall include--
            (1) an analysis of the existing quantity and quality of 
        public access points to the coasts by state, including both 
        recreational and commercial (``working waterfront'') access;
            (2) opportunities and barriers faced by low income 
        communities, communities of color, Tribal communities, 
        Indigenous communities, and rural communities for access to the 
        coasts;
            (3) the likely impact of sea level rise and extreme weather 
        on public access points to and access along the coasts; and
            (4) Federal mechanisms for preventing the loss of access, 
        for mitigating such loss when it occurs, and for increasing the 
        quantity, quality, and affordability of public access to the 
        coasts for both recreational and commercial activities.

SEC. 1506. STUDY EXAMINING THE IMPACT OF OCEAN ACIDIFICATION AND OTHER 
              ENVIRONMENTAL STRESSORS ON ESTUARINE ENVIRONMENTS.

    (a) In General.--Not later than 90 days after the date of enactment 
of this Act, the Administrator shall make appropriate arrangements with 
the National Academies under which the National Academies shall conduct 
a study that--
            (1) examines the existing science of ocean acidification in 
        coastal environments;
            (2) examines the challenges to studying ocean acidification 
        and the combined effect of ocean acidification and other 
        environment stressors in coastal environments;
            (3) provides recommendations for improving future research 
        with respect to ocean acidification in coastal environments; 
        and
            (4) identifies pathways for applying science in management 
        and mitigation decisions relating to ocean acidification in 
        coastal environments.
    (b) Contents of Study.--The study conducted under subsection (a) 
shall include--
            (1) the behavior of the carbonate system within coastal 
        environments;
            (2) the interactions of the carbonate system with other 
        biotic and abiotic characteristics of coastal ecosystems;
            (3) how environmental and anthropogenic changes or 
        disturbances, such as nutrient runoff and water pollution, 
        could affect abiotic and biotic processes within coastal 
        ecosystems;
            (4) how coastal biotic and abiotic processes will be 
        affected under predicted environmental changes;
            (5) the current state of data collection, interpretation, 
        storage, and retrieval and observational infrastructure of 
        abiotic and biotic parameters in coastal ecosystems;
            (6) the gaps that exist in understanding the socio-economic 
        and health impacts of ocean acidification in coastal 
        ecosystems;
            (7) future directions for scientific research; and
            (8) pathways for applying science in management and 
        mitigation decisions.
    (c) Report.--Not later than 24 months after the date of enactment 
of this Act, in entering into an arrangement under subsection (a), the 
Secretary shall request that the National Academies submit to Congress 
a report detailing the findings of the study.
                                 &lt;all&gt;
</pre></body></html>
