<html><body><pre>
[Congressional Bills 110th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[S. 2834 Introduced in Senate (IS)]







110th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                S. 2834

To establish wilderness areas, promote conservation, and improve public 
        land in Washington County, Utah, and for other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                   IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

                             April 9, 2008

Mr. Bennett (for himself and Mr. Hatch) introduced the following bill; 
   which was read twice and referred to the Committee on Energy and 
                           Natural Resources

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
To establish wilderness areas, promote conservation, and improve public 
        land in Washington County, Utah, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE; TABLE OF CONTENTS.

    (a) Short Title.--This Act may be cited as the ``Washington County 
Growth and Conservation Act of 2008''.
    (b) Table of Contents.--The table of contents for this Act is as 
follows:

Sec. 1. Short title; table of contents.
Sec. 2. Definitions.
                       TITLE I--WILDERNESS AREAS

Sec. 101. Additions to National Wilderness Preservation System.
Sec. 102. Administration of wilderness areas.
Sec. 103. Release of wilderness study areas.
                TITLE II--ZION NATIONAL PARK WILDERNESS

Sec. 201. Definitions.
Sec. 202. Zion National Park wilderness.
            TITLE III--RED CLIFFS NATIONAL CONSERVATION AREA

Sec. 301. Short title.
Sec. 302. Red Cliffs National Conservation Area.
          TITLE IV--BEAVER DAM WASH NATIONAL CONSERVATION AREA

Sec. 401. Short title.
Sec. 402. Beaver Dam Wash National Conservation Area.
               TITLE V--WILD AND SCENIC RIVER DESIGNATION

Sec. 501. Zion National Park Wild and Scenic Rivers.
           TITLE VI--WASHINGTON COUNTY TRAVEL MANAGEMENT PLAN

Sec. 601. Definitions.
Sec. 602. Travel management plan.
Sec. 603. Designation of trail.
                        TITLE VII--LAND DISPOSAL

Sec. 701. Definitions.
Sec. 702. Conveyance of public land in County.
Sec. 703. Disposition of proceeds.
                       TITLE VIII--RIGHTS-OF-WAY

Sec. 801. Definition of Water District.
Sec. 802. Rights-of-way.
           TITLE IX--MANAGEMENT OF PRIORITY BIOLOGICAL AREAS

Sec. 901. Management of priority biological areas.
           TITLE X--CONVEYANCE OF DIXIE NATIONAL FOREST LAND

Sec. 1001. Definitions.
Sec. 1002. Conveyance.
               TITLE XI--AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS

Sec. 1101. Authorization of appropriations.

SEC. 2. DEFINITIONS.

    In this Act:
            (1) Canaan mountain wilderness map.--The term ``Canaan 
        Mountain Wilderness Map'' means the map entitled ``Canaan 
        Mountain Wilderness'' and dated March 20, 2008.
            (2) County.--The term ``County'' means Washington County, 
        Utah.
            (3) Northeastern washington county wilderness map.--The 
        term ``Northeastern Washington County Wilderness Map'' means 
        the map entitled ``Northeastern Washington County Wilderness'' 
        and dated March 20, 2008.
            (4) Northwestern washington county wilderness map.--The 
        term ``Northwestern Washington County Wilderness Map'' means 
        the map entitled ``Northwestern Washington County Wilderness'' 
        and dated March 20, 2008.
            (5) Red cliffs national conservation area map.--The term 
        ``Red Cliffs National Conservation Area Map'' means the map 
        entitled ``Red Cliffs National Conservation Area'' and dated 
        March 20, 2008.
            (6) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary 
        of the Interior.
            (7) State.--The term ``State'' means the State of Utah.
            (8) Washington county growth and conservation act map.--The 
        term ``Washington County Growth and Conservation Act Map'' 
        means the map entitled ``Washington County Growth and 
        Conservation Act Map'' and dated April 9, 2008.

                       TITLE I--WILDERNESS AREAS

SEC. 101. ADDITIONS TO NATIONAL WILDERNESS PRESERVATION SYSTEM.

    (a) Additions.--The following land in the State is designated as 
wilderness and as components of the National Wilderness Preservation 
System:
            (1) Beartrap canyon.--Certain Federal land managed by the 
        Bureau of Land Management, comprising approximately 40 acres, 
        as generally depicted on the Northeastern Washington County 
        Wilderness Map, which shall be known as the ``Beartrap Canyon 
        Wilderness''.
            (2) Blackridge.--Certain Federal land managed by the Bureau 
        of Land Management, comprising approximately 13,120 acres, as 
        generally depicted on the Northeastern Washington County 
        Wilderness Map, which shall be known as the ``Blackridge 
        Wilderness''.
            (3) Canaan mountain.--Certain Federal land in the County 
        managed by the Bureau of Land Management, comprising 
        approximately 44,395 acres, as generally depicted on the Canaan 
        Mountain Wilderness Map, which shall be known as the ``Canaan 
        Mountain Wilderness''.
            (4) Cottonwood.--Certain Federal land managed by the Bureau 
        of Land Management, comprising approximately 11,650 acres, as 
        generally depicted on the Red Cliffs National Conservation Area 
        Map, which shall be known as the ``Cottonwood Wilderness''.
            (5) Cottonwood forest.--Certain Federal land managed by the 
        Forest Service, comprising approximately 2,643 acres, as 
        generally depicted on the Red Cliffs National Conservation Area 
        Map, which shall be known as the ``Cottonwood Forest 
        Wilderness''.
            (6) Cougar canyon.--Certain Federal land managed by the 
        Bureau of Land Management, comprising approximately 10,409 
        acres, as generally depicted on the Northwestern Washington 
        County Wilderness Map, which shall be known as the ``Cougar 
        Canyon Wilderness''.
            (7) Deep creek.--Certain Federal land managed by the Bureau 
        of Land Management, comprising approximately 3,284 acres, as 
        generally depicted on the Northeastern Washington County 
        Wilderness Map, which shall be known as the ``Deep Creek 
        Wilderness''.
            (8) Deep creek north.--Certain Federal land managed by the 
        Bureau of Land Management, comprising approximately 4,262 
        acres, as generally depicted on the Northeastern Washington 
        County Wilderness Map, which shall be known as the ``Deep Creek 
        North Wilderness''.
            (9) Doc's pass.--Certain Federal land managed by the Bureau 
        of Land Management, comprising approximately 17,294 acres, as 
        generally depicted on the Northwestern Washington County 
        Wilderness Map, which shall be known as the ``Doc's Pass 
        Wilderness''.
            (10) Dry creek.--Certain Federal land managed by the Bureau 
        of Land Management, comprising approximately 8,149 acres, as 
        generally depicted on the Northeastern Washington County 
        Wilderness Map, which shall be known as the ``Dry Creek 
        Wilderness''.
            (11) Goose creek.--Certain Federal land managed by the 
        Bureau of Land Management, comprising approximately 98 acres, 
        as generally depicted on the Northeastern Washington County 
        Wilderness Map, which shall be known as the ``Goose Creek 
        Wilderness''.
            (12) Laverkin creek.--Certain Federal land managed by the 
        Bureau of Land Management, comprising approximately 445 acres, 
        as generally depicted on the Northeastern Washington County 
        Wilderness Map, which shall be known as the ``LaVerkin Creek 
        Wilderness''.
            (13) Red butte.--Certain Federal land managed by the Bureau 
        of Land Management, comprising approximately 1,537 acres, as 
        generally depicted on the Northeastern Washington County 
        Wilderness Map, which shall be known as the ``Red Butte 
        Wilderness''.
            (14) Red mountain.--Certain Federal land managed by the 
        Bureau of Land Management, comprising approximately 18,729 
        acres, as generally depicted on the Red Cliffs National 
        Conservation Area Map, which shall be known as the ``Red 
        Mountain Wilderness''.
            (15) Slaughter creek.--Certain Federal land managed by the 
        Bureau of Land Management, comprising approximately 3,901 
        acres, as generally depicted on the Northwestern Washington 
        County Wilderness Map, which shall be known as the ``Slaughter 
        Creek Wilderness''.
            (16) Taylor creek.--Certain Federal land managed by the 
        Bureau of Land Management, comprising approximately 32 acres, 
        as generally depicted on the Northeastern Washington County 
        Wilderness Map, which shall be known as the ``Taylor Creek 
        Wilderness''.
            (17) Watchman.--Certain Federal land managed by the Bureau 
        of Land Management, comprising approximately 663 acres, as 
        generally depicted on the Northeastern Washington County 
        Wilderness Map, which shall be known as the ``Watchman 
        Wilderness''.
    (b) Maps and Legal Descriptions.--
            (1) In general.--As soon as practicable after the date of 
        enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall submit to the 
        Committee on Energy and Natural Resources of the Senate and the 
        Committee on Natural Resources of the House of Representatives 
        a map and legal description of each wilderness area designated 
        by subsection (a).
            (2) Force and effect.--Each map and legal description 
        submitted under paragraph (1) shall have the same force and 
        effect as if included in this Act, except that the Secretary 
        may correct any clerical or typographical errors in the map or 
        legal description.
            (3) Availability.--Each map and legal description submitted 
        under paragraph (1) shall be available in the appropriate 
        offices of--
                    (A) the Bureau of Land Management; and
                    (B) the Forest Service.
    (c) Boundary.--The boundary of any portion of a wilderness area 
designated by subsection (a) that is bordered by a road shall be at 
least 100 feet from the center line of the road to allow public access.

SEC. 102. ADMINISTRATION OF WILDERNESS AREAS.

    (a) Management.--Subject to valid existing rights, each area 
designated as wilderness by section 101(a) shall be administered by the 
Secretary in accordance with the Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1131 et 
seq.), except that--
            (1) any reference in that Act to the effective date shall 
        be considered to be a reference to the date of enactment of 
        this Act; and
            (2) any reference in that Act to the Secretary of 
        Agriculture shall be considered to be a reference to the 
        Secretary with respect to land under the jurisdiction of the 
        Secretary.
    (b) Withdrawal.--Subject to valid existing rights, each area 
designated as wilderness by section 101(a) is withdrawn from--
            (1) all forms of entry, appropriation, or disposal under 
        the public land laws;
            (2) location, entry, and patenting under the mining laws; 
        and
            (3) operation of the mineral leasing, mineral materials, 
        and geothermal leasing laws.
    (c) Livestock.--The grazing of livestock in each area designated as 
wilderness by section 101(a), where established before the date of 
enactment of this Act, shall be permitted to continue--
            (1) subject to such reasonable regulations, policies, and 
        practices that the Secretary considers necessary; and
            (2) consistent with--
                    (A) section 4(d)(4) of the Wilderness Act (16 
                U.S.C. 1133(d)(4)); and
                    (B) the guidelines set forth in Appendix A of House 
                Report 101-405.
    (d) Wildfire, Insect, and Disease Management.--In accordance with 
section 4(d)(1) of the Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1133(d)(1)), the 
Secretary may take such measures in each area designated as wilderness 
by section 101(a) as the Secretary determines to be necessary for the 
control and prevention of fire, insects, and diseases (including 
coordination of initiatives with any State or local agency that the 
Secretary determines to be appropriate).
    (e) Buffer Zones.--
            (1) In general.--Nothing in this title creates a protective 
        perimeter or buffer zone around any area designated as 
        wilderness by section 101(a).
            (2) Activities outside conservation area or wilderness.--
        The fact that an activity or use on land outside any area 
        designated as wilderness by section 101(a) can be seen or heard 
        within the wilderness shall not preclude the activity or use 
        outside the boundary of the wilderness.
    (f) Military Overflights.--Nothing in this title restricts or 
precludes--
            (1) low-level overflights of military aircraft over any 
        area designated as wilderness by section 101(a), including 
        military overflights that can be seen or heard within any 
        wilderness area;
            (2) flight testing and evaluation; or
            (3) the designation or creation of new units of special use 
        airspace, or the establishment of military flight training 
        routes over any wilderness area.
    (g) Acquisition and Incorporation of Land and Interests in Land.--
            (1) Acquisition authority.--In accordance with applicable 
        laws (including regulations), the Secretary may acquire from 
        willing sellers, or through a voluntary donation or exchange, 
        any land or interest in land that is located in any area 
        designated as wilderness by section 101(a).
            (2) Incorporation.--Any land or interest in land acquired 
        by the Secretary under paragraph (1) shall be incorporated 
        into, and administered as a part of, the wilderness area in 
        which the land or interest in land is located.
    (h) Native American Cultural and Religious Uses.--Nothing in this 
title diminishes--
            (1) the rights of any Indian tribe; or
            (2) any tribal rights regarding access to Federal land for 
        tribal activities, including spiritual, cultural, and 
        traditional food-gathering activities.
    (i) Climatological Data Collection.--Consistent with the Wilderness 
Act (16 U.S.C. 1131 et seq.), subject to such terms and conditions as 
the Secretary may prescribe, nothing in this title precludes the 
Secretary from authorizing the installation and maintenance of 
hydrologic, meteorologic, or climatological collection devices in the 
wilderness areas designated by section 101(a) if the Secretary 
determines that the facilities and access to the facilities are 
essential to flood warning, flood control, or water reservoir operation 
activities.
    (j) Water Rights.--
            (1) Statutory construction.--Nothing in this title--
                    (A) shall constitute or be construed to constitute 
                either an express or implied reservation by the United 
                States of any water or water rights with respect to the 
                land designated as wilderness by section 101(a);
                    (B) shall affect any water rights in the State 
                existing on the date of enactment of this Act, 
                including any water rights held by the United States;
                    (C) shall be construed as establishing a precedent 
                with regard to any future wilderness designations;
                    (D) shall affect the interpretation of, or any 
                designation made pursuant to, any other Act; or
                    (E) shall be construed as limiting, altering, 
                modifying, or amending any of the interstate compacts 
                or equitable apportionment decrees that apportion water 
                among and between the State and other States.
            (2) State water law.--The Secretary shall follow the 
        procedural and substantive requirements of the law of the State 
        in order to obtain and hold any water rights not in existence 
        on the date of enactment of this Act with respect to the 
        wilderness areas designated by section 101(a).
    (k) Fish and Wildlife.--
            (1) Jurisdiction of state.--Nothing in this title affects 
        the jurisdiction of the State with respect to fish and wildlife 
        on public land located in the State.
            (2) Authority of secretary.--In furtherance of the purposes 
        and principles of the management activities under the 
        Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1131 et seq.), the Secretary may 
        carry out management activities to maintain or restore fish and 
        wildlife populations (including activities to maintain and 
        restore fish and wildlife habitats to support the populations) 
        in any wilderness area designated by section 101(a) if the 
        activities are--
                    (A) consistent with applicable wilderness 
                management plans; and
                    (B) carried out in accordance with--
                            (i) the Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1131 et 
                        seq.); and
                            (ii) applicable guidelines and policies, 
                        including applicable policies described in 
                        Appendix B of House Report 101-405, including 
                        the occasional and temporary use of motorized 
                        vehicles if the Secretary determines that the 
                        use would--
                                    (I) promote healthy, viable, and 
                                more naturally distributed wildlife 
                                populations that would enhance 
                                wilderness values; and
                                    (II) ensure the accomplishment of 
                                the goals described in subclause (I) 
                                with a minimal necessary degree of 
                                impact to the wilderness.
    (l) Use of Aircraft by State.--Consistent with section 4(d)(1) of 
the Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1133(d)(1)) and in accordance with 
appropriate policies such as those set forth in Appendix B of House 
Report 101-405, the State may use aircraft, including helicopters, to 
survey, capture, transplant, monitor, and provide water for wildlife 
populations.
    (m) Wildlife Water Development Projects.--Subject to subsection 
(n), the Secretary may authorize structures and facilities, including 
existing structures and facilities, for wildlife water development 
projects, including guzzlers, in the wilderness areas designated by 
section 101(a) if--
            (1) the structures and facilities will, as determined by 
        the Secretary, enhance wilderness values by promoting healthy, 
        viable, and more naturally distributed wildlife populations; 
        and
            (2) the visual impacts of the structures and facilities on 
        the wilderness areas can reasonably be minimized.
    (n) Cooperative Agreement.--Not later than 1 year after the date of 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall enter into a cooperative 
agreement with the State that specifies the terms and conditions under 
which the State or a designee of the State may carry out wildlife 
management activities in the wilderness areas designated by section 
101(a).

SEC. 103. RELEASE OF WILDERNESS STUDY AREAS.

    (a) Finding.--Congress finds that, for the purposes of section 603 
of the Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1782), 
any public land in the County administered by the Bureau of Land 
Management has been adequately studied for wilderness designation.
    (b) Release.--Any public land described in subsection (a) that is 
not designated as wilderness by section 101(a)--
            (1) is no longer subject to section 603(c) of the Federal 
        Land Policy and Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1782(c)); and
            (2) shall be managed in accordance with land management 
        plans adopted under section 202 of that Act (43 U.S.C. 1712).

                TITLE II--ZION NATIONAL PARK WILDERNESS

SEC. 201. DEFINITIONS.

    In this title:
            (1) Federal land.--The term ``Federal land'' means the 
        parcel of land--
                    (A) that is--
                            (i) located in the County; and
                            (ii) managed by the Director of the 
                        National Park Service;
                    (B) consisting of approximately 123,743 acres; and
                    (C) as generally depicted on the Zion National Park 
                Wilderness Map.
            (2) Wilderness area.--The term ``Wilderness Area'' means 
        the Zion Wilderness designated by section 202(a).
            (3) Zion national park wilderness map.--The term ``Zion 
        National Park Wilderness Map'' means the map entitled ``Zion 
        National Park Wilderness'' and dated April 2008.

SEC. 202. ZION NATIONAL PARK WILDERNESS.

    (a) Designation.--Subject to valid existing rights, there is 
designated as wilderness and as a component of the National Wilderness 
Preservation System the Federal land, to be known as the ``Zion 
Wilderness''.
    (b) Incorporation of Acquired Land.--Any land located in the Zion 
National Park that is acquired by the Director of the National Park 
Service through a voluntary sale, exchange, or donation may, on the 
recommendation of the Secretary, become part of the Wilderness Area, in 
accordance with the Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1131 et seq.).
    (c) Map and Legal Description.--
            (1) In general.--As soon as practicable after the date of 
        enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall submit to the 
        Committee on Energy and Natural Resources of the Senate and the 
        Committee on Natural Resources of the House of Representatives 
        a map and legal description of the Wilderness Area.
            (2) Force and effect.--The map and legal description 
        submitted under paragraph (1) shall have the same force and 
        effect as if included in this Act, except that the Secretary 
        may correct any clerical or typographical errors in the map or 
        legal description.
            (3) Availability.--The map and legal description submitted 
        under paragraph (1) shall be available in the appropriate 
        offices of the National Park Service.

            TITLE III--RED CLIFFS NATIONAL CONSERVATION AREA

SEC. 301. SHORT TITLE.

    This title may be cited as the ``Red Cliffs National Conservation 
Area Act''.

SEC. 302. RED CLIFFS NATIONAL CONSERVATION AREA.

    (a) Purposes.--The purposes of this title are--
            (1) to conserve, protect, and enhance for the benefit and 
        enjoyment of future generations the ecological, wildlife, 
        recreational, cultural, historical, natural, educational, and 
        paleontological resources of the National Conservation Area; 
        and
            (2) to protect each species that is--
                    (A) located in the National Conservation Area; and
                    (B) listed as an endangered species on the list of 
                endangered species published under section 4(c)(1) of 
                the Endangered Species Act of 1973 (16 U.S.C. 
                1533(c)(1)).
    (b) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Habitat conservation plan.--The term ``habitat 
        conservation plan'' means the conservation plan entitled 
        ``Washington County Habitat Conservation Plan'' and dated 
        December 1995.
            (2) Management plan.--The term ``management plan'' means 
        the management plan for the National Conservation Area 
        developed by the Secretary under subsection (d)(1).
            (3) National conservation area.--The term ``National 
        Conservation Area'' means the Red Cliffs National Conservation 
        Area that--
                    (A) consists of approximately 44,695 acres of 
                public land in the County, as generally depicted on the 
                Red Cliffs National Conservation Area Map; and
                    (B) is established by subsection (c).
            (4) Public use plan.--The term ``public use plan'' means 
        the use plan entitled ``Red Cliffs Desert Public Use Plan'' and 
        dated June 12, 2000.
            (5) Resource management plan.--The term ``resource 
        management plan'' means the management plan entitled ``St. 
        George Field Office Resource Management Plan'' and dated March 
        15, 1999.
    (c) Establishment.--Subject to valid existing rights, there is 
established in the State the Red Cliffs National Conservation Area.
    (d) Management Plan.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 3 years after the date of 
        enactment of this Act, in accordance with paragraph (2), the 
        Secretary shall develop a comprehensive plan for the long-term 
        management of the National Conservation Area.
            (2) Consultation.--In developing the management plan 
        required under paragraph (1), the Secretary shall consult 
        with--
                    (A) appropriate State and local governmental 
                entities; and
                    (B) members of the public.
            (3) Incorporation of plans.--In developing the management 
        plan required under paragraph (1), to the extent consistent 
        with this title, the Secretary may incorporate any provision 
        of--
                    (A) the habitat conservation plan;
                    (B) the resource management plan; and
                    (C) the public use plan.
    (e) Management.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary shall manage the National 
        Conservation Area--
                    (A) in a manner that conserves, protects, and 
                enhances the resources of the National Conservation 
                Area; and
                    (B) in accordance with--
                            (i) the Federal Land Policy and Management 
                        Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.);
                            (ii) this title; and
                            (iii) any other applicable law (including 
                        regulations).
            (2) Uses.--The Secretary shall only allow uses of the 
        National Conservation Area that the Secretary determines would 
        further a purpose described in subsection (a).
            (3) Motorized vehicles.--Except in cases in which motorized 
        vehicles are needed for administrative purposes, or to respond 
        to an emergency, the use of motorized vehicles in the National 
        Conservation Area shall be permitted only on roads designated 
        by the management plan for the use of motorized vehicles.
            (4) Grazing.--The Secretary shall allow grazing to continue 
        in any area of the National Conservation Area in which grazing 
        is allowed before the date of enactment of this Act--
                    (A) subject to any--
                            (i) applicable law (including regulations); 
                        and
                            (ii) Executive order; and
                    (B) in a manner consistent with the purposes 
                described in subsection (a).
            (5) Wildland fire operations.--Nothing in this title 
        prohibits the Secretary, in cooperation with other Federal, 
        State, and local agencies, as appropriate, from conducting 
        wildland fire operations in the National Conservation Area.
    (f) Incorporation of Acquired Land and Interests.--Any land or 
interest in land that is located in the National Conservation Area that 
is acquired by the United States shall--
            (1) become part of the National Conservation Area; and
            (2) be managed in accordance with--
                    (A) the Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 
                1976 (43 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.);
                    (B) this title; and
                    (C) any other applicable law (including 
                regulations).
    (g) Withdrawal.--
            (1) In general.--Subject to valid existing rights, all 
        Federal land located in the National Conservation Area are 
        withdrawn from--
                    (A) all forms of entry, appropriation, or disposal 
                under the public land laws;
                    (B) location, entry, and patenting under the mining 
                laws; and
                    (C) operation of the mineral leasing, mineral 
                materials, and geothermal leasing laws.
            (2) Additional land.--If the Secretary acquires additional 
        land that is located in the National Conservation Area after 
        the date of enactment of this Act, the land is withdrawn from 
        operation of the laws referred to in paragraph (1) on the date 
        of acquisition of the land.
    (h) Effect.--Nothing in this title prohibits the authorization of 
the development of water resources within the National Conservation 
Area if the development is carried out in accordance with--
            (1) each utility development protocol described in the 
        habitat conservation plan; and
            (2) any other applicable law (including regulations).

          TITLE IV--BEAVER DAM WASH NATIONAL CONSERVATION AREA

SEC. 401. SHORT TITLE.

    This title may be cited as the ``Beaver Dam Wash National 
Conservation Area Act''.

SEC. 402. BEAVER DAM WASH NATIONAL CONSERVATION AREA.

    (a) Purpose.--The purpose of this title is to conserve, protect, 
and enhance for the benefit and enjoyment of future generations the 
cultural, archaeological, natural, scientific, geological, historical, 
biological, wildlife, educational, recreational, and scenic resources 
of the Beaver Dam Wash National Conservation Area.
    (b) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Management plan.--The term ``management plan'' means 
        the management plan for the National Conservation Area 
        developed by the Secretary under subsection (d)(1).
            (2) Map.--The term ``map'' means the map entitled ``Beaver 
        Dam Wash National Conservation Area'' and dated March 20, 2008.
            (3) National conservation area.--The term ``National 
        Conservation Area'' means the Beaver Dam Wash National 
        Conservation Area that--
                    (A) consists of approximately 68,083 acres of 
                public land in the County, as generally depicted on the 
                map; and
                    (B) is established by subsection (c).
    (c) Establishment.--Subject to valid existing rights, there is 
established in the State the Beaver Dam Wash National Conservation 
Area.
    (d) Management Plan.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 3 years after the date of 
        enactment of this Act, in accordance with paragraph (2), the 
        Secretary shall develop a comprehensive plan for the long-term 
        management of the National Conservation Area.
            (2) Consultation.--In developing the management plan 
        required under paragraph (1), the Secretary shall consult 
        with--
                    (A) appropriate State and local governmental 
                entities; and
                    (B) members of the public.
    (e) Management.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary shall manage the National 
        Conservation Area--
                    (A) in a manner that conserves, protects, and 
                enhances the resources of the National Conservation 
                Area; and
                    (B) in accordance with--
                            (i) the Federal Land Policy and Management 
                        Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.);
                            (ii) this title; and
                            (iii) any other applicable law (including 
                        regulations).
            (2) Uses.--The Secretary shall only allow uses of the 
        National Conservation Area that the Secretary determines would 
        further the purpose described in subsection (a).
            (3) Motorized vehicles.--Except in cases in which motorized 
        vehicles are needed for administrative purposes, or to respond 
        to an emergency, the use of motorized vehicles in the National 
        Conservation Area shall be permitted only on roads designated 
        by the management plan for the use of motorized vehicles.
            (4) Grazing.--The Secretary shall allow grazing to continue 
        in any area of the National Conservation Area in which grazing 
        is allowed before the date of enactment of this Act--
                    (A) subject to any--
                            (i) applicable law (including regulations); 
                        and
                            (ii) Executive order; and
                    (B) in a manner consistent with the purpose 
                described in subsection (a).
            (5) Wildland fire operations.--Nothing in this title 
        prohibits the Secretary, in cooperation with other Federal, 
        State, and local agencies, as appropriate, from conducting 
        wildland fire operations in the National Conservation Area.
    (f) Incorporation of Acquired Land and Interests.--Any land or 
interest in land that is located in the National Conservation Area that 
is acquired by the United States shall--
            (1) become part of the National Conservation Area; and
            (2) be managed in accordance with--
                    (A) the Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 
                1976 (43 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.);
                    (B) this title; and
                    (C) any other applicable law (including 
                regulations).
    (g) Withdrawal.--
            (1) In general.--Subject to valid existing rights, all 
        Federal land located in the National Conservation Area are 
        withdrawn from--
                    (A) all forms of entry, appropriation, or disposal 
                under the public land laws;
                    (B) location, entry, and patenting under the mining 
                laws; and
                    (C) operation of the mineral leasing, mineral 
                materials, and geothermal leasing laws.
            (2) Additional land.--If the Secretary acquires additional 
        land that is located in the National Conservation Area after 
        the date of enactment of this Act, the land is withdrawn from 
        operation of the laws referred to in paragraph (1) on the date 
        of acquisition of the land.

               TITLE V--WILD AND SCENIC RIVER DESIGNATION

SEC. 501. ZION NATIONAL PARK WILD AND SCENIC RIVERS.

    (a) Designation.--Section 3(a) of the Wild and Scenic Rivers Act 
(16 U.S.C. 1274(a)) is amended--
            (1) by redesignating paragraph (167) (relating to the 
        Musconetcong River, New Jersey) as paragraph (169);
            (2) by designating the undesignated paragraph relating to 
        the White Salmon River, Washington, as paragraph (167);
            (3) by designating the undesignated paragraph relating to 
        the Black Butte River, California, as paragraph (168); and
            (4) by adding at the end the following:
            ``(170) Zion national park, utah.--The approximately 165.5 
        miles of segments of the Virgin River and tributaries of the 
        Virgin River across Federal land within and adjacent to Zion 
        National Park, to be administered by the Secretary of the 
        Interior in the following classifications:
                    ``(A) Taylor creek.--The 4.5-mile segment from the 
                junction of the north, middle, and south forks of 
                Taylor Creek, west to the park boundary and adjacent 
                land rim-to-rim, as a scenic river.
                    ``(B) North fork of taylor creek.--The segment from 
                the head of North Fork to the junction with Taylor 
                Creek and adjacent land rim-to-rim, as a wild river.
                    ``(C) Middle fork of taylor creek.--The segment 
                from the head of Middle Fork on Bureau of Land 
                Management land to the junction with Taylor Creek and 
                adjacent land rim-to-rim, as a wild river.
                    ``(D) South fork of taylor creek.--The segment from 
                the head of South Fork to the junction with Taylor 
                Creek and adjacent land rim-to-rim, as a wild river.
                    ``(E) Timber creek and tributaries.--The 3.1-mile 
                segment from the head of Timber Creek and tributaries 
                of Timber Creek to the junction with LaVerkin Creek and 
                adjacent land rim-to-rim, as a wild river.
                    ``(F) Laverkin creek.--The 16.1-mile segment 
                beginning in T. 38 S., R. 11 W., sec. 21, on Bureau of 
                Land Management land, southwest through Zion National 
                Park, and ending at the south end of T. 40 S., R. 12 
                W., sec. 7, and adjacent land \1/2\-mile wide, as a 
                wild river.
                    ``(G) Willis creek.--The 1.9-mile segment beginning 
                on Bureau of Land Management land in the SWSW sec. 27, 
                T. 38 S., R. 11 W., to the junction with LaVerkin Creek 
                in Zion National Park and adjacent land rim-to-rim, as 
                a wild river.
                    ``(H) Beartrap canyon.--The 2.3-mile segment 
                beginning on Bureau of Management land in the SWNW sec. 
                3, T. 39 S., R. 11 W., to the junction with LaVerkin 
                Creek and the segment from the headwaters north of Long 
                Point to the junction with LaVerkin Creek and adjacent 
                land rim-to-rim, as a wild river.
                    ``(I) Hop valley creek.--The 3.3-mile segment 
                beginning at the southern boundary of T. 39 S., R. 11 
                W., sec. 20, to the junction with LaVerkin Creek and 
                adjacent land \1/2\-mile wide, as a wild river.
                    ``(J) Current creek.--The 1.4-mile segment from the 
                head of Current Creek to the junction with LaVerkin 
                Creek and adjacent land rim-to-rim, as a wild river.
                    ``(K) Cane creek.--The 0.6-mile segment from the 
                head of Smith Creek to the junction with LaVerkin Creek 
                and adjacent land \1/2\-mile wide, as a wild river.
                    ``(L) Smith creek.--The 1.3-mile segment from the 
                head of Smith Creek to the junction with LaVerkin Creek 
                and adjacent land \1/2\-mile wide, as a wild river.
                    ``(M) North creek left and right forks.--The 
                segment of the Left Fork from the junction with Wildcat 
                Canyon to the junction with Right Fork, from the head 
                of Right Fork to the junction with Left Fork, and from 
                the junction of the Left and Right Forks southwest to 
                Zion National Park boundary and adjacent land rim-to-
                rim, as a wild river.
                    ``(N) Wildcat canyon (blue creek).--The segment of 
                Blue Creek from the Zion National Park boundary to the 
                junction with the Right Fork of North Creek and 
                adjacent land rim-to-rim, as a wild river.
                    ``(O) Little creek.--The segment beginning at the 
                head of Little Creek to the junction with the Left Fork 
                of North Creek and adjacent land \1/2\-mile wide, as a 
                wild river.
                    ``(P) Russell gulch.--The segment from the head of 
                Russell Gulch to the junction with the Left Fork of 
                North Creek and adjacent land rim-to-rim, as a wild 
                river.
                    ``(Q) Grapevine wash.--The 2.6-mile segment from 
                the Lower Kolob Plateau to the junction with the Left 
                Fork of North Creek and adjacent land rim-to-rim, as a 
                scenic river.
                    ``(R) Pine spring wash.--The 4.6-mile segment to 
                the junction with the left fork of North Creek and 
                adjacent land \1/2\-mile, as a scenic river.
                    ``(S) Wolf springs wash.--The 1.4-mile segment from 
                the head of Wolf Springs Wash to the junction with Pine 
                Spring Wash and adjacent land \1/2\-mile wide, as a 
                scenic river.
                    ``(T) Kolob creek.--The 5.9-mile segment of Kolob 
                Creek beginning in T. 39 S., R. 10 W., sec. 30, through 
                Bureau of Land Management land and Zion National Park 
                land to the junction with the North Fork of the Virgin 
                River and adjacent land rim-to-rim, as a wild river.
                    ``(U) Oak creek.--The 1-mile stretch of Oak Creek 
                beginning in T. 39 S., R. 10 W., sec. 19, to the 
                junction with Kolob Creek and adjacent land rim-to-rim, 
                as a wild river.
                    ``(V) Goose creek.--The 4.6-mile segment of Goose 
                Creek from the head of Goose Creek to the junction with 
                the North Fork of the Virgin River and adjacent land 
                rim-to-rim, as a wild river.
                    ``(W) Deep creek.--The 5.3-mile segment of Deep 
                Creek beginning on Bureau of Land Management land at 
                the northern boundary of T. 39 S., R. 10 W., sec. 23, 
                south to the junction of the North Fork of the Virgin 
                River and adjacent land rim-to-rim, as a wild river.
                    ``(X) North fork of the virgin river.--The 10.8-
                mile segment of the North Fork of the Virgin River 
                beginning on Bureau of Land Management land at the 
                eastern border of T. 39 S., R. 10 W., sec. 35, to 
                Temple of Sinawava and adjacent land rim-to-rim, as a 
                wild river.
                    ``(Y) North fork of the virgin river.--The 8-mile 
                segment of the North Fork of the Virgin River from 
                Temple of Sinawava south to the Zion National Park 
                boundary and adjacent land \1/2\-mile wide, as a scenic 
                river.
                    ``(Z) Imlay canyon.--The segment from the head of 
                Imlay Creek to the junction with the North Fork of the 
                Virgin River and adjacent land rim-to-rim, as a wild 
                river.
                    ``(AA) Orderville canyon.--The segment from the 
                eastern boundary of Zion National Park to the junction 
                with the North Fork of the Virgin River and adjacent 
                land rim-to-rim, as a wild river.
                    ``(BB) Mystery canyon.--The segment from the head 
                of Mystery Canyon to the junction with the North Fork 
                of the Virgin River and adjacent land rim-to-rim, as a 
                wild river.
                    ``(CC) Echo canyon.--The segment from the eastern 
                boundary of Zion National Park to the junction with the 
                North Fork of the Virgin River and adjacent land rim-
                to-rim, as a wild river.
                    ``(DD) Behunin canyon.--The segment from the head 
                of Behunin Canyon to the junction with the North Fork 
                of the Virgin River and adjacent land rim-to-rim, as a 
                wild river.
                    ``(EE) Heaps canyon.--The segment from the head of 
                Heaps Canyon to the junction with the North Fork of the 
                Virgin River and adjacent land rim-to-rim, as a wild 
                river.
                    ``(FF) Birch creek.--The segment from the head of 
                Birch Creek to the junction with the North Fork of the 
                Virgin River and adjacent land \1/2\-mile wide, as a 
                wild river.
                    ``(GG) Oak creek.--The segment of Oak Creek from 
                the head of Oak Creek to where the forks join and 
                adjacent land \1/2\-mile wide, as a wild river.
                    ``(HH) Oak creek.--The 1-mile segment of Oak Creek 
                from the point at which the 2 forks of Oak Creek join 
                to the junction with the North Fork of the Virgin River 
                and adjacent land \1/2\-mile wide, as a recreational 
                river.
                    ``(II) Clear creek.--The 6.4-mile segment of Clear 
                Creek from the eastern boundary of Zion National Park 
                to the junction with Pine Creek and adjacent land rim-
                to-rim, as a recreational river.
                    ``(JJ) Pine creek.--The 2-mile segment of Pine 
                Creek from the head of Pine Creek to the junction with 
                Clear Creek and adjacent land rim-to-rim, as a wild 
                river.
                    ``(KK) Pine creek.--The 3-mile segment of Pine 
                Creek from the junction with Clear Creek to the 
                junction with the North Fork of the Virgin River and 
                adjacent land rim-to-rim, as a recreational river.
                    ``(LL) East fork of the virgin river.--The 8-mile 
                segment of the East Fork of the Virgin River from the 
                eastern boundary of Zion National Park through 
                Parunuweap Canyon to the western boundary of Zion 
                National Park and adjacent land \1/2\-mile wide, as a 
                wild river.
                    ``(MM) Shunes creek.--The 3-mile segment of Shunes 
                Creek from the dry waterfall on land administered by 
                the Bureau of Land Management through Zion National 
                Park to the western boundary of Zion National Park and 
                adjacent land \1/2\-mile wide as a wild river.''.
    (b) Incorporation of Acquired Non-Federal Land.--If the United 
States acquires any non-Federal land within or adjacent to Zion 
National Park that includes a river segment that is contiguous to a 
river segment of the Virgin River designated as a wild, scenic, or 
recreational river by paragraph (170) of section 3(a) of the Wild and 
Scenic Rivers Act (16 U.S.C. 1274(a)), the acquired river segment shall 
be incorporated in, and be administered as part of, the applicable 
wild, scenic, or recreational river.
    (c) Savings Clause.--The amendment made by subsection (a)(4) does 
not affect the agreement among the United States, the State, the 
Washington County Water Conservancy District, and the Kane County Water 
Conservancy District entitled ``Zion National Park Water Rights 
Settlement Agreement'' and dated December 4, 1996.

           TITLE VI--WASHINGTON COUNTY TRAVEL MANAGEMENT PLAN

SEC. 601. DEFINITIONS.

    In this title:
            (1) Secretary concerned.--The term ``Secretary concerned'' 
        means--
                    (A) the Secretary of Agriculture (acting through 
                the Chief of the Forest Service), with respect to 
                National Forest System land; and
                    (B) the Secretary, with respect to land managed by 
                the Bureau of Land Management.
            (2) Trail.--The term ``trail'' means the High Desert Off-
        Highway Vehicle Trail designated under section 603(a)(1).
            (3) Travel management plan.--The term ``travel management 
        plan'' means the travel management plan developed under section 
        602(a)(1).

SEC. 602. TRAVEL MANAGEMENT PLAN.

    (a) Development.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 3 years after the date of 
        enactment of this Act, in accordance with the Federal Land 
        Policy and Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.), the 
        Secretary, in consultation with appropriate Federal agencies 
        and State, local, and tribal governments, shall develop a 
        comprehensive travel management plan--
                    (A) to provide to the public a clearly marked 
                network of roads and trails with signs and maps to 
                promote--
                            (i) public safety and awareness; and
                            (ii) enhanced recreation opportunities;
                    (B) to help reduce in the County growing conflicts 
                arising from interactions between--
                            (i) motorized recreation; and
                            (ii) the important resource values of 
                        public land;
                    (C) to promote citizen-based opportunities for--
                            (i) the monitoring and stewardship of the 
                        trail; and
                            (ii) trail system management; and
                    (D) to support law enforcement officials in 
                promoting--
                            (i) compliance with off-highway vehicle 
                        laws (including regulations); and
                            (ii) effective deterrents of abuses of 
                        public land.
            (2) Scope; contents.--In developing the travel management 
        plan, the Secretary shall--
                    (A) design the travel management plan for land that 
                is--
                            (i) located in the County; and
                            (ii) managed by the Bureau of Land 
                        Management;
                    (B) ensure that the travel management plan contains 
                a map that depicts the trail; and
                    (C) designate a system of areas, roads, and trails 
                for mechanical and motorized use on land--
                            (i) located in the County; and
                            (ii) managed by the Bureau of Land 
                        Management.
    (b) Northern Transportation Route.--In developing the travel 
management plan, the Secretary, in consultation with appropriate 
Federal agencies, the State, local governments (including the County 
and St. George City, Utah), and the public, shall identify 1 or more 
alternatives for a northern transportation route in the County.

SEC. 603. DESIGNATION OF TRAIL.

    (a) Designation.--
            (1) In general.--In accordance with paragraph (2), the 
        Secretary, in coordination with the Secretary of Agriculture, 
        shall designate a trail (which may include a system of 
        trails)--
                    (A) to be designed and constructed for use by off-
                highway vehicles; and
                    (B) to be known as the ``High Desert Off-Highway 
                Vehicle Trail''.
            (2) Requirements.--In designating the trail, the Secretary 
        concerned shall only include trails that are--
                    (A) as of the date of enactment of this Act, 
                approved for use by off-highway vehicles; and
                    (B) located on land that is managed by--
                            (i) the Bureau of Land Management; or
                            (ii) the Chief of the Forest Service.
            (3) Map.--A map that depicts the trail shall be on file and 
        available for public inspection in appropriate offices of--
                    (A) the Office of the Chief of the Forest Service; 
                and
                    (B) the Office of the Director of the Bureau of 
                Land Management.
    (b) Management.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary concerned shall manage the 
        trail--
                    (A) in accordance with applicable laws (including 
                regulations);
                    (B) to ensure the safety of citizens who use the 
                trail; and
                    (C) in a manner by which to minimize any damage to 
                sensitive habitat or cultural resources located in 
                close proximity to the trail.
            (2) Monitoring; evaluation.--To minimize the impacts of the 
        use of the trail on environmental and cultural resources 
        located in close proximity to the trail, the Secretary shall--
                    (A) in cooperation with the Secretary of 
                Agriculture, annually assess the effects of the use of 
                off-highway vehicles on--
                            (i) the trail; and
                            (ii) land located in close proximity to the 
                        trail; and
                    (B) in consultation with the Utah Department of 
                Natural Resources, annually assess the effects of the 
                use of the trail on wildlife and wildlife habitat.
            (3) Notice of available routes.--The Secretary, in 
        coordination with the Secretary of Agriculture, shall ensure 
        that visitors to the trail have access to adequate notice 
        relating to the availability of trail routes through--
                    (A) the placement of appropriate signage along the 
                trail; and
                    (B) the distribution of maps, safety education 
                materials, and other information that the Secretary, in 
                cooperation with the Secretary of Agriculture, 
                determines to be appropriate.
    (c) Effect.--Nothing in this section affects the ownership, 
management, or other rights relating to any non-Federal land (including 
any interest in any non-Federal land).

                        TITLE VII--LAND DISPOSAL

SEC. 701. DEFINITIONS.

    In this title:
            (1) Conservation plan.--The term ``conservation plan'' 
        means the conservation plan entitled ``Washington County 
        Habitat Conservation Plan'' and dated December 1995.
            (2) Management plan.--The term ``management plan'' means 
        the Bureau of Land Management St. George Field Office Resource 
        Management Plan.
            (3) Special account.--The term ``special account'' means 
        the special account established under section 703(a)(3).
            (4) Vision dixie land use and transportation plan.--The 
        term ``Vision Dixie land use and transportation plan'' means 
        the management plan--
                    (A) entitled ``Vision Dixie 2035: Land Use and 
                Transportation Vision'';
                    (B) adopted by the Washington County Commission on 
                February 4, 2008; and
                    (C) on file in the Bureau of Land Management St. 
                George Field Office.

SEC. 702. CONVEYANCE OF PUBLIC LAND IN COUNTY.

    (a) In General.--In accordance with sections 202 and 203 of the 
Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1712, 1713) 
and subject to valid existing rights, the Secretary, in cooperation 
with the County, shall conduct sales of the land described in 
subsection (b) to qualified bidders in accordance with--
            (1) other provisions of that Act;
            (2) this title; and
            (3) any applicable law (including regulations).
    (b) Description of Land.--The land referred to in subsection (a) 
consists of--
            (1) the land identified on the Washington County Growth and 
        Conservation Act Map as ``First Tier Lands'', totaling 
        approximately 906 acres;
            (2) the land identified on the Washington County Growth and 
        Conservation Act Map as ``Second Tier Lands'', totaling 
        approximately 3,146 acres; and
            (3) not more than 5,000 acres of land from the land that is 
        identified for disposal by the Bureau of Land Management 
        through--
                    (A) the management plan; or
                    (B) a subsequent amendment to, or revision of, the 
                management plan that is undertaken--
                            (i) with full public involvement; and
                            (ii) in accordance with--
                                    (I) sections 202 and 503 of the 
                                Federal Land Policy and Management Act 
                                of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1712, 1763); and
                                    (II) the Vision Dixie land use and 
                                transportation plan (including each 
                                principle described in the Vision Dixie 
                                land use and transportation plan).
    (c) Joint Selection Required.--The Secretary and the County shall 
jointly select which parcels of land described in subsection (b)(3) to 
offer for sale.
    (d) Compliance With Local Planning and Zoning Laws.--Before a sale 
of land under subsection (a), the County shall submit to the Secretary 
a certification that qualified bidders have agreed to comply with--
            (1) County and city zoning and other applicable ordinances; 
        and
            (2) any general plan for the area approved by the County, 
        including any revision to the general plan that is adopted by 
        the County after the date of enactment of this Act.
    (e) Method of Sale; Consideration.--The sale of land under 
subsection (a) shall be--
            (1) consistent with subsections (d) and (f) of section 203 
        of the Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 1976 (43 
        U.S.C. 1713);
            (2) through a competitive bidding process unless otherwise 
        determined by the Secretary; and
            (3) for not less than fair market value.
    (f) Withdrawal.--
            (1) In general.--Subject to valid existing rights, and 
        except as provided in paragraph (2), the land described in 
        subsection (b) is withdrawn from--
                    (A) all forms of entry and appropriation under the 
                public land laws;
                    (B) location, entry, and patent under the mining 
                laws; and
                    (C) operation of the mineral leasing, geothermal 
                leasing, and mineral materials laws.
            (2) Exception.--Paragraph (1)(A) shall not apply to a 
        competitive sale.
    (g) Timing of Sales.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary shall--
                    (A) with respect to the land described in 
                subsection (b)(1)--
                            (i) not later than 18 months after the date 
                        of enactment of this Act, offer for sale the 
                        land identified on the Washington County Growth 
                        and Conservation Act Map as ``First Tier 
                        Lands''; and
                            (ii) beginning 1 year after the date of the 
                        sale of land under clause (i), and at least 
                        annually thereafter until the date on which all 
                        of the parcels of land described in subsection 
                        (b)(2) are sold, conduct sales of each unsold 
                        parcel of land described in subsection (b)(2), 
                        except that all of the parcels of land shall be 
                        offered for sale not later than January 1, 
                        2013; and
                    (B) with respect to the land described in 
                subsection (b)(3), in accordance with this title and 
                any applicable law (including regulations), conduct 
                sales of each parcel of land as such parcels become 
                available for sale.
            (2) Postponement; exclusion from sale.--
                    (A) Request by county for postponement or 
                exclusion.--At the request of the County, the Secretary 
                shall postpone or exclude from sale all or a portion of 
                the land described in paragraph (1), (2), or (3) of 
                subsection (b).
                    (B) Indefinite postponement.--Unless specifically 
                requested by the County, a postponement under 
                subparagraph (A) shall not be indefinite.
    (h) Restrictive Covenants.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary may include in the deed of 
        transfer of any parcel of land disposed of under this section 
        any restrictive covenant that the Secretary determines to be 
        necessary to protect the interests of the United States.
            (2) Notice.--Not later than 30 days before the date on 
        which a land sale is to be conducted under this section, the 
        Secretary shall publish in 1 or more local newspapers a notice 
        that describes any parcels of land that would be subject to a 
        restrictive covenant.

SEC. 703. DISPOSITION OF PROCEEDS.

    (a) Disposition of Proceeds.--Of the gross proceeds from a sale of 
land described in section 702(b)--
            (1) 5 percent shall be paid directly to the State for the 
        support of schools in accordance with section 9 of the Act of 
        July 16, 1894 (28 Stat. 107, chapter 138);
            (2) 10 percent shall be paid directly to the County for--
                    (A) administrative costs;
                    (B) the costs of fire protection, flood control, 
                public safety, and transportation; and
                    (C) costs arising from--
                            (i) water conservation, reuse, treatment, 
                        development, and delivery in accordance with 
                        local and regional plans;
                            (ii) the protection of open space;
                            (iii) the development of parks and public 
                        recreation areas;
                            (iv) the development and implementation of 
                        local and regional plans (including the Vision 
                        Dixie land use and transportation plan); and
                            (v) conservation projects carried out in 
                        the County; and
            (3) the remainder shall be deposited in a special account 
        in the Treasury of the United States and shall be available 
        without further appropriation to the Secretary until expended, 
        of which--
                    (A) the lesser of 9 percent of the amount deposited 
                in the special account or $15,000,000 shall be used--
                            (i) to complete the management plan for the 
                        Red Cliffs National Conservation Area under 
                        section 302(d)(1);
                            (ii) to complete the management plan for 
                        the Beaver Dam Wash National Conservation Area 
                        under section 402(d)(1);
                            (iii) to complete the travel management 
                        plan under section 602(a)(1);
                            (iv) to designate the High Desert Off-
                        Highway Vehicle Trail under section 603(a)(1);
                            (v) to carry out each wilderness area 
                        designated by section 101(a), including, with 
                        respect to each wilderness area, costs arising 
                        from--
                                    (I) the construction of appropriate 
                                fencing;
                                    (II) the purchase of appropriate 
                                signage;
                                    (III) public education activities; 
                                and
                                    (IV) enforcement activities;
                            (vi) for the reimbursement of costs 
                        incurred by the Utah State Office of the Bureau 
                        of Land Management and the St. George Field 
                        Office of the Bureau of Land Management in 
                        preparing for the sale of land described in 
                        section 702(b), including the costs of--
                                    (I) surveys;
                                    (II) appraisals; and
                                    (III) activities carried out to 
                                ensure compliance with--
                                            (aa) the National 
                                        Environmental Policy Act of 
                                        1969 (42 U.S.C. 4321 et seq.); 
                                        and
                                            (bb) sections 201 and 202 
                                        of the Federal Land Policy and 
                                        Management Act of 1976 (43 
                                        U.S.C. 1711, 1712);
                            (vii) for the reimbursement of 
                        administrative costs incurred by the St. George 
                        Field Office of the Bureau of Land Management 
                        in carrying out this Act; and
                            (viii) for each conservation purpose 
                        described in section 901; and
                    (B) the remainder of the amount deposited in the 
                special account shall be used to acquire from a willing 
                seller any parcel of non-Federal land (including any 
                interest in a parcel of non-Federal land) located in 
                the County including--
                            (i) any parcel of non-Federal land located 
                        in--
                                    (I) the Red Cliffs National 
                                Conservation Area, established by 
                                section 302(c), in accordance with the 
                                conservation plan;
                                    (II) the Beaver Dam Wash National 
                                Conservation Area, established by 
                                section 402(c);
                                    (III) any wilderness area 
                                designated by section 101(a);
                                    (IV) the Zion National Park; and
                                    (V) the Dixie National Forest; and
                            (ii) any parcel of land that--
                                    (I) is environmentally sensitive;
                                    (II) is critical for agriculture; 
                                or
                                    (III) has critical open space, 
                                watershed, or natural values.
    (b) Investment of Special Account.--Any amounts deposited in the 
special account shall earn interest in an amount determined by the 
Secretary of the Treasury on the basis of the current average market 
yield on outstanding marketable obligations of the United States of 
comparable maturities, and may be expended according to the provisions 
of this section.
    (c) Annual Report.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 2 years after the date of 
        enactment of this Act and annually thereafter, the Secretary 
        shall submit to the appropriate committees of Congress a report 
        that contains, for the year covered by the report, an itemized 
        description of each activity carried out by the Secretary using 
        funds made available in accordance with subsection (a)(3).
            (2) Public availability.--The Secretary shall make the 
        report required under paragraph (1) available to the public.

                       TITLE VIII--RIGHTS-OF-WAY

SEC. 801. DEFINITION OF WATER DISTRICT.

    In this title, the term ``Water District'' means the Washington 
County Water Conservancy District.

SEC. 802. RIGHTS-OF-WAY.

    (a) In General.--In accordance with sections 202 and 503 of the 
Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1712, 1763), 
and subject to valid existing rights, the Secretary shall grant to the 
Water District nonexclusive rights-of-way for each reservoir depicted 
on the Washington County Growth and Conservation Act Map, totaling 
approximately 932 acres.
    (b) Duration; Waiver of Fees.--A right-of-way granted by the 
Secretary under subsection (a) shall--
            (1) be valid in perpetuity; and
            (2) not require the payment of rental fees.
    (c) Compliance With National Environmental Policy Act of 1969.--
Before granting a right-of-way under subsection (a), the Secretary 
shall comply with the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 (42 
U.S.C. 4321 et seq.), including any requirement of the Act relating to 
the identification of potential impacts to fish and wildlife resources 
and habitat.
    (d) Withdrawal.--Subject to valid existing rights, each area 
granted as a right-of-way by the Secretary under subsection (a) is 
withdrawn from location, entry, and patent under the mining laws.

           TITLE IX--MANAGEMENT OF PRIORITY BIOLOGICAL AREAS

SEC. 901. MANAGEMENT OF PRIORITY BIOLOGICAL AREAS.

    (a) In General.--In accordance with applicable Federal laws 
(including regulations), the Secretary shall--
            (1) identify each priority biological area located in the 
        County; and
            (2) carry out the management of plant and animal species 
        and natural communities in each priority biological area, 
        including activities relating to conservation and restoration.
    (b) Grants; Cooperative Agreements.--In carrying out subsection 
(a), the Secretary may make grants to, or enter into cooperative 
agreements with, State and local governmental entities and private 
entities to conduct research, develop scientific analyses, and carry 
out any other initiative relating to the restoration or conservation of 
the priority biological areas.

           TITLE X--CONVEYANCE OF DIXIE NATIONAL FOREST LAND

SEC. 1001. DEFINITIONS.

    In this title:
            (1) Covered federal land.--The term ``covered Federal 
        land'' means the approximately 112 acres of land in the Dixie 
        National Forest in the State, as depicted on the map.
            (2) Landowner.--The term ``landowner'' means Kirk R. 
        Harrison, who owns land in Pinto Valley, Utah.
            (3) Map.--The term ``map'' means the map entitled 
        ``Harrison Proposal'' and dated February 26, 2008.
            (4) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary 
        of Agriculture.

SEC. 1002. CONVEYANCE.

    (a) In General.--As soon as practicable after the date of enactment 
of this Act, the Secretary shall convey to the landowner all right, 
title, and interest of the United States in and to the covered Federal 
land (including any improvements or appurtenances to the covered 
Federal land).
    (b) Legal Description.--The exact acreage and legal description of 
the covered Federal land to be conveyed under subsection (a) shall be 
determined by surveys satisfactory to the Secretary.
    (c) Consideration.--
            (1) In general.--As consideration for the conveyance under 
        subsection (a), the landowner shall pay to the Secretary an 
        amount equal to the fair market value of the covered Federal 
        land, as determined under paragraph (2).
            (2) Appraisal.--The fair market value of the covered 
        Federal land shall be determined by an appraisal acceptable to 
        the Secretary that is performed in accordance with--
                    (A) the Uniform Appraisal Standards for covered 
                Federal land Acquisitions, as developed by the 
                Interagency Land Acquisition Conference;
                    (B) the Uniform Standards of Professional Appraisal 
                Practice; and
                    (C) any other applicable law (including 
                regulations).
    (d) Disposition and Use of Proceeds.--
            (1) Disposition of proceeds.--The Secretary shall deposit 
        the proceeds of the sale of land under subsection (a) in the 
        fund established under Public Law 90-171 (commonly known as the 
        ``Sisk Act'') (16 U.S.C. 484a).
            (2) Use of proceeds.--Amounts deposited under paragraph (1) 
        shall be available to the Secretary, without further 
        appropriation and until expended, for the acquisition of real 
        property or interests in real property for inclusion in the 
        Dixie National Forest in the State.
    (e) Map.--
            (1) Availability.--The map shall be on file and available 
        for public inspection in the office of the Chief of the Forest 
        Service.
            (2) Technical corrections.--The Secretary may make 
        technical corrections to the map.
    (f) Additional Terms and Conditions.--The Secretary may require any 
additional terms and conditions for the conveyance under subsection (a) 
that the Secretary determines to be appropriate to protect the 
interests of the United States.

               TITLE XI--AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS

SEC. 1101. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.

    There are authorized to be appropriated such sums as are necessary 
to carry out this Act and the amendments made by this Act.
                                 &lt;all&gt;
</pre></body></html>
