<html><body><pre>
[Congressional Bills 116th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[S. 3969 Introduced in Senate (IS)]

&lt;DOC&gt;






116th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                S. 3969

 To amend title 49, United States Code, to reform the Federal Aviation 
    Administration's aircraft certification process, and for other 
                               purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                   IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

                             June 16, 2020

  Mr. Wicker (for himself and Ms. Cantwell) introduced the following 
 bill; which was read twice and referred to the Committee on Commerce, 
                      Science, and Transportation

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
 To amend title 49, United States Code, to reform the Federal Aviation 
    Administration's aircraft certification process, and for other 
                               purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Aircraft Safety and Certification 
Reform Act of 2020''.

SEC. 2. TABLE OF CONTENTS.

    The table of contents of this Act is as follows:

Sec. 1. Short title.
Sec. 2. Table of contents.
Sec. 3. Definitions.
Sec. 4. Safety management system for manufacturers.
Sec. 5. Organization designation authorization.
Sec. 6. Best practices for organization designation authorizations.
Sec. 7. Review of human factors assumptions.
Sec. 8. Human factors research.
Sec. 9. FAA center of excellence for flight automation and human 
                            factors in aircraft.
Sec. 10. Certification pilot operational evaluations.
Sec. 11. FAA continuing education and training.
Sec. 12. Authorization of appropriations for scientific and technical 
                            advisors.
Sec. 13. Prohibition on certain performance-based incentives.
Sec. 14. Safety reporting program.
Sec. 15. Protection of whistleblowers.
Sec. 16. Repeal of design and production organization certificate 
                            authority.
Sec. 17. Ensuring appropriate responsibility of aircraft certification 
                            and flight standards performance objectives 
                            and metrics.
Sec. 18. Review of FAA certification expertise.

SEC. 3. DEFINITIONS.

    In this Act:
            (1) Administrator.--The term ``Administrator'' means the 
        Administrator of the FAA.
            (2) Appropriate committees of congress.--The term 
        ``appropriate committees of Congress'' means the Committee on 
        Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate and the 
        Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure of the House of 
        Representatives.
            (3) FAA.--The term ``FAA'' means the Federal Aviation 
        Administration.

SEC. 4. SAFETY MANAGEMENT SYSTEM FOR MANUFACTURERS.

    (a) Rulemaking Proceeding.--
            (1) In general.--The Administrator shall conduct a 
        rulemaking proceeding to require that manufacturers that hold 
        both a type certificate and a production certificate issued 
        pursuant to section 44704 of title 49, United States Code, 
        where the United States is the State of Design and State of 
        Manufacture, have in place a safety management system that is 
        consistent with the standards established by the International 
        Civil Aviation Organization for such systems.
            (2) Aviation rulemaking committee.--Not later than 90 days 
        after the date of enactment of this Act, the Administrator 
        shall establish an aviation rulemaking committee to make 
        recommendations on the rulemaking to be carried out under 
        paragraph (1).
    (b) Final Rule Deadline.--Not later than 24 months after 
establishing the aviation rulemaking committee under subsection (a)(2), 
the Administrator shall issue a final rule pursuant to the rulemaking 
proceeding required under subsection (a).
    (c) Surveillance and Audit Requirement.--The final rule issued 
pursuant to subsection (b) shall include a requirement for the 
Administrator to implement a documented surveillance process by 
defining and planning inspections, audits, and monitoring activities on 
a continuous basis, to ensure that design and production approval 
holders of aviation products meet and continue to meet safety 
management system requirements under the rule.

SEC. 5. ORGANIZATION DESIGNATION AUTHORIZATION.

    (a) Approval of ODA Unit Members.--Section 44736 of title 49, 
United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following:
    ``(d) Approval of ODA Unit Members.--
            ``(1) In general.--Beginning on the date that is 1 year 
        after the date of enactment of this subsection, each individual 
        who is a new member of an ODA unit of an ODA holder and 
        performs an authorized function pursuant to a delegation by the 
        Administrator under section 44702(d) shall be an employee, a 
        contractor, or the employee of a supplier of the ODA holder who 
        is approved to be a member of the unit by the Administrator. 
        The ODA holder may make provisional appointments of ODA unit 
        members pending final approval by the Administrator. The 
        Administrator shall approve or reject appointments within 120 
        days.
            ``(2) Qualifications.--In approving appointments to an ODA 
        unit, the Administrator shall take into account the technical 
        proficiency and expertise of individuals. The Administrator 
        shall issue minimum qualifications for ODA members that are 
        subject to approval by the Administrator pursuant to paragraph 
        (1).
            ``(3) Rescission of approval.--The Administrator may 
        rescind an approval of an appointment to a ODA unit at any time 
        for any reason the Administrator considers appropriate. The 
        Administrator shall develop procedures to provide for proper 
        notice and opportunity to appeal rescission decisions made by 
        the Administrator. Such decisions by the Administrator are not 
        subject to judicial review.
            ``(4) Records and reports.--An ODA holder shall maintain, 
        for a period to be determined by the Administrator--
                    ``(A) any data, applications, records, or manuals 
                required by the ODA holder's approved procedures 
                manual, as determined by the Administrator;
                    ``(B) the names, responsibilities, qualifications, 
                and example signature of each member of the ODA unit 
                who performs an authorized function pursuant to a 
                delegation by the Administrator under section 44702(d);
                    ``(C) training records for ODA unit members and ODA 
                administrators; and
                    ``(D) any other data, applications, records, or 
                manuals determined appropriate by the Administrator.
            ``(5) Audits.--
                    ``(A) In general.--The Administrator shall perform 
                a periodic audit of each ODA unit and its procedures.
                    ``(B) Duration.--An audit required under 
                subparagraph (A) shall be performed with respect to an 
                ODA holder once every 3 years (or more frequently as 
                determined appropriate by the Administrator).
                    ``(C) Records.--The ODA holder shall maintain, for 
                a period to be determined by the Administrator, a 
                record of--
                            ``(i) each audit conducted under this 
                        paragraph; and
                            ``(ii) any corrective actions resulting 
                        from each such audit.
    ``(e) Federal Aviation Safety Advisors.--For ODA holders that are 
manufacturers that hold both a type and a production certificate for 
transport category airplanes with a maximum takeoff gross weight 
greater than 150,000 pounds and manufacturers of engines for such 
airplanes, the Administrator shall assign FAA aviation safety engineers 
or inspectors with appropriate expertise to be advisors to the ODA unit 
members that are authorized to make findings of compliance on behalf of 
the Administrator. Advisors shall communicate with assigned unit 
members on an ongoing basis to ensure that they are knowledgeable of 
relevant FAA policies and acceptable methods of compliance and shall 
monitor their performances to ensure consistency with those policies.
    ``(f) Communication With the FAA.--Neither the Administrator nor an 
ODA holder may prohibit an ODA unit member from communicating with, or 
seeking the advice of, the Administrator or FAA staff.''.
    (b) Report.--Not later than September 30, 2022, the Administrator 
shall submit to the appropriate committees of Congress a report on the 
implementation of subsections (d) through (f) of section 44736 of title 
49, United States Code, as added by subsection (a).

SEC. 6. BEST PRACTICES FOR ORGANIZATION DESIGNATION AUTHORIZATIONS.

    (a) In General.--Section 213 of the FAA Reauthorization Act of 2018 
(Public Law 115-254, 132 Stat. 3249) is amended--
            (1) by striking subsection (g);
            (2) by redesignating subsections (c) through (f) as 
        subsections (d) through (g), respectively;
            (3) by inserting after subsection (b), the following:
    ``(c) Best Practices Review.--In addition to conducting the survey 
required under subsection (b), the Panel shall conduct a review of all 
ODA holders to identify and develop best practices. At a minimum, the 
best practices shall address preventing and deterring instances of 
undue pressure on or by an ODA unit member, within an ODA, or by an ODA 
holder, or instances of perceived regulatory coziness or other failures 
to maintain independence between the FAA and an ODA holder or ODA unit 
member. In carrying out such review, the Panel shall--
            ``(1) examine other government regulated industries to 
        gather lessons learned, procedures, or processes that address 
        undue pressure of employees, perceived regulatory coziness, or 
        other failures to maintain independence;
            ``(2) identify ways to improve communications between an 
        ODA Administrator, ODA unit members, and FAA engineers and 
        inspectors, consistent with section 44736(g) of title 49, 
        United States Code, in order to enable direct communication of 
        technical concerns that arise during a certification project 
        without fear of reprisal to the ODA Administrator or ODA unit 
        member; and
            ``(3) examine the FAA Designee Program, including the 
        assignment of FAA advisors to designees, to determine which 
        components of the program may improve the FAA's oversight of 
        ODA units, ODA unit members, and the ODA program.'';
            (4) in subsection (d) (as redesignated by paragraph (2))--
                    (A) by striking paragraph (3) and redesignating 
                paragraphs (4) through (6) as paragraphs (3) through 
                (5), respectively;
                    (B) in paragraph (4) (as redesignated by 
                subparagraph (A)), by striking ``and'' at the end;
                    (C) in paragraph (5) (as so redesignated), by 
                striking the period at the end and inserting ``; and''; 
                and
                    (D) by adding at the end the following:
            ``(6) the results of the review conducted under subsection 
        (c).''; and
            (5) by inserting after subsection (g) (as redesignated by 
        paragraph (2)), the following:
    ``(h) Best Practices Adoption.--
            ``(1) In general.--Not later than 180 days after the date 
        on which the Administrator receives the report required under 
        subsection (e), the Administrator shall establish best 
        practices for all ODA holders and require such practices, as 
        appropriate, to be incorporated into each ODA holder's approved 
        procedures manual.
            ``(2) Notice and comment period.--The Administrator shall 
        publish the established best practices for public notice and 
        comment for not fewer than 60 days prior to requiring the 
        practices, as appropriate, be incorporated into each ODA 
        holder's approved procedures manual.
    ``(i) Sunset.--The Panel shall terminate on the earlier of--
            ``(1) the date of submission of the report under subsection 
        (e); or
            ``(2) the date that is 2 years after the date on which the 
        Panel is first convened under subsection (a).''.
    (b) Procedures Manual.--Section 44736(b)(3) of title 49, United 
States Code, is amended--
            (1) in subparagraph (E), by striking ``and'' after the 
        semicolon at the end;
            (2) in subparagraph (F), by striking the period at the end 
        and inserting ``; and''; and
            (3) by adding at the end the following:
                    ``(G) ensure the ODA holders procedures manual 
                contains procedures and policies based on best 
                practices established by the Administrator of the FAA 
                to mitigate undue pressure and regulatory coziness or 
                other failures to maintain independence.''.

SEC. 7. REVIEW OF HUMAN FACTORS ASSUMPTIONS.

    (a) Human Factors in Certification.--Not later than 60 days after 
the date of enactment of this Act, the Administrator shall initiate a 
review and may, after such review and as necessary, revise existing 
regulations, including, but not limited to, sections 25.1302, 25.1309, 
and 25.1322 of title 14, Code of Federal Regulations, and supporting 
policies, guidelines, and advisory circulars, to integrate and 
emphasize human factors and human system integration, particularly 
those related to pilot and aircraft interfaces.
    (b) Review.--In carrying out subsection (a), the Administrator 
shall--
            (1) review existing assumptions on pilot recognition and 
        response, including response to safety-significant failure 
        conditions, as part of the certification process;
            (2) validate such assumptions with applicable human factors 
        research and the input of human factors experts, and as 
        necessary modify the existing assumptions;
            (3) ensure that when carrying out the certification of a 
        new aircraft type, including an amended or supplemental type, 
        the cumulative impact that new technologies may have on pilot 
        response are properly assessed through system safety 
        assessments or otherwise;
            (4) ensure that any action carried out under this section 
        accounts for the necessary adjustments to system safety 
        assessments, pilot procedures and training needs, and design 
        requirements; and
            (5) notify other international regulators that certify 
        transport-category airplane type designs of the review and 
        encourage them to evaluate any regulatory changes to their 
        processes and address any changes, if applicable.
    (c) Report.--Not later than 180 days after completing the review 
required under subsection (a), the Administrator shall submit a report 
to the appropriate committees of Congress detailing the results of the 
review and what revisions or other changes were made as a result of 
such review.

SEC. 8. HUMAN FACTORS RESEARCH.

    (a) Automation Human Factors.--Not later than 180 days after the 
date of enactment of this Act, the Administrator, in consultation with 
aircraft manufacturers, operators, and pilots, and in coordination with 
the Administrator of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration, 
shall develop a research plan to address the integration of human 
factors in the design and certification of aircraft that are intended 
for use in air transportation.
    (b) Requirements.--In developing the plan required under this 
section, the Administrator shall--
            (1) establish goals for research and continuing education 
        in areas of study relevant to advancing technology, improving 
        design engineering and certification practices, and 
        facilitating better understanding of human factors concepts in 
        the context of the growing development and reliance on 
        automation in aircraft operations, including, but not limited 
        to, the development of tools to validate pilot recognition and 
        response assumptions and diagnostic tools to improve the 
        clarity of failure indications presented to pilots;
            (2) take into consideration and leverage any existing or 
        planned research that is conducted by, or conducted in 
        partnership with, the FAA;
            (3) focus on--
                    (A) preventing a recurrence of the types of recent 
                accidents that have involved large transport category 
                airplanes designed and manufactured in the United 
                States; and
                    (B) increasingly complex aircraft systems and 
                designs.
    (c) Implementation.--In implementing the plan required under this 
section, the Administrator shall, to the maximum extent practicable, 
work with the Center of Excellence for Technical Training and Human 
Performance and the Center of Excellence focused on flight automation 
and human factors in aircraft that are intended for use in air 
transportation established under section 9.
    (d) Authorization of Appropriations.--There are authorized to be 
appropriated to the Administrator such sums as may be necessary to 
carry out this section.

SEC. 9. FAA CENTER OF EXCELLENCE FOR FLIGHT AUTOMATION AND HUMAN 
              FACTORS IN AIRCRAFT.

    (a) Center.--
            (1) In general.--The Administrator shall develop a Center 
        of Excellence focused on flight automation and human factors in 
        aircraft that are intended for use in air transportation.
            (2) Duties.--The Center for Excellence shall--
                    (A) promote and facilitate collaboration among 
                academia, the FAA, and the aircraft and airline 
                industries, including aircraft, engine, and equipment 
                manufacturers, air carriers, and representatives of the 
                airline pilot community;
                    (B) establish goals for research and continuing 
                education in areas of study relevant to advancing 
                technology, improving engineering practices, and 
                facilitating better understanding of human factors 
                concepts in the context of the growing development and 
                reliance on automation in commercial aircraft; and
                    (C) examine issues related to human system 
                integration and flight crew and aircraft interfaces.
            (3) Avoiding duplication of work.--In establishing the 
        Center of Excellence, the Administrator shall ensure the work 
        of the Center of Excellence does not duplicate or overlap with 
        the work of any other established center of excellence.
    (b) Authorization of Appropriations.--There are authorized to be 
appropriated to the Administrator such sums as may be necessary to 
carry out this section.

SEC. 10. CERTIFICATION PILOT OPERATIONAL EVALUATIONS.

    (a) Certification Operational Evaluations.--Not later than 1 year 
after the date of enactment of this Act, the Administrator shall revise 
existing policies for manufacturers of large transport category 
airplanes that are expected to be operated for scheduled passenger air 
transportation to ensure that pilot operational evaluations for 
airplanes that are in the process of being certified use pilots from 
foreign and domestic air carriers that are expected to operate such 
airplanes.
    (b) Requirement.--The air carrier pilots used for such evaluations 
shall include a representative sample of such carriers' pilots with 
respect to levels of experience.

SEC. 11. FAA CONTINUING EDUCATION AND TRAINING.

    (a) In General.--Chapter 445 of title 49, United States Code, is 
amended by adding at the end the following:
``Sec. 44519. Certification personnel continuing education and training
    ``(a) Office.--Not later than 120 days after the date of enactment 
of this section, the Administrator of the FAA shall establish an Office 
of Continuing Education.
    ``(b) Program.--The Office of Continuing Education shall administer 
a continuing education and training program.
    ``(c) Purpose of Program.--The purpose of the continuing education 
and training program shall be to provide continuing education and 
training to FAA personnel who hold positions involving aircraft and 
flight standards certification, including engineers and inspectors.
    ``(d) Functions.--In administering the continuing education and 
training program, the Office of Continuing Education shall--
            ``(1) in consultation with outside experts, develop--
                    ``(A) an education and training curriculum on 
                current and new aircraft technologies, project 
                management, and the roles and responsibilities 
                associated with oversight of designees; and
                    ``(B) best practices for compliance with FAA 
                regulations; and
            ``(2) hire and manage a staff of qualified individuals to 
        educate and train FAA personnel described in subsection (c) 
        using the education and training curriculum and best practices 
        developed under paragraph (1).
    ``(e) Authorization of Appropriations.--There are authorized to be 
appropriated to the Administrator, $10,000,000 for each of fiscal years 
2021 through 2025 to carry out this section. Amounts appropriated under 
the preceding sentence for any fiscal year shall remain available until 
expended.
    ``(f) Definition of FAA.--In this section, the term `FAA' means the 
Federal Aviation Administration.''.
    (b) Table of Contents.--The analysis for chapter 445 of title 49, 
United States Code, is amended by inserting after the item relating to 
section 44518 the following:

``44519. Certification personnel continuing education and training.''.

SEC. 12. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS FOR SCIENTIFIC AND TECHNICAL 
              ADVISORS.

    There are authorized to be appropriated to the Administrator, 
$10,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2021 through 2030 for salaries of 
specialized technical personnel with expertise in new and emerging 
technologies for such personnel to advise the Administrator on the 
development of technical standards for new technologies and operations 
to be implemented in the FAA's regulatory and certification programs. 
Amounts appropriated under the preceding sentence for any fiscal year 
shall remain available until expended.

SEC. 13. PROHIBITION ON CERTAIN PERFORMANCE-BASED INCENTIVES.

    Section 106(l) of title 49, United States Code, is amended by 
adding at the end the following:
            ``(7) Prohibition on certain performance-based 
        incentives.--No employee of the Administration shall be given 
        an award, financial incentive, other compensation, or 
        recognition as a result of actions to meet performance goals 
        related to meeting schedules or quotas for certificates issued 
        under section 44704.''.

SEC. 14. SAFETY REPORTING PROGRAM.

    (a) In General.--Not later than 1 year after the date of enactment 
of this Act, in order to improve safety in the individual certification 
application review process and potential trends relating to safety 
concerns, the Administrator shall maintain a safety reporting program 
for FAA employees to anonymously and voluntarily report instances where 
they have identified safety concerns during the certification process.
    (b) Safety Reporting Program Requirements.--In maintaining the 
safety reporting program under subsection (a), the Administrator shall 
ensure the following:
            (1) The FAA maintains a reporting culture that encourages 
        engineers and other appropriate FAA employees to voluntarily 
        report when they believe an aspect of an aircraft design may be 
        noncompliant, nonconforming, or unsafe.
            (2) The safety reporting program is non-punitive and 
        anonymous.
            (3) The Administrator thoroughly reviews safety reports to 
        determine whether there is a hazard, defect, noncompliance, 
        nonconformance, or process error.
            (4) The Administrator thoroughly reviews safety reports to 
        determine whether potential weaknesses in the aircraft 
        certification processes led to safety concerns being raised 
        regarding aircraft, engine, propeller, and appliance designs, 
        including systems, components, parts, and materials.
            (5) If the Administrator determines that a hazard, defect, 
        noncompliance, nonconformance, or process error exists, the 
        root cause is identified and appropriate action is taken to 
        remedy the defect, noncompliance, nonconformance, or process 
        error.
    (c) Outcomes.--Results of safety report reviews under this section 
may be used to--
            (1) improve--
                    (A) safety systems, hazard control, and risk 
                reduction;
                    (B) certification systems;
                    (C) FAA oversight; and
                    (D) compliance and conformance; and
            (2) implement lessons learned.
    (d) Report Filing.--The Administrator shall establish requirements 
for when in the certification process reports may be filed, which may 
include certification milestones, timelines, or other decision-making 
points, with the goals of ensuring that identified issues can be timely 
addressed and fostering open dialogue between applicants and FAA 
employees throughout the certification process.
    (e) Integration With Other Safety Reporting Programs.--The 
Administrator shall harmonize the safety reporting program maintained 
under subsection (a) with other internal safety reporting programs the 
FAA maintains.
    (f) Report to Congress.--Not later than 2 years after the date of 
enactment of this Act, and annually thereafter, the Administrator shall 
submit to the appropriate committees of Congress a report on the 
effectiveness of the safety reporting program maintained under 
subsection (a).

SEC. 15. PROTECTION OF WHISTLEBLOWERS.

    Section 42121(a) of title 49, United States Code, is amended--
            (1) by redesignating paragraphs (1) through (4) as 
        subparagraphs (A) through (D), respectively, and moving the 
        margins of such subparagraphs 2 ems to the right;
            (2) in the subsection heading, by striking ``Airline'';
            (3) by striking ``No air carrier'' and inserting the 
        following:
            ``(1) Air carriers.--No air carrier''; and
            (4) by adding at the end the following:
            ``(2) Aircraft manufacturers.--No aircraft, engine, or 
        propeller manufacturer that holds a certificate issued pursuant 
        to section 44704 of title 49, United States Code, or contractor 
        of, subcontractor of, or supplier to, such a manufacturer may 
        discharge an employee or otherwise discriminate against an 
        employee with respect to compensation, terms, conditions, or 
        privileges of employment because the employee (or any person 
        acting pursuant to a request of the employee)--
                    ``(A) provided, caused to be provided, or is about 
                to provide (with any knowledge of the employer) or 
                cause to be provided to the employer or Federal 
                Government information relating to any violation or 
                alleged violation of any order, regulation, or standard 
                of the Federal Aviation Administration or any other 
                provision of Federal law relating to aircraft, engine, 
                or propeller manufacturer safety (including parts or 
                components provided by contractors, subcontractors, or 
                suppliers) under this subtitle or any other law of the 
                United States;
                    ``(B) has filed, caused to be filed, or is about to 
                file (with any knowledge of the employer) or cause to 
                be filed a proceeding relating to any violation or 
                alleged violation of any order, regulation, or standard 
                of the Federal Aviation Administration or any other 
                provision of Federal law, relating to aircraft, engine, 
                or propeller manufacturer safety (including parts or 
                components provided by contractors, subcontractors, or 
                suppliers) under this subtitle or any other law of the 
                United States;
                    ``(C) testified or is about to testify in such a 
                proceeding; or
                    ``(D) assisted or participated or is about to 
                assist or participate in such a proceeding.''.

SEC. 16. REPEAL OF DESIGN AND PRODUCTION ORGANIZATION CERTIFICATE 
              AUTHORITY.

    (a) In General.--Section 44704 of title 49, United States Code, is 
amended--
            (1) in the section heading, by striking ``airworthiness 
        certificates, and design and production organization 
        certificates'' and inserting ``and airworthiness 
        certificates''; and
            (2) by striking subsection (e).
    (b) Conforming Amendment.--Section 44702(a) of title 49, United 
States Code, is amended, in the matter preceding paragraph (1), by 
striking ``design organization certificates,''.

SEC. 17. ENSURING APPROPRIATE RESPONSIBILITY OF AIRCRAFT CERTIFICATION 
              AND FLIGHT STANDARDS PERFORMANCE OBJECTIVES AND METRICS.

    (a) Repeals.--Sections 211 and 221 of the FAA Reauthorization Act 
of 2018 (49 U.S.C. 44701 note) are repealed.
    (b) Conforming Repeals.--Paragraphs (8) and (9) of section 202(c) 
of the FAA Reauthorization Act of 2018 (49 U.S.C. 44701 note) are 
repealed.

SEC. 18. REVIEW OF FAA CERTIFICATION EXPERTISE.

    (a) In General.--Not later than 60 days after the date of enactment 
of this Act, and without duplicating any recently completed or ongoing 
reviews, the Administrator shall initiate a review of--
            (1) the inspectors, engineers, managers, and executives in 
        the FAA who are responsible for the certification of the 
        design, manufacture, and operation of aircraft intended for air 
        transportation for purposes of determining whether the FAA has 
        the expertise and capability to adequately understand the 
        safety implications of, and oversee the adoption of, new or 
        innovative technologies, materials, and procedures that 
        designers and manufacturers of such aircraft may adopt or 
        introduce;
            (2) the Chief Scientific and Technical Advisors program to 
        determine whether the program should be enhanced or expanded to 
        bolster and support the FAA's aircraft certification and safety 
        programs, particularly with respect to understanding the safety 
        implications of new or innovative technologies, materials, 
        aircraft, and procedures, that designers and manufacturers of 
        such aircraft may adopt or introduce; and
            (3) the FAA's compensation policies for aircraft 
        certification engineers relative to those of industry to 
        determine whether compensation is adequate to attract personnel 
        with adequate experience.
    (b) Deadline for Completion.--Not later than 270 days after the 
date of enactment of this Act, the Administrator shall complete the 
review required by subsection (a).
    (c) Briefing.--Not later than 30 days after the completion of the 
review required by subsection (a), the Administrator shall brief the 
appropriate committees of Congress on the results of the review and any 
other related review. The briefing shall include the following:
            (1) An analysis of the FAA's ability to hire safety 
        inspectors, engineers, managers, executives, scientists, and 
        technical advisors, who have the requisite expertise to oversee 
        new developments in aerospace design and manufacturing.
            (2) A plan for the FAA to improve the overall expertise of 
        the FAA's personnel who are responsible for the oversight of 
        the design and manufacture of aircraft.
            (3) Recommendations for such legislation, if any, as the 
        Administrator determines necessary to carry out the plan 
        required under paragraph (2).
                                 &lt;all&gt;
</pre></body></html>
