<html><body><pre>
[Congressional Bills 116th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[S. 5056 Introduced in Senate (IS)]

&lt;DOC&gt;






116th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                S. 5056

 To require the Administrator of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric 
 Administration to provide for ocean-based climate solutions to reduce 
 carbon emissions and global warming, to make coastal communities more 
resilient, and to provide for the conservation and restoration of ocean 
    and coastal habitats, biodiversity, and marine mammal and fish 
                  populations, and for other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                   IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

                           December 17, 2020

  Mr. Merkley introduced the following bill; which was read twice and 
   referred to the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
 To require the Administrator of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric 
 Administration to provide for ocean-based climate solutions to reduce 
 carbon emissions and global warming, to make coastal communities more 
resilient, and to provide for the conservation and restoration of ocean 
    and coastal habitats, biodiversity, and marine mammal and fish 
                  populations, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE; TABLE OF CONTENTS.

    (a) Short Title.--This Act may be cited as the ``Ocean Climate 
Emergency Action Now Act of 2020'' or the ``OCEAN Act of 2020''.
    (b) Table of Contents.--The table of contents for this Act is as 
follows:

Sec. 1. Short title; table of contents.
Sec. 2. Definitions.
                TITLE I--MARINE AND COASTAL BLUE CARBON

Sec. 101. Blue Carbon Program.
Sec. 102. National map of coastal and marine blue carbon ecosystems.
Sec. 103. Report on blue carbon in the United States.
Sec. 104. Blue Carbon Partnership Grant Program.
Sec. 105. Integrated pilot programs to protect and restore degraded 
                            coastal blue carbon ecosystems.
Sec. 106. Interagency working group.
Sec. 107. Coastal carbon areas of significance.
Sec. 108. Smithsonian Institution blue carbon activities.
Sec. 109. Authorization of appropriations.
Sec. 110. Definitions.
       TITLE II--CLIMATE-READY FISHERIES AND BUY AMERICAN SEAFOOD

Sec. 201. Sense of Congress.
Sec. 202. Caught in the USA.
Sec. 203. Eliminate fish subsidies in trade agreements.
Sec. 204. Climate and fisheries research and management program.
Sec. 205. Climate-ready fisheries innovation program.
Sec. 206. Shifting Stocks Task Force.
Sec. 207. Essential fish habitat consultation.
Sec. 208. Ocean Aquaculture Research and Policy Program.
           TITLE III--COASTAL ZONE MANAGEMENT ACT AMENDMENTS

Sec. 301. Grants to further achievement of Tribal coastal zone 
                            objectives.
Sec. 302. Eligibility of District of Columbia for Federal funding under 
                            the Coastal Zone Management Act of 1972.
Sec. 303. Coastal and Estuarine Land Conservation Program.
Sec. 304. Coastal Zone Management Fund.
Sec. 305. Authorization of appropriations.
Sec. 306. Amendments to National Estuarine Research Reserve System 
                            program.
              TITLE IV--COASTAL RESILIENCY AND ADAPTATION

Sec. 401. Living Shoreline Grant Program.
Sec. 402. National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration coastal 
                            resilience research grants.
Sec. 403. Grants for recovering oysters.
Sec. 404. Improvements to the National Oceans and Coastal Security Act.
Sec. 405. Restoration grants for coastlines and fisheries.
Sec. 406. Strategic Climate Change Relocation Initiative and Program.
  TITLE V--OCEAN HEALTH: OCEAN ACIDIFICATION AND HARMFUL ALGAL BLOOMS

          Subtitle A--Coastal Communities Ocean Acidification

Sec. 501. State and United States defined.
Sec. 502. Coastal community vulnerability assessment.
           Subtitle B--Ocean Acidification Prize Competitions

Sec. 511. Prize competitions.
   Subtitle C--Coastal and Ocean Acidification Stressors and Threats 
                                Research

Sec. 521. Purposes.
Sec. 522. Definitions.
Sec. 523. Interagency working group.
Sec. 524. Strategic research plan.
Sec. 525. National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration ocean 
                            acidification activities.
Sec. 526. National Science Foundation ocean acidification activities.
Sec. 527. National Aeronautics and Space Administration ocean 
                            acidification activities.
Sec. 528. Authorization of appropriations.
             Subtitle D--South Florida Clean Coastal Waters

Sec. 531. South Florida harmful algal blooms and hypoxia assessment and 
                            action plan.
   Subtitle E--Protecting Local Communities From Harmful Algal Blooms

Sec. 541. Algal blooms.
         Subtitle F--Harmful Algal Bloom Essential Forecasting

Sec. 551. Designating certain harmful algal bloom services as excepted 
                            services under the Anti-Deficiency Act.
Sec. 552. Centers of Excellence in Harmful Algal Bloom Research, 
                            Prevention, Response, and Mitigation.
  TITLE VI--NATIONAL OCEAN POLICY, DATA, AND COORDINATED WEBSITE FOR 
                             GRANT PROGRAMS

                Subtitle A--Regional Ocean Partnerships

Sec. 601. Findings; sense of Congress; purposes.
Sec. 602. Regional Ocean Partnerships.
              Subtitle B--Data and Scientific Coordination

Sec. 611. Increased coordination among agencies with respect to data 
                            and monitoring.
Sec. 612. Interagency Ocean Exploration Committee.
Sec. 613. Committee on Ocean Policy.
Sec. 614. Building data sources.
Sec. 615. National sea level rise risk analysis.
      Subtitle C--Integrated Coastal and Ocean Observation System

Sec. 621. Staggered terms for National Integrated Coastal and Ocean 
                            Observation System Advisory Committee.
Sec. 622. Integrated coastal and ocean observation system cooperative 
                            agreements.
Sec. 623. Reauthorization of Integrated Coastal and Ocean Observation 
                            System Act of 2009.
Sec. 624. Advanced Research Projects Agency-Oceans.
         Subtitle D--Centralized Website for Resiliency Grants

Sec. 631. Centralized website for resiliency grants.
                      TITLE VII--COASTAL WETLANDS

Sec. 701. Definitions.
Sec. 702. Coastal and Estuary Resilience Grant Program.
Sec. 703. Data collection.
Sec. 704. Outreach and technical assistance.
Sec. 705. Annual restoration and funding.
Sec. 706. Prevailing wage requirement.
Sec. 707. Department of the Interior coastal wetland restoration; 
                            funding.

SEC. 2. DEFINITIONS.

    In this Act:
            (1) Administrator.--The term ``Administrator'' means the 
        Administrator of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric 
        Administration.
            (2) Exclusive economic zone.--The term ``exclusive economic 
        zone'' means the zone established by Presidential Proclamation 
        Number 5030, dated March 10, 1983 (16 U.S.C. 1453 note; 
        relating to the exclusive economic zone of the United States of 
        America).
            (3) Indian tribe.--The term ``Indian Tribe'' has the 
        meaning given such term in section 4 of the Indian Self-
        Determination and Education Assistance Act (25 U.S.C. 5304).
            (4) Institution of higher education.--The term 
        ``institution of higher education'' has the meaning given such 
        term in section 101(a) of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (20 
        U.S.C. 1001(a)).
            (5) National academies.--The term ``National Academies'' 
        means the National Academies of Sciences, Engineering, and 
        Medicine.
            (6) Restorative ocean aquaculture.--The term ``restorative 
        ocean aquaculture'' means ocean and coastal propagation of 
        seaweed or shellfish farming that generates positive ecological 
        and social impact.
            (7) State.--The term ``State'' means each of the several 
        States, the District of Columbia, and the United States 
        Territories of American Samoa, the Commonwealth of the Northern 
        Mariana Islands, Guam, Puerto Rico, and the United States 
        Virgin Islands.
            (8) United states.--The term ``United States'' means the 
        States, collectively.

                TITLE I--MARINE AND COASTAL BLUE CARBON

SEC. 101. BLUE CARBON PROGRAM.

    (a) Establishment.--The Administrator shall establish and maintain 
a program, to be known as the ``Blue Carbon Program'', within the 
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration for the purposes of 
furthering conservation objectives for fish and wildlife habitat 
conservation and restoration and coastal resilience including the 
development of ways to incorporate ecosystem services from carbon 
storage into existing domestic and international policies, programs, 
and activities.
    (b) Additional Authority.--In conducting the Program, the 
Administrator may enter into and perform such contracts, leases, 
grants, or cooperative agreements as may be necessary to carry out the 
purposes of this title on such terms as Administrator considers 
appropriate.
    (c) Consultation.--The Administrator shall coordinate activities 
carried out under this section with the Assistant Administrator of the 
National Marine Fisheries Service and the Assistant Administrator of 
the National Ocean Service.
    (d) Activities.--The Administrator shall lead the development and 
coordination of the strategic plan described in section 106(e) and 
conduct the following activities:
            (1) Collaborate with Federal agencies, the interagency 
        working group, State agencies, Indian Tribes, and non-
        governmental organizations on research, restoration, and 
        protection efforts relating to blue carbon ecosystems.
            (2) Develop a database of blue carbon stocks and fluxes in 
        the United States.
            (3) Assist in exploration of the potential for a market for 
        carbon credits for restoration initiatives, including research 
        and development of protocols.
            (4) Raise awareness of blue carbon ecosystems as a tool to 
        further conservation objectives through education and extension 
        activities.
            (5) Use existing models or develop new models to assess 
        blue carbon storage potential that include quantification, 
        verifiability, additionality as compared to a historical 
        baseline, and permanence of those benefits.
            (6) Quantify current total and net ecosystem carbon storage 
        in coastal and marine areas.
            (7) Project future total and net ecosystem carbon storage 
        under different scenarios influenced by human population 
        growth, sea level rise, and other system-wide changes.
            (8) Develop and use protocols for inclusion of blue carbon 
        projects in carbon markets.
            (9) Protect and restore habitats, waters, and organisms 
        that are long-term carbon sinks or will be subject to habitat 
        change as a result of climate change and development.
            (10) Provide staff and technical expertise to the 
        interagency working group.
            (11) Quantify co-benefits, including flood risk reduction, 
        habitat restoration for endangered and threatened species, 
        maintenance of biodiversity, water quality improvements, 
        habitat maintenance and creation, cycling of nutrients other 
        than carbon, and commercial and recreational fishing and 
        boating benefits.
            (12) Assess regional and national ecosystem and 
        socioeconomic impacts of carbon sequestration and storage.
            (13) Research variability, long-term storage, and 
        innovative techniques for effective, long-term, natural ocean 
        or coastal ecosystem-based carbon sequestration.
            (14) Identify blue carbon hot spots.
            (15) Assess legal issues of landownership in blue carbon 
        markets, and develop guidelines to help landowners navigate the 
        requirements of such markets.

SEC. 102. NATIONAL MAP OF COASTAL AND MARINE BLUE CARBON ECOSYSTEMS.

    (a) National Map.--The Administrator, in consultation with the 
interagency working group, shall--
            (1) produce, update every 3 years, and maintain a national 
        map and inventory of coastal blue carbon ecosystems including--
                    (A) with respect to each such ecosystem--
                            (i) the species and types of habitat in the 
                        ecosystem;
                            (ii) the condition of such habitats 
                        including whether a habitat is degraded, 
                        drained, eutrophic, or tidally restricted;
                            (iii) type of public or private ownership 
                        and any protected status;
                            (iv) the size of the ecosystem;
                            (v) the salinity boundaries of the 
                        ecosystem;
                            (vi) the tidal boundaries of the ecosystem;
                            (vii) an assessment of carbon sequestration 
                        potential, methane production, and net 
                        greenhouse gas effects of the ecosystem, 
                        including consideration of--
                                    (I) quantification;
                                    (II) verifiability;
                                    (III) additionality, as compared to 
                                a historical baseline; and
                                    (IV) permanence of those benefits;
                            (viii) an assessment of the ecosystem co-
                        benefits, such as fish habitat for commercial, 
                        recreational, and Tribal fisheries, flood risk 
                        reduction, wave stress, storm protection, 
                        shoreline stabilization, public access, water 
                        and air pollution filtration, contributions to 
                        traditional and cultural practices, and 
                        recreational use and benefits of the ecosystem;
                            (ix) the potential for landward migration 
                        of the ecosystem as a result of sea level rise;
                            (x) any upstream restrictions detrimental 
                        to the watershed process and conditions, 
                        including dams, dikes, and levees;
                            (xi) any upstream pollution sources that 
                        threaten the health of the ecosystem;
                            (xii) proximity to aquaculture uses or 
                        lease areas; and
                            (xiii) a depiction of the effects of human 
                        stressors, including the conversion of coastal 
                        blue carbon ecosystems to other land uses and 
                        the cause of such conversion; and
                    (B) a depiction of the effects of climate change, 
                including sea level rise, ocean acidification, ocean 
                warming, and other environmental stressors on the 
                sequestration rate, carbon storage, and potential of 
                coastal blue carbon ecosystems; and
            (2) in carrying out paragraph (1)--
                    (A) incorporate, to the extent possible, existing 
                and future data collected through federally and State 
                funded research, including data collected from--
                            (i) the Coastal Change Analysis Program of 
                        the National Oceanic and Atmospheric 
                        Administration;
                            (ii) the National Wetlands Inventory of the 
                        United States Fish and Wildlife Service;
                            (iii) the LandCarbon program of the United 
                        States Geological Survey;
                            (iv) the LiDAR information coordination and 
                        knowledge program of the United States 
                        Geological Survey and the Federal Emergency 
                        Management Agency;
                            (v) the Biological and Environmental 
                        Research program of the Department of Energy; 
                        and
                            (vi) the National Coastal Blue Carbon 
                        Assessment of the Department of Agriculture; 
                        and
                    (B) engage regional experts for additional peer-
                reviewed data to ensure best available scientific 
                information is incorporated.
    (b) Use.--The interagency working group shall use the national map 
and inventory created pursuant to subsection (a)--
            (1) to assess the existing and potential carbon 
        sequestration of different coastal blue carbon ecosystems, and 
        account for any regional differences;
            (2) to assess and quantify emissions from degraded and 
        destroyed coastal blue carbon ecosystems;
            (3) to develop regional assessments and to provide 
        technical assistance to regional, State, Tribal, and local 
        government agencies, regional information coordination entities 
        (as such term is defined in section 12303(6) of the Integrated 
        Coastal and Ocean Observation System Act (33 U.S.C. 3602(6))), 
        and agencies, organizations, and other entities that support 
        communities that may not have adequate resources, including 
        low-income communities, communities of color, Tribal 
        communities, and rural communities;
            (4) to assess degraded coastal blue carbon ecosystems and 
        the potential of those ecosystems for restoration, including 
        developing scenario modeling to identify vulnerable land areas 
        where management, protection, and restoration efforts should be 
        focused, including the potential for an ecosystem to migrate 
        inland to adapt to sea level rise; and
            (5) produce predictions of coastal blue carbon ecosystems 
        and carbon sequestration rates in the context of climate 
        change, environmental stressors, and human stressors.

SEC. 103. REPORT ON BLUE CARBON IN THE UNITED STATES.

    Not later than 1 year after the date of the enactment of this Act 
and every 2 years thereafter, the Administrator, in consultation with 
the interagency working group, shall submit to the Committee on 
Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate and the Committee 
on Natural Resources of the House of Representatives a report 
containing the following:
            (1) A summary of federally funded coastal and marine blue 
        carbon ecosystem research, monitoring, preservation, and 
        restoration activities, including the budget for each of those 
        activities and a description of the progress made in advancing 
        the national priorities established by the interagency working 
        group.
            (2) With respect to each blue carbon ecosystem, the--
                    (A) type;
                    (B) location; and
                    (C) type of ownership, delineated by private lands, 
                State lands, Tribal lands, or Federal.
            (3) An assessment of the vulnerability of coastal and 
        marine blue carbon ecosystems to climate impacts such as sea-
        level rise, acidification, and saltwater intrusion, and other 
        environmental and human stressors, such as development, water 
        pollution, and aquaculture.
            (4) An assessment of the greatest anthropogenic threats to 
        blue carbon ecosystems, including the Federal agency actions 
        that have historically caused and presently cause great adverse 
        effects on such ecosystems.
            (5) An assessment of the carbon sequestration potential of 
        blue carbon ecosystems and the probable changes to 
        sequestration under climate change scenarios.
            (6) An assessment of biophysical, social, and economic 
        impediments, including water storage and flood control 
        structures, to coastal blue carbon ecosystem protection and 
        restoration and opportunities to restore and enhance the 
        resilience and sequestration potential of blue carbon 
        ecosystems.
            (7) An assessment of aging or outdated artificial 
        structures, including dikes, levees, dams, culverts, water 
        storage structures, shoreline hardening projects, impediments 
        to fish passage, and other infrastructure that impede the 
        ecological or sequestration functions of blue carbon ecosystems 
        and the feasibility of repairing, retrofitting, or removing 
        such structures.
            (8) An assessment of the economic, social, and 
        environmental co-benefits that those blue carbon ecosystems 
        provide including--
                    (A) coastal protection from storms and flooding;
                    (B) tourism and recreational use;
                    (C) benefits to fisheries;
                    (D) nutrient removal;
                    (E) number of jobs that are directly or indirectly 
                attributable to blue carbon ecosystems; and
                    (F) total economic activity that is attributable to 
                blue carbon ecosystems.
            (9) An assessment of the social and economic makeup of the 
        communities served by blue carbon ecosystems.

SEC. 104. BLUE CARBON PARTNERSHIP GRANT PROGRAM.

    (a) Establishment.--The Administrator shall establish a competitive 
grant program, to be known as the ``Blue Carbon Partnership Grant 
Program'', to, beginning not later than 2 years after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, provide funds to eligible recipients for 
projects that--
            (1) protect and restore blue carbon stocks, oceanic blue 
        carbon, and coastal blue carbon ecosystems and increase the 
        long-term carbon storage; and
            (2) contribute to priorities identified in the most recent 
        strategic plan developed by the interagency working group under 
        section 106(e).
    (b) Eligible Recipients.--A person or entity is eligible to receive 
a grant under the grant program if such person or entity is--
            (1) a voluntary private landowner or group of landowners;
            (2) a State agency responsible for managing natural 
        resources or wildlife;
            (3) an Indian Tribe;
            (4) a unit of local government;
            (5) a nonprofit organization or land trust;
            (6) an institution of higher education; or
            (7) any group of entities described in paragraphs (1) 
        through (6).
    (c) Requirements.--In administering the grant program under this 
section, the Administrator shall use the criteria, guidelines, 
contracts, reporting requirements, and evaluation metrics developed by 
the interagency working group.
    (d) Selection Criteria.--In evaluating applications for the grant 
program from eligible recipients, the Administrator shall give priority 
to proposed eligible restoration activities that would--
            (1) result in long-term protection and sequestration of 
        carbon stored in coastal and marine environments; and
            (2)(A) protect key habitats for fish, wildlife, and the 
        maintenance of biodiversity;
            (B) provide coastal protection from development, storms, 
        flooding, and land-based pollution;
            (C) protect coastal resources of national, historical, and 
        cultural significance;
            (D) benefit communities of color, low-income communities, 
        Tribal or Indigenous communities, or rural communities; or
            (E) capitalize on existing established public-private 
        partnerships.
    (e) Report to Congress.--
            (1) Report required.--The Administrator shall submit 
        annually to Congress a report containing a State-by-State 
        analysis of--
                    (A) the total number of acres of land or water 
                protected or restored through fee title acquisition, 
                easement, restoration or other activities under the 
                grant program;
                    (B) the status of restoration projects under the 
                grant program; and
                    (C) the amount of blue carbon captured or protected 
                over a 100-year time period as a result of the grant 
                program.
            (2) Public availability of report.--The Administrator shall 
        make available to the public each report required by paragraph 
        (1).
    (f) Authorization of Appropriations.--There is authorized to be 
appropriated to the Administrator $200,000,000 for each of fiscal years 
2021 to 2025 to carry out this section.

SEC. 105. INTEGRATED PILOT PROGRAMS TO PROTECT AND RESTORE DEGRADED 
              COASTAL BLUE CARBON ECOSYSTEMS.

    The Administrator shall--
            (1) establish integrated pilot programs that--
                    (A) develop best management practices, including 
                design criteria and performance functions, for coastal 
                and marine blue carbon ecosystem restoration, nature-
                based adaptation strategies, living shoreline projects, 
                and landward progression or migration of coastal blue 
                carbon ecosystems; and
                    (B) identify potential barriers to restoration 
                efforts;
            (2) ensure that the pilot programs--
                    (A) cover geographically, ecologically, culturally, 
                and economically representative locations with 
                significant ecological, economic, and social benefits; 
                and
                    (B) maximize potential for long-term carbon 
                storage;
            (3) establish a procedure for reviewing applications for 
        the pilot programs, taking into account--
                    (A) quantification;
                    (B) verifiability;
                    (C) additionality, as compared to a historical 
                baseline; and
                    (D) permanence of those benefits;
            (4) ensure, through consultation with the interagency 
        working group, that the goals, metrics, monitoring, and 
        outcomes of the pilot programs are communicated to the 
        appropriate State, Tribal, and local governments, and to the 
        general public; and
            (5) coordinate with relevant Federal agencies on the 
        interagency working group to prevent unnecessary duplication of 
        effort among Federal agencies and departments with respect to 
        protection and restoration programs.

SEC. 106. INTERAGENCY WORKING GROUP.

    (a) Establishment.--The Subcommittee on Ocean Science and 
Technology of the National Science and Technology Council shall 
establish an interagency working group to be known as the ``Interagency 
Working Group on Coastal and Marine Blue Carbon''.
    (b) Purposes.--The interagency working group shall--
            (1) oversee the development of and updates to a national 
        map, including United States Territories, of coastal and marine 
        blue carbon ecosystems, including habitat types, with a 
        regional focus in analysis that is usable for local level 
        protection planning and restoration;
            (2) use such map to inform the Administrator of the 
        creation by the Administrator of the Environmental Protection 
        Agency of the annual Inventory of United States Greenhouse Gas 
        Emissions and Sinks;
            (3) establish national coastal and marine blue carbon 
        ecosystem restoration priorities, including an assessment of 
        current Federal funding being used for restoration and 
        conservation efforts;
            (4) assess the biophysical, social, statutory, regulatory, 
        and economic impediments to coastal and marine blue carbon 
        ecosystem protection and restoration;
            (5) study the effects of climate change and environmental 
        and human stressors on carbon sequestration rates;
            (6) identify priority blue carbon ecosystems for 
        protection;
            (7) develop a national strategy for foundational science 
        necessary to study, synthesize, and evaluate the effects of 
        climate change and environmental and human stressors on 
        sequestration rates and capabilities of marine blue carbon and 
        coastal blue carbon ecosystems protection;
            (8) develop an assessment of current legal authorities to 
        protect and restore blue carbon ecosystems and make 
        recommendations for additional authorities if current 
        authorities are determined to be insufficient; and
            (9) ensure the continuity, use, and interoperability of 
        data assets through the Coastal Carbon Data Clearinghouse of 
        the Smithsonian Institution.
    (c) Membership.--The interagency working group shall be comprised 
of representatives of the following:
            (1) The Administrator.
            (2) The Administrator of the Environmental Protection 
        Agency.
            (3) The Director of the National Science Foundation.
            (4) The Administrator of the National Aeronautics and Space 
        Administration.
            (5) The Director of the United States Geological Survey.
            (6) The Director of the United States Fish and Wildlife 
        Service.
            (7) The Director of the National Park Service.
            (8) The Director of the Bureau of Indian Affairs.
            (9) The Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution.
            (10) The Chief of Engineers of the Army Corps of Engineers.
            (11) The Secretary of Agriculture.
            (12) The Secretary of Defense.
            (13) The Secretary of Transportation.
            (14) The Secretary of State.
            (15) The Secretary of Energy.
            (16) The Administrator of the United States Agency for 
        International Development.
            (17) The Administrator of the Federal Emergency Management 
        Agency.
            (18) The Chair of the Council on Environmental Quality.
    (d) Chair.--The interagency working group shall be chaired by the 
Administrator.
    (e) Strategic Plan.--
            (1) In general.--The interagency working group shall create 
        a strategic plan for Federal investments in basic research, 
        development, demonstration, long-term monitoring and 
        stewardship, and deployment of coastal blue carbon ecosystem 
        and marine blue carbon projects for the 5-year period beginning 
        on the date that is 1 year after the date of the enactment of 
        this Act. The plan shall include--
                    (A) an assessment of the use of existing Federal 
                programs to protect, restore, enhance, and preserve 
                coastal blue carbon ecosystems;
                    (B) an analysis of potential sea level rise 
                migration corridors for blue carbon ecosystems;
                    (C) an analysis of anticipated fish and wildlife 
                uses of blue carbon ecosystems; and
                    (D) identification of priority strategies and 
                investments for preserving, restoring, and enhancing 
                the resilience and carbon sequestration potential of 
                such blue carbon ecosystems.
            (2) Timing.--The interagency working group shall--
                    (A) submit the strategic plan under paragraph (1) 
                to the Committee on Commerce, Science, and 
                Transportation of the Senate and the Committee on 
                Natural Resources and the Committee on Science, Space, 
                and Technology of the House of Representatives on a 
                date that is not later than 1 year after the date of 
                the enactment of this Act; and
                    (B) submit a revised version of such plan to such 
                committees every 5 years thereafter.
            (3) Federal register.--Not less than 90 days before the 
        strategic plan, or any revision thereof, is submitted under 
        paragraph (2), the interagency working group shall publish such 
        plan or revision in the Federal Register and solicit public 
        comments on such plan or revision for a period of not less than 
        60 days.

SEC. 107. COASTAL CARBON AREAS OF SIGNIFICANCE.

    (a) Designation.--The Administrator, consistent with this section, 
shall designate as a coastal carbon area of significance any area that 
is--
            (1) in the coastal zone (as such term is defined in section 
        304 of the Coastal Zone Management Act of 1972 (16 U.S.C. 
        1453)), in territorial waters of the United States, or in the 
        exclusive economic zone; and
            (2) the location of water, a substrate, or an ecosystem 
        that--
                    (A) provides for long-term storage and 
                sequestration of significant amounts of ecosystem 
                carbon; and
                    (B)(i) limits erosion and future landward 
                migration;
                    (ii) provides a buffer against storm surge, 
                especially for communities of color, low-income 
                communities, and Tribal and Indigenous communities;
                    (iii) provides a spawning, breeding, feeding, or 
                nesting habitat for wildlife; or
                    (iv) is estuarine habitat designated as essential 
                fish habitat under the Magnuson-Stevens Fishery 
                Conservation and Management Act (16 U.S.C. 1801 et 
                seq.).
    (b) Guidelines.--The Administrator, in consultation with the 
interagency working group, shall, not later than 1 year after the date 
of the enactment of this Act, establish by regulation guidelines based 
on the best available science to describe and identify coastal carbon 
areas of significance and measures to ensure the protection of coastal 
carbon areas of significance.
    (c) Review and Update.--The Administrator, in consultation with the 
interagency working group, shall review and update guidelines 
established under subsection (b) not less frequently than once every 5 
years or when new information warrants such an update.
    (d) Schedule.--The Administrator, in consultation with the 
interagency working group, shall--
            (1) establish a schedule for the identification of coastal 
        carbon areas of significance under subsection (b) and for 
        reviews and updates under subsection (c); and
            (2) make initial designations of a coastal carbon area of 
        significance in each coastal State not later than 1 year after 
        the date of enactment of this Act.
    (e) Recommendations and Information.--The Administrator, in 
consultation with the interagency working group, shall, with respect to 
each coastal carbon area of significance, provide recommendations and 
information regarding the adverse impacts and threats to the carbon 
storage, ecosystem services, and habitat capacity of the area, and the 
actions that should be considered to avoid adverse impacts and ensure 
the conservation and enhancement of that area.
    (f) Programs Administered by the Secretary of Commerce.--The 
Administrator, in consultation with the interagency working group, 
shall use programs administered by the Secretary of Commerce to carry 
out this section and ensure the conservation and enhancement of each 
coastal carbon area of significance.
    (g) Requirements for Federal Actions.--With respect to any proposed 
agency action that has the potential to cause an adverse impact on the 
carbon storage, ecosystem services, or habitat capacity of any coastal 
carbon area of significance, each Federal agency shall comply with the 
following requirements:
            (1) Notification.--Such Federal agency shall notify the 
        Administrator of such proposed agency action.
            (2) Determination of adverse impact.--The Administrator, in 
        consultation with the proposing agency and subject to public 
        comment, shall determine whether the proposed agency action 
        will cause an adverse impact on the carbon storage, ecosystem, 
        or habitat of a coastal carbon area of significance.
            (3) Alternative.--With respect to any proposed action the 
        Administrator determines will have an adverse impact under 
        paragraph (2), the proposing agency, in consultation with the 
        Administrator, shall determine whether there is an alternative 
        action that would prevent such adverse impact and fulfill the 
        purpose of the proposed action. The proposing agency shall not 
        take an action that would cause an adverse impact if an 
        alternative that would not cause such adverse impact is 
        available and would fulfill the purpose of such action.
            (4) Carbon storage offsets.--With respect to a proposed 
        action for which the agency determines no alternative is 
        available under paragraph (3), the proposing agency shall--
                    (A) in consultation with the Administrator, take 
                measures to minimize and mitigate such adverse impact;
                    (B) take such action as the Administrator 
                determines necessary to create a coastal or marine blue 
                carbon ecosystem storage offset that, taken in 
                conjunction with the proposed action, results in a long 
                term net increase in carbon storage, lasting an 
                equivalent time period as the carbon storage lost by 
                the adverse impact;
                    (C) demonstrate quantitatively, using the best 
                available science, that the carbon storage offset will 
                result in a net increase in ecological carbon storage 
                and is located in close proximity to the original site 
                to keep the affected communities whole;
                    (D) maintain such carbon storage offset for a 
                period of time to be determined by the Administrator 
                but not less than 100 years; and
                    (E) publish the agency's proposed course of 
                mitigation in the Federal Register for public notice 
                and comment.
    (h) Requirement for Authorization or Appropriation.--Any requests 
for a new authorization or appropriation from a Federal agency 
transmitted to the Office of Management and Budget shall include, if 
such authorization or appropriation may affect a coastal carbon area of 
significance, a certification that such agency will use such 
authorization or appropriation in compliance with this section.
    (i) Required Restrictions.--A Federal agency may not enter into a 
lease, easement, right-of-way, or sale of any land designated as a 
coastal carbon area of significance unless such agency attaches 
appropriate restrictions to the use of the property to protect the 
coastal carbon area of significance.
    (j) Exception.--Preparation, revision, implementation, or 
enforcement of a fishery management plan under the Magnuson-Stevens 
Fishery Conservation and Management Act (16 U.S.C. 1801 et seq.) that 
applies to an area that is subject to a prohibition on all bottom-
tending fishing gear shall not be treated as an action that is subject 
to subsection (g).

SEC. 108. SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION BLUE CARBON ACTIVITIES.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution, in 
coordination with the Administrator and the interagency working group, 
shall provide for the long-term stewardship, continuity, use, and 
interoperability of, and access to, data relating to coastal blue 
carbon ecosystems and national mapping, including United States 
Territories and Tribal lands, by supporting the maintenance of the 
Coastal Carbon Data Clearinghouse operated by the Smithsonian 
Environmental Research Center.
    (b) Coastal Carbon Data Clearinghouse Duties.--Acting through the 
Coastal Carbon Data Clearinghouse, the Secretary of the Smithsonian 
Institution, in coordination with the Administrator and interagency 
working group, shall process, store, archive, provide access to, and 
incorporate to the extent possible, all coastal and marine blue carbon 
data collected through federally funded research by a Federal agency, 
State, local agency, Indian Tribe, academic scientist, or other 
relevant entity.
    (c) Global and National Data Assets.--The Secretary of the 
Smithsonian Institution, in coordination with the Administrator and the 
interagency working group, shall ensure that existing global and 
national data assets are incorporated into the Coastal Carbon Data 
Clearinghouse to the greatest extent possible.
    (d) Establishment of Standards, Protocols, and Procedures.--The 
Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution, in coordination with the 
Administrator and the interagency working group, shall establish 
standards, protocols, and procedures for the processing, storing, 
archiving, and providing access to data in the Coastal Carbon Data 
Clearinghouse and best practices for sharing such data with State, 
local, and Tribal governments, coastal stakeholders, non-Federal 
resource managers, and academia. The Administrator shall publish, 
update, and keep current such data on a publicly available website.
    (e) Digital Tools and Resources.--The Secretary of the Smithsonian 
Institution, in coordination with the Administrator and the interagency 
working group, shall develop digital tools and resources to support the 
public use of the Coastal Carbon Data Clearinghouse.
    (f) Authorization of Appropriations.--There is authorized to be 
appropriated to the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution $5,000,000 
for each of fiscal years 2021 through 2025 to carry out this section.

SEC. 109. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.

    There is authorized to be appropriated to the Administrator 
$50,000,000 for each of the fiscal years 2021 to 2025 to carry out this 
title.

SEC. 110. DEFINITIONS.

    In this title:
            (1) Blue carbon stocks.--The term ``blue carbon stocks'' 
        means terrestrial and marine vegetation and underlying sediment 
        that has the capacity to sequester and store atmospheric 
        carbon.
            (2) Coastal blue carbon ecosystem.--The term ``coastal blue 
        carbon ecosystem'' means vegetated coastal habitats including 
        mangroves, tidal marshes, seagrasses, kelp forests, and other 
        tidal or salt-water wetlands that have the capacity to 
        sequester carbon from the atmosphere for a period of not less 
        than 100 years.
            (3) Coastal carbon area of significance.--The term 
        ``coastal carbon area of significance'' means any area 
        designated by the Administrator under section 107 as a coastal 
        carbon area of significance.
            (4) Grant program.--The term ``grant program'' means the 
        Blue Carbon Partnership Grant Program established under section 
        104.
            (5) Interagency working group.--The term ``interagency 
        working group'' means the Interagency Working Group on Coastal 
        and Marine Blue Carbon established under section 106.
            (6) Marine blue carbon.--The term ``marine blue carbon'' 
        means the sequestration of carbon in pelagic and deep sea 
        ecosystems, including in sediments and through the ecosystem 
        impacts of increased biomass of large marine wildlife.
            (7) Marine blue carbon ecosystem.--The term ``marine blue 
        carbon ecosystem'' means habitats that support marine blue 
        carbon.
            (8) Program.--The term ``Program'' means the Blue Carbon 
        Program established under section 101(a).

       TITLE II--CLIMATE-READY FISHERIES AND BUY AMERICAN SEAFOOD

SEC. 201. SENSE OF CONGRESS.

    It is the sense of Congress that--
            (1) American wild-caught seafood is integral to the 
        Nation's food supply and to American food security;
            (2) the seafood supply chain is often long and complex;
            (3) American caught and American-processed seafood can be a 
        sustainable healthy source of protein and micronutrients;
            (4) fresh, frozen, dried, and canned domestic seafood can 
        be produced, processed, and transported in a manner that has a 
        low carbon footprint;
            (5) marine species that are small, at lower trophic levels, 
        and pelagic typically have the smallest carbon footprint; and
            (6) therefore, any executive agency that purchases seafood 
        products should, to the extent practicable, buy local American-
        caught or American-harvested and American-processed seafood 
        products from fisheries that are not overfished or experiencing 
        overfishing in order to reduce the greenhouse gas emissions 
        associated with the supply chain of seafood products.

SEC. 202. CAUGHT IN THE USA.

    Section 2(c)(1) of the Act of August 11, 1939 (15 U.S.C. 713c-
3(c)(1)) is amended to read as follows:
            ``(1) The Secretary shall make grants from the fund 
        established under subsection (b) to--
                    ``(A) assist persons in carrying out research and 
                development projects addressed to any aspect of United 
                States fisheries, including harvesting, processing, 
                marketing, and associated infrastructures; or
                    ``(B) assist persons to market and promote the 
                consumption of--
                            ``(i) local or domestic fishery products;
                            ``(ii) environmentally- and climate-
                        friendly fishery products that minimize bycatch 
                        and impacts on marine mammals;
                            ``(iii) invasive species; or
                            ``(iv) well-managed but less known 
                        species.''.

SEC. 203. ELIMINATE FISH SUBSIDIES IN TRADE AGREEMENTS.

    (a) In General.--Section 102(b) of the Bipartisan Congressional 
Trade Priorities and Accountability Act of 2015 (19 U.S.C. 4201(b)) is 
amended by adding at the end the following:
            ``(23) Fish subsidies.--The principal negotiating 
        objectives of the United States with respect to fish subsidies 
        are the following:
                    ``(A) To eliminate subsidies that contribute to 
                overcapacity, overfishing, or illegal, unreported, and 
                unregulated fishing, such as subsidies that--
                            ``(i) increase the marine fishing capacity 
                        of fishing vessels or support the acquisition 
                        of equipment that increases the ability of 
                        fishing vessels to find fish;
                            ``(ii) support the construction of fishing 
                        vessels, importation of fishing vessels, or 
                        government repurchase of fishing vessels 
                        outside of a binding and effective fishing 
                        capacity reduction program that includes the 
                        corresponding elimination of fishing rights and 
                        a binding and effective prohibition on the 
                        reuse of vessels for fishing to increase 
                        capacity in any fishery;
                            ``(iii) affect fish stocks in any fishery--
                                    ``(I) in an overfished or worse 
                                condition;
                                    ``(II) whose stock levels are 
                                declining; or
                                    ``(III) whose stock level status 
                                remains unknown;
                            ``(iv) are provided to fishing enterprises 
                        engaged in long-distance fishing, either on the 
                        high seas or in the exclusive economic zone of 
                        a third country;
                            ``(v) support the transfer or reflagging of 
                        fishing vessels to third countries, including 
                        through the creation of joint ventures with 
                        partners of those countries;
                            ``(vi) are provided to the fishing 
                        enterprises or to owners or operators of 
                        vessels that have been determined to have 
                        engaged in illegal, unreported, and unregulated 
                        fishing by a coastal State or a regional 
                        fisheries management organization; or
                            ``(vii) reduce fuel, insurance, or other 
                        operating costs solely for fishing enterprises.
                    ``(B) To require parties to trade agreements--
                            ``(i) to report to an environmental affairs 
                        committee established under the agreement, on 
                        an annual basis, all marine fishing-related 
                        subsidies provided by the parties, including 
                        fleet capacity and trade data concerning the 
                        fisheries that the subsidies affect;
                            ``(ii) to establish an independent body to 
                        make annual assessments of the health of fish 
                        stocks in each domestic fishery and report such 
                        assessments to such environmental affairs 
                        committee;
                            ``(iii) with respect to shared or 
                        international fisheries in which each party is 
                        involved in fishing activities, to commit to 
                        cooperating with third countries, regional 
                        fisheries management organizations, and 
                        assessment bodies in annual assessments of the 
                        health of fish stocks in such fisheries; and
                            ``(iv) to certify to such environmental 
                        affairs committee that they have made and 
                        continue to make adequate progress toward the 
                        goal of protecting and conserving, through 
                        well-connected and effective system of 
                        protected areas and other effective area-based 
                        conservation measures, at least 30 percent of 
                        the planet by 2030, with the focus on areas 
                        particularly important for biodiversity.
                    ``(C) To require parties to trade agreements that 
                are also members of the World Trade Organization to 
                work collaboratively at the Organization to establish 
                and maintain robust disciplines on fisheries 
                subsidies.''.
    (b) Effective Date.--The amendments made by subsection (a)--
            (1) take effect on the date of the enactment of this Act; 
        and
            (2) apply with respect to negotiations for trade agreements 
        subject to the provisions of section 103 of the Bipartisan 
        Congressional Trade Priorities and Accountability Act of 2015 
        (19 U.S.C. 4202) entered into on or after such date of 
        enactment.

SEC. 204. CLIMATE AND FISHERIES RESEARCH AND MANAGEMENT PROGRAM.

    Title IV of the Magnuson-Stevens Fishery Conservation and 
Management Act (16 U.S.C. 1881 et seq.) is amended by adding at the end 
the following:

``SEC. 409. CLIMATE AND FISHERIES RESEARCH AND MANAGEMENT PROGRAM.

    ``(a) Establishment of the Program.--The Secretary, in consultation 
with appropriate Regional Fishery Management Councils and in 
coordination with other Federal agencies and educational institutions, 
shall establish a program to identify, develop, and implement adaptive 
strategies, consistent with the requirements of this Act, to improve 
the management of fisheries under current and anticipated impacts of 
climate change. In administering such program, the Secretary shall--
            ``(1) expand and improve fisheries science, monitoring, and 
        data collection in order to support and promote integrated, 
        climate-informed fishery management and ensure that the 
        requirements of this Act are met under changing climatic 
        conditions;
            ``(2) prepare and adapt fishery management for climate 
        change by promoting a precautionary approach to management and 
        supporting the development and use of relevant science and 
        management tools, including forecasting, risk assessment, 
        scenario planning, coupled climate and ecosystem modeling, and 
        management strategy evaluation;
            ``(3) improve agency understanding of stock shifts to 
        inform catch advice, resolve jurisdictional issues, and support 
        achievement of conservation mandates in the face of shifting 
        stocks;
            ``(4) promote the use of climate-informed stock 
        assessments;
            ``(5) provide guidance on the use of climate-responsive 
        control rules in fishery management;
            ``(6) promote management approaches that increase 
        resilience to current and anticipated climate impacts in 
        managed species and marine ecosystems, including by 
        coordinating with and advancing programs to protect genetic 
        diversity and age structure, protect marine habitat, minimize 
        and better account for bycatch, and incorporating into 
        management the ecological role of forage fish in the marine 
        food web;
            ``(7) increase understanding of the socioeconomic impacts 
        of climate change on fishing participants and related 
        industries;
            ``(8) coordinate within the National Oceanic and 
        Atmospheric Administration on issues related to climate change 
        and fisheries, including on data needs and availability;
            ``(9) ensure that the research, resource management, and 
        expenditures to prepare fisheries for climate change promote 
        racial and socioeconomic equity with respect to environmental 
        and economic outcomes across fisheries and regions;
            ``(10) promote the incorporation of climate change into 
        fisheries management at regional fishery management 
        organizations and other international bodies; and
            ``(11) advance other climate change fishery science and 
        management as appropriate.
    ``(b) Evaluation.--The Secretary, in consultation with the 
Councils, shall, not later than 3 years after the date of enactment of 
the Ocean Climate Emergency Action Now Act of 2020 and every 3 years 
thereafter, conduct an independent review that will be provided to 
Congress and the public on the results of the program, including--
            ``(1) steps taken to modify or enhance research and data 
        collection programs to better understand the effects of climate 
        change on fishery resources;
            ``(2) steps taken to evaluate various management strategies 
        in the context of future climate scenarios;
            ``(3) how tools and solutions identified by the program 
        have been or will be implemented in fishery science and 
        management; and
            ``(4) the degree to which equity in outcomes of fulfilling 
        programmatic duties was achieved as required by subsection 
        (a)(9).''.

SEC. 205. CLIMATE-READY FISHERIES INNOVATION PROGRAM.

    (a) Climate-Ready Fisheries Innovation Program.--Not later than 1 
year after the date of enactment of this Act, the Administrator shall 
establish a program, including grants, to develop innovative tools and 
approaches designed to increase the adaptive capacity of fishery 
management to the impacts of climate change. In administering such 
program, the Administrator shall--
            (1) develop science and management approaches that address 
        regional and national priorities to improve the conservation 
        and management of fishery resources under current and 
        anticipated climate impacts;
            (2) provide for routine consultation with fishery managers 
        and scientists in order to maximize opportunities to 
        incorporate results of the program in fishery management 
        actions;
            (3) promote adoption of methods developed under the program 
        in fishery management plans developed by the Regional Fishery 
        Management Councils;
            (4) provide information and outreach to the private sector 
        and academic sector to encourage development of tools and 
        approaches to manage the effects of climate change on 
        fisheries; and
            (5) provide information and outreach to fishery 
        participants to increase understanding of and encourage 
        adoption and use of tools and approaches developed under the 
        program.
    (b) Coordination of the Program.--
            (1) In general.--The Administrator shall establish a 
        process to ensure coordination with and outreach to--
                    (A) regional offices and science centers of the 
                National Marine Fisheries Service;
                    (B) the Regional Fishery Management Councils;
                    (C) the scientific and statistical committees of 
                such Fishery Management Councils; and
                    (D) other relevant programs, including the 
                cooperative research and management program under 
                section 318 of the Magnuson-Stevens Fishery 
                Conservation and Management Act (16 U.S.C. 1867), the 
                Integrated Ocean Observing System, and programs within 
                the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration 
                designed to address ocean acidification.
            (2) Identification.--The coordination described in 
        paragraph (1) shall include identification of multi-year 
        research priorities to study and understand the current and 
        anticipated impacts of climate change on fisheries, fisheries 
        interactions, habitats, fishery participants, fisheries science 
        and monitoring, or other relevant priority. Such priorities 
        shall be routinely reviewed in a timeframe not to exceed 5 
        years and updated as necessary.
    (c) Report.--Every 2 years, beginning 2 years after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Administrator shall transmit a report to the 
Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate and 
the Committee on Natural Resources of the House of Representatives 
that--
            (1) describes funding provided to implement this section;
            (2) includes descriptions of and developments in tools and 
        approaches achieved under this section;
            (3) describes how and in which fisheries these tools and 
        approaches have been implemented; and
            (4) describes improvements in fishery climate-readiness 
        associated with implementing this section, as well as proposals 
        to address remaining problems.

SEC. 206. SHIFTING STOCKS TASK FORCE.

    (a) Establishment.--The Administrator shall establish, not later 
than 120 days after the date of enactment of this Act, a task force to 
be known as the ``Shifting Stocks Task Force'' consisting of 10 
members, including 1 member recommended by each of 8 Regional Fishery 
Management Councils and the Highly Migratory Species Advisory Panel and 
the Administrator or their designee.
    (b) Membership.--
            (1) Terms.--Except as provided by paragraph (2), terms of 
        appointed members of the Shifting Stocks Task Force shall be 
        staggered, shall be 2 years in duration, and no member shall 
        serve more than 3 terms.
            (2) Vacancy.--Any member appointed to fill a vacancy 
        occurring before the expiration of the term for which the 
        member's predecessor was appointed shall be appointed only for 
        the remainder of that term.
            (3) Criteria for appointment.--Members appointed to the 
        Shifting Stocks Task Force shall be Federal employees, State 
        employees, Tribal and Indigenous representatives, academics, or 
        independent experts, shall have strong scientific or technical 
        credentials and experience, and shall not include members of 
        the Regional Fishery Management Councils.
            (4) Travel expenses.--Each member of the Shifting Stocks 
        Task Force shall receive travel expenses, including per diem in 
        lieu of subsistence, in accordance with applicable provisions 
        under subchapter I of chapter 57 of title 5, United States 
        Code.
            (5) Chairperson.--The chairperson of the Shifting Stocks 
        Task Force shall be elected by the members.
    (c) Meetings.--The Shifting Stocks Task Force shall meet not less 
than 4 times annually.
    (d) Staff Support.--Upon request of the Shifting Stocks Task Force, 
the Administrator may detail on a reimbursable basis personnel to the 
Shifting Stocks Task Force to assist such Task Force.
    (e) Development of Criteria.--Not later than 1 year after the date 
of enactment of this Act, the Shifting Stocks Task Force shall develop, 
in consultation with the Administrator and the Regional Fishery 
Management Councils, science-based decision-making criteria to make 
jurisdiction, allocation, and fishery management decisions that 
minimize the risk of overfishing and maximize stock and ecosystem 
resilience to the effects of climate change, are consistent with the 
national standards, the other provisions of the Magnuson-Stevens 
Fishery Conservation and Management Act (16 U.S.C. 1801 et seq.), 
regulations implementing recommendations by international organizations 
in which the United States participates (including but not limited to 
closed areas, quotas, and size limits), and any other applicable law.
    (f) Recommendations.--The Shifting Stocks Task Force shall make 
recommendations to the Administrator and to the Regional Fishery 
Management Councils recommendations for the allocation and distribution 
of fishing privileges based on the criteria developed under subsection 
(e).
    (g) Petitions.--Any member of the public may submit a petition to 
request the review of potentially shifting stock. In order to be 
eligible for consideration, a petition shall include sufficiently 
descriptive information regarding the stock or stocks in question, the 
jurisdiction or allocation concerns, and any other relevant 
information.
    (h) Petition Review and Recommendation.--
            (1) Determination of sufficient information.--Upon receipt 
        of a petition under subsection (g), the Shifting Stocks Task 
        Force shall, not later than 60 days after the date of such 
        receipt, determine by majority vote whether the petition 
        contains sufficient information to show that a substantial 
        shift in the distribution of a stock has occurred.
            (2) Review process.--If the Shifting Stocks Task Force 
        makes a determination under paragraph (1) that a petition 
        contains sufficient information, the Shifting Stocks Task Force 
        shall review such petition. Such review shall include--
                    (A) a public hearing in the affected region; and
                    (B) a public notice and comment period of not less 
                than 90 days.
            (3) Written recommendation.--Upon completion of a review 
        under paragraph (2), the Shifting Stocks Task Force shall--
                    (A) determine which Regional Fishery Management 
                Council's or Councils' geographic area of authority the 
                fishery is located in; and
                    (B) submit to the Administrator, each affected 
                Regional Fishery Management Council, and the petitioner 
                written recommendations for allocation and distribution 
                of fishing privileges within the fishery.
            (4) Response.--Upon receipt of a recommendation from the 
        Shifting Stocks Task Force under paragraph (3), the 
        Administrator shall--
                    (A) begin consultation with the affected Regional 
                Fishery Management Council regarding necessary changes 
                to fishery management plans; and
                    (B) not later than 180 days after the date of 
                receipt of the Shifting Stocks Task Force's 
                recommendation, ensure that a compliant fishery 
                management plan that fully accounts for the best 
                available science on shifting stocks and the 
                recommendations of the Shifting Stocks Task Force is 
                created, published, and implemented.
            (5) Publication.--The Shifting Stocks Task Force shall 
        publish on the internet each petition received under this 
        section, the determination as made under paragraph (1), and any 
        written recommendations produced under paragraph (3).

SEC. 207. ESSENTIAL FISH HABITAT CONSULTATION.

    Section 305(b) of the Magnuson-Stevens Fishery Conservation and 
Management Act (16 U.S.C. 1855(b)) is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (1)(A)--
                    (A) by inserting ``every 5 years'' after 
                ``updating''; and
                    (B) by inserting ``, changes to habitat, in part 
                due to climate change,'' after ``evidence'';
            (2) in paragraph (1)(D), by inserting ``and such agencies 
        shall take action'' after ``agencies''; and
            (3) by striking paragraphs (2) through (4) and inserting 
        after paragraph (1) the following:
            ``(2) Consultations regarding federal agency action with 
        adverse effects on essential fish habitat.--
                    ``(A) Requirement to avoid or mitigate adverse 
                effects.--
                            ``(i) Essential fish habitat.--With respect 
                        to any Federal agency action that may have an 
                        adverse affect on essential fish habitat, each 
                        such Federal agency shall, in consultation with 
                        the Secretary, ensure that any action 
                        authorized, funded, or undertaken by such 
                        agency avoids the adverse effect of such action 
                        on essential fish habitat or, to the extent 
                        that the adverse effect cannot be avoided, the 
                        agency shall minimize and mitigate the adverse 
                        effect.
                            ``(ii) Habitat area of particular 
                        concern.--No Federal agency may authorize, 
                        fund, or undertake an action if such agency 
                        determines, in consultation with the Secretary, 
                        that such action would have an adverse effect 
                        on a habitat area of particular concern.
                    ``(B) Regulations.--The Secretary shall establish 
                regulations for the consultation process required by 
                subparagraph (A), including to ensure that 
                recommendations made by the Secretary pursuant to such 
                subparagraph would result in the avoidance, if 
                possible, of adverse effects on essential fish habitat 
                and, if avoidance is not possible, the minimization and 
                mitigation of any such adverse effects.
            ``(3) Information to council.--The Secretary shall inform 
        each affected Council of any consultation carried out under 
        paragraph (2), including information on the proposed action and 
        any potential adverse effects, and each affected Council--
                    ``(A) may comment on and make recommendations to 
                the Secretary and any Federal or State agency 
                concerning the underlying action if, in the view of the 
                Council, such action may affect the habitat of a 
                fishery resource under the authority of such Council; 
                and
                    ``(B) shall comment on and make recommendations to 
                the Secretary and any Federal or State agency 
                concerning the underlying action if, in the view of the 
                Council, such action is likely to adversely affect the 
                habitat of an anadromous fishery resource under the 
                authority of such Council.
            ``(4) Information from other sources.--
                    ``(A) Receipt of information.--If the Secretary 
                receives information from any source and determines 
                that an action taken, funded, or authorized or proposed 
                to be taken, funded, or authorized by a State or 
                Federal agency may have an adverse effect on an 
                essential fish habitat identified under this Act, the 
                Secretary shall recommend to such agency measures that 
                avoid such adverse effects and minimize or mitigate 
                such adverse effects that cannot be avoided.
                    ``(B) Required response.--Not later than 30 days 
                after receiving a recommendation under subparagraph 
                (A), a Federal, State, or local agency shall provide a 
                detailed response in writing to any Council comment 
                under paragraph (3) and the Secretary regarding the 
                matter. The response shall include a description of 
                measures proposed by the agency for avoiding the 
                adverse effects, or to the extent the adverse effects 
                cannot be avoided, mitigating the adverse effects of 
                the action on such essential fish habitat. In the case 
                of a response that is inconsistent with the 
                recommendations of the Secretary, the Federal agency 
                shall explain how the alternative measures proposed 
                will avoid the adverse effects of such action on 
                essential fish habitat or, to the extent that adverse 
                effects cannot be avoided, mitigate the adverse 
                effects.
                    ``(C) Publication.--The Secretary shall make 
                available to the public--
                            ``(i) any recommendation made under 
                        subparagraph (A) on the date on which such 
                        recommendation is made; and
                            ``(ii) any response made by an agency under 
                        subparagraph (B) on the date on which such 
                        response is received.
            ``(5) Habitat area of particular concern.--In this 
        subsection, the term `habitat area of particular concern' means 
        a specific type of area that is a part of or within an 
        essential fish habitat that--
                    ``(A) provides an important ecological function, 
                including for maintaining and restoring the biomass, 
                demographic, spatial, or genetic characteristics of 
                fish populations;
                    ``(B) is sensitive to human-induced environmental 
                degradation;
                    ``(C) is or will be significantly stressed by human 
                activities;
                    ``(D) due to prevailing or anticipated future 
                environmental conditions, is or may become important to 
                the health of managed species; or
                    ``(E) is rare.''.

SEC. 208. OCEAN AQUACULTURE RESEARCH AND POLICY PROGRAM.

    (a) Establishment.--The Administrator shall establish an Ocean 
Aquaculture Research and Policy Program to address opportunities, 
challenges, and innovation in restorative ocean aquaculture 
development, siting, and operations in the coastal waters and exclusive 
economic zone through--
            (1) investment in research and technical assistance to 
        ensure adverse impacts to the marine environment can be fully 
        understood, anticipated, accounted for, and avoided and impacts 
        to wild-capture fisheries and marine wildlife are minimized 
        during the species selection, design, development, siting, and 
        operation of aquaculture facilities; and
            (2) the development and application of best management 
        practices to ensure the species selection, design, development, 
        siting, and operation of restorative ocean aquaculture 
        maximizes potential benefits while minimizing potential adverse 
        impacts to the marine environment and wild-capture fisheries.
    (b) Use of Existing Programs.--The Administrator shall use existing 
grant and research programs to support the design, development, siting, 
and operation of restorative ocean aquaculture using best management 
practices to maximize potential benefits and minimize potential adverse 
impacts to the marine environment.
    (c) Prioritization in Other Programs.--In carrying out other 
programs relating to aquaculture research and development, the 
Administrator shall prioritize restorative ocean aquaculture, including 
in carrying out--
            (1) the Small Business Innovation Research Program of the 
        National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration;
            (2) the National Sea Grant College Program; and
            (3) section 2 of the Act of August 11, 1939 (15 U.S.C. 
        713c-3).
    (d) Prioritization Within the Program.--In carrying out this 
section, the Administrator shall prioritize support for research and 
technology development that includes--
            (1) design analyses of restorative aquaculture systems to 
        maximize ecosystem benefits while avoiding adverse impacts to 
        the marine environment and wild-capture fisheries and marine 
        wildlife;
            (2) spatial analyses to understand and evaluate where 
        siting of restorative aquaculture can minimize adverse impacts 
        to migratory birds and waterbirds, marine birds and mammals, 
        endangered species, and other aspects of the marine ecosystem;
            (3) monitoring both the individual and cumulative 
        environmental impacts of current and proposed small scale 
        aquaculture operations to inform potential impacts of large-
        scale operations and siting;
            (4) offshore monitoring, remediation, and mitigation 
        technology development; and
            (5) understanding and preparing for impacts that climate 
        change may have on design development, siting, and operations 
        of restorative aquaculture facilities and the marine 
        environment.
    (e) Report.--Not later than 1 year after the date of the enactment 
of this Act, the National Academies shall submit to the Administrator 
and to Congress a report that reviews, compiles, and synthesizes 
existing technologies and assessments of restorative ocean aquaculture 
to further inform ongoing research and technical assistance funded 
under subsection (c).
    (f) Content.--The report required by subsection (e) shall include 
the following:
            (1) A quantitative assessment of the capacity for 
        sequestering and storing significant amounts of carbon from the 
        atmosphere and ocean to mitigate the impacts of climate change.
            (2) A comprehensive assessment of the blue carbon potential 
        for an aquaculture project, including its potential 
        environmental impacts, including cumulative impacts, to native 
        marine species and marine habitat and the potential adverse 
        wildlife interactions likely to result from the use of 
        restorative aquaculture technologies in use or under 
        development worldwide.
            (3) A comprehensive assessment of the potential impacts, 
        including cumulative impacts, to wild-capture fisheries and 
        marine wildlife and the productivity thereof likely to result 
        from the use of restorative aquaculture technologies in use or 
        under development worldwide.
            (4) An assessment of any known ecosystems services that 
        have been derived from restorative ocean aquaculture and 
        design, including siting and size parameters that maximize 
        those benefits.
            (5) A detailed discussion of the mitigation measures 
        available currently to reduce any negative environmental or 
        wild-capture fisheries and marine wildlife impacts identified 
        and their degree of efficacy, as well as the real-time facility 
        monitoring options available.
            (6) Recommendations of regionally relevant siting, 
        installation, and operations standards necessary to ensure that 
        restorative ocean aquaculture facilities are developed and 
        operated in a manner which minimizes impacts to the marine 
        environment and avoids and minimizes harmful interactions with 
        marine wildlife and habitat or conflict with other existing 
        ocean-user groups.
            (7) Economic analysis identifying the potential benefits 
        and impacts to commercial and recreational fishing and ocean 
        recreation industries resulting from restorative ocean 
        aquaculture.
            (8) Recommendations for further research and assessments 
        that should be supported.
            (9) A sustainability classification system to assess the 
        various types of restorative aquaculture on a range of life 
        cycle ecological and social benefits and provides a composite 
        score with which to rank such types of restorative aquaculture.

           TITLE III--COASTAL ZONE MANAGEMENT ACT AMENDMENTS

SEC. 301. GRANTS TO FURTHER ACHIEVEMENT OF TRIBAL COASTAL ZONE 
              OBJECTIVES.

    (a) Grants Authorized.--The Coastal Zone Management Act of 1972 (16 
U.S.C. 1451 et seq.) is amended by adding at the end the following:

   ``grants to further achievement of tribal coastal zone objectives

    ``Sec. 320.  (a) Grants Authorized.--The Secretary may award 
competitive grants to Indian Tribes to further achievement of the 
objectives of such a Tribe for such Tribe's Tribal coastal zone.
    ``(b) Cost Share.--
            ``(1) In general.--The Federal share of the cost of any 
        activity carried out with a grant under this section shall be--
                    ``(A) in the case of a grant of less than $200,000, 
                100 percent of such cost; and
                    ``(B) in the case of a grant of $200,000 or more, 
                95 percent of such cost, except as provided in 
                paragraph (2).
            ``(2) Waiver.--The Secretary may waive the application of 
        paragraph (1)(B) with respect to a grant to an Indian Tribe, or 
        otherwise reduce the portion of the share of the cost of an 
        activity required to be paid by an Indian Tribe under such 
        paragraph, if the Secretary determines that the Tribe does not 
        have sufficient funds to pay such portion.
    ``(c) Compatibility.--The Secretary may not award a grant under 
this section unless the Secretary determines that the activities to be 
carried out with the grant are compatible with this title and that the 
grantee has consulted with the affected coastal state regarding the 
grant objectives and purposes.
    ``(d) Authorized Objectives and Purposes.--Amounts awarded as a 
grant under this section shall be used for 1 or more of the objectives 
and purposes authorized under subsections (b) and (c), respectively, of 
section 306A.
    ``(e) Funding.--Of amounts appropriated to carry out this Act, 
$5,000,000 is authorized to carry out this section for each of fiscal 
years 2021 through 2025.
    ``(f) Definitions.--In this section:
            ``(1) Indian land.--The term `Indian land' has the meaning 
        given such term in section 2601 of the Energy Policy Act of 
        1992 (25 U.S.C. 3501).
            ``(2) Indian tribe.--The term `Indian Tribe' means an 
        Indian Tribe, as that term is defined in section 4 of the 
        Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act (25 
        U.S.C. 5304).
            ``(3) Tribal coastal zone.--The term `Tribal coastal zone' 
        means any Indian land of an Indian Tribe that is within the 
        coastal zone.
            ``(4) Tribal coastal zone objective.--The term `Tribal 
        coastal zone objective' means, with respect to an Indian Tribe, 
        any of the following objectives:
                    ``(A) Protection, restoration, or preservation of 
                areas in the Tribal coastal zone of such Tribe that 
                hold--
                            ``(i) important ecological, cultural, or 
                        sacred significance for such Tribe; or
                            ``(ii) traditional, historic, and esthetic 
                        values essential to such Tribe.
                    ``(B) Preparing and implementing a special area 
                management plan and technical planning for important 
                coastal areas.
                    ``(C) Any coastal or shoreline stabilization 
                measure, including any mitigation measure, for the 
                purpose of public safety, public access, or cultural or 
                historical preservation.''.
    (b) Guidance.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Commerce shall issue guidance 
for the program established under the amendment made by subsection (a), 
including the criteria for awarding grants under such program based on 
consultation with Indian Tribes (as that term is defined in that 
amendment).
    (c) Use of State Grants To Fulfill Tribal Objectives.--Section 
306A(c)(2) of the Coastal Zone Management Act of 1972 (16 U.S.C. 
1455a(c)(2)) is amended--
            (1) in subparagraph (D), by striking ``; and'' and 
        inserting a semicolon;
            (2) in subparagraph (E), by striking the period at the end 
        and inserting ``; and''; and
            (3) by adding at the end the following:
                    ``(F) fulfilling any Tribal coastal zone objective 
                (as that term is defined in section 320).''.
    (d) Other Programs Not Affected.--Nothing in this section and the 
amendments made by this section may be construed to affect the ability 
of an Indian Tribe to apply for, receive assistance under, or 
participate in any program authorized by the Coastal Zone Management 
Act of 1972 (16 U.S.C. 1451 et seq.) or other related Federal laws.

SEC. 302. ELIGIBILITY OF DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA FOR FEDERAL FUNDING UNDER 
              THE COASTAL ZONE MANAGEMENT ACT OF 1972.

    Section 304(4) of the Coastal Zone Management Act of 1972 (16 
U.S.C. 1453(4)) is amended by inserting ``the District of Columbia,'' 
after ``the term also includes''.

SEC. 303. COASTAL AND ESTUARINE LAND CONSERVATION PROGRAM.

    Section 307A of the Coastal Zone Management Act of 1972 (16 U.S.C. 
1456-1) is amended--
            (1) by striking the heading and inserting ``coastal and 
        estuarine land conservation program'';
            (2) by amending subsection (a) to read as follows:
    ``(a) In General.--The Secretary may conduct a Coastal and 
Estuarine Land Conservation Program, in cooperation with State, 
regional, and other units of government, for the purposes of protecting 
important coastal and estuarine areas that--
            ``(1) have significant conservation, recreation, coastal 
        access, ecological, historical, or aesthetic value;
            ``(2) are threatened by conversion from their natural, 
        undeveloped, or recreational state to other uses; or
            ``(3) could be managed or restored to effectively conserve, 
        enhance, or restore ecological function or mitigate climate 
        change.'';
            (3) in subsection (c)--
                    (A) by amending paragraph (7) to read as follows:
            ``(7) Priority shall be given to lands that--
                    ``(A) can be effectively managed and protected and 
                that have significant ecological value;
                    ``(B)(i) are under an imminent threat of conversion 
                to a use that will degrade or otherwise diminish their 
                natural, undeveloped, or recreational state;
                    ``(ii) serve to mitigate the adverse impacts caused 
                by coastal population growth in the coastal 
                environment;
                    ``(iii) are within a national estuarine research 
                reserve designated under section 315, a national 
                wildlife refuge, or a national estuary program, or are 
                proposed for designation as such a reserve or other 
                such protected area; or
                    ``(iv) are under threat due to climate change or 
                may serve to mitigate the adverse effects of climate 
                change, including through the storage of blue carbon, 
                and to facilitate inland migration of coastal 
                ecosystems in response to sea level rise; and
                    ``(C) to the maximum extent practicable, benefit 
                communities that may not have adequate resources to 
                prepare for or respond to coastal hazards or to access 
                the coastline, including low income communities, 
                communities of color, Tribal and Indigenous 
                communities, and rural communities.''; and
                    (B) in paragraph (10), by striking ``triennially'' 
                and inserting ``every 5 years'';
            (4) in subsection (f)--
                    (A) in paragraph (2)(B), by inserting ``for any 
                territory of the United States that is unable to 
                provide the match,'' after ``community,''; and
                    (B) in paragraph (4)--
                            (i) in subparagraph (A)(i), by striking 
                        ``meets the criteria set forth in section 
                        2(b)'' and inserting ``the goals set forth in 
                        subsection (b)''; and
                            (ii) in subparagraph (C), by striking 
                        ``(A)'' and inserting ``subparagraph (A)'';
            (5) in subsection (h), by striking the second sentence; and
            (6) in subsection (l), by striking ``fiscal years 2009 
        through 2013'' and inserting ``2021 through 2025''.

SEC. 304. COASTAL ZONE MANAGEMENT FUND.

    Section 308 of Coastal Zone Management Act of 1972 (16 U.S.C. 
1456a) is amended to read as follows:

                     ``coastal zone management fund

    ``Sec. 308.  (a) Establishment.--There is established a fund, to be 
known as the `Coastal Zone Management Fund', which shall consist of 
fees deposited into the Fund under section 307(i)(3) and any other 
funds appropriated to the Fund.
    ``(b) Grants for Post-Disaster Response to Severe Coastal Flood 
Events.--
            ``(1) In general.--In response to a major disaster declared 
        under the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency 
        Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5121 et seq.) as a result of flood 
        and related damages in the coastal zone of a State, the 
        Secretary may issue a grant to such State for a purpose 
        described in paragraph (2).
            ``(2) Eligible uses.--A State may use funds provided under 
        this subsection to--
                    ``(A) improve resilience to future severe coastal 
                flood hazards including activities and projects related 
                to--
                            ``(i) publicly owned infrastructure;
                            ``(ii) residential and commercial 
                        structures;
                            ``(iii) natural infrastructure; or
                            ``(iv) waste disposal sites and industrial 
                        facilities;
                    ``(B) assess damages after a major disaster 
                described in paragraph (1);
                    ``(C) plan, design, or engineer a project to--
                            ``(i) restore, expand, install, or relocate 
                        natural infrastructure;
                            ``(ii) remove damaged assets, restore sites 
                        to safe conditions, and select alternative 
                        sites; or
                            ``(iii) facilitate the landward migration 
                        of coastal ecosystems; or
                    ``(D) implement a project described by subparagraph 
                (C).
            ``(3) Federal share.--The Secretary may issue a grant under 
        this subsection for an amount not to exceed--
                    ``(A) 90 percent of the cost of an activity 
                described in subparagraph (A) or (B) of paragraph (2);
                    ``(B) except as provided in subparagraph (C), 60 
                percent of the cost of an activity described in 
                paragraph (2)(D);
                    ``(C) 75 percent of the cost of an activity 
                provided for in a plan approved under subsection (f); 
                or
                    ``(D) 100 percent of the cost of any activity 
                described in subparagraph (A), (B), or (C) of paragraph 
                (2) responding to the effects of a severe coastal flood 
                in a disadvantaged community that is identified in a 
                plan approved under subsection (f).
    ``(c) Grants for Severe Coastal Flood Hazard Planning.--
            ``(1) In general.--The Secretary, at the request of a 
        Governor of a coastal state, may use amounts in the Fund to 
        issue a grant to a coastal state with an approved coastal zone 
        management program for the timely response to a severe coastal 
        flood hazard.
            ``(2) Proposal.--To be considered for a grant under this 
        section, a State shall submit a grant proposal to the Secretary 
        in a time, place, and manner determined by the Secretary. Such 
        proposal shall--
                    ``(A) describe the risks that severe coastal flood 
                hazards pose in the State and goals for reducing loss 
                of life and property and sustaining coastal ecosystems 
                in response to these risks;
                    ``(B) include consideration of related plans 
                including the Coastal Zone Management Plan of the 
                State, the Hazard Mitigation Plan of the State, and the 
                severe coastal flood hazard preparedness plans, if any, 
                of neighboring States;
                    ``(C) be developed in conjunction with local 
                governments in the coastal zone of the State and 
                provided for public review and comment on the plan, 
                including holding a public hearing and engaging 
                disadvantaged communities; and
                    ``(D) be substantially consistent with the guidance 
                issued under subsection (e)(1)(C).
            ``(3) Criteria.--In determining the amount of a grant under 
        this subsection, the Secretary shall consider the--
                    ``(A) area and population of the coastal zone of 
                the applicant State;
                    ``(B) the risks that severe coastal flood hazards 
                pose to the State; and
                    ``(C) the reduction of severe coastal flood hazards 
                expected as a result of the proposal.
            ``(4) Limitation on amount of funds to be awarded.--Grants 
        made pursuant to this subsection in any fiscal year shall not 
        exceed 50 percent of the funds in the Fund as a result of 
        appropriations pursuant to subsection (j)(1).
            ``(5) Federal share.--
                    ``(A) In general.--Except as provided in 
                subparagraph (B), the Federal share of the cost of an 
                activity funded by a grant issued under this subsection 
                shall not exceed--
                            ``(i) 75 percent of the cost of the 
                        activity; or
                            ``(ii) 85 percent of the cost of the 
                        activity in the case of a State that has 
                        enacted a requirement for the disclosure of 
                        severe coastal flood hazards, including sea 
                        level rise, that meets criteria for such 
                        disclosure established by the Secretary, to 
                        buyers of real estate in the coastal zone.
                    ``(B) Exception.--The Secretary may reduce or waive 
                the matching requirement under paragraph (5) if a 
                coastal state submits a written request to the 
                Secretary for a waiver with a justification as to why 
                the State cannot meet the match requirement, and the 
                Secretary determines such justification sufficient to 
                waive such requirement.
    ``(d) Grants for Severe Coastal Flood Hazard Plan Implementation.--
            ``(1) In general.--The Secretary, at the Secretary's 
        discretion or at the request of the Governor of a State, may 
        use amounts in the Fund to issue grants to a coastal state with 
        a severe coastal flood hazard preparedness plan approved under 
        subsection (f) to implement the approved plan.
            ``(2) Eligible activities.--Activities eligible for funding 
        under this subsection include--
                    ``(A) conducting a public awareness campaign to 
                inform the public and decision-makers about severe 
                coastal flood hazards;
                    ``(B) developing, enacting, and administering a 
                state or local law prohibiting new and significantly 
                expanded development in areas at risk of severe coastal 
                flood hazards;
                    ``(C) developing, enacting, and administering a 
                state requirement for disclosure of severe coastal 
                flood hazards, including sea level rise, to buyers of 
                real estate;
                    ``(D) making grants to local governments, or 
                regional consortiums of local governments, to implement 
                the state plan, including development of local or 
                regional plans and site-specific plans or projects; and
                    ``(E) planning, designing, and implementing 
                projects to--
                            ``(i) protect existing public 
                        infrastructure and residential and commercial 
                        properties, including built structures, natural 
                        infrastructure, and living shorelines;
                            ``(ii) relocate infrastructure or 
                        structures at risk of damage by severe coastal 
                        flood hazards, restore such sites to safe 
                        conditions, and select alternative sites;
                            ``(iii) remove structures damaged by severe 
                        coastal flood hazards and restore such site to 
                        safe conditions;
                            ``(iv) protect waste disposal facilities in 
                        areas at risk of severe coastal flood hazards 
                        or relocate such facilities to alternative 
                        sites; and
                            ``(v) facilitate the landward migration of 
                        coastal ecosystems.
            ``(3) Considerations.--Grants made pursuant to this 
        subsection shall be in response to an annual request for 
        proposals. In determining the amount of a grant, the Secretary 
        shall consider--
                    ``(A) the area and population of the coastal zone 
                of the State;
                    ``(B) the risks that severe coastal flood hazards 
                pose in the State and the reduction of coastal flood 
                hazards expected as a result of the proposal;
                    ``(C) demonstration of innovative approaches to 
                preparing for severe coastal flood hazards; and
                    ``(D) benefits to disadvantaged communities 
                identified in a plan approved under subsection (f).
            ``(4) Federal share.--A grant under this subsection shall 
        be limited to 75 percent of the cost of the proposal, except 
        that the Secretary may reduce or waive the such matching 
        requirement if a coastal state submits to the Secretary in 
        writing a request for a waiver with a justification as to why 
        the State cannot meet the match requirement, and the Secretary 
        agrees with the justification and grants the waiver.
    ``(e) Technical Support to States.--
            ``(1) In general.--The Secretary shall take such actions as 
        the Secretary determines necessary to support States in 
        carrying out this section, including at a minimum the 
        following:
                    ``(A) Periodic assessment of storm flood risk and 
                relative sea level and lake level changes along the 
                United States coastline, including estimates of changes 
                in storm intensity and relative sea or lake levels by 
                2040, 2060, 2080, and 2100.
                    ``(B) Operation of an online mapping tool to 
                describe areas at risk of temporary flooding from 
                future coastal storms and permanent inundation as a 
                result of sea or long term lake level changes.
                    ``(C) Publication, not later than 1 year after the 
                date of enactment of this section and periodically 
                thereafter, of guidance for the development of State 
                plans approved under subsection (f).
                    ``(D) Establishment, not later than 1 year after 
                the date of enactment of the Ocean Climate Emergency 
                Action Now Act of 2020, of minimum criteria for 
                disclosure of severe coastal flood hazards, including 
                sea level rise, to buyers of real estate in the coastal 
                zone.
                    ``(E) Creation, not later than 1 year after the 
                date of enactment of the Ocean Climate Emergency Action 
                Now Act of 2020, and periodic updating, of an online 
                dashboard describing the key features of State or local 
                government requirements for disclosure of severe 
                coastal flood hazards to buyers of real estate.
                    ``(F) Establishment, not later than 1 year after 
                the date of enactment of the Ocean Climate Emergency 
                Action Now Act of 2020, after consultation with the 
                Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency, 
                of standards for restoration to safe conditions of 
                sites from which infrastructure or other structures 
                have been relocated.
            ``(2) The guidance developed by the Secretary pursuant to 
        paragraph (1)(C) shall, at a minimum--
                    ``(A) provide information States need to establish 
                State-specific estimates of severe coastal flood 
                hazards, including more severe storms and relative sea 
                and lake levels, and planning targets for such hazards 
                for the years 2040, 2060, 2080, and 2100;
                    ``(B) describe approaches the State should consider 
                to prohibit new or expanded development in areas at 
                risk of severe coastal flood hazards;
                    ``(C) outline considerations for State grants to 
                support local governments in the coastal zone, or 
                consortiums of such governments acting on a regional 
                basis, in developing or implementing parts of a plan 
                approved under subsection (f);
                    ``(D) describe methods for evaluation of response 
                options including construction of structures to protect 
                assets and relocation to alternative sites, including 
                cost comparison in the context of available resources, 
                and related considerations;
                    ``(E) review options for establishing priorities 
                for removal of damaged or abandoned structures and 
                restoration of sites to safe conditions;
                    ``(F) describe social justice policies and 
                practices the State should consider adopting, including 
                criteria for identifying disadvantaged communities 
                within the coastal zone of the State and the policies 
                and practices the State should consider adopting to 
                assure that interests of such communities are addressed 
                in State plans developed pursuant to this section;
                    ``(G) identify areas in coastal communities, or 
                other locations in the State, that have minimal severe 
                coastal flood hazards, that are appropriate for 
                relocation of people and assets, and can sustain the 
                identity and cultural heritage of relocated 
                communities;
                    ``(H) provide information and practices for 
                identifying coastal areas that are important to the 
                successful landward migration of ecosystems in response 
                to severe coastal flood hazards and measures for 
                protecting these migration pathways;
                    ``(I) identify tools to identify waste disposal 
                sites and related sites that pose a risk of water 
                pollution as a result of severe coastal flood hazards 
                and describe practices the State should consider to 
                protect or relocate such facilities or sites; and
                    ``(J) describe opportunities to improve public 
                access to the shoreline as a result of improved 
                preparedness for severe coastal flood hazards.
    ``(f) Approval of Plans.--The Secretary shall establish a process 
for approving plans under this section.
    ``(g) Administration.--The Secretary may use amounts in the Fund 
for expenses incident to the administration of this section, in an 
amount not to exceed $250,000 or 3 percent of the amount in the Fund, 
whichever is less, for each year.
    ``(h) Report to Congress.--The Secretary shall, not later than 3 
years after the date of enactment of the Ocean Climate Emergency Action 
Now Act of 2020, and every 3 years thereafter, submit to the Committee 
on Natural Resources of the House of Representatives and the Committee 
on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate a report 
describing the development of plans and projects under this section, 
changes in severe coastal flood hazards, including changes to risks to 
disadvantaged communities, and making recommendations to better respond 
to these challenges.
    ``(i) Definitions.--In this section:
            ``(1) Disadvantaged communities.--The term `disadvantaged 
        communities' means areas of the coastal state identified in a 
        plan approved under subsection (f) that disproportionately 
        suffer from a combination of economic, health, and 
        environmental burdens including poverty, high unemployment, air 
        and water pollution, presence of hazardous wastes as well as 
        high incidence of asthma and heart disease.
            ``(2) Green infrastructure.--The term `green 
        infrastructure' has the meaning provided in section 502(27) of 
        the Federal Water Pollution Control Act (33 U.S.C. 1362(27)).
            ``(3) Living shoreline.--The term `living shoreline' means 
        a protected, stabilized coastal edge made of natural materials 
        such as plants designed to provide wildlife habitat, as well as 
        natural resilience to shorelines.
            ``(4) Natural infrastructure.--The term `natural 
        infrastructure' means coastal wetlands, beaches, dunes, 
        marshes, mangrove forests, municipal green infrastructure, and 
        living shorelines.
            ``(5) Publicly owned infrastructure.--The term `publicly 
        owned infrastructure' means buildings, structures, and 
        facilities and appurtenances of drinking water, sewage 
        treatment, natural gas, or electric power utilities owned by a 
        municipal, county, or State government or a combination of such 
        governments.
            ``(6) Safe conditions.--The term `safe conditions' refers 
        to standards for restoration of sites from which infrastructure 
        or structures are relocated established by the Secretary 
        pursuant to subsection (e)(1)(F) and are protective of human 
        health and the environment.
            ``(7) Severe coastal flood hazards.--The term `severe 
        coastal flood hazards' means temporary flooding resulting from 
        coastal storms and storm surge, tsunamis, and changing lake 
        levels and permanent inundation from rising sea levels and land 
        subsidence, including landward migration of shorelines 
        impacting residential and commercial property, infrastructure, 
        and ecosystems.
            ``(8) Waste disposal site.--The term `waste disposal site' 
        means a publicly or privately owned solid waste landfill or 
        disposal site, hazardous waste landfill of disposal site, sites 
        included on the National Priorities List developed under the 
        Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and 
        Liability Act of 1980 (42 U.S.C. 9601 et seq.), and sites for 
        the disposal of coal combustion residuals from coal-fired power 
        plants, provided that such sites are identified in a plan 
        approved under subsection (f).
    ``(j) Authorization of Appropriations.--
            ``(1) In general.--There is authorized to be appropriated 
        into the Fund for use by the Secretary $100,000,000 for each of 
        fiscal years 2021 through 2025, which shall remain available 
        until expended without fiscal year limitation.
            ``(2) Major disasters.--There is authorized to be 
        appropriated into the Fund for use by the Secretary to respond 
        to a major disaster declared under the Robert T. Stafford 
        Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5121 et 
        seq.) such sums as may be necessary. Funds appropriated 
        pursuant to this paragraph may only be used to make grants to 
        the State or States in which the major disaster occurred and 
        shall remain available until expended without fiscal year 
        limitation.''.

SEC. 305. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.

    Section 318(a) of the Coastal Zone Management Act of 1972 (16 
U.S.C. 1464(a)) is amended to read as follows:
    ``(a) In General.--There are authorized to be appropriated to the 
Secretary, to remain available until expended--
            ``(1) for grants under sections 306, 306A, and 309, 
        $95,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2021 through 2025; and
            ``(2) for grants under section 315, $37,000,000 for each of 
        fiscal years 2021 through 2025.''.

SEC. 306. AMENDMENTS TO NATIONAL ESTUARINE RESEARCH RESERVE SYSTEM 
              PROGRAM.

    (a) Designation of Additional Reserves.--Not later than 5 years 
after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Commerce 
shall designate not less than 5 new national estuarine reserves under 
section 315 of the Coastal Zone Management Act of 1972 (16 U.S.C. 1461) 
that ensure the National Estuarine Research Reserve System includes 
areas in--
            (1) all biogeographic regions of the United States; and
            (2) each coastal state (as that term is defined in that 
        Act).
    (b) Guidelines for Tracking and Modeling the Impacts of Climate 
Change.--Section 315(c) of the Coastal Zone Management Act of 1972 (16 
U.S.C. 1461(c)) is amended--
            (1) by redesignating paragraphs (3) through (5) as 
        paragraphs (4) through (6); and
            (2) by inserting after paragraph (2) the following:
            ``(3) the establishment of coordinated long-term data 
        monitoring and methods throughout the System for tracking and 
        modeling the impacts of climate change on estuarine systems, 
        including impacts on lake levels and sea levels;''.
    (c) Promotion and Coordination of Estuarine Research.--Section 
315(d) of the Coastal Zone Management Act of 1972 (16 U.S.C. 1461(d)) 
is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (1), by striking ``; and'' and inserting a 
        semicolon;
            (2) in paragraph (2), by striking the period at the end and 
        inserting a semicolon; and
            (3) by adding at the end the following:
            ``(3) establishing and managing the Margaret A. Davidson 
        Graduate Research Fellowship to provide, subject to the 
        availability of appropriations, financial assistance to 
        graduate research that utilizes the national estuarine research 
        reserves;
            ``(4) establishing a Central Data Management office and 
        System Science Collaborative; and
            ``(5) carrying out monitoring, education, extension, and 
        coastal training programs throughout the System.''.
    (d) Land Acquisition and Construction.--Section 315 of the Coastal 
Zone Management Act of 1972 (16 U.S.C. 1461) is amended by adding at 
the end the following:
    ``(h) Land Acquisition and Construction.--The Secretary may use 
funds authorized under section 318 for land acquisition and the 
construction and renovations of facilities required to meet delivery of 
System programs and services, or to meet changing needs of programs 
under this title. Such construction shall incorporate green design 
principles, materials, energy efficiency, and adaptive reuse 
strategies, and the development of innovative coastal technology and 
management strategies that enhance resilience of System facilities and 
lands.''.

              TITLE IV--COASTAL RESILIENCY AND ADAPTATION

SEC. 401. LIVING SHORELINE GRANT PROGRAM.

    (a) Establishment.--The Administrator shall make grants to eligible 
entities for purposes of--
            (1) designing and implementing large- and small-scale, 
        climate-resilient living shoreline projects; and
            (2) applying innovative uses of natural materials and 
        systems to protect coastal communities, habitats, and natural 
        system functions.
    (b) Project Proposals.--To be eligible to receive a grant under 
this section, an eligible entity shall--
            (1) submit to the Administrator a proposal for a living 
        shoreline project, including monitoring, data collection, and 
        measurable performance criteria with respect to the project;
            (2) demonstrate to the Administrator that the entity has 
        any permits or other authorizations from local, State, and 
        Federal Government agencies necessary to carry out the living 
        shoreline project or provide evidence demonstrating general 
        support from such agencies; and
            (3) include an engagement or education component that seeks 
        and solicits feedback from the local or regional community most 
        directly affected by the proposal.
    (c) Project Selection.--
            (1) Development of criteria.--The Administrator shall 
        select eligible entities to receive grants under this section 
        based on criteria developed by the Administrator, in 
        consultation with relevant offices of the National Oceanic and 
        Atmospheric Administration, such as the Office of Habitat 
        Conservation, the Office for Coastal Management, and the 
        Restoration Center.
            (2) Considerations.--In developing criteria under paragraph 
        (1) to evaluate a proposed living shoreline project, the 
        Administrator shall take into account--
                    (A) the potential of the project to protect the 
                community and maintain the viability of the 
                environment, such as through protection of ecosystem 
                functions, environmental benefits, or habitat types, in 
                the area where the project is to be carried out;
                    (B) the historic and future environmental 
                conditions of the project site, particularly those 
                environmental conditions affected by climate change;
                    (C) the net ecological benefits of the project 
                including the potential of the project to contribute to 
                carbon sequestration;
                    (D) the ability of the entity proposing the project 
                to demonstrate the potential of the project to protect 
                the coastal community where the project is to be 
                carried out, including through--
                            (i) mitigating the effects of erosion;
                            (ii) attenuating the impact of coastal 
                        storms and storm surge;
                            (iii) mitigating shoreline flooding;
                            (iv) mitigating the effects of sea level 
                        rise, accelerated land loss, and extreme tides;
                            (v) sustaining, protecting, or restoring 
                        the functions and habitats of coastal 
                        ecosystems;
                            (vi) protecting important cultural sites or 
                        values; or
                            (vii) such other forms of coastal 
                        protection as the Administrator considers 
                        appropriate; and
                    (E) the potential of the project to support 
                resiliency at a military installation or community 
                infrastructure supportive of a military installation 
                (as such terms are defined in section 2391 of title 10, 
                United States Code).
            (3) Priority.--In selecting living shoreline projects to 
        receive grants under this section, the Administrator shall give 
        priority consideration to a proposed project to be conducted in 
        an area--
                    (A) for which the President has declared, during 
                the 10-year period preceding the submission of the 
                proposal for the project under subsection (b), that a 
                major disaster exists pursuant to section 401 of the 
                Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency 
                Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5170) because of a hurricane, 
                tropical storm, coastal storm, or flooding;
                    (B) that has a documented history of coastal 
                erosion or frequent coastal inundation during that 10-
                year period; or
                    (C) that includes communities that may not have 
                adequate resources to prepare for or respond to coastal 
                hazards, including low income communities, communities 
                of color, Tribal communities, Indigenous communities, 
                and rural communities.
            (4) Minimum standards.--
                    (A) In general.--The Administrator shall develop 
                minimum standards to be used in selecting eligible 
                entities to receive grants under this section, taking 
                into account--
                            (i) the considerations described in 
                        paragraph (2);
                            (ii) the need for such standards to be 
                        general enough to accommodate concerns relating 
                        to specific project sites; and
                            (iii) the consideration of an established 
                        eligible entity program with systems to 
                        disburse funding from a single grant to support 
                        multiple small-scale projects.
                    (B) Consultations.--In developing standards under 
                subparagraph (A), the Administrator--
                            (i) shall consult with relevant offices of 
                        the National Oceanic and Atmospheric 
                        Administration, such as the Office of Habitat 
                        Conservation, the Office for Coastal 
                        Management, and the Restoration Center; and
                            (ii) may consult with--
                                    (I) relevant interagency councils, 
                                such as the Estuary Habitat Restoration 
                                Council;
                                    (II) Indian Tribes and Tribal 
                                organizations;
                                    (III) State coastal management 
                                agencies; and
                                    (IV) relevant nongovernmental 
                                organizations.
    (d) Use of Funds.--A grant awarded under this section to an 
eligible entity to carry out a living shoreline project may be used by 
the eligible entity only--
            (1) to carry out the project, including administration, 
        design, permitting, entry into negotiated indirect cost rate 
        agreements, and construction;
            (2) to monitor, collect, and report data on the performance 
        (including performance over time) of the project, in accordance 
        with standards issued by the Administrator under subsection 
        (f)(3); or
            (3) to incentivize landowners to engage in living shoreline 
        projects.
    (e) Cost Sharing.--
            (1) In general.--Except as provided in paragraph (2), an 
        eligible entity that receives a grant under this section to 
        carry out a living shoreline project shall provide, from non-
        Federal sources, funds or other resources (such as land or 
        conservation easements or in-kind matching from private 
        entities) valued at not less than 50 percent of the total cost, 
        including administrative costs, of the project.
            (2) Reduced matching requirement for certain communities.--
        The Administrator may reduce or waive the matching requirement 
        under paragraph (1) for an eligible entity representing a 
        community or nonprofit organization if--
                    (A) the eligible entity submits to the 
                Administrator in writing--
                            (i) a request for such a reduction or 
                        waiver and, in the case of a request for a 
                        reduction, the amount of the reduction; and
                            (ii) a justification for why the entity 
                        cannot meet the matching requirement; and
                    (B) the Administrator agrees with the 
                justification.
    (f) Monitoring and Reporting.--
            (1) In general.--The Administrator shall require each 
        eligible entity receiving a grant under this section (or a 
        representative of the entity) to carry out a living shoreline 
        project--
                    (A) to transmit to the Administrator data collected 
                under the project;
                    (B) to monitor the project and to collect data on--
                            (i) the ecological and economic benefits of 
                        the project and the protection provided by the 
                        project for the coastal community where the 
                        project is carried out, including through--
                                    (I) mitigating the effects of 
                                erosion;
                                    (II) attenuating the impact of 
                                coastal storms and storm surge;
                                    (III) mitigating shoreline 
                                flooding;
                                    (IV) mitigating the effects of sea 
                                level rise, accelerated land loss, and 
                                extreme tides;
                                    (V) sustaining, protecting, or 
                                restoring the functions and habitats of 
                                coastal ecosystems; or
                                    (VI) such other forms of coastal 
                                protection as the Administrator 
                                considers appropriate; and
                            (ii) the performance of the project in 
                        providing such protection;
                    (C) to make data collected under the project 
                available on a publicly accessible internet website of 
                the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration; 
                and
                    (D) not later than 1 year after the entity receives 
                the grant, and annually thereafter until the completion 
                of the project, to submit to the Administrator a report 
                on--
                            (i) the data described in subparagraph (B); 
                        and
                            (ii) the effectiveness of the project in 
                        increasing protection of the coastal community 
                        where the project is carried out through living 
                        shorelines techniques, including--
                                    (I) a description of--
                                            (aa) the project;
                                            (bb) the activities carried 
                                        out under the project; and
                                            (cc) the techniques and 
                                        materials used in carrying out 
                                        the project.
            (2) Guidelines.--In developing guidelines relating to the 
        data collected under paragraph (1)(B), the Administrator shall 
        consider how additional data could safely be collected before 
        and after major disasters or severe weather events to measure 
        project performance and project recovery.
            (3) Standards.--
                    (A) In general.--Not later than 90 days after the 
                date of the enactment of this Act, the Administrator 
                shall, in consultation with relevant offices of the 
                National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, 
                relevant interagency councils, and relevant 
                nongovernmental organizations, issue standards for the 
                monitoring, collection, and reporting under subsection 
                (d)(2) of data regarding the performance of living 
                shoreline projects for which grants are awarded under 
                this section.
                    (B) Reporting.--The standards issued under 
                subparagraph (A) shall require an eligible entity 
                receiving a grant under this section to report the data 
                described in that subparagraph to the Administrator on 
                a regular basis.
    (g) Authorization of Appropriations.--There is authorized to be 
appropriated to the Administrator $50,000,000 for each of fiscal years 
2021 through 2025 for purposes of carrying out this section.
    (h) Minimum Required Funds for Shoreline Projects Located Within 
the Great Lakes.--The Secretary shall use not less than 10 percent of 
the funds awarded under this section for grants to projects located in 
the Great Lakes.
    (i) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Eligible entity.--The term ``eligible entity'' means 
        any of the following:
                    (A) A unit of a State or local government.
                    (B) An organization described in section 501(c)(3) 
                of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 that is exempt 
                from taxation under section 501(a) of such Code.
                    (C) An Indian Tribe.
            (2) Living shoreline project.--The term ``living shoreline 
        project''--
                    (A) means a project that--
                            (i) restores or stabilizes a shoreline, 
                        including marshes, wetlands, and other 
                        vegetated areas that are part of the shoreline 
                        ecosystem, by using natural materials and 
                        systems to create buffers to attenuate the 
                        impact of coastal storms, currents, flooding, 
                        and wave energy and to prevent or minimize 
                        shoreline erosion while providing a net 
                        ecological benefit to ecosystems and habitats;
                            (ii) incorporates as many natural elements 
                        as possible, such as native wetlands, kelp 
                        forests, submerged aquatic plants, corals, 
                        oyster shells, native grasses, shrubs, or 
                        trees;
                            (iii) utilizes techniques that incorporate 
                        ecological and coastal engineering principles 
                        in shoreline stabilization; and
                            (iv) to the extent possible, maintains or 
                        restores existing natural slopes and 
                        connections between uplands and adjacent 
                        wetlands or surface waters;
                    (B) may include the use of--
                            (i) natural elements, such as sand, wetland 
                        plants, logs, oysters or other shellfish, 
                        submerged aquatic vegetation, corals, native 
                        grasses, shrubs, trees, or coir fiber logs;
                            (ii) project elements that provide 
                        ecological benefits to coastal ecosystems and 
                        habitats in addition to shoreline protection; 
                        and
                            (iii) structural materials, such as stone, 
                        concrete, wood, vinyl, oyster domes, or other 
                        approved engineered structures in combination 
                        with natural materials; and
                    (C) may include a project that expands upon or 
                restores natural living shorelines or existing living 
                shoreline projects.
            (3) State.--The term ``State'' means each of the several 
        States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto 
        Rico, the United States Virgin Islands, Guam, American Samoa, 
        and the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands.

SEC. 402. NATIONAL OCEANIC AND ATMOSPHERIC ADMINISTRATION COASTAL 
              RESILIENCE RESEARCH GRANTS.

    (a) In General.--The Administrator shall annually carry out a 
competitively awarded grant program (referred to in this section as the 
``Program'') focused on interdisciplinary coastal resilience and 
sustainability.
    (b) Objective.--The objective of the Program shall be to develop 
scalable, best practices--
            (1) to prepare more resilient, sustainable coastal 
        communities; and
            (2) to reduce disaster recovery costs.
    (c) Collaboration.--The Administrator shall conduct the Program in 
collaboration with business and industry, government agencies, academic 
institutions, and coastal community stakeholders.
    (d) Eligibility.--To be eligible for a grant under the Program, an 
applicant shall be an institution of higher education, nonprofit 
organization, State, local, or Tribal government, for-profit 
organization, United States territory, or Federal agency that has 
statutory authority to receive transfers of funds.
    (e) Coastal Resilience Research Competitive Grants.--
            (1) In general.--In awarding grants under the Program, the 
        Administrator shall give priority to coastal resilience 
        research projects that focus on--
                    (A) protecting life and critical infrastructure;
                    (B) developing decision-support tools useful to 
                coastal communities;
                    (C) determining societal, ecological, and 
                resiliency benefits of coastal restoration and natural, 
                nature-based, and man-made infrastructure, and how 
                those benefits affect the sustainability of coastal 
                ecosystems;
                    (D) volunteer and community-science monitoring of 
                coastal and marine resources as part of efforts to 
                protect coastal communities from sea level rise;
                    (E) monitoring and developing ecosystem-based 
                approaches to managing coastal ecosystems to promote 
                sustainability;
                    (F) assessing and enhancing the capacity of human 
                communities to adapt to coastal natural disasters;
                    (G) assessing coastal vulnerability and risk;
                    (H) evaluating adaptation and restoration 
                approaches to reduce risk, including through the use of 
                natural, nature-based, and man-made features;
                    (I) minimizing costs associated with damages 
                incurred from natural disasters, flooding, and sea 
                level rise; and
                    (J) developing curriculum for new programs in 
                coastal restoration at public community colleges and 
                within college Sea Grant programs to train the new 
                coastal restoration workforce.
    (f) Donations.--The Administrator may accept and use donations of 
funds to implement this section.
    (g) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Critical infrastructure.--The term ``critical 
        infrastructure'' means infrastructure, including natural or 
        nature-based infrastructure, the destruction or damaging of 
        which would have a debilitating impact on national security or 
        economic security, undermine community resiliency and 
        adaptation, or threaten public health or safety.
            (2) Natural and nature-based features.--The term 
        ``natural'' or ``nature-based features'' means coastal 
        wetlands, beaches, dunes, marshes, mangrove forests, municipal 
        green infrastructure, and living shorelines.

SEC. 403. GRANTS FOR RECOVERING OYSTERS.

    (a) Establishment.--The Administrator shall establish a grant 
program (in this section referred to as the ``Program'') under which 
the Administrator shall award grants to eligible entities for the 
purpose of conducting research on the conservation, restoration, or 
management of oysters in estuarine ecosystems.
    (b) Application.--To be eligible to receive a grant under this 
section, an eligible entity shall submit to the Administrator an 
application at such time, in such manner, and containing such 
information as the Administrator may require.
    (c) Allocation of Grant Funds.--
            (1) In general.--The Administrator shall award a grant 
        under the Program to eligible entities that submit an 
        application under subsection (b).
            (2) Matching requirement.--
                    (A) In general.--Except as provided in subparagraph 
                (B), the total amount of Federal funding received under 
                the Program by an eligible entity may not exceed 85 
                percent of the total cost of the research project for 
                which the funding was awarded. For the purposes of this 
                subparagraph, the non-Federal share of project costs 
                may be provided by in-kind contributions and other 
                noncash support.
                    (B) Waiver.--The Administrator may waive all or 
                part of the requirement in subparagraph (A) if the 
                Administrator determines that no reasonable means are 
                available through which an eligible entity applying for 
                a grant under this section can meet such requirement 
                and the probable benefit of such research project 
                outweighs the public interest in such requirement.
            (3) Equitable distribution.--The Administrator shall 
        ensure, to the maximum extent practicable, that grant funding 
        under this section is apportioned according to the historic 
        baseline oyster population of each estuary of the United 
        States.
    (d) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Academic community.--The term ``academic community'' 
        means faculty, researchers, professors, and representatives of 
        State-accredited colleges and universities.
            (2) Eligible entity.--The term ``eligible entity'' means a 
        member of the academic community, a member of the seafood 
        industry, a relevant nonprofit organization, or a relevant 
        State agency, that is proposing or conducting a research 
        project on the conservation, restoration, or management of 
        oysters in an estuarine ecosystem developed through 
        consultation with a member of the academic community, a member 
        of the seafood industry, a relevant nonprofit organization, or 
        a relevant State agency.
            (3) Historic baseline.--The term ``historic baseline'' 
        means the estimated population of oysters in an estuary in 
        1850.
            (4) Nonprofit organization.--The term ``nonprofit 
        organization'' means an organization described in section 
        501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 and exempt from 
        tax under section 501(a) of such Code.
            (5) Seafood industry.--The term ``seafood industry'' means 
        shellfish growers, shellfish harvesters, commercial fishermen, 
        and recreational fishermen.
    (e) Authorization of Appropriations.--There is authorized to be 
appropriated to the Administrator $6,000,000 for each of fiscal years 
2021 through 2025 to carry out this section.

SEC. 404. IMPROVEMENTS TO THE NATIONAL OCEANS AND COASTAL SECURITY ACT.

    (a) Definitions.--Section 902 of the National Oceans and Coastal 
Security Act (16 U.S.C. 7501) is amended--
            (1) by amending paragraph (5) to read as follows:
            ``(5) Indian tribe.--The term `Indian Tribe' has the 
        meaning given such term in section 4 of the Indian Self-
        Determination and Education Assistance Act (25 U.S.C. 5304).'';
            (2) by amending paragraph (7) to read as follows:
            ``(7) Tidal shoreline.--The term `tidal shoreline' means a 
        `tidal shoreline' or a `Great Lake shoreline' as such terms are 
        used in section 923.110(c)(2)(i) of title 15, Code of Federal 
        Regulations, or a similar successor regulation.''; and
            (3) by adding at the end the following:
            ``(8) Blue carbon.--The term `blue carbon' means the 
        ability of an ocean or coastal ecosystem, habitat, or other 
        natural resource to absorb, capture, and contain atmospheric 
        carbon dioxide.''.
    (b) Improvements to National Oceans and Coastal Security Fund.--
            (1) Establishment of fund required.--Subsection (a) of 
        section 904 of such Act (16 U.S.C. 7503) is amended by 
        inserting ``and jointly manage'' after ``establish''.
            (2) Deposits.--Paragraph (1) of section 904(b) of such Act 
        (16 U.S.C. 7503(b)) is amended to read as follows:
            ``(1) In general.--There shall be deposited into the Fund, 
        which shall constitute the assets of the Fund, amounts as 
        follows:
                    ``(A) Amounts appropriated for the Fund.
                    ``(B) Such other amounts as may be appropriated or 
                otherwise made available to carry out this title.''.
            (3) Expenditures.--Section 904 of such Act (16 U.S.C. 7503) 
        is amended by striking subsection (d) and inserting the 
        following:
    ``(d) Expenditure.--
            ``(1) Amounts deposited equaling or exceeding 
        $100,000,000.--If amounts deposited into the Fund in a fiscal 
        year equal or exceed $100,000,000--
                    ``(A) not more than 80 percent of such amounts may 
                be used in that fiscal year for the award of grants 
                under subsection (b) of section 906;
                    ``(B) not more than 20 percent of such amounts may 
                be used in that fiscal year for the award of grants 
                under subsection (c) of such section; and
                    ``(C) not more than 4 percent of such amounts may 
                be used in that fiscal year by the Administrator and 
                the Foundation for administrative expenses to carry out 
                this title, which amount shall be divided between the 
                Administrator and the Foundation pursuant to an 
                agreement reached and documented by both the 
                Administrator and the Foundation.
            ``(2) Amounts deposited of less than $100,000,000.--If 
        amounts deposited into the Fund in a fiscal year are less than 
        $100,000,000--
                    ``(A) all of such amounts shall be used in that 
                fiscal year for the award of grants under subsection 
                (c) of section 906; and
                    ``(B) not more than 4 percent may be used by the 
                Administrator and the Foundation for administrative 
                expenses to carry out this title, which amount shall be 
                divided between the Administrator and the Foundation 
                pursuant to an agreement reached and documented by both 
                the Administrator and the Foundation.''.
    (c) Eligible Uses of the Fund.--Section 905 of such Act (16 U.S.C. 
7504) is amended to read as follows:

``SEC. 905. ELIGIBLE USES.

    ``(a) In General.--Amounts in the Fund may be allocated by the 
Administrator and the Foundation to support programs and activities 
intended to protect, conserve, restore, better understand, and utilize 
ocean and coastal resources and coastal infrastructure, including 
scientific research, resiliency and spatial planning, data-sharing, and 
other programs and activities carried out in coordination with Federal 
and State departments or agencies, including the following:
            ``(1) Ocean, coastal, and Great Lakes restoration and 
        protection, including efforts to address potential impacts of 
        sea level change, sedimentation, erosion, changes in ocean 
        chemistry, hurricanes and other extreme weather, flooding, and 
        changes in ocean temperature to natural resources, communities, 
        and coastal economies.
            ``(2) Restoration, protection, or maintenance of living 
        ocean, coastal, and Great Lakes resources and their habitats, 
        including habitats and ecosystems that provide blue carbon 
        benefits.
            ``(3) Planning for and managing coastal development to 
        enhance ecosystem and community integrity, or to minimize 
        impacts from sea level change, hurricanes and other extreme 
        weather, flooding, and coastal erosion.
            ``(4) Projects to address management, planning, or 
        resiliency and readiness issues which are regional or 
        interstate in scope, such as regional ocean partnerships or 
        similar bodies.
            ``(5) Efforts that contribute to the understanding of 
        ecological, economic, societal, and national security threats 
        driven by changes to the oceans, coasts, and Great Lakes.
            ``(6) Efforts to preserve, protect, and collect data, 
        including through public ocean and coastal data portals, that 
        would support sustainable water-dependent commercial 
        activities, including commercial fishing, recreational fishing 
        businesses, aquaculture, boat building, or other coastal-
        related businesses.
            ``(7) Efforts to assist coastal States in repositioning, 
        relocating, or deploying natural or nature-based features to 
        enhance the resiliency of critical coastal transportation and 
        emergency response, water, electrical, and other infrastructure 
        that are already subject to or face increased future risks of 
        hurricanes, coastal flooding, coastal erosion, or sea level 
        change to ensure the economic security, safety, and ecological 
        well-being of the coasts of the United States.
            ``(8) Acquiring property or interests in property if--
                    ``(A) the property is located within a coastal 
                county or adjacent county;
                    ``(B) the property or interests in property are 
                acquired through the voluntary sale, exchange, or 
                donation of the property or interests in property by 
                the previous owner;
                    ``(C) the Governor of the State in which the 
                property or interests in property are located approves 
                of the acquisition; and
                    ``(D) the property or interests in property are 
                acquired in a manner that will ensure that the property 
                or interests in property will be administered to 
                support the purposes of this title.
            ``(9) Protection and modification of critical coastal 
        public infrastructure affected by erosion, hurricanes or other 
        extreme weather, flooding, or sea level change.
            ``(10) Assistance for small businesses and communities that 
        are dependent on coastal tourism to help coastal economies 
        minimize impacts from sea level rise and disasters.
            ``(11) Projects that use natural and nature-based 
        approaches for enhancing the resiliency of wastewater and 
        stormwater infrastructure (as compared to general water 
        infrastructure, which may include drinking water systems).
            ``(12) Technical assistance to help develop comprehensive 
        resilience and mitigation plans.
    ``(b) Prohibition on Use of Funds for Litigation.--No funds made 
available under this title may be used to fund litigation against the 
Federal Government.''.
    (d) Grants.--
            (1) Administration.--Subsection (a)(1) of section 906 of 
        such Act (16 U.S.C. 7505) is amended--
                    (A) by amending subparagraph (B) to read as 
                follows:
                    ``(B) Selection procedures and criteria for the 
                awarding of grants under this section that require 
                consultation with the Administrator and the Secretary 
                of the Interior.'';
                    (B) by amending subparagraph (C)(ii) to read as 
                follows:
                            ``(ii) under subsection (c) to entities 
                        including States, local governments, regional 
                        and interstate collaboratives, associations, 
                        nonprofit and for-profit private entities, 
                        public-private partnerships, academic 
                        institutions, and Indian Tribes.'';
                    (C) in subparagraph (F), by striking ``year if 
                grants have been awarded in that year'' and inserting 
                ``5 years''; and
                    (D) by adding at the end the following:
                    ``(I) A method to give special consideration in 
                reviewing proposals to projects with either direct or 
                indirect coastal or marine blue carbon benefits and an 
                accounting methodology to quantify those benefits for 
                the purposes of the annual report required under 
                section 907.''.
            (2) Grants to coastal states.--Subsection (b) of section 
        906 of such Act (16 U.S.C. 7505) is amended to read as follows:
    ``(b) Grants to Coastal States.--
            ``(1) In general.--Subject to section 904(d)(1) and 
        paragraphs (2) and (3) of this subsection, the Administrator 
        and the Foundation shall award grants to coastal States as 
        follows:
                    ``(A) 50 percent of the funds provided through such 
                grants shall be allocated equally among such coastal 
                States.
                    ``(B) 25 percent of such funds shall be allocated 
                on the basis of the ratio of tidal shoreline miles in a 
                coastal State to the tidal shoreline miles of all 
                coastal States.
                    ``(C) 25 percent of such funds shall be allocated 
                on the basis of the ratio of population density of the 
                coastal counties of a coastal State to the average 
                population density of all coastal counties based on the 
                most recent data available from the Bureau of the 
                Census.
            ``(2) Maximum allocation to states.--
                    ``(A) In general.--Not more than 5 percent of the 
                total funds distributed under this subsection may be 
                allocated to any one coastal State.
                    ``(B) Redistribution.--Any amount exceeding the 
                limitation under subparagraph (A) that would by reason 
                of paragraph (1) be allocated to a coastal State shall 
                be redistributed equally among the remaining coastal 
                States.
            ``(3) Requirement to submit plans.--
                    ``(A) In general.--To be eligible to receive a 
                grant under this subsection, a coastal State shall 
                submit to the Administrator for review and approval a 
                5-year plan, which shall include the following:
                            ``(i) Criteria pursuant to which the 
                        coastal State will determine the eligibility of 
                        entities to receive funds provided to the 
                        coastal State pursuant to the grant.
                            ``(ii) A description of the competitive 
                        process the coastal State will use in 
                        allocating such funds, except in the case of 
                        allocating funds under paragraph (6), which 
                        shall include--
                                    ``(I) a description of the relative 
                                roles in the process of, and the 
                                consistency with process with, the 
                                State coastal zone management program 
                                approved under the Coastal Zone 
                                Management Act of 1972 (16 U.S.C. 1451 
                                et seq.), if the coastal State has such 
                                a plan, and any State Sea Grant 
                                Program, if the State has such program; 
                                and
                                    ``(II) a demonstration that such 
                                competitive process is consistent with 
                                the application and review procedures 
                                established under subsection (a)(1).
                            ``(iii) A description of the process the 
                        coastal State will use to certify that any 
                        project or program, and the award of any 
                        contract for the expenditure of such funds, is 
                        consistent with the standard procurement rules 
                        and regulations governing comparable projects, 
                        programs, and contracts in the coastal State, 
                        including all applicable competitive bidding 
                        and audit requirements.
                            ``(iv) A description of the procedures the 
                        coastal State will use to make publicly 
                        available on the internet--
                                    ``(I) a list of all activities 
                                supported using such funds; and
                                    ``(II) with respect to each such 
                                activity, an identification of, at a 
                                minimum, the recipient of such funds, 
                                the amount of such funds provided, a 
                                description of the activity, and the 
                                status of the activity.
                    ``(B) Updates.--A coastal State that receives a 
                grant under this subsection shall submit to the 
                Administrator, not less frequently than once every 5 
                years after first receiving such a grant, an update to 
                the plan submitted by the coastal State under 
                subparagraph (A) that covers the 5-year period 
                immediately following the most recent plan or update 
                submitted under this paragraph.
            ``(4) Opportunity for public comment.--In determining 
        whether to approve a plan or an update to a plan described in 
        subparagraph (A) or (B) of paragraph (3), the Administrator or 
        the Foundation shall provide the opportunity for, and take into 
        consideration, public input and comment on the plan.
            ``(5) Indian tribes.--A coastal State that receives a grant 
        under this subsection shall ensure that Indian Tribes in the 
        coastal State are eligible to participate in the competitive 
        process described in the plan of the coastal State under 
        paragraph (3)(A)(ii).
            ``(6) Nonparticipation by a state.--In any year, if a 
        coastal State does not submit the plan required by paragraph 
        (3) or declines the award of a grant under this subsection, the 
        funds that would have been allocated to the coastal State shall 
        be redistributed equally among the remaining coastal States.''.
            (3) National grants for oceans, coasts, and great lakes.--
        Subsection (c) of such section is amended--
                    (A) in paragraph (2)--
                            (i) in subparagraph (B)--
                                    (I) in clause (ii), by striking ``; 
                                and'' and inserting a semicolon;
                                    (II) by redesignating clause (iii) 
                                as clause (iv); and
                                    (III) by inserting after clause 
                                (ii) the following:
                            ``(iii) nongovernmental organizations; 
                        and''; and
                            (ii) by adding at the end the following:
                    ``(C) Cap on state funding.--The amount of a grant 
                awarded under this subsection shall not count toward 
                the maximum amount that may be allocated to a coastal 
                State under subsection (b)(2).''; and
                    (B) by adding at the end the following:
            ``(3) Matching requirement.--The Administrator and the 
        Foundation shall require that non-Federal funds be available 
        for a percentage of the costs (as determined by the 
        Administrator or the Foundation, as applicable) of the 
        activities for which any grant is awarded under this 
        subsection.''.
    (e) Annual Report.--Section 907(b) of the National Oceans and 
Coastal Security Act (16 U.S.C. 7506(b)) is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (2), by striking ``; and'' and inserting a 
        semicolon;
            (2) in paragraph (3), by striking the period at the end and 
        inserting ``; and''; and
            (3) by adding at the end the following:
            ``(4) an estimate of blue carbon benefits, in tons of 
        carbon dioxide, expected through grants awarded to projects 
        that received special consideration under section 906 due to 
        the potential blue carbon benefits of the projects.''.
    (f) Funding.--Section 908 of such Act (16 U.S.C. 7507) is amended 
to read as follows:

``SEC. 908. FUNDING.

    ``There is authorized to be appropriated to carry out this title 
$100,000,000 for fiscal year 2021 and each fiscal year thereafter.''.

SEC. 405. RESTORATION GRANTS FOR COASTLINES AND FISHERIES.

    (a) Establishment.--The Secretary shall establish a grant program 
to provide funding and technical assistance to eligible entities for 
purposes of carrying out a project described in subsection (d).
    (b) Project Proposal.--To be considered for a grant under this 
section, an eligible entity shall submit a grant proposal to the 
Secretary in a time, place, and manner determined by the Secretary. 
Such proposal shall include monitoring, data collection, and measurable 
performance criteria with respect to the project.
    (c) Development of Criteria.--The Secretary shall select eligible 
entities to receive grants under this section based on criteria 
developed by the Secretary, in consultation with relevant offices of 
the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, such as the Office 
of Habitat Conservation and the Office for Coastal Management.
    (d) Eligible Projects.--A project is described in this subsection 
if--
            (1) the purpose of the project is to restore a marine, 
        estuarine, coastal, or Great Lake habitat, including--
                    (A) restoration of habitat to protect or recover a 
                species that is threatened, endangered, or a species of 
                concern under the Endangered Species Act of 1973 (16 
                U.S.C. 1531 et seq.);
                    (B) through the removal or remediation of marine 
                debris, including derelict vessels and fishing gear, in 
                coastal and marine habitats; or
                    (C) for the benefit of--
                            (i) shellfish;
                            (ii) fish, including diadromous fish; or
                            (iii) coral reef; or
            (2) provides adaptation to climate change, including by 
        constructing or protecting ecological features or nature-based 
        infrastructure that protects coastal communities from sea level 
        rise, coastal storms, or flooding, and blue carbon projects.
    (e) Priority.--In determining which projects to fund under this 
section, the Secretary shall give priority to a proposed project--
            (1) that would stimulate the economy;
            (2) for which the applicant can demonstrate that the grant 
        will fund work that will begin not more than 90 days after the 
        date of the award;
            (3) for which the applicant can demonstrate that the grant 
        will fund work that will employ fishermen who have been 
        negatively impacted by the COVID-19 pandemic or pay a fisherman 
        for the use of a fishing vessel;
            (4) for which the applicant can demonstrate that any 
        preliminary study or permit required before the project can 
        begin has been completed or can be completed shortly after an 
        award is made; or
            (5) that includes communities that may not have adequate 
        resources including low income communities, communities of 
        color, Tribal communities, Indigenous communities, and rural 
        communities.
    (f) Authorization of Appropriations.--There is authorized to be 
appropriated to the Secretary $3,000,000,000 for fiscal year 2021 to 
carry out this section, to remain available until expended.
    (g) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Eligible entity.--The term ``eligible entity'' means a 
        nonprofit, a for-profit business, an institution of higher 
        education, or a State, local, Tribal, or Territorial 
        government.
            (2) Fishermen.--The term ``fishermen'' means commercial or 
        for-hire fishermen or oyster farmers.
            (3) Secretary.--In this section, the term ``Secretary'' 
        means the Secretary of Commerce, acting through the 
        Administrator of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric 
        Administration.

SEC. 406. STRATEGIC CLIMATE CHANGE RELOCATION INITIATIVE AND PROGRAM.

    (a) Establishment of Initiative.--The Chairman of the Council on 
Environmental Quality (in this section referred to as the ``Chair'') 
shall establish an initiative, to be known as the ``Strategic Climate 
Change Relocation Initiative'' (in this section referred to as the 
``Initiative''), for the purposes of coordinating Federal agency 
activities to identify and assist communities that have expressed 
affirmative interest in relocation due to health, safety, and 
environmental impacts from climate change, including hurricanes, 
flooding, sea level rise, and repeat wildfires.
    (b) Director.--The Chair shall appoint a Strategic Climate 
Relocation Director to manage the Initiative.
    (c) Consultation.--The Chair shall coordinate and consult with 
Federal agencies conducting activities related to this section 
including the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, the 
Department of the Interior, including the Bureau of Indian Affairs, the 
Environmental Protection Agency, the Federal Emergency Management 
Agency, the Department of Housing and Urban Development, the Denali 
Commission, the Corps of Engineers, the Office of Management and 
Budget, the National Economic Council, the National Security Council, 
the interagency subgroup on Tribal resilience of the White House 
Council on Native American Affairs, and other Federal agencies as 
appropriate.
    (d) External Advisory Panel.--The Chair shall establish an external 
advisory panel that may include community leaders, non-governmental 
organizations, State and local government representatives, Tribal 
leaders, Indigenous community representatives, climate adaptation 
professionals, and other relevant experts as appropriate.
    (e) Report to Congress.--Not later than 2 years after the date of 
enactment of this Act, the Chair shall submit to Congress a report 
recommending key elements of a program, to be known as the ``Strategic 
Climate Change Relocation Program'' (in this section referred to as the 
``Program'') to identify and assist communities that have expressed 
affirmative interest in relocation due to health, safety, and 
environmental impacts from climate change. The report shall--
            (1) identify--
                    (A) areas where climate change impacts make 
                relocation a likely climate change adaptation strategy;
                    (B) communities that have expressed affirmative 
                interest in relocation (in this section referred to as 
                ``sending communities''); and
                    (C) potential relocation areas and communities that 
                have expressed interest in attracting climate migrants 
                (in this section referred to as ``receiving 
                communities'');
            (2) propose criteria to qualify for climate relocation 
        assistance, with preference given to disadvantaged communities 
        where community members have indicated a preference for retreat 
        and would otherwise be challenged to relocate;
            (3) describe the roles and responsibilities of specific 
        Federal agencies in implementing the Program and how the 
        Program should be coordinated with applicable State and Federal 
        agency plans and programs and identify Federal programs that 
        can be tailored to incentivize self-identification of 
        communities as receiving areas;
            (4) outline the role that State and local governments 
        should play in implementing the Program, including 
        identification of areas or communities where people leaving 
        areas vulnerable to climate change can consider locating, and 
        the specific resources needed to prepare those communities to 
        be receiving communities in terms of Federal investment in 
        infrastructure, affordable housing, and social services;
            (5) summarize existing Federal and State programs for 
        purchase of individual properties vulnerable to the impacts of 
        climate change and propose how those programs might be 
        restructured, improved, or expanded to incentivize climate 
        change relocation;
            (6) describe measures that governments or other 
        organizations can take to reduce the psychological stress 
        associated with relocation to preserve or support the 
        historical and cultural identity of communities being relocated 
        and to restore and conserve areas that communities are 
        relocated from as publicly accessible natural assets, and how 
        Federal programs will support those efforts;
            (7) identify and recommend measures to overcome how 
        institutional barriers, such as Federal programs that do not 
        account for Tribal sovereignty, constrain Tribal communities' 
        ability to pursue self-determined management of their resources 
        and built environment;
            (8) identify measures that Congress, Federal agencies, or 
        State and local governments should take to discourage or 
        restrict new development and hard structural measures in areas 
        vulnerable to such significant climate change impacts that they 
        are likely to require a solution that includes relocation, in 
        particular, where the Federal Government could establish 
        stricter funding requirements for post-disaster funding that 
        require updated building codes and land use strategies 
        reflecting climate risk;
            (9) describe existing policies and clarify responsibilities 
        of governments in complying with obligations to protect private 
        property, including providing just compensation for any taking 
        of private property;
            (10) propose an application process, available online, for 
        States and communities to express affirmative interest in 
        climate relocation assistance, either as a leaving community or 
        receiving community;
            (11) provide guidance on and identify additional funding 
        for operations and maintenance requirements for vacated land, 
        and identify the resources needed to prioritize public access, 
        recreational spaces, or conservation areas;
            (12) review efficacy of existing flood mitigation 
        strategies on reducing flood risk to human populations, and 
        identify opportunities to coordinate blue-green infrastructure 
        solutions with buyout programs that increase the resilience of 
        remaining residents; and
            (13) outline the amount and timing of Federal funding that 
        is expected to be needed to implement the Program.
    (f) Development of Report to Congress.--In developing the report 
required by subsection (e), the Chair shall--
            (1) provide for public review of and public comment on a 
        draft of the report;
            (2) consult with organizations representing State and local 
        governments;
            (3) consult with the external advisory panel established 
        under subsection (d); and
            (4) evaluate projects implemented under the National 
        Disaster Resilience Competition administered by the Secretary 
        of Housing and Urban Development.
    (g) Climate Change Strategic Relocation Program Pilot Projects.--
Not later than 2 years after the date on which the report required by 
subsection (e) is submitted, the Chair shall establish and carry out 
pilot projects based upon the recommendations included in such report.
    (h) Subsequent Periodic Reports to Congress.--Not later than 3 
years after the date on which the report required by subsection (e) is 
submitted, and every 3 years thereafter, the Chair shall submit to 
Congress a report evaluating progress in the implementation of the 
Program and making recommendations for needed changes to the Program.

  TITLE V--OCEAN HEALTH: OCEAN ACIDIFICATION AND HARMFUL ALGAL BLOOMS

          Subtitle A--Coastal Communities Ocean Acidification

SEC. 501. STATE AND UNITED STATES DEFINED.

    Section 12403 of the Federal Ocean Acidification Research And 
Monitoring Act of 2009 (33 U.S.C. 3702) is amended--
            (1) by redesignating paragraph (3) as paragraph (4);
            (2) by inserting after paragraph (2) the following:
            ``(3) State.--The term `State' means each State of the 
        United States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of 
        Puerto Rico, American Samoa, Guam, the Commonwealth of the 
        Northern Mariana Islands, the Virgin Islands of the United 
        States, and any other territory or possession of the United 
        States.''; and
            (3) by adding at the end the following:
            ``(5) United states.--The term `United States' means the 
        States, collectively.''.

SEC. 502. COASTAL COMMUNITY VULNERABILITY ASSESSMENT.

    (a) In General.--Section 12406 of the Federal Ocean Acidification 
Research And Monitoring Act of 2009 (33 U.S.C. 3705) is amended--
            (1) in subsection (a), by inserting ``(referred to in this 
        section as the `Program')'' after ``acidification program'';
            (2) by redesignating subsection (b) as subsection (d); and
            (3) by inserting after subsection (a) the following:
    ``(b) Community Vulnerability Assessment.--
            ``(1) In general.--Not later than 180 days after the date 
        of the enactment of the Ocean Climate Emergency Action Now Act 
        of 2020 and every 7 years thereafter, the Secretary, through 
        the `Program', shall conduct an ocean acidification coastal 
        community vulnerability assessment, and issue a corresponding 
        public report.
            ``(2) Requirements.--The assessment conducted under 
        paragraph (1) shall--
                    ``(A) identify the United States coastal 
                communities, including island communities, low-
                population rural communities, and subsistence 
                communities, that are most dependent on coastal and 
                ocean resources that may be impacted by ocean 
                acidification;
                    ``(B) assess the nature of the social and economic 
                vulnerabilities of those communities, including the 
                economic effect on local or regional commercial 
                fisheries and recreational opportunities and over what 
                timescales such effects will be felt;
                    ``(C) identify the ocean acidification impacts that 
                might harm those communities, both in isolation and in 
                conjunction with other changing ocean conditions, 
                including effects from changes in ocean and coastal 
                marine resources that are not managed by the Federal 
                Government;
                    ``(D) identify key knowledge gaps where research 
                could be devoted to better understand the possible 
                impacts of ocean acidification on those communities, 
                the risks and threats facing those communities, and 
                possible adaptation strategies for those communities; 
                and
                    ``(E) be conducted in collaboration with experts, 
                including traditional knowledge experts, and 
                individuals who are familiar with the unique economic, 
                social, ecological, geographic, and resource concerns 
                of coastal communities in the United States, including 
                representatives from--
                            ``(i) the National Marine Fisheries Service 
                        and the Office for Coastal Management of the 
                        National Oceanic and Atmospheric 
                        Administration;
                            ``(ii) National Integrated Coastal and 
                        Ocean Observation System regional information 
                        coordination entities established under section 
                        12304(c)(4) of the Integrated Coastal and Ocean 
                        Observation System Act of 2009 (33 U.S.C. 
                        3603(c)(4));
                            ``(iii) regional ocean acidification 
                        networks; and
                            ``(iv) State sea grant programs (as defined 
                        in section 203 of the National Sea Grant 
                        College Program Act (33 U.S.C. 1122)).
    ``(c) Support for State and Local Vulnerability Assessments and 
Strategic Research Planning.--In carrying out the Program, the 
Secretary shall collaborate with State, local, and Tribal government 
entities that are conducting or have completed vulnerability 
assessments, strategic research planning, or other similar activities 
related to ocean acidification and its impacts on coastal communities, 
for the purpose of--
            ``(1) determining whether such activities can be used as a 
        model for other communities; and
            ``(2) identifying opportunities for the National Oceanic 
        and Atmospheric Administration and other relevant Federal 
        agencies to support such activities.''.
    (b) Ongoing Input Mechanism.--Section 12404(b)(5) of the Federal 
Ocean Acidification Research And Monitoring Act of 2009 (33 U.S.C. 
3703(b)(5)) is amended--
            (1) by striking ``including information'' and inserting the 
        following: ``including--
                    ``(A) information'';
            (2) by striking the period at the end and inserting ``; 
        and''; and
            (3) by adding at the end the following:
                    ``(B) an ongoing mechanism that allows affected 
                industry members, coastal stakeholders, non-Federal 
                resource managers, community acidification networks, 
                Indigenous knowledge groups, and scientific experts not 
                employed by the Federal Government to provide input on 
                research, data, and monitoring that is necessary to 
                support on-the-ground management, decision making, and 
                adaptation related to ocean acidification and the 
                effects of such acidification; and''.
    (c) Strategic Research Plan.--Section 12405 of the Federal Ocean 
Acidification Research And Monitoring Act of 2009 (33 U.S.C. 3704) is 
amended--
            (1) in subsection (b)--
                    (A) in paragraph (8), by striking ``and'' at the 
                end;
                    (B) in paragraph (9), by striking the period at the 
                end and inserting a semicolon; and
                    (C) by adding at the end the following:
            ``(10) make recommendations to conduct research in areas, 
        including the social sciences and economics, to address the key 
        knowledge gaps identified in the community vulnerability 
        assessment report conducted under section 12406(b); and''; and
            (2) in subsection (e), by inserting ``, Tribal government, 
        Indigenous and traditional knowledge expert,'' after 
        ``industry''.
    (d) Report on Support for State and Local Vulnerability Assessments 
and Strategic Research Planning.--Not later than 180 days after the 
date of the enactment of this Act, the Administrator shall submit to 
Congress a report detailing the efforts of the National Oceanic and 
Atmospheric Administration to support State, local, and Tribal 
community vulnerability assessments, strategic research and planning, 
and monitoring needs, pursuant to section 12406(c) of the Federal Ocean 
Acidification Research And Monitoring Act of 2009 (as added by 
subsection (a)).

           Subtitle B--Ocean Acidification Prize Competitions

SEC. 511. PRIZE COMPETITIONS.

    Section 12404 of the Federal Ocean Acidification Research And 
Monitoring Act of 2009 (33 U.S.C. 3703) is amended by adding at the end 
the following:
    ``(d) Prize Competitions.--
            ``(1) In general.--Any Federal agency with a representative 
        serving on the interagency working group established under this 
        section may, either individually or in cooperation with 1 or 
        more agencies, carry out a program to award prizes 
        competitively under section 24 of the Stevenson-Wydler 
        Technology Innovation Act of 1980 (15 U.S.C. 3719). An agency 
        seeking to carry out such a program shall carry out such 
        program in coordination with the chair of such interagency 
        working group.
            ``(2) Purposes.--Any prize competition carried out under 
        this subsection shall be for the purpose of stimulating 
        innovation to advance our Nation's ability to understand, 
        research, or monitor ocean acidification or its impacts, or to 
        develop management or adaptation options for responding to 
        ocean acidification.
            ``(3) Priority programs.--Priority shall be given to 
        establishing programs under this section that address 
        communities, environments, or industries that are in distress 
        due to the impacts of ocean acidification, including--
                    ``(A) the development of monitoring or management 
                options for communities or industries that are 
                experiencing significant financial hardship;
                    ``(B) the development of adaptation options to 
                alleviate economic harm and job loss caused by ocean 
                acidification;
                    ``(C) the development of measures to help 
                vulnerable communities or industries, with an emphasis 
                on rural communities and businesses; and
                    ``(D) the development of adaptation and management 
                options for impacted shellfish industries.''.

   Subtitle C--Coastal and Ocean Acidification Stressors and Threats 
                                Research

SEC. 521. PURPOSES.

    (a) In General.--Section 12402(a) of the Federal Ocean 
Acidification Research And Monitoring Act of 2009 (33 U.S.C. 3701(a)) 
is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (1)--
                    (A) in the matter preceding subparagraph (A), by 
                striking ``development and coordination'' and inserting 
                ``coordination and implementation'';
                    (B) in subparagraph (A), by striking 
                ``acidification on marine organisms'' and inserting 
                ``acidification and coastal acidification on marine 
                organisms''; and
                    (C) in subparagraph (B), by striking ``establish'' 
                and all that follows through the semicolon and 
                inserting ``maintain and advise an interagency 
                research, monitoring, and public outreach program on 
                ocean acidification and coastal acidification;'';
            (2) in paragraph (2), by striking ``establishment'' and 
        inserting ``maintenance'';
            (3) in paragraph (3), by inserting ``and coastal 
        acidification'' after ``ocean acidification''; and
            (4) in paragraph (4), by inserting ``and coastal 
        acidification that take into account other environmental and 
        anthropogenic stressors'' after ``ocean acidification''.
    (b) Technical and Conforming Amendment.--Section 12402 of the 
Federal Ocean Acidification Research And Monitoring Act of 2009 (33 
U.S.C. 3701(a)) is amended by striking ``(a) Purposes.--''.

SEC. 522. DEFINITIONS.

    Section 12403 of the Federal Ocean Acidification Research And 
Monitoring Act of 2009 (33 U.S.C. 3702), as amended by section 501 of 
this Act, is further amended--
            (1) in paragraph (1), by striking ``of the Earth's oceans'' 
        and all that follows before the period at the end and inserting 
        ``and changes in the water chemistry of the Earth's oceans, 
        coastal estuaries, and waterways caused by carbon dioxide from 
        the atmosphere and the breakdown of organic matter'';
            (2) in paragraph (4), as redesignated by section 501(a) of 
        this Act, by striking ``Joint Subcommittee on Ocean Science and 
        Technology'' and inserting ``Subcommittee on Ocean Science and 
        Technology'';
            (3) by redesignating paragraphs (1) through (5) as 
        paragraphs (2) through (6), respectively; and
            (4) by inserting before paragraph (2), as so redesignated, 
        the following new paragraph:
            ``(1) Coastal acidification.--The term `coastal 
        acidification' means the combined decrease in pH and changes in 
        the water chemistry of coastal oceans, estuaries, and other 
        bodies of water from chemical inputs (including carbon dioxide 
        from the atmosphere), freshwater inputs, and excess nutrient 
        run-off from land and coastal atmospheric pollution that result 
        in processes that release carbon dioxide, acidic nitrogen, and 
        sulfur compounds as byproducts which end up in coastal 
        waters.''.

SEC. 523. INTERAGENCY WORKING GROUP.

    Section 12404 of the Federal Ocean Acidification Research And 
Monitoring Act of 2009 (33 U.S.C. 3703) is amended--
            (1) in the heading, by striking ``subcommittee'' and 
        inserting ``working group'';
            (2) in subsection (a)--
                    (A) in paragraph (1), by striking ``Joint 
                Subcommittee on Ocean Science and Technology of the 
                National Science and Technology Council shall 
                coordinate Federal activities on ocean acidification 
                and'' and inserting ``Subcommittee shall'';
                    (B) in paragraph (2), by striking ``Wildlife 
                Service,'' and inserting ``Wildlife Service, the Bureau 
                of Ocean Energy Management, the Environmental 
                Protection Agency, the Department of Agriculture, the 
                Department of State, the Department of Energy, the 
                Department of the Navy, the National Park Service, the 
                Bureau of Indian Affairs, the National Institute of 
                Standards and Technology, the Smithsonian 
                Institution,''; and
                    (C) in paragraph (3), in the heading, by striking 
                ``Chairman'' and inserting ``Chair'';
            (3) in subsection (b)--
                    (A) in paragraph (1), by inserting ``, including 
                the efforts of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric 
                Administration to facilitate such implementation'' 
                after ``of the plan'';
                    (B) in paragraph (2)--
                            (i) in subparagraph (A), by inserting ``and 
                        coastal acidification'' after ``ocean 
                        acidification''; and
                            (ii) in subparagraph (B), by inserting 
                        ``and coastal acidification'' after ``ocean 
                        acidification'';
                    (C) in paragraph (4), by striking ``; and'' and 
                inserting a semicolon;
                    (D) in paragraph (5), as amended by section 502(b) 
                of this Act--
                            (i) by striking ``developed'' and inserting 
                        ``and coastal acidification developed''; and
                            (ii) by striking ``impacts of ocean 
                        acidification''and inserting ``impacts of ocean 
                        acidification and coastal acidification''; and
                    (E) by adding at the end the following new 
                paragraph:
            ``(6) ensure that each of the Federal agencies represented 
        on the interagency working group--
                    ``(A) participates in the Ocean Acidification 
                Information Exchange established under paragraph (5); 
                and
                    ``(B) delivers data and information to support the 
                data archive system established under section 
                12406(f).'';
            (4) in subsection (c), in paragraph (2)--
                    (A) by inserting ``, and to the Office of 
                Management and Budget,'' after ``House of 
                Representatives''; and
                    (B) in subparagraph (B), by striking ``the 
                interagency research'' and inserting ``interagency 
                strategic research'';
            (5) by redesignating subsection (c) as subsection (d); and
            (6) by inserting after subsection (b) the following:
    ``(c) Advisory Board.--
            ``(1) Establishment.--The Chair of the Subcommittee shall 
        establish an Ocean Acidification Advisory Board.
            ``(2) Duties.--The Advisory Board shall--
                    ``(A) not later than 180 days before the 
                Subcommittee submits the most recent report under 
                subsection (d)(2)--
                            ``(i) review such report; and
                            ``(ii) submit an analysis of such report to 
                        the Subcommittee for consideration in the final 
                        report submitted under subsection (d)(2);
                    ``(B) concurrently with the Subcommittee's final 
                submission of the report under subsection (d)(2), 
                submit a copy of the analysis provided to the 
                Subcommittee to the Committee on Commerce, Science, and 
                Transportation of the Senate, the Committee on Science, 
                Space, and Technology of the House of Representatives, 
                and the Committee on Natural Resources of the House of 
                Representatives;
                    ``(C) not later than 180 days before the 
                Subcommittee submits the most recent strategic research 
                plan under subsection (d)(3) to Congress--
                            ``(i) review such plan; and
                            ``(ii) submit an analysis of such plan and 
                        the implementation thereof to the Subcommittee 
                        for consideration in the final strategic 
                        research plan submitted under subsection 
                        (d)(3);
                    ``(D) concurrently with the Subcommittee's final 
                submission of the strategic research plan under 
                subsection (d)(3), submit a copy of the analysis 
                provided to the Subcommittee to the Committee on 
                Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate, 
                the Committee on Science, Space, and Technology of the 
                House of Representatives, and the Committee on Natural 
                Resources of the House of Representatives;
                    ``(E) provide ongoing advice to the Subcommittee 
                and the interagency working group on matters related to 
                Federal activities on ocean acidification and coastal 
                acidification;
                    ``(F) advise the Subcommittee and the interagency 
                working group on--
                            ``(i) efforts to coordinate research and 
                        monitoring activities related to ocean 
                        acidification and coastal acidification; and
                            ``(ii) the best practices for the standards 
                        developed for data archiving under section 
                        12406(g);
                    ``(G) publish in the Federal Register a charter;
                    ``(H) provide the Library of Congress with--
                            ``(i) the charter described in subparagraph 
                        (G);
                            ``(ii) any schedules and minutes for 
                        meetings of the Advisory Board;
                            ``(iii) any documents that are approved by 
                        the Advisory Board; and
                            ``(iv) any reports and analysis prepared by 
                        the Advisory Board; and
                    ``(I) establish a publicly accessible web page on 
                the website of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric 
                Administration, that contains the information described 
                in clauses (i) through (iv) of subparagraph (H).
            ``(3) Membership.--The Advisory Board shall consist of 24 
        members as follows:
                    ``(A) Two representatives of the shellfish and crab 
                industry.
                    ``(B) One representative of the finfish industry.
                    ``(C) One representative of seafood processors.
                    ``(D) Three representatives from academia, 
                including both natural and social sciences.
                    ``(E) One representative of recreational fishing.
                    ``(F) One representative of relevant 
                nongovernmental organizations.
                    ``(G) Six representatives from relevant State, 
                local, and Tribal governments.
                    ``(H) One representative from the Alaska Ocean 
                Acidification Network.
                    ``(I) One representative from the California 
                Current Acidification Network.
                    ``(J) One representative from the Northeast Coastal 
                Acidification Network.
                    ``(K) One representative from the Southeast Coastal 
                Acidification Network.
                    ``(L) One representative from the Gulf of Mexico 
                Coastal Acidification Network.
                    ``(M) One representative from the Mid-Atlantic 
                Coastal Acidification Network.
                    ``(N) One representative from the Pacific Islands 
                Ocean Observing System or similar entity representing 
                the island Territories and possessions of the United 
                States in the Pacific Ocean, and the State of Hawaii.
                    ``(O) One representative from the Caribbean 
                Regional Association for Coastal Ocean Observing or a 
                similar entity representing Puerto Rico and the United 
                States Virgin Islands.
                    ``(P) One representative from the National Oceanic 
                and Atmospheric Administration shall serve as an ex-
                officio member of the Advisory Board without a vote.
            ``(4) Appointment of members.--The Chair of the 
        Subcommittee shall--
                    ``(A) appoint members to the Advisory Board (taking 
                into account the geographical interests of each 
                individual to be appointed as a member of the Advisory 
                Board to ensure that an appropriate balance of 
                geographical interests are represented by the members 
                of the Advisory Board) who--
                            ``(i) represent the interest group for 
                        which each seat is designated;
                            ``(ii) demonstrate expertise on ocean 
                        acidification or coastal acidification and its 
                        scientific, economic, industry, cultural, and 
                        community impacts; and
                            ``(iii) have a record of distinguished 
                        service with respect to ocean acidification or 
                        coastal acidification, and such impacts;
                    ``(B) give consideration to nominations and 
                recommendations from the members of the interagency 
                working group and the public for such appointments; and
                    ``(C) ensure that an appropriate balance of 
                scientific, industry, and geographical interests are 
                represented by the members of the Advisory Board.
            ``(5) Term of membership.--Each member of the Advisory 
        Board--
                    ``(A) shall be appointed for a 5-year term; and
                    ``(B) may be appointed to more than 1 term.
            ``(6) Chair.--The Chair of the Subcommittee shall appoint 1 
        member of the Advisory Board to serve as the Chair of the 
        Advisory Board.
            ``(7) Meetings.--Not less than once each calendar year, the 
        Advisory Board shall meet at such times and places as may be 
        designated by the Chair of the Advisory Board, in consultation 
        with the Chair of the Subcommittee and the Chair of the 
        interagency working group.
            ``(8) Briefing.--The Chair of the Advisory Board shall 
        brief the Subcommittee and the interagency working group on the 
        progress of the Advisory Board as necessary.
            ``(9) Federal advisory committee act.--Section 14 of the 
        Federal Advisory Committee Act shall not apply to the Advisory 
        Board.''.

SEC. 524. STRATEGIC RESEARCH PLAN.

    Section 12405 of the Federal Ocean Acidification Research And 
Monitoring Act of 2009 (33 U.S.C. 3704) is amended--
            (1) in subsection (a)--
                    (A) by striking ``acidification'' each place it 
                appears and inserting ``acidification and coastal 
                acidification'';
                    (B) in the first sentence--
                            (i) by inserting ``, and not later than 
                        every 5 years thereafter'' after ``the date of 
                        enactment of this Act'';
                            (ii) by inserting ``address the 
                        socioeconomic impacts of ocean acidification 
                        and coastal acidification and to'' after 
                        ``mitigation strategies to''; and
                            (iii) by striking ``marine ecosystems'' 
                        each place it appears and inserting 
                        ``ecosystems''; and
                    (C) in the second sentence, by inserting ``and 
                recommendations made by the Advisory Board in the 
                review of the plan required under section 
                12404(c)(2)(C)(i)'' after ``subsection (d)'';
            (2) in subsection (b), as amended by section 502(c) of this 
        Act--
                    (A) in paragraph (1), by inserting ``and social 
                sciences'' after ``among the ocean sciences'';
                    (B) in paragraph (2)--
                            (i) in subparagraph (A), by striking 
                        ``impacts'' and inserting ``impacts, including 
                        trends of changes in ocean chemistry,'';
                            (ii) in subparagraph (B)--
                                    (I) by striking ``improve the 
                                ability to assess the'' and inserting 
                                ``assess the short-term and long-
                                term''; and
                                    (II) by striking ``; and'' at the 
                                end and inserting a semicolon;
                            (iii) by amending subparagraph (C) to read 
                        as follows:
                    ``(C) provide information for the--
                            ``(i) development of adaptation and 
                        mitigation strategies to address the 
                        socioeconomic impacts of ocean acidification 
                        and coastal acidification;
                            ``(ii) conservation of marine organisms and 
                        ecosystems; and
                            ``(iii) assessment of the effectiveness of 
                        such adaptation and mitigation strategies; 
                        and''; and
                            (iv) by adding at the end the following new 
                        subparagraph:
                    ``(D) improve research on--
                            ``(i) ocean acidification and coastal 
                        acidification;
                            ``(ii) the interactions between and effects 
                        of multiple combined stressors including 
                        changes in water chemistry, changes in sediment 
                        delivery, hypoxia, and harmful algal blooms, on 
                        ocean acidification and coastal acidification; 
                        and
                            ``(iii) the effect of environmental 
                        stressors on marine resources and 
                        ecosystems;'';
                    (C) in paragraph (3)--
                            (i) in subparagraph (F), by striking 
                        ``database development'' and inserting ``data 
                        management'';
                            (ii) in subparagraph (H) by striking 
                        ``and'' at the end; and
                            (iii) by adding at the end the following 
                        new subparagraphs:
                    ``(J) assessment of adaptation and mitigation 
                strategies; and
                    ``(K) education and outreach activities;'';
                    (D) in paragraph (4), by striking ``set forth'' and 
                inserting ``ensure an appropriate balance of 
                contribution in establishing'';
                    (E) in paragraph (5), by striking ``reports'' and 
                inserting ``the best available peer-reviewed scientific 
                reports'';
                    (F) in paragraph (6)--
                            (i) by inserting ``and coastal 
                        acidification'' after ``ocean acidification''; 
                        and
                            (ii) by striking ``of the United States'' 
                        and inserting ``within the United States'';
                    (G) in paragraph (7), by striking ``outline budget 
                requirements'' and inserting ``estimate costs 
                associated for full implementation of each element of 
                the plan by fiscal year'';
                    (H) in paragraph (8)--
                            (i) by inserting ``and coastal 
                        acidification'' after ``ocean acidification'' 
                        each place it appears; and
                            (ii) by striking ``its'' and inserting 
                        ``their''; and
                    (I) by adding at the end the following new 
                paragraph:
            ``(11) describe monitoring needs necessary to support 
        potentially affected industry members, coastal stakeholders, 
        fishery management councils and commissions, non-Federal 
        resource managers, and scientific experts on decision making 
        and adaptation related to ocean acidification and coastal 
        acidification.'';
            (3) in subsection (c)--
                    (A) in paragraph (1)(C), by striking ``surface'';
                    (B) in paragraph (2), by inserting ``and coastal 
                acidification'' after ``ocean acidification'' each 
                place it appears;
                    (C) in paragraph (3)--
                            (i) by striking ``input, and'' and 
                        inserting ``inputs,'';
                            (ii) by inserting ``, marine food webs,'' 
                        after ``marine ecosystems''; and
                            (iii) by inserting ``, and modeling that 
                        supports fisheries management'' after ``marine 
                        organisms'';
                    (D) in paragraph (5), by inserting ``and coastal 
                acidification'' after ``ocean acidification''; and
                    (E) by adding at the end the following new 
                paragraph:
            ``(6) Research to understand related and cumulative 
        stressors and other biogeochemical processes occurring in 
        conjunction with ocean acidification and coastal 
        acidification.''; and
            (4) by redesignating subsection (e), as amended by section 
        502(c) of this Act, as subsection (f); and
            (5) by inserting after subsection (d) the following new 
        subsection (e):
    ``(e) Advisory Board Evaluation.--Not later than 180 days before a 
plan is submitted to Congress, the Subcommittee shall provide the 
Advisory Board established under section 12404(c) a copy of the plan 
for purposes of review under paragraph (2)(C)(i) of such section.''.

SEC. 525. NATIONAL OCEANIC AND ATMOSPHERIC ADMINISTRATION OCEAN 
              ACIDIFICATION ACTIVITIES.

    Section 12406 of the Federal Ocean Acidification Research And 
Monitoring Act of 2009 (33 U.S.C. 3705), as amended by section 502 of 
this Act, is further amended--
            (1) in subsection (a)--
                    (A) in the matter preceding paragraph (1), by 
                inserting ``coordination,'' after ``research, 
                monitoring,'';
                    (B) in paragraph (1)--
                            (i) in subparagraph (B)--
                                    (I) by inserting ``including the 
                                Integrated Ocean Observing System and 
                                the ocean observing assets of other 
                                Federal and State agencies,'' after 
                                ``ocean observing assets,''; and
                                    (II) by inserting ``and agency and 
                                department missions, prioritizing the 
                                location of monitoring instruments, 
                                assets, and projects to maximize the 
                                efficiency of resources and to optimize 
                                understanding of socioeconomic impacts 
                                and ecosystem health'' after ``research 
                                program'';
                            (ii) in subparagraph (C)--
                                    (I) by striking ``adaptation'' and 
                                inserting ``adaptation and 
                                mitigation''; and
                                    (II) by inserting ``and supporting 
                                socioeconomically vulnerable 
                                communities and industries'' after 
                                ``marine ecosystems'';
                            (iii) in subparagraph (E)--
                                    (I) by striking ``its impacts'' and 
                                inserting ``their respective impacts''; 
                                and
                                    (II) by striking ``; and'' and 
                                inserting a semicolon;
                            (iv) in subparagraph (F)--
                                    (I) by striking ``monitoring and 
                                impacts research'' and inserting 
                                ``research, monitoring, and adaptation 
                                and mitigation strategies''; and
                                    (II) by adding ``and'' at the end; 
                                and
                            (v) by adding at the end the following new 
                        subparagraph:
                    ``(G) research to improve understanding of the 
                effect of--
                            ``(i) other environmental stressors on 
                        ocean acidification and coastal acidification;
                            ``(ii) multiple environmental stressors on 
                        living marine resources and coastal ecosystems; 
                        and
                            ``(iii) adaptation and mitigation 
                        strategies to address the socioeconomic impacts 
                        of ocean acidification and coastal 
                        acidification.'';
                    (C) in paragraph (2), by striking ``critical 
                research projects that explore'' and inserting 
                ``critical research and education projects that explore 
                and communicate''; and
                    (D) in paragraphs (1) and (2), by striking 
                ``acidification'' each place it appears and inserting 
                ``acidification and coastal acidification''; and
            (2) by adding at the end the following new subsections:
    ``(e) Relationship to Interagency Working Group.--The National 
Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration shall serve as the lead Federal 
agency responsible for coordinating the Federal response to ocean 
acidification and coastal acidification, by--
            ``(1) leading the interagency working group in implementing 
        the strategic research plan under section 12405;
            ``(2) coordinating monitoring and research efforts among 
        Federal agencies in cooperation with State, local, and Tribal 
        government and international partners;
            ``(3) maintaining an Ocean Acidification Information 
        Exchange described under section 12404(b)(5) to allow for 
        information to be electronically accessible, including 
        information--
                    ``(A) on ocean acidification developed through or 
                used by the ocean acidification program described under 
                section 12406(a); or
                    ``(B) that would be useful to State governments, 
                local governments, Tribal governments, resource 
                managers, policymakers, researchers, and other 
                stakeholders in mitigating or adapting to the impacts 
                of ocean acidification and coastal acidification; and
            ``(4) establishing and maintaining the data archive system 
        under subsection (f).
    ``(f) Data Archive System.--
            ``(1) Management.--The Secretary, in coordination with 
        members of the interagency working group, shall provide for the 
        long-term stewardship of, and access to, data relating to ocean 
        acidification and coastal acidification by establishing and 
        maintaining a data archive system that the National Center for 
        Environmental Information uses to process, store, archive, 
        provide access to, and incorporate to the extent possible, such 
        data collected--
                    ``(A) through relevant federally funded research; 
                and
                    ``(B) by a Federal agency, State agency, local 
                agency, Tribe, academic scientist, volunteer scientist, 
                or industry organization.
            ``(2) Existing global or national data assets.--In 
        establishing and maintaining the data archive system under 
        paragraph (1), the Secretary shall ensure that existing global 
        or national data assets (including the data assets maintained 
        by the National Centers for Environmental Information, the 
        Integrated Ocean Observing System, and other existing data 
        systems within Federal agencies) are incorporated to the 
        greatest extent possible.
    ``(g) Standards, Protocols, and Procedures.--With respect to the 
data described in subsection (d), the Secretary, in coordination with 
members of the interagency working group, shall establish and revise as 
necessary the standards, protocols, or procedures for--
            ``(1) processing, storing, archiving, and providing access 
        to such data;
            ``(2) the interoperability and intercalibration of such 
        data;
            ``(3) the collection of any metadata underlying such data; 
        and
            ``(4) sharing such data with State, local, and Tribal 
        government programs, potentially affected industry members, 
        coastal stakeholders, fishery management councils and 
        commissions, non-Federal resource managers, and academia.
    ``(h) Dissemination of Ocean Acidification Data and Coastal 
Acidification Data.--The Secretary, in coordination with members of the 
interagency working group, shall disseminate the data described under 
subsection (d) to the greatest extent practicable by sharing such data 
on full and open access exchanges, including the Ocean Acidification 
Information Exchange described in section 12404(b)(5).
    ``(i) Requirement.--Recipients of grants from the National Oceanic 
and Atmospheric Administration under this subtitle that collect data 
described under subsection (f) shall--
            ``(1) collect such data in accordance with the standards, 
        protocols, or procedures established pursuant to subsection 
        (g); and
            ``(2) submit such data to the data archive system under 
        subsection (f), in accordance with any rules promulgated by the 
        Secretary.''.

SEC. 526. NATIONAL SCIENCE FOUNDATION OCEAN ACIDIFICATION ACTIVITIES.

    Section 12407 of the Federal Ocean Acidification Research And 
Monitoring Act of 2009 (33 U.S.C. 3706) is amended--
            (1) by striking ``ocean acidification'' each place it 
        appears and inserting ``ocean acidification and coastal 
        acidification'';
            (2) in subsection (a)--
                    (A) in the matter preceding paragraph (1)--
                            (i) by striking ``continue'' and all that 
                        follows through ``which shall'';
                            (ii) by striking ``proposals for research'' 
                        and inserting ``proposals for the 
                        researching''; and
                            (iii) by striking ``its impacts'' and 
                        inserting ``their respective impacts'';
                    (B) in paragraph (1), by striking ``marine 
                ecosystems'' and inserting ``ecosystems'';
                    (C) in paragraph (2), by striking ``; and'' at the 
                end and inserting a semicolon;
                    (D) in paragraph (3)--
                            (i) by striking ``and its impacts'' and 
                        inserting ``and their respective impacts''; and
                            (ii) by striking the period at the end and 
                        inserting ``; and''; and
                    (E) by adding at the end the following new 
                paragraph:
            ``(4) adaptation and mitigation strategies to address 
        socioeconomic effects of ocean acidification and coastal 
        acidification.''; and
            (3) by adding at the end the following:
    ``(d) Requirement.--Recipients of grants from the National Science 
Foundation under this subtitle that collect data described under 
section 12406(f) shall--
            ``(1) collect data in accordance with the standards, 
        protocols, or procedures established pursuant to section 
        12406(g); and
            ``(2) submit such data to the Director and the Secretary, 
        in accordance with any rules promulgated by the Director or the 
        Secretary.''.

SEC. 527. NATIONAL AERONAUTICS AND SPACE ADMINISTRATION OCEAN 
              ACIDIFICATION ACTIVITIES.

    Section 12408 of the Federal Ocean Acidification Research And 
Monitoring Act of 2009 (33 U.S.C. 3707) is amended--
            (1) by striking ``ocean acidification'' each place it 
        appears and inserting ``ocean acidification and coastal 
        acidification'';
            (2) in subsection (a), by striking ``its impacts'' and 
        inserting ``their respective impacts''; and
            (3) by adding at the end the following new subsection:
    ``(d) Requirement.--Researchers from the National Aeronautics and 
Space Administration under this subtitle that collect data described 
under section 12406(f) shall--
            ``(1) collect such data in accordance with the standards, 
        protocols, or procedures established pursuant to section 
        12406(g); and
            ``(2) submit such data to the Administrator and the 
        Secretary, in accordance with any rules promulgated by the 
        Administrator or the Secretary.''.

SEC. 528. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.

    Section 12409 of the Federal Ocean Acidification Research And 
Monitoring Act of 2009 (33 U.S.C. 3708) is amended--
            (1) in subsection (a), by striking ``subtitle--'' and all 
        that follows through paragraph (4) and inserting the following: 
        ``subtitle $30,500,000 for each of the fiscal years 2021 
        through 2025.''; and
            (2) in subsection (b), by striking ``subtitle--'' and all 
        that follows through paragraph (4) and inserting the following: 
        ``subtitle $20,000,000 for each of the fiscal years 2021 
        through 2025.''.

             Subtitle D--South Florida Clean Coastal Waters

SEC. 531. SOUTH FLORIDA HARMFUL ALGAL BLOOMS AND HYPOXIA ASSESSMENT AND 
              ACTION PLAN.

    (a) In General.--The Harmful Algal Bloom and Hypoxia Research and 
Control Act of 1998 (33 U.S.C. 4001 et seq.) is amended--
            (1) by redesignating sections 605 through 609 as sections 
        606 through 610, respectively; and
            (2) by inserting after section 604 the following:

``SEC. 605. SOUTH FLORIDA HARMFUL ALGAL BLOOMS AND HYPOXIA.

    ``(a) South Florida.--In this section, the term `South Florida' 
means--
            ``(1) all lands and waters within the administrative 
        boundaries of the South Florida Water Management District;
            ``(2) regional coastal waters, including Biscayne Bay, the 
        Caloosahatchee Estuary, St. Lucie Estuary, Florida Bay, and 
        Indian River Lagoon; and
            ``(3) the Florida Reef Tract.
    ``(b) Integrated Assessment.--
            ``(1) Interim integrated assessment.--Not later than 540 
        days after the date of the enactment of the Ocean Climate 
        Emergency Action Now Act of 2020, the Task Force, in accordance 
        with the authority under section 603, shall complete and submit 
        to Congress and the President an interim integrated assessment.
            ``(2) Final integrated assessment.--Not later than 3 years 
        after the date of the enactment of the Ocean Climate Emergency 
        Action Now Act of 2020, the Task Force shall finalize, and 
        submit to Congress and the President, the interim integrated 
        assessment required under paragraph (1).
            ``(3) Contents of the integrated assessment.--The 
        integrated assessments required under paragraphs (1) and (2) 
        shall examine the causes, consequences, and potential 
        approaches to reduction of harmful algal blooms and hypoxia in 
        South Florida, and the status of, and gaps within, current 
        harmful algal bloom and hypoxia research, monitoring, 
        management, prevention, response, and control activities that 
        directly affect the region by--
                    ``(A) Federal agencies;
                    ``(B) State agencies;
                    ``(C) regional research consortia;
                    ``(D) academia;
                    ``(E) private industry;
                    ``(F) nongovernmental organizations; and
                    ``(G) Indian Tribes (as defined in section 4 of the 
                Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act 
                (25 U.S.C. 5304)).
    ``(c) Action Plan.--
            ``(1) In general.--Not later than 3 years and 180 days 
        after the date of the enactment of the Ocean Climate Emergency 
        Action Now Act of 2020, the Task Force shall develop and submit 
        to Congress an action plan, based on the integrated assessments 
        under subsection (b), for reducing, mitigating, and controlling 
        harmful algal blooms and hypoxia in South Florida.
            ``(2) Contents.--The action plan submitted under paragraph 
        (1) shall--
                    ``(A) address the monitoring needs identified in 
                the integrated assessments under subsection (b);
                    ``(B) include a timeline and budgetary requirements 
                for deployment of future assets;
                    ``(C) identify requirements for the development and 
                verification of South Florida harmful algal bloom and 
                hypoxia models, including--
                            ``(i) all assumptions built into the 
                        models; and
                            ``(ii) data quality methods used to ensure 
                        the best available data are utilized; and
                    ``(D) include a plan to implement a remote 
                monitoring network and early warning system for 
                alerting local communities in the region to harmful 
                algal bloom risks that may impact human health.
            ``(3) Requirements.--In developing the action plan 
        submitted under paragraph (1), the Task Force shall--
                    ``(A) consult with the State of Florida and 
                affected local and Tribal governments;
                    ``(B) consult with representatives from regional 
                academic, agricultural, industry, and other stakeholder 
                groups;
                    ``(C) ensure that such plan complements and does 
                not duplicate activities conducted by other Federal or 
                State agencies, including the South Florida Ecosystem 
                Restoration Task Force;
                    ``(D) identify critical research for reducing, 
                mitigating, and controlling harmful algal bloom events 
                and their effects;
                    ``(E) evaluate cost-effective, incentive-based 
                partnership approaches;
                    ``(F) ensure that such plan is technically sound 
                and cost-effective;
                    ``(G) use existing research, assessments, reports, 
                and program activities; and
                    ``(H) publish a draft summary of the action plan 
                required by paragraph (1) in the Federal Register not 
                less than 180 days before submitting such plan to 
                Congress.
            ``(4) Progress reports.--The Task Force shall submit, 
        beginning 2 years after the date on which the action plan 
        required by paragraph (1) is submitted to Congress, biennial 
        progress reports on steps taken to meet the objectives of such 
        action plan to Congress.''.
    (b) Clerical Amendment and Correction.--The table of contents in 
section 2 of the Coast Guard Authorization Act of 1998 (Public Law 105-
383) is amended by striking the items relating to title VI and 
inserting the following new items:

              ``TITLE VI--HARMFUL ALGAL BLOOMS AND HYPOXIA

``Sec. 601. Short title.
``Sec. 602. Findings.
``Sec. 603. Assessments.
``Sec. 603A. National Harmful Algal Bloom and Hypoxia Program.
``Sec. 603B. Comprehensive research plan and action strategy.
``Sec. 604. Northern Gulf of Mexico hypoxia.
``Sec. 605. South Florida harmful algal blooms and hypoxia.
``Sec. 606. Great Lakes hypoxia and harmful algal blooms.
``Sec. 607. Protection of States' Rights.
``Sec. 608. Effect on other Federal authority.
``Sec. 609. Definitions.
``Sec. 610. Authorization of appropriations.''.

   Subtitle E--Protecting Local Communities From Harmful Algal Blooms

SEC. 541. ALGAL BLOOMS.

    Section 102(2) of the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and 
Emergency Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5122) is amended by striking ``or 
drought'' and inserting ``drought, or algal blooms''.

         Subtitle F--Harmful Algal Bloom Essential Forecasting

SEC. 551. DESIGNATING CERTAIN HARMFUL ALGAL BLOOM SERVICES AS EXCEPTED 
              SERVICES UNDER THE ANTI-DEFICIENCY ACT.

    (a) In General.--Section 603A of the Harmful Algal Bloom and 
Hypoxia Research and Control Act of 1998 (33 U.S.C. 4002) is amended by 
adding at the end the following subsection:
    ``(j) Anti-Deficiency Act Applied to Harmful Algal Bloom 
Services.--Any services accepted by an officer or employee under this 
chapter, including web services and server processing, for the Harmful 
Algal Bloom forecast system of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric 
Administration shall be deemed, for purposes of section 1342 of title 
31, United States Code, services for emergencies involving the safety 
of human life or the protection of property.''.
    (b) Application.--The amendment made by subsection (a) shall apply 
to any lapse in appropriations beginning on or after the date of 
enactment of this Act.

SEC. 552. CENTERS OF EXCELLENCE IN HARMFUL ALGAL BLOOM RESEARCH, 
              PREVENTION, RESPONSE, AND MITIGATION.

    (a) Establishment.--Not later than one year after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Commerce, acting through the 
Administrator, shall designate organizations as National Centers of 
Excellence in Harmful Algal Bloom Research, Prevention, Response, and 
Mitigation (in this section referred to as ``National Centers of 
Excellence'').
    (b) Purpose.--The purpose of the National Centers of Excellence 
is--
            (1) to further understanding of harmful algal blooms;
            (2) to further understanding of the impacts of harmful 
        algal blooms on public health, including the health of at-risk 
        populations;
            (3) to further the ability to research, forecast, and 
        monitor harmful algal blooms;
            (4) to formalize and enhance existing partnerships and 
        collaborations among institutions of higher education, research 
        entities, local, State, Territorial, and Tribal agencies, and 
        the Federal Government;
            (5) to further the prevention, control, and mitigation of 
        harmful algal blooms;
            (6) to transition harmful algal bloom research and 
        forecasting from observational to operational use; and
            (7) to address existing and emerging harmful algal bloom 
        issues as the Administrator considers appropriate.
    (c) Eligibility for Designations.--To be eligible for designation 
under this section, an organization shall--
            (1) be an institution of higher education, a State, 
        Territorial, or Tribal research agency, a nonprofit laboratory 
        or other research entity, or a consortium of such eligible 
        entities;
            (2) have demonstrated expertise and success in harmful 
        algal bloom research, monitoring, forecasting, prevention, or 
        response efforts;
            (3) have demonstrated ability to collaborate with local, 
        State, Territorial, and Tribal governments and Federal agencies 
        on harmful algal blooms; and
            (4) be located in an area that is economically and 
        environmentally impacted by harmful algal blooms.
    (d) Requirements for Designations.--In designating National Centers 
of Excellence under this section, the Administrator shall--
            (1) consult with the Inter-Agency Task Force on Harmful 
        Algal Blooms and Hypoxia;
            (2) ensure regional balance by designating National Centers 
        of Excellence in a variety of locations throughout the United 
        States, including the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of 
        Puerto Rico, American Samoa, Guam, the Commonwealth of the 
        Northern Mariana Islands, the United States Virgin Islands, and 
        other Territories and possessions of the United States; and
            (3) avoid duplication of other harmful algal bloom 
        research.
    (e) Effective Period, Review, and Renewal.--Each designation of an 
organization as a National Center under this section--
            (1) shall be effective for 5 years;
            (2) shall be reviewed by the Secretary, acting through the 
        Administrator, in the fourth year of such effective period; and
            (3) following such review, may be renewed for an additional 
        5-year period.
    (f) Annual Reports.--The Secretary shall require and publish an 
annual activity report from each National Center.
    (g) Authorization of Appropriations.--To carry out this section, 
including for providing funding to National Centers of Excellence 
designated under this section, there is authorized to be appropriated 
to the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration $12,500,000 for 
each of fiscal years 2021 through 2025, of which not more than 5 
percent may be available each fiscal year for administrative expenses.

  TITLE VI--NATIONAL OCEAN POLICY, DATA, AND COORDINATED WEBSITE FOR 
                             GRANT PROGRAMS

                Subtitle A--Regional Ocean Partnerships

SEC. 601. FINDINGS; SENSE OF CONGRESS; PURPOSES.

    (a) Findings.--Congress makes the following findings:
            (1) The ocean and coastal waters of the United States are 
        foundational to the economy, security, global competitiveness, 
        and well-being of the United States and continuously serve the 
        people of the United States and other countries as an important 
        source of food, energy, economic productivity, recreation, 
        culture, beauty, and enjoyment.
            (2) Over many years, the resource productivity and water 
        quality of the ocean and coastal areas of the United States 
        have been diminished by pollution, increasing population 
        demands, economic development, and natural and man-made hazard 
        events, both acute and chronic.
            (3) Ocean and coastal areas of the United States are 
        managed by State and Federal resource agencies and regulated on 
        an interstate and regional scale by various overlapping Federal 
        authorities, thereby creating a significant need for interstate 
        coordination to enhance regional priorities, including the 
        ecological and economic health of those areas.
            (4) Regional Ocean Partnerships, established by coastal 
        states working in close coordination with Federal agencies, 
        regional fisheries managers, and Tribal governments, help 
        coordinate interstate responses to critical ocean issues that 
        extend beyond individual State boundaries.
            (5) Regional Ocean Partnerships have improved understanding 
        of climate change's impact on fish and shellfish populations, 
        have invested in identifying indicators of ocean health and 
        addressing coastal mitigation, and have played leading roles in 
        the creation and upkeep of regional ocean data portals that 
        allow for improved understanding of ocean use synergies and 
        trade-offs.
            (6) Regional Ocean Partnerships engage in coordinated 
        efforts to protect and enhance the health of living resources 
        and engage the public in stewardship of ocean and coastal 
        areas.
            (7) The coordination offered by Regional Ocean Partnerships 
        is particularly critical in the era of climate change, with 
        coastal and ocean resources under threat and as demand for 
        offshore resources increases.
    (b) Purposes.--The purposes of this subtitle are as follows:
            (1) To complement and expand cooperative voluntary efforts 
        intended to manage and restore ocean and coastal areas spanning 
        across multiple State boundaries.
            (2) To expand Federal support for monitoring, data 
        management, and restoration activities in ocean and coastal 
        areas.
            (3) To commit the United States to a comprehensive 
        cooperative program to achieve improved water quality in, and 
        improvements in the productivity of living resources of, all 
        coastal ecosystems.
            (4) To authorize Regional Ocean Partnerships as 
        intergovernmental coordinators for shared interstate and 
        regional priorities relating to the collaborative management of 
        the large marine ecosystems, thereby reducing duplication of 
        efforts and maximizing opportunities to leverage support in the 
        ocean and coastal regions.
            (5) To enable Regional Ocean Partnerships, or designated 
        fiscal management entities of such partnerships, to receive 
        Federal funding to conduct the scientific research, 
        conservation and restoration activities, and priority 
        coordination on shared regional priorities necessary to achieve 
        the purposes described in paragraphs (1) through (4).

SEC. 602. REGIONAL OCEAN PARTNERSHIPS.

    (a) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Coastal state.--The term ``coastal state'' has the 
        meaning given that term in section 304 of the Coastal Zone 
        Management Act of 1972 (16 U.S.C. 1453).
            (2) Indian tribe.--The term ``Indian Tribe'' has the 
        meaning given to the term ``Indian tribe'' in section 4 of the 
        Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act (25 
        U.S.C. 5304).
    (b) Regional Ocean Partnerships.--
            (1) In general.--A coastal state may participate in a 
        Regional Ocean Partnership with 1 or more other coastal states 
        that share a common ocean or coastal area with the coastal 
        state, without regard to whether the coastal states are 
        contiguous.
            (2) Application.--The Governor of a coastal state or the 
        Governors of a group of coastal states may apply to the 
        Secretary of Commerce, on behalf of a partnership, for the 
        partnership to receive designation as a Regional Ocean 
        Partnership if the partnership--
                    (A) meets the requirements under paragraph (3); and
                    (B) submits an application for such designation in 
                such manner, in such form, and containing such 
                information as the Secretary may require.
            (3) Requirements.--A partnership is eligible for 
        designation as a Regional Ocean Partnership by the Secretary 
        under paragraph (2) if the partnership--
                    (A) is established to coordinate the interstate 
                management of coastal resources;
                    (B) focuses on the environmental issues affecting 
                the ocean and coastal areas of the members 
                participating in the partnership;
                    (C) complements existing State coastal and ocean 
                management efforts on an interstate scale, focusing on 
                shared regional priorities;
                    (D) does not have a regulatory function; and
                    (E) is not duplicative of an existing Regional 
                Ocean Partnership designated under paragraph (4), as 
                determined by the Secretary.
            (4) Designation of certain entities as regional ocean 
        partnerships.--Notwithstanding paragraph (2) or (3), the 
        following entities are designated as Regional Ocean 
        Partnerships:
                    (A) The Gulf of Mexico Alliance, comprised of the 
                States of Alabama, Florida, Louisiana, Mississippi, and 
                Texas.
                    (B) The Northeast Regional Ocean Council, comprised 
                of the States of Maine, Vermont, New Hampshire, 
                Massachusetts, Connecticut, and Rhode Island.
                    (C) The Mid-Atlantic Regional Council on the Ocean, 
                comprised of the States of New York, New Jersey, 
                Delaware, Maryland, and Virginia.
                    (D) The West Coast Ocean Alliance, comprised of the 
                States of California, Oregon, and Washington and the 
                coastal Indian Tribes in those States.
    (c) Governing Bodies of Regional Ocean Partnerships.--
            (1) In general.--A Regional Ocean Partnership designated 
        under subsection (b) shall be governed by a governing body.
            (2) Membership.--A governing body described in paragraph 
        (1)--
                    (A) shall be comprised, at a minimum, of voting 
                members from each coastal state participating in the 
                Regional Ocean Partnership, designated by the Governor 
                of the coastal state; and
                    (B) may include such other members as the 
                partnership considers appropriate.
    (d) Functions.--A Regional Ocean Partnership designated under 
subsection (b) may perform the following functions:
            (1) Promote coordination of the actions of the agencies of 
        coastal states participating in the partnership with the 
        actions of the appropriate officials of Federal agencies and 
        State and Tribal governments in developing strategies--
                    (A) to conserve living resources, expand and 
                protect valuable habitats, enhance coastal resilience, 
                and address such other issues related to the shared 
                ocean or coastal area as are determined to be a shared, 
                regional priority by those States; and
                    (B) to manage regional data portals and develop 
                associated data products for purposes that support the 
                priorities of the partnership.
            (2) In cooperation with appropriate Federal and State 
        agencies, Tribal governments, and local authorities, develop 
        and implement specific action plans to carry out coordination 
        goals.
            (3) Coordinate and implement priority plans and projects, 
        and facilitate science, research, modeling, monitoring, data 
        collection, and other activities that support the goals of the 
        partnership through the provision of grants and contracts under 
        subsection (e).
            (4) Engage, coordinate, and collaborate with relevant 
        governmental entities and stakeholders to address ocean and 
        coastal related matters that require interagency or 
        intergovernmental solutions.
            (5) Implement engagement programs for public information, 
        education, and participation to foster stewardship of the 
        resources of the ocean and coastal areas, as relevant.
            (6) Develop and make available, through publications, 
        technical assistance, and other appropriate means, information 
        pertaining to cross-jurisdictional issues being addressed 
        through the coordinated activities of the partnership.
            (7) Serve as a liaison with, and provide information to, 
        international counterparts, as appropriate on priority issues 
        for the partnership.
    (e) Grants and Contracts.--
            (1) In general.--A Regional Ocean Partnership designated 
        under subsection (b) may, in coordination with existing Federal 
        and State management programs, from amounts made available to 
        the partnership by the Administrator or the head of another 
        Federal agency--
                    (A) provide grants to eligible persons described in 
                paragraph (2) for the purposes described in paragraph 
                (3); and
                    (B) enter into contracts with such persons for such 
                purposes.
            (2) Eligible persons.--The eligible persons described in 
        this paragraph are the following:
                    (A) Indian Tribes.
                    (B) State and local governments.
                    (C) Nongovernmental organizations.
                    (D) Institutions of higher education.
                    (E) Individuals.
                    (F) Private entities.
            (3) Purposes.--The purposes described in this paragraph 
        include any of the following:
                    (A) Monitoring the water quality and living 
                resources of multi-State ocean and coastal ecosystems 
                and to coastal communities.
                    (B) Researching and addressing the effects of 
                natural and human-induced environmental changes to--
                            (i) ocean and coastal ecosystems; and
                            (ii) coastal communities.
                    (C) Developing and executing cooperative strategies 
                that--
                            (i) address regional data issues identified 
                        by the partnership; and
                            (ii) will result in more effective 
                        management of common ocean and coastal areas.
    (f) Reports and Assessments.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 5 years after the date of 
        the enactment of this Act, and every 5 years thereafter until 
        2040, the Administrator, in coordination with the Regional 
        Ocean Partnerships designated under subsection (b), shall--
                    (A) assess the effectiveness of the partnerships in 
                supporting regional priorities relating to the 
                management of common ocean and coastal areas; and
                    (B) submit to Congress a report on that assessment.
            (2) Report requirements.--The report required under 
        paragraph (1)(B) shall include the following:
                    (A) An assessment of the overall status of the work 
                of the Regional Ocean Partnerships designated under 
                subsection (b).
                    (B) An assessment of the effectiveness of the 
                strategies that the Regional Ocean Partnerships are 
                supporting or implementing and the extent to which the 
                priority needs of the regions covered by such 
                partnerships are being met through such strategies.
                    (C) Such recommendations as the Administrator may 
                have for the improvement of efforts of the Regional 
                Ocean Partnerships to support the purposes of this 
                subtitle.
                    (D) An assessment of how the efforts of the 
                Regional Ocean Partnerships support or enhance Federal 
                and State efforts in line with the purposes of this 
                subtitle.
                    (E) Recommendations for improvements to the 
                collective strategies that support the purposes of this 
                subtitle in coordination and consultation with all 
                relevant Federal, State, and Tribal entities.
    (g) Availability of Federal Funds.--In addition to amounts made 
available to Regional Ocean Partnerships designated under subsection 
(b) by the Administrator under this section, the head of any other 
Federal agency may provide grants to, enter into contracts with, or 
otherwise provide funding to such partnerships.
    (h) Authorities.--Nothing in this section establishes any new legal 
or regulatory authority of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric 
Administration or of the Regional Ocean Partnerships designated under 
subsection (b), other than--
            (1) the authority of the Administrator to provide amounts 
        to the partnerships; and
            (2) the authority of the partnerships to provide grants and 
        enter into contracts under subsection (e).
    (i) Funding.--
            (1) In general.--Of amounts authorized to be appropriated 
        to the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, the 
        Administrator may make the following amounts available to 
        Regional Ocean Partnerships designated under subsection (b) or 
        designated fiscal management entities of such partnerships to 
        carry out activities of the partnerships under this subtitle:
                    (A) $10,000,000 for fiscal year 2021.
                    (B) $10,100,000 for fiscal year 2022.
                    (C) $10,202,000 for fiscal year 2023.
                    (D) $10,306,040 for fiscal year 2024.
                    (E) $10,412,160 for fiscal year 2025.
                    (F) $10,520,404 for fiscal year 2026.
            (2) Distribution of amounts.--Amounts made available under 
        paragraph (1) shall be divided evenly among the Regional Ocean 
        Partnerships designated under subsection (b).
            (3) Availability of amounts.--Amounts made available under 
        paragraph (1) shall remain available until expended.

              Subtitle B--Data and Scientific Coordination

SEC. 611. INCREASED COORDINATION AMONG AGENCIES WITH RESPECT TO DATA 
              AND MONITORING.

    (a) Interagency Ocean Observation Committee.--In addition to its 
responsibilities as of the date of the enactment of this Act, and in 
consultation with the advisory committee authorized by section 12304(d) 
of the Integrated Coastal and Ocean Observation System Act of 2009 (33 
U.S.C. 3603(d)), the Interagency Ocean Observation Committee shall--
            (1) work with international coordinating bodies, as 
        necessary, to ensure robust, direct measurements of the Great 
        Lakes, oceans, bays, estuaries, and coasts, including 
        oceanographic data;
            (2) coordinate supercomputing capacity, data storage 
        capacity, and public access across agencies; and
            (3) support cross-agency and multi-platform synergy, by 
        coordinating overlapping data collection by satellites, buoys, 
        submarines, gliders, vessels, and other data collection 
        vehicles and technologies.
    (b) Federal Geographic Data Committee.--In addition to its 
responsibilities as of the date of the enactment of this Act, and in 
consultation with the National Geospatial Advisory Committee, the 
Federal Geographic Data Committee shall--
            (1) work with international coordinating bodies, as 
        necessary, to ensure robust, continuous measurements of the 
        Great Lakes, oceans, bays, estuaries, and coasts, including 
        satellite and geospatial data;
            (2) coordinate supercomputing capacity, data storage 
        capacity, and public access across agencies;
            (3) develop and deploy cross-agency, real-time, 
        standardized, centralized, archived, open-source, and publicly 
        available databases (using declassified information to the 
        extent possible) for all federally funded observational and 
        model data, using the example of the World Ocean Database; and
            (4) support new and old data and metadata certification, 
        quality assurance, quality control, integration, and archiving.
    (c) Interagency Committee on Ocean and Coastal Mapping.--In 
addition to its responsibilities as of the date of the enactment of 
this Act, and in consultation with the advisory panel authorized by 
section 12203(g) of the Ocean and Coastal Mapping Integration Act (33 
U.S.C. 3502(g)), the Interagency Committee on Ocean and Coastal Mapping 
shall--
            (1) work with international coordinating bodies, as 
        necessary, to ensure robust, continuous satellite and direct 
        measurements of the Great Lakes, oceans, bays, estuaries, and 
        coasts, including bathymetric data;
            (2) coordinate supercomputing capacity, data storage 
        capacity, and public access across agencies;
            (3) make recommendations on how to make data, metadata, and 
        model output accessible to a broader public audience, including 
        through geographic information system layers, graphics, and 
        other visuals; and
            (4) develop and initiate a research agenda to improve 
        understanding of inundation risks to coastal areas as a result 
        of the climate crisis and to meet the information needs of 
        decision-makers as such decision-makers consider how to 
        appropriately adapt and increase resilience to such effects.

SEC. 612. INTERAGENCY OCEAN EXPLORATION COMMITTEE.

    (a) Establishment.--The President shall establish a committee to 
promote the exploration and improved understanding of the oceans, to be 
known as the ``Interagency Ocean Exploration Committee''.
    (b) Membership.--The Interagency Ocean Exploration Committee shall 
be composed of not fewer than 1 senior-level representative from each 
of the following Federal agencies:
            (1) The Department of the Navy.
            (2) The Department of the Interior.
            (3) The Department of Commerce.
            (4) The Coast Guard.
            (5) The Office of Management and Budget.
            (6) The Council on Environmental Quality.
            (7) The Office of Science and Technology Policy.
            (8) The Department of State.
            (9) The National Science Foundation.
            (10) The National Aeronautics and Space Administration.
            (11) The Subcommittee on Ocean Science and Technology of 
        the National Science and Technology Council.
            (12) Such elements of the intelligence community (as 
        defined in section 3 of the National Security Act of 1947 (50 
        U.S.C. 3003)) as the President considers appropriate.
    (c) Duties.--The Interagency Ocean Exploration Committee shall--
            (1) cultivate public-private partnerships, including with 
        Federal agencies, institutions of higher education, 
        nongovernmental organizations, technology companies, and 
        international partners, to develop and deploy advanced 
        technologies to explore and characterize the oceans; and
            (2) coordinate the application of existing innovative 
        technologies and development of emerging technologies to 
        promote the understanding, mapping, and collection of data 
        describing the oceans and the changes the oceans are 
        experiencing and are anticipated to experience in the future, 
        such as changes in temperature, salinity, oxygenation, and 
        acidity, and the biological consequences of those changes.

SEC. 613. COMMITTEE ON OCEAN POLICY.

    (a) Establishment.--There is established in the Executive Office of 
the President a Committee on Ocean Policy, which--
            (1) succeeds the Ocean Policy Committee established on June 
        19, 2018, by Executive Order 13840 (83 Fed. Reg. 29431; 
        relating to ocean policy);
            (2) shall continue the activities of that committee as it 
        was in existence on the day before the date of the enactment of 
        this Act; and
            (3) shall carry out the functions described in subsection 
        (b).
    (b) Functions.--The Committee on Ocean Policy shall--
            (1) facilitate coordination and integration of Federal 
        activities in ocean and coastal waters to inform ocean policy 
        and identify priority ocean research, technology, and data 
        needs;
            (2) engage and collaborate with stakeholders, including 
        Regional Ocean Partnerships, to address ocean-related matters 
        that may require interagency or intergovernmental solutions;
            (3) evaluate threats to coastal communities from storm and 
        sea level rise and define, implement, and coordinate needed 
        policies and programs to advance national preparedness for and 
        resilience to more severe storms and rising sea levels; and
            (4) coordinate Federal agencies to ensure Federal 
        activities in ocean and coastal waters promote healthy 
        ecosystems for fisheries and wildlife conservation that are 
        resilient to the impacts of climate change and provide for 
        climate benefits.

SEC. 614. BUILDING DATA SOURCES.

    (a) Engaging Indigenous, Subsistence, and Fishing Communities.--
            (1) In general.--The Administrator shall establish 
        opportunities to engage Indigenous, subsistence, and fishing 
        communities to understand the needs of those communities and to 
        provide improved products and services that are practical and 
        useful to those communities, including collecting and 
        integrating traditional ecological data and narrative records 
        into national and regional datasets.
            (2) Data rights.--In carrying out paragraph (1), the 
        Administrator shall--
                    (A) consider issues relating to data ownership; and
                    (B) ensure that Indigenous, subsistence, and 
                fishing communities retain any specific rights or 
                ownership of data provided to Federal agencies.
    (b) Report to Congress.--
            (1) Report required.--Not later than 1 year after the date 
        of the enactment of this Act, the Administrator shall submit to 
        Congress a report identifying potential opportunities to 
        encourage voluntary actions and partnerships between the 
        National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration and non-Federal 
        partners to increase and enhance data collection.
            (2) Opportunities for partnership.--The opportunities 
        described in paragraph (1) may include opportunities that can 
        be pursued in conjunction with Federal permits, leases, and 
        other actions requiring Federal approval or funding, such as 
        partnering with companies to acquire and share bathymetric data 
        or supplying fishermen with sensors that can collect data 
        through fishing gear.

SEC. 615. NATIONAL SEA LEVEL RISE RISK ANALYSIS.

    (a) Purposes.--The Administrator shall establish a National Coastal 
Data Information System to--
            (1) combine existing observations, modeling, predictions, 
        products, and services into an integrated framework for 
        producing and maintaining authoritative and timely data, maps, 
        and information services that quantify and communicate coastal 
        flood risk to the States;
            (2) develop and strengthen partnerships with organizations 
        that represent end-users within coastal communities, including 
        other Federal agencies, to better assess information gaps and 
        needs relating to the risk posed by the rising sea level; and
            (3) produce new information, products, and services, 
        targeted to end-user needs, that allow coastal communities 
        across the United States to plan for present and future coastal 
        flood risk.
    (b) Report.--The Administrator shall, not later than 180 days after 
the date of enactment of this Act, and every 3 years thereafter, submit 
to the Committee on Natural Resources of the House of Representatives 
and the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the 
Senate a report containing a holistic analysis of the need to expand 
observations, modeling, predictions, products, and services to--
            (1) improve the understanding of changing coastal flood 
        risk, including the impacts of sea level rise; and
            (2) track and report how observed rates of sea level rise 
        compare to the sea level rise predictions published within the 
        National Climate Assessments.

      Subtitle C--Integrated Coastal and Ocean Observation System

SEC. 621. STAGGERED TERMS FOR NATIONAL INTEGRATED COASTAL AND OCEAN 
              OBSERVATION SYSTEM ADVISORY COMMITTEE.

    Section 12304(d)(3)(B) of the Integrated Coastal and Ocean 
Observation System Act of 2009 (33 U.S.C. 3603(d)(3)(B)) is amended--
            (1) by striking ``Members'' and inserting the following:
                            ``(i) In general.--Except as provided in 
                        clause (ii), members''; and
            (2) by adding at the end the following:
                            ``(ii) Staggered terms.--The Administrator 
                        may appoint or reappoint a member for a partial 
                        term of 1 or 2 years in order to establish a 
                        system of staggered terms. The Administrator 
                        may appoint or reappoint a member under this 
                        clause only once. A member appointed or 
                        reappointed to a partial term under this clause 
                        may not serve more than 1 full term.''.

SEC. 622. INTEGRATED COASTAL AND OCEAN OBSERVATION SYSTEM COOPERATIVE 
              AGREEMENTS.

    Section 12305(a) of the Integrated Coastal and Ocean Observation 
System Act of 2009 (33 U.S.C. 3604(a)) is amended by inserting 
``disburse appropriated funds to,'' after ``agreements, with,''.

SEC. 623. REAUTHORIZATION OF INTEGRATED COASTAL AND OCEAN OBSERVATION 
              SYSTEM ACT OF 2009.

    Section 12311 of the Integrated Coastal and Ocean Observation 
System Act of 2009 (33 U.S.C. 3610) is amended by striking ``for fiscal 
years 2009 through 2013 such sums as are necessary'' and inserting 
``$47,500,000 for each of fiscal years 2021 through 2025''.

SEC. 624. ADVANCED RESEARCH PROJECTS AGENCY-OCEANS.

    (a) Agreement.--Not later than 45 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Administrator shall seek to enter into an 
agreement with the National Academy of Sciences to conduct the 
comprehensive assessment under subsection (b).
    (b) Comprehensive Assessment.--
            (1) In general.--Under an agreement between the 
        Administrator and the National Academy of Sciences under this 
        section, the National Academy of Sciences shall conduct a 
        comprehensive assessment of the need for and feasibility of 
        establishing an Advanced Research Projects Agency-Oceans (in 
        this section referred to as ``ARPA-O'').
            (2) Elements.--The comprehensive assessment carried out 
        pursuant to paragraph (1) shall include--
                    (A) an assessment of how an ARPA-O could help 
                overcome the long-term and high-risk technological 
                barriers in the development of ocean technologies, with 
                the goal of enhancing the economic, ecological, and 
                national security of the United States through the 
                rapid development of technologies that result in--
                            (i) improved data collection, monitoring, 
                        and prediction of the ocean environment, 
                        including sea ice conditions;
                            (ii) overcoming barriers to the application 
                        of new and improved technologies, such as high 
                        costs and scale of operational missions;
                            (iii) improved management practices for 
                        protecting ecological sustainability;
                            (iv) improved national security capacity;
                            (v) improved technology for fishery 
                        population assessments;
                            (vi) expedited processes between and among 
                        Federal agencies to successfully identify, 
                        transition, and coordinate research and 
                        development output to operations, applications, 
                        commercialization, and other uses; and
                            (vii) ensuring that the United States 
                        maintains a technological lead in developing 
                        and deploying advanced ocean technologies;
                    (B) an evaluation of the organizational structures 
                under which an ARPA-O could be organized, which takes 
                into account--
                            (i) best practices for new research 
                        programs;
                            (ii) metrics and approaches for periodic 
                        program evaluation;
                            (iii) capacity to fund and manage external 
                        research awards; and
                            (iv) options for oversight of the activity 
                        through a Federal agency, an interagency 
                        organization, nongovernmental organization, or 
                        other institutional arrangement; and
                    (C) an estimation of the scale of investment 
                necessary to pursue high priority ocean technology 
                projects.
    (c) Report.--Not later than 18 months after the date of enactment 
of this Act, the Administrator shall submit to Congress a report on the 
comprehensive assessment conducted under subsection (b).

         Subtitle D--Centralized Website for Resiliency Grants

SEC. 631. CENTRALIZED WEBSITE FOR RESILIENCY GRANTS.

    (a) Centralized Website.--Not later than 180 days after the date of 
the enactment of this Act, the Administrator shall establish a publicly 
available website that includes--
            (1) hyperlinks to all grant programs administered by the 
        National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration and hyperlinks 
        to other Federal agencies that offer similar grant programs to 
        assist States and local communities with resiliency, 
        adaptation, and mitigation of climate change and sea level 
        rise; and
            (2) with respect to each such grant program, the contact 
        information for an individual who can offer assistance to 
        State, Tribal, and local governments.
    (b) Outreach.--The Administrator shall conduct outreach activities 
to inform State, Tribal, and local governments of the resiliency, 
adaptation, and mitigation grants.

                      TITLE VII--COASTAL WETLANDS

SEC. 701. DEFINITIONS.

    In this title:
            (1) Coastal wetland.--The term ``coastal wetland'' means 
        estuarine vegetated coastal habitat, including salt marsh, 
        seagrass, mangrove, and other vegetated marine habitats.
            (2) Natural infrastructure.--The term ``natural 
        infrastructure'' means infrastructure that--
                    (A) uses, restores, or emulates natural ecological 
                processes; and
                    (B)(i) is created through the action of natural 
                physical, geological, biological, and chemical 
                processes over time;
                    (ii) is created by human design, engineering, and 
                construction to emulate or act in concert with natural 
                processes; or
                    (iii) involves the use of plants, soils, and other 
                natural features, including through the creation, 
                restoration, or preservation of vegetated areas using 
                materials appropriate to the region to manage 
                stormwater and runoff, to attenuate flooding and storm 
                surges, and for other related purposes.
            (3) Nonprofit organization.--The term ``nonprofit 
        organization'' means an organization that is described in 
        section 501(c) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 and exempt 
        from tax under section 501(a) of such Code.
            (4) Program.--The term ``Program'' means the Coastal and 
        Estuary Resilience Grant Program as established by section 702.
            (5) Restoration.--The term ``restoration'' means renewing, 
        enhancing, or replacing degraded, damaged, vulnerable, or 
        destroyed wetlands to improve the long-term ecosystem function 
        and resilience through active human intervention and action, 
        such as--
                    (A) improving hydrological conditions (such as by 
                removing tidal barriers, improving connectivity, or 
                changing water levels);
                    (B) altering sediment supply (such as through the 
                beneficial use of dredge material, thin-layer spraying, 
                or reconnecting river sediment);
                    (C) changing salinity characteristics;
                    (D) improving water quality (such as by reducing 
                excess nutrients, sedimentation, or contaminants);
                    (E) planting of native plants, removal of invasive 
                species, and other improved management practices;
                    (F) controlling erosion of wetland edges; and
                    (G) enabling future inland migration as sea levels 
                rise, including through the enhancement of adjacent 
                fresh-water wetlands.

SEC. 702. COASTAL AND ESTUARY RESILIENCE GRANT PROGRAM.

    (a) Establishment.--The Administrator shall establish a program, to 
be known as the ``Coastal and Estuary Resilience Grant Program'', under 
which the Secretary awards grants to entities that are eligible under 
subsection (b) to fund coastal wetland restoration and natural 
infrastructure projects that are eligible under subsection (c).
    (b) Eligible Entities.--An entity is eligible to apply for a grant 
under the Program if the entity is an institution of higher education, 
a nonprofit organization, a State or local government, or an Indian 
Tribe.
    (c) Eligible Projects.--A project is eligible for a grant under the 
Program if the project is designed to--
            (1) reduce net greenhouse gases through--
                    (A) the long-term sequestration of additional 
                carbon dioxide through--
                            (i) the active restoration of degraded 
                        coastal wetland; and
                            (ii) the protection of threatened coastal 
                        wetland;
                    (B) the halting of ongoing carbon dioxide 
                emissions, and the resumption of the natural rate of 
                carbon capture, through the restoration of drained 
                coastal wetland; or
                    (C) the halting of ongoing methane emissions, and 
                the resumption of the natural rate of carbon storage, 
                through the restoration of formerly tidal wetland that 
                has lost tidal connectivity and become fresh wetland 
                (commonly known as ``impounded wetland''); or
            (2) provide for ecosystem adaptation to the effects of sea 
        level rise and other climate effects through--
                    (A) facilitating landward migration of wetlands in 
                response to rising sea levels; or
                    (B) enhancing ecosystem resilience to flooding, 
                ocean acidification, or coastal storms.
    (d) Grant Evaluation Criteria.--In reviewing applications for 
grants under the Program, the Administrator shall give priority to 
projects that exhibit the highest potential to--
            (1) mitigate greenhouse gas emissions in the long term by--
                    (A) reducing greenhouse gas emissions; or
                    (B) capturing and storing greenhouse gases;
            (2) reinforce ecosystem resilience and adaptation by--
                    (A) preparing for sea level rise in order to reduce 
                vulnerability to sea level rise and erosion;
                    (B) supporting resilience against flooding and sea 
                level rise; or
                    (C) restoring or enhancing ecosystem function; or
            (3) provide economic and social co-benefits by--
                    (A) reducing the potential impact and damage of 
                storms on the built environment;
                    (B) advancing environmental justice by reducing the 
                disproportionate impacts of environmental hazards on 
                communities of color, Indigenous communities, and low-
                income communities;
                    (C) providing jobs in coastal communities;
                    (D) prioritizing natural infrastructure;
                    (E) incorporating collaborative partnerships; or
                    (F) involving local communities in project planning 
                and implementation.
    (e) Eligible Costs.--A grant awarded under the Program shall be 
available for all phases of the development, implementation, and 
monitoring of projects that are eligible under subsection (c), 
including--
            (1) preliminary community engagement, planning, and 
        prioritization;
            (2) preliminary design and site assessment, including--
                    (A) assessments of feasibility;
                    (B) planning; and
                    (C) community engagement;
            (3) final design and permitting;
            (4) restoration and project implementation; and
            (5) monitoring, reporting, and stewardship.
    (f) Reporting.--
            (1) In general.--An entity that receives a grant under the 
        Program for a project shall--
                    (A) collect data on the development and 
                implementation of the project and stewardship following 
                completion of the project; and
                    (B) submit that data to the Administrator for 
                inclusion in the database required by section 703(a).
            (2) Report after project completion.--Not later than 1 year 
        after the completion of a project for which a grant is provided 
        under the Program, the entity that received the grant shall 
        submit to the Administrator a report on the outputs, outcomes, 
        and impacts of the project, including with respect to--
                    (A) the amount of area restored;
                    (B) the estimated net climate benefit;
                    (C) benefits to nearby communities; and
                    (D) involvement of partners and communities.
    (g) Monitoring.--The Administrator shall establish guidelines 
providing for monitoring a project for which a grant is provided under 
the Program for the 10-year period after the grant is awarded.
    (h) Role of National Fish and Wildlife Foundation.--In carrying out 
the Program, the Administrator may consult, partner, or otherwise 
coordinate with the National Fish and Wildlife Foundation established 
by section 2(a) of the National Fish and Wildlife Foundation 
Establishment Act (16 U.S.C. 3701(a)).

SEC. 703. DATA COLLECTION.

    (a) Database.--
            (1) In general.--The Administrator shall maintain a coastal 
        wetland restoration database to collect information about 
        projects that receive grants under the Program.
            (2) Design.--The Administrator shall design the database 
        required by paragraph (1) to collect performance metrics on the 
        development and implementation of projects that receive grants 
        under the Program and stewardship following completion of such 
        projects to evaluate the success of those projects and inform 
        the design of future projects in an adaptive manner.
            (3) Included metrics.--The database required by paragraph 
        (1) shall include standardized metrics for reporting such as--
                    (A) acres restored, protected, or created;
                    (B) habitat type;
                    (C) restoration technique;
                    (D) estimated net greenhouse gas reduction effect;
                    (E) jobs created;
                    (F) quantified ecosystem services;
                    (G) the economic benefits of wetlands; and
                    (H) other metrics selected by the Administrator.
            (4) Public availability.--The Administrator shall make 
        products of the database publicly available and disseminate 
        important findings to the public.
    (b) Inventory of Coastal Wetland.--The Administrator shall compile 
an inventory of coastal wetland.

SEC. 704. OUTREACH AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE.

    The Administrator shall establish a technical assistance program to 
help entities outside of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric 
Administration in all phases of coastal wetland restoration project 
work, including outreach to potential applicants for grants under 
section 702.

SEC. 705. ANNUAL RESTORATION AND FUNDING.

    (a) Acreage Requirements.--To the maximum extent practicable, the 
Secretary of Commerce shall award grants under the Program to conduct 
coastal wetland restoration on 1,500,000 acres over 10 years.
    (b) Funding.--For each of fiscal years 2021 through 2025, there is 
authorized to be appropriated $200,000,000 to remain available until 
expended for the Administrator to carry out this title.

SEC. 706. PREVAILING WAGE REQUIREMENT.

    Any contractor or subcontractor entering into a service contract in 
connection with a project under the Program shall--
            (1) be treated as a Federal contractor or subcontractor for 
        purposes of chapter 67 of title 41, United States Code 
        (commonly known as the ``McNamara-O'Hara Service Contract Act 
        of 1965''); and
            (2) pay each class of employee employed by the contractor 
        or subcontractor wages and fringe benefits at rates in 
        accordance with prevailing rates for the class in the locality, 
        or, where a collective-bargaining agreement covers the 
        employee, in accordance with the rates provided for in the 
        agreement, including prospective wage increases provided for in 
        the agreement.

SEC. 707. DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR COASTAL WETLAND RESTORATION; 
              FUNDING.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary of the Interior shall conduct 
coastal wetland restoration on land managed by the Director of the 
United States Fish and Wildlife Service or the Director of the National 
Park Service to achieve at least 1 of the following:
            (1) The sequestration of additional carbon dioxide 
        through--
                    (A) the active restoration of degraded coastal 
                wetland; and
                    (B) the protection of threatened coastal wetland.
            (2) The halting of ongoing carbon dioxide emissions, and 
        the resumption of the natural rate of carbon capture, through 
        the restoration of drained coastal wetland.
            (3) The halting of ongoing methane emissions, and the 
        resumption of the natural rate of carbon storage, through the 
        restoration of formerly tidal wetland that has lost tidal 
        connectivity and become fresh wetland (commonly known as 
        ``impounded wetland'').
    (b) Authorization of Appropriations.--For each of fiscal years 2021 
through 2025, there is authorized to be appropriated to the Secretary 
of the Interior--
            (1) for coastal wetland restoration on land managed by the 
        Director of the United States Fish and Wildlife Service, 
        $200,000,000; and
            (2) for coastal wetland restoration on land managed by the 
        Director of the National Park Service, $200,000,000.
                                 &lt;all&gt;
</pre></body></html>
