<html><body><pre>
[Congressional Bills 108th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H.R. 1343 Introduced in House (IH)]







108th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                H. R. 1343

 To establish an energy program for the United States that unlocks the 
  potential of renewable energy and energy efficiency, and for other 
                               purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                             March 18, 2003

 Ms. Woolsey (for herself, Mr. Lampson, Ms. Jackson-Lee of Texas, Mr. 
   Moore, Mr. Miller of North Carolina, Mr. Honda, and Mr. Matheson) 
 introduced the following bill; which was referred to the Committee on 
                                Science

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
 To establish an energy program for the United States that unlocks the 
  potential of renewable energy and energy efficiency, and for other 
                               purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE; TABLE OF CONTENTS.

    (a) Short Title.--This Act may be cited as the ``Renewable Energy 
and Energy Efficiency Act of 2003''.
    (b) Table of Contents.--

Sec. 1. Short title; table of contents.
Sec. 2. Findings.
Sec. 3. National research and development policy.
Sec. 4. Definitions.
           TITLE I--RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT, AND DEMONSTRATION

Sec. 101. Enhanced renewable energy research, development, and 
                            demonstration.
Sec. 102. Enhanced energy efficiency research, development, and 
                            demonstration.
Sec. 103. Enhanced aeronautical system energy efficiency research, 
                            development, and demonstration.
Sec. 104. Assessment of renewable energy resources.
Sec. 105. Next Generation Lighting Initiative.
Sec. 106. National Building Performance Initiative.
Sec. 107. Progress report.
                   TITLE II--COMMERCIAL APPLICATIONS

Sec. 201. Study of financing for prototype technologies.
Sec. 202. Renewable energy in public buildings.
Sec. 203. Regulatory reviews for new technologies and processes.
Sec. 204. Small business commercialization assistance.
Sec. 205. Education and outreach.
Sec. 206. Industrial energy and water conservation.

SEC. 2. FINDINGS.

    The Congress finds that--
            (1) there is a need for a robust renewable energy and 
        energy efficiency research and development program that 
        provides a basis for the development, demonstration, and 
        deployment of new energy technologies in partnership with 
        industry;
            (2) Federal budget authority for renewable energy and 
        energy efficiency research and development has declined 
        significantly since 1980; and
            (3) the President's budget request for fiscal year 2004 
        continues to shortchange the core programs, imperiling 
        promising technologies that have the potential to reduce energy 
        consumption and United States dependence on foreign oil, and 
        increase energy efficiency.

SEC. 3. NATIONAL RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT POLICY.

    It shall be the policy of the United States that its research, 
development, demonstration, and commercial applications programs be 
designed to enable 20 percent of the energy generated in the United 
States from stationary sources to be generated from nonhydropower 
renewable energy sources by the year 2020.

SEC. 4. DEFINITIONS.

    For purposes of this Act--
            (1) the term ``biomass'' means any organic matter that is 
        available on a renewable or recurring basis, including 
        agricultural crops and trees, wood and wood wastes and 
        residues, plants (including aquatic plants), grasses, residues, 
        fibers, animal wastes, and municipal wastes; and
            (2) the term ``renewable energy source'' means--
                    (A) wind;
                    (B) biomass;
                    (C) a geothermal source;
                    (D) a solar source;
                    (E) a photovoltaic source; or
                    (F) additional hydroelectric generation capacity 
                achieved from increased efficiency at an existing 
                hydroelectric dam.

           TITLE I--RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT, AND DEMONSTRATION

SEC. 101. ENHANCED RENEWABLE ENERGY RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT, AND 
              DEMONSTRATION.

    (a) Goals.--In order to achieve the goal stated in section 3, the 
United States shall have an energy research, development, and 
demonstration program to enhance renewable energy with the following 
goals:
            (1) For wind power, the program should reduce the cost of 
        wind electricity by 50 percent by 2008, compared to the cost as 
        of the date of the enactment of this Act, so that wind power 
        can be widely competitive with fossil-fuel-based electricity in 
        a restructured electric industry, with concentration within the 
        program on a variety of advanced wind turbine concepts and 
        manufacturing technologies.
            (2) For photovoltaics, the programs should pursue research, 
        development, and demonstration that would lead to photovoltaic 
        systems prices of $3,000 per kilowatt by January 1, 2005, and 
        $1,500 per kilowatt by January 1, 2008. Program activities 
        should include assisting industry in developing manufacturing 
        technologies, giving greater attention to balance of system 
        issues, and expanding fundamental research on relevant advanced 
        materials.
            (3) For solar thermal electric systems the program should 
        strengthen ongoing research, development, and demonstration 
        combining high-efficiency and high-temperature receivers with 
        advanced thermal storage and power cycles, with the goal of 
        making solar-only power (including baseload solar power) widely 
        competitive with fossil fuel power by 2017.
            (4) For geothermal energy, the program should continue work 
        on hydrothermal systems, and reactivate research, development, 
        and demonstration on advanced concepts, giving top priority to 
        high-grade hot dry-rock geothermal energy.
            (5) For hydrogen-based energy systems, the program should 
        support research, development, and demonstration on hydrogen-
        using and hydrogen-producing technologies. The program should 
        also coordinate hydrogen-using technology development with 
        proton exchange membrane fuel cell vehicle development 
        activities under the enhanced energy efficiency program 
        described in section 102.
            (6) For biomass energy--
                    (A) the program should enable the United States to 
                triple bioenergy use by 2010;
                    (B) for biomass-based power systems, the program 
                should enable commercialization, within five years 
                after the date of the enactment of this Act, of 
                integrated power-generating technologies that employ 
                gas turbines and fuel cells integrated with biomass 
                gasifiers; and
                    (C) for biofuels, the program should accelerate 
                research, development, and demonstration on advanced 
                cellulosic conversion.
            (7) For hydropower, the program should provide a new 
        generation of turbine technologies that will increase 
        generating capacity and will be less damaging to fish and 
        aquatic ecosystems.
            (8) For electric energy and storage, the program should 
        develop high capacity superconducting transmission lines and 
        generators, and develop distributed generating systems to 
        accommodate multiple types of energy sources under a common 
        interconnect standard.
    (b) Authorization of Appropriations.--There are authorized to be 
appropriated to the Secretary of Energy for carrying out activities to 
achieve the goals described in subsection (a)--
            (1) $575,000,000 for fiscal year 2004;
            (2) $651,000,000 for fiscal year 2005;
            (3) $736,000,000 for fiscal year 2006;
            (4) $831,000,000 for fiscal year 2007; and
            (5) $942,000,000 for fiscal year 2008.

SEC. 102. ENHANCED ENERGY EFFICIENCY RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT, AND 
              DEMONSTRATION.

    (a) Goals.--In order to achieve the goal stated in section 3, the 
United States shall have an energy research, development, and 
demonstration program to enhance energy efficiency with the following 
goals:
            (1) For energy efficiency in housing, the program should 
        develop technologies, housing components, designs, and 
        production methods that will, by 2010--
                    (A) reduce the time needed to move technologies to 
                market by 50 percent, compared to the time needed as of 
                the date of the enactment of this Act;
                    (B) reduce the monthly cost of new housing by 20 
                percent, compared to the cost as of the date of the 
                enactment of this Act;
                    (C) cut the environmental impact and energy use of 
                new housing by 50 percent, compared to the impact and 
                use as of the date of the enactment of this Act;
                    (D) ensure that at least 15,000,000 homes existing 
                as of the date of the enactment of this Act reduce 
                their energy use by 30 percent, compared to the use as 
                of the date of the enactment of this Act; and
                    (E) improve durability and reduce maintenance costs 
                by 50 percent compared to the durability and costs as 
                of the date of the enactment of this Act.
            (2) For industrial energy efficiency, the program should, 
        in cooperation with the affected industries--
                    (A) develop a microturbine (40 to 300 kilowatt) 
                that is more than 40 percent efficient by 2008, 
                compared to the efficiency as of the date of the 
                enactment of this Act;
                    (B) develop a microturbine that is more than 50 
                percent efficient by 2012, compared to the efficiency 
                as of the date of the enactment of this Act;
                    (C) develop advanced materials for combustion 
                systems that reduce emissions of nitrogen oxides by 30 
                to 50 percent while increasing efficiency 5 to 10 
                percent by 2009, compared to such emissions as of the 
                date of the enactment of this Act; and
                    (D) improve the energy intensity of the major 
                energy-consuming industries by at least 25 percent by 
                2012, compared to the energy intensity as of the date 
                of the enactment of this Act.
            (3) For transportation energy efficiency, the program 
        should, in cooperation with affected industries--
                    (A) develop a production prototype passenger 
                automobile that has fuel economy equivalent to 80 miles 
                per gallon of gasoline by 2006;
                    (B) develop class 7 and 8 heavy duty trucks and 
                buses with ultra low emissions and the ability to use 
                an alternative fuel that has an average fuel economy 
                equivalent to--
                            (i) 10 miles per gallon of gasoline by 
                        2009; and
                            (ii) 13 miles per gallon of gasoline by 
                        2012;
                    (C) develop a production prototype of a passenger 
                automobile with zero equivalent emissions that has an 
                average fuel economy of 100 miles per gallon of 
                gasoline by 2012;
                    (D) improve, by 2012, the average fuel economy of 
                trucks--
                            (i) in classes 1 and 2 by 300 percent; and
                            (ii) in classes 3 through 6 by 200 percent,
                compared to the fuel economy as of the date of the 
                enactment of this Act; and
                    (E) mimimize the production of hydrogen from fossil 
                fuels.
    (b) Definitions.--For purposes of this section--
            (1) the term ``alternative fuel'' has the meaning given 
        that term in section 301(2) of the Energy Policy Act of 1992; 
        and
            (2) the term ``major energy-consuming industries'' means--
                    (A) the forest product industry;
                    (B) the steel industry;
                    (C) the aluminum industry;
                    (D) the metal casting industry;
                    (E) the chemical industry;
                    (F) the petroleum refining industry; and
                    (G) the glass-making industry.
    (c) Authorization of Appropriations.--There are authorized to be 
appropriated to the Secretary of Energy for carrying out activities to 
achieve the goals described in subsection (a)--
            (1) $900,000,000 for fiscal year 2004;
            (2) $950,000,000 for fiscal year 2005;
            (3) $1,025,000,000 for fiscal year 2006;
            (4) $1,110,000,000 for fiscal year 2007; and
            (5) $1,200,000,000 for fiscal year 2008.
    (d) Limits on Use of Funds.--None of the funds authorized to be 
appropriated under this section may be used for--
            (1) the promulgation and implementation of energy 
        efficiency regulations;
            (2) the Weatherization Assistance Program under part A of 
        title IV of the Energy Conservation and Production Act;
            (3) the State Energy Program under part D of title III of 
        the Energy Policy and Conservation Act; or
            (4) the Federal Energy Management Program under part 3 of 
        title V of the National Energy Conservation Policy Act.

SEC. 103. ENHANCED AERONAUTICAL SYSTEM ENERGY EFFICIENCY RESEARCH, 
              DEVELOPMENT, AND DEMONSTRATION.

    (a) Goals.--For aeronautical system energy efficiency, the National 
Aeronautics and Space Administration shall seek to--
            (1) develop technologies that will enable a 10 percent 
        increase in aircraft engine energy efficiencies by 2013 as 
        compared to the most energy efficient engine in the United 
        States commercial aircraft fleet as of the date of the 
        enactment of this Act; and
            (2) develop air transportation management operational 
        concepts and procedures that will enable a 15 percent increase 
        in the energy efficiency of the overall air transport system on 
        a per flight basis by 2013 as compared to the efficiency as of 
        the date of the enactment of this Act.
    (b) Authorization of Appropriations.--There are authorized to be 
appropriated to the Administrator of the National Aeronautics and Space 
Administration for carrying out activities to achieve the goals 
described in subsection (a)--
            (1) $70,000,000 for fiscal year 2004;
            (2) $75,000,000 for fiscal year 2005;
            (3) $80,000,000 for fiscal year 2006;
            (4) $85,000,000 for fiscal year 2007; and
            (5) $90,000,000 for fiscal year 2008.

SEC. 104. ASSESSMENT OF RENEWABLE ENERGY RESOURCES.

    (a) In General.--Not later than one year after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Energy shall submit to the 
Congress an assessment of all renewable energy resources available for 
commercial applications within the United States.
    (b) Resource Assessment.--Such assessment shall include a detailed 
inventory describing the available amount and characteristics of 
renewable energy sources, and an estimate of the research, development, 
demonstration, and commercial applications efforts necessary to develop 
each resource. The assessment shall also include such other information 
as the Secretary of Energy believes would be useful in achieving wider 
commercial applications of emerging and state-of-the-art renewable 
energy generation facilities or devices.
    (c) Availability.--The technology development information and cost 
estimates in the assessment shall be updated annually and made 
available to the public, along with the data used to create the 
assessment.
    (d) Authorization of Appropriations.--For the purposes of carrying 
out this section, there are authorized to be appropriated to the 
Secretary of Energy $10,000,000 for fiscal year 2004, and such sums as 
may be necessary for the fiscal years 2005 through 2022.

SEC. 105. NEXT GENERATION LIGHTING INITIATIVE.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary shall carry out a Next Generation 
Lighting Initiative in accordance with this section to support 
research, development, demonstration, and commercial application 
activities related to advanced solid-state lighting technologies based 
on white light emitting diodes.
    (b) Objectives.--The objectives of the initiative shall be--
            (1) to develop, by 2012, advanced solid-state lighting 
        technologies based on white light emitting diodes that, 
        compared to incandescent and fluorescent lighting technologies, 
        are--
                    (A) longer lasting;
                    (B) more energy-efficient; and
                    (C) cost-competitive;
            (2) to develop an inorganic white light emitting diode that 
        has an efficiency of 160 lumens per watt and a 10-year 
        lifetime; and
            (3) to develop an organic white light emitting diode with 
        an efficiency of 100 lumens per watt with a 5-year lifetime 
        that--
                    (A) illuminates over a full color spectrum;
                    (B) covers large areas over flexible surfaces; and
                    (C) does not contain harmful pollutants, such as 
                mercury, typical of fluorescent lamps.
    (c) Fundamental Research.--
            (1) Consortium.--The Secretary shall carry out the 
        fundamental research activities of the Next Generation Lighting 
        Initiative through a private consortium (which may include 
        private firms, trade associations and institutions of higher 
        education), which the Secretary shall select through a 
        competitive process. Each proposed consortium shall submit to 
        the Secretary such information as the Secretary may require, 
        including a program plan agreed to by all participants of the 
        consortium.
            (2) Joint venture.--The consortium shall be structured as a 
        joint venture among the participants of the consortium. The 
        Secretary shall serve on the governing council of the 
        consortium.
            (3) Eligibility.--To be eligible to be selected as the 
        consortium under paragraph (1), an applicant must be broadly 
        representative of United States solid-state lighting research, 
        development, and manufacturing expertise as a whole.
            (4) Grants.--(A) The Secretary shall award grants for 
        fundamental research to the consortium, which the consortium 
        may disburse to researchers, including those who are not 
        participants of the consortium.
            (B) To receive a grant, the consortium must provide a 
        description to the Secretary of the proposed research and list 
        the parties that will receive funding.
            (C) At least 20 percent of the cost of a research and 
        development project for which a grant is made under this 
        section shall be matched by the consortium, and at least 50 
        percent of the cost of a demonstration or commercial 
        application project for which a grant is made under this 
        section shall be matched by the consortium.
            (5) National laboratories.--National Laboratories may 
        participate in the research described in this section, and may 
        receive funds from the consortium.
            (6) Intellectual property.--Participants in the consortium 
        and the Federal Government shall have royalty-free nonexclusive 
        rights to use intellectual property derived from research 
        funded pursuant to this subsection.
    (d) Development, Demonstration, and Commercial Application.--The 
Secretary shall carry out the development, demonstration, and 
commercial application activities of the Next Generation Lighting 
Initiative through awards to private firms, trade associations, and 
institutions of higher education. In selecting awardees, the Secretary 
may give preference to members of the consortium selected pursuant to 
subsection (c).
    (e) Plans and Assessments.--(1) The consortium shall formulate an 
annual operating plan which shall include research priorities, 
technical milestones, and plans for technology transfer, and which 
shall be subject to approval by the Secretary.
    (2) The Secretary shall enter into an arrangement with the National 
Academy of Sciences to conduct periodic reviews of the Next Generation 
Lighting Initiative. The Academy shall review the research priorities, 
technical milestones, and plans for technology transfer established 
under paragraph (1) and evaluate the progress toward achieving them. 
The Secretary shall consider the results of such reviews in evaluating 
the plans submitted under paragraph (1).
    (f) Audit.--The Secretary shall retain an independent, commercial 
auditor to perform an audit of the consortium to determine the extent 
to which the funds authorized by this section have been expended in a 
manner consistent with the purposes of this section. The auditor shall 
transmit a report annually to the Secretary, who shall transmit the 
report to the Congress, along with a plan to remedy any deficiencies 
cited in the report.
    (g) Sunset.--The Next Generation Lighting Initiative shall 
terminate no later than September 30, 2013.
    (h) Definitions.--As used in this section:
            (1) Advanced solid-state lighting.--The term ``advanced 
        solid-state lighting'' means a semiconducting device package 
        and delivery system that produces white light using externally 
        applied voltage.
            (2) Fundamental research.--The term ``fundamental 
        research'' includes basic research on both solid-state 
        materials and manufacturing processes.
            (3) Inorganic white light emitting diode.--The term 
        ``inorganic white light emitting diode'' means an inorganic 
        semiconducting package that produces white light using 
        externally applied voltage.
            (4) Organic white light emitting diode.--The term ``organic 
        white light emitting diode'' means an organic semiconducting 
compound that produces white light using externally applied voltage.
    (i) Authorization of Appropriations.--There are authorized to be 
appropriated to the Secretary for carrying out this section $10,000,000 
for fiscal year 2004 and $50,000,000 for each of the fiscal years 2005 
through 2008.

SEC. 106. NATIONAL BUILDING PERFORMANCE INITIATIVE.

    (a) Interagency Group.--Not later than 3 months after the date of 
enactment of this Act, the Director of the Office of Science and 
Technology Policy shall establish an interagency group to develop, in 
coordination with the advisory committee established under subsection 
(e), a National Building Performance Initiative (in this section 
referred to as the ``Initiative''). The interagency group shall be 
cochaired by appropriate officials of the Department and the Department 
of Commerce, who shall jointly arrange for the provision of necessary 
administrative support to the group.
    (b) Integration of Efforts.--The Initiative shall integrate 
Federal, State, and voluntary private sector efforts to reduce the 
costs of construction, operation, maintenance, and renovation of 
commercial, industrial, institutional, and residential buildings.
    (c) Plan.--Not later than 1 year after the date of enactment of 
this Act, the interagency group shall submit to Congress a plan for 
carrying out the appropriate Federal role in the Initiative. The plan 
shall include--
            (1) research, development, demonstration, and commercial 
        application of systems and materials for new construction and 
        retrofit relating to the building envelope and building system 
        components; and
            (2) the collection, analysis, and dissemination of research 
        results and other pertinent information on enhancing building 
        performance to industry, government entities, and the public.
    (d) Department of Energy Role.--Within the Federal portion of the 
Initiative, the Department shall be the lead agency for all aspects of 
building performance related to use and conservation of energy.
    (e) Advisory Committee.--
            (1) Establishment.--The Director of the Office of Science 
        and Technology Policy shall establish an advisory committee 
        to--
                    (A) analyze and provide recommendations on 
                potential private sector roles and participation in the 
                Initiative; and
                    (B) review and provide recommendations on the plan 
                described in subsection (c).
            (2) Membership.--Membership of the advisory committee shall 
        include representatives with a broad range of appropriate 
        expertise, including expertise in--
                    (A) building research and technology;
                    (B) architecture, engineering, and building 
                materials and systems; and
                    (C) the residential, commercial, and industrial 
                sectors of the construction industry.
    (f) Construction.--Nothing in this section provides any Federal 
agency with new authority to regulate building performance.

SEC. 107. PROGRESS REPORT.

    The Secretary of Energy shall transmit to the Committee on Science 
of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Energy and Natural 
Resources of the Senate an annual report assessing the progress made 
pursuant to this title in achieving the goal set forth in section 3. 
The first such report shall be transmitted along with the first annual 
budget request from the President occurring at least 6 months after the 
date of the enactment of this Act.

                   TITLE II--COMMERCIAL APPLICATIONS

SEC. 201. STUDY OF FINANCING FOR PROTOTYPE TECHNOLOGIES.

    (a) Independent Assessment.--The Secretary of Energy shall 
commission an independent assessment of innovative financing techniques 
to facilitate construction of new renewable energy and energy 
efficiency facilities that might not otherwise be built in a 
competitive market.
    (b) Conduct of the Assessment.--The Secretary of Energy shall 
retain an independent contractor with proven expertise in financing 
large capital projects or in financial services consulting to conduct 
the assessment under this section.
    (c) Content of the Assessment.--The assessment shall include a 
comprehensive examination of all available techniques to safeguard 
private investors against risks (including both market-based and 
government-imposed risks) that are beyond the control of the investors. 
Such techniques may include Federal loan guarantees, Federal price 
guarantees, special tax considerations, and direct Federal investment.
    (d) Report.--The Secretary of Energy shall submit the results of 
the independent assessment to the Congress not later than 9 months 
after the date of enactment of this section.

SEC. 202. RENEWABLE ENERGY IN PUBLIC BUILDINGS.

    (a) Demonstration and Technology Transfer Program.--The Secretary 
of Energy shall establish a program for the demonstration of innovative 
technologies for solar and other renewable energy sources in buildings 
owned or operated by a State or local government, and for the 
dissemination of information resulting from such demonstration to 
interested parties.
    (b) Limit on Federal Funding.--The Secretary of Energy shall 
provide under this section no more than 40 percent of the incremental 
costs of the solar or other renewable energy source project funded.
    (c) Preferred Projects.--The Secretary of Energy shall give 
preference in making awards under this section to projects by 
municipalities seeking to achieve significant transition to a renewable 
energy infrastructure.
    (d) Authorization of Appropriations.--There are authorized to be 
appropriated to the Secretary of Energy for carrying out this section--
            (1) $60,000,000 for fiscal year 2004;
            (2) $70,000,000 for fiscal year 2005;
            (3) $80,000,000 for fiscal year 2006;
            (4) $90,000,000 for fiscal year 2007; and
            (5) $100,000,000 for fiscal year 2008.

SEC. 203. REGULATORY REVIEWS FOR NEW TECHNOLOGIES AND PROCESSES.

    (a) Regulatory Reviews.--Not later than one year after the date of 
the enactment of this Act, and every five years thereafter, the 
Director of the Office of Science and Technology Policy shall oversee a 
review of each Federal agency's regulations and policies to identify--
            (1) existing regulations and policies that act as barriers 
        to the development and commercialization of emerging renewable 
        energy and energy efficiency technologies and processes 
        (including fuel cells, combined heat and power, distributed 
        generation, and small-scale renewable energy); and
            (2) actions the agency is taking or could take to--
                    (A) remove barriers to market entry for emerging 
                renewable energy and energy efficiency technologies;
                    (B) increase energy efficiency; or
                    (C) encourage the use of new processes to meet 
                energy and environmental goals.
    (b) Reports to Congress.--Not later than 18 months after the date 
of the enactment of this Act, and every five years thereafter, the 
Director of the Office of Science and Technology Policy shall report to 
the Congress on the results of the agency reviews conducted under 
subsection (a).
    (c) Contents of the Reports.--The reports required under subsection 
(b) shall--
            (1) identify all regulatory and policy barriers to the 
        development and commercialization of emerging renewable energy 
        and energy efficiency technologies and processes;
            (2) actions taken, or proposed to be taken, that are 
        identified under subsection (a)(2); and
            (3) recommendations for changes in laws or regulations that 
        may be needed to--
                    (A) expedite the siting and development of energy 
                production and distribution facilities; and
                    (B) encourage the adoption of energy efficiency and 
                process improvements.

SEC. 204. SMALL BUSINESS COMMERCIALIZATION ASSISTANCE.

    (a) Authority.--The Secretary of Energy shall provide assistance, 
to small businesses with less than 100 employees and startup companies, 
for the commercial application of renewable energy and energy 
efficiency technologies developed by or with support from the 
Department of Energy. Such assistance shall be provided through a 
competitive review process.
    (b) Applications.--The Secretary of Energy shall establish 
requirements for applications for assistance under this section. Such 
applications shall contain a commercial application plan, including a 
description of the financial, business, and technical support 
(including support from universities and national laboratories) the 
applicant anticipates in its commercial application effort.
    (c) Selection.--The Secretary of Energy shall select applicants to 
receive assistance under this section on the basis of which 
applications are the most likely to result in commercial application of 
renewable energy and energy efficiency technologies.
    (d) Limit on Federal Funding.--The Secretary of Energy shall 
provide under this section no more than 50 percent of the costs of the 
project funded.
    (e) Authorization of Appropriations.--There are authorized to be 
appropriated to the Secretary of Energy for carrying out this section 
$200,000,000 for each of the fiscal years 2004 through 2008, and such 
sums as may be necessary for each of the fiscal years 2009 through 
2024.

SEC. 205. EDUCATION AND OUTREACH.

    (a) Program.--The Secretary of Energy shall establish a program 
education and outreach, including innovative education and outreach 
techniques, on renewable energy and energy efficiency technologies to 
manufacturers, consumers, engineers, architects, builders, energy 
service companies, universities, facility planners and managers, State 
and local governments, and other appropriate entities.
    (b) Authorization of Appropriations.--There are authorized to be 
appropriated to the Secretary of Energy for carrying out this section 
$100,000,000 for each of the fiscal years 2004 through 2008, and such 
sums as may be necessary for each of the fiscal years 2009 through 
2022.

SEC. 206. INDUSTRIAL ENERGY AND WATER CONSERVATION.

    (a) Establishment.--The Secretary shall establish a competitive 
matching grant pilot program to support voluntary local government 
programs that seek to promote innovative energy efficiency technologies 
and processes to reduce the industrial use of water and the discharge 
of wastewater from commercial and industrial entities. The grant 
program shall be administered by the Assistant Secretary for Energy 
Efficiency and Renewable Energy in partnership with municipal entities, 
including publicly owned treatment works, and nongovernmental 
organizations and associations, including watershed groups sponsored by 
governmental entities, whose mission relates to energy or water 
conservation and efficiency.
    (b) Assistance.--Assistance provided under this section may 
include--
            (1) technical and planning assistance, including studies, 
        energy and wastewater audits, modeling, data collection, 
        surveys, preconstruction, engineering, and design assistance;
            (2) financial assistance (including the provision either of 
        matching grants of up to 50 percent of total costs to municipal 
        entities or loan guarantees) for projects selected; and
            (3) funding for a period of up to 2 years for personnel to 
        assist in the development and implementation of a program that 
        meets the goals of this section.
    (c) Selection Criteria.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary shall select proposals to be 
        funded under this section on the basis of the following:
                    (A) Ability to maximize energy efficiency 
                technology to reduce the demand for water in commercial 
                or industrial entities.
                    (B) Reductions in the discharge of wastewater from 
                commercial or industrial entities.
                    (C) Technical feasibility and technology transfer 
                plan for distributing the results of the proposal to be 
                funded.
                    (D) Cost-effectiveness.
                    (E) Other environmental and economic benefits, 
                including brownfields cleanup and redevelopment, job 
                retention, and economic revitalization.
            (2) Geographic diversity.--In selecting proposals to be 
        funded under this section, the Secretary shall make every 
        effort to ensure geographic diversity in those proposals 
        funded.
    (d) Authorization of Appropriations.--There are authorized to be 
appropriated to the Secretary for carrying out this section--
            (1) $60,000,000 for fiscal year 2004;
            (2) $70,000,000 for fiscal year 2005;
            (3) $80,000,000 for fiscal year 2006;
            (4) $90,000,000 for fiscal year 2007; and
            (5) $100,000,000 for fiscal year 2008.
Such funds shall remain available until expended.
                                 &lt;all&gt;
</pre></body></html>
