<html><body><pre>
[Congressional Bills 117th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[S. 3788 Introduced in Senate (IS)]

&lt;DOC&gt;






117th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                S. 3788

To address the homelessness and housing crises, to move toward the goal 
   of providing for a home for all Americans, and for other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                   IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

                March 8 (legislative day, March 7), 2022

  Mr. Padilla introduced the following bill; which was read twice and 
    referred to the Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
To address the homelessness and housing crises, to move toward the goal 
   of providing for a home for all Americans, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE; TABLE OF CONTENTS.

    (a) Short Title.--This Act may be cited as the ``Housing for All 
Act of 2022''.
    (b) Table of Contents.--The table of contents for this Act is as 
follows:

Sec. 1. Short title; table of contents.
Sec. 2. Definitions.
                TITLE I--ADDRESSING THE HOUSING SHORTAGE

Sec. 101. Housing Trust Fund.
Sec. 102. Section 202 supportive housing for the elderly program.
Sec. 103. Section 811 supportive housing for people with disabilities.
Sec. 104. HOME Investment Partnerships Program.
Sec. 105. Technical assistance for navigating Federal and State housing 
                            funding sources.
Sec. 106. Permanent authorization of United States Interagency Council 
                            on Homelessness and establishment of racial 
                            equity commission.
                   TITLE II--ADDRESSING HOMELESSNESS

Sec. 201. Expansion of housing choice voucher program.
Sec. 202. Project-based rental assistance.
Sec. 203. Emergency solutions grant program.
Sec. 204. Continuum of care grant program.
Sec. 205. Program administration, training, technical assistance, and 
                            capacity building.
Sec. 206. GAO report on eviction data.
     TITLE III--INVESTING IN INNOVATIVE COMMUNITY-DRIVEN SOLUTIONS

Sec. 301. Safe parking program grants.
Sec. 302. Hotel, motel, and commercial acquisitions and conversions to 
                            permanent housing.
Sec. 303. Eviction protection grant program.
Sec. 304. Mobile crisis intervention teams grants.
Sec. 305. Library consortium pilot grants.
Sec. 306. Report on inclusive transit-oriented development to enhance 
                            climate mitigation and disaster resiliency.
Sec. 307. Establishing an innovation pilot within the carbon reduction 
                            program.
Sec. 308. Making infill housing and other transportation efficiency 
                            projects eligible for RAISE grants.

SEC. 2. DEFINITIONS.

    In this Act:
            (1) At risk of homelessness.--The term ``at risk of 
        homelessness'' has the meaning given the term in section 401 of 
        the McKinney-Vento Homeless Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 11360).
            (2) Homeless.--The term ``homeless'' has the meaning given 
        the term in section 103 of the McKinney-Vento Homeless 
        Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 11302).
            (3) Justice system-involved.--The term ``justice system-
        involved'' includes individuals who are or have been 
        incarcerated or held in municipal, State, or Federal jails, 
        prisons, juvenile facilities, or other types of detention 
        facilities, who have been held in pre-trial or post-conviction 
        detention, who have an arrest or conviction regardless of 
        whether they were detained or incarcerated, who have been held 
        in immigration detention, or, with respect to youth, who are or 
        have been held in the custody of the Office of Refugee 
        Resettlement of the Department of Health and Human Services.
            (4) Population at higher risk of homelessness.--
                    (A) In general.--The term ``population at higher 
                risk of homelessness'' means a group of individuals 
                that is defined by a common characteristic and that has 
                been found to experience homelessness, housing 
                instability, or to be cost-burdened at a rate higher 
                than that of the general public.
                    (B) Higher rate.--Information that may be used in 
                demonstrating such a higher rate includes data 
                generated by the Federal Government, by State or 
                municipal governments, by peer-reviewed research, and 
                by organizations having expertise in working with or 
                advocating on behalf of homeless, housing unstable, or 
                cost-burdened groups.
                    (C) Included populations.--Such term shall include 
                populations for which such higher rate has already been 
                demonstrated, including Asian, Black, Latino, Native 
                American, Native Hawaiian, Pacific Islander and other 
                communities of color, individuals with disabilities, 
                including mental health disabilities, elderly 
                individuals, foster and former foster youth, lesbian, 
                gay, bisexual, transgender, and queer individuals, 
                gender non-binary and gender non-conforming 
                individuals, veterans, and such additional communities 
                and individuals as the Secretary may include after 
                receiving public comment.
            (5) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary 
        of Housing and Urban Development.

                TITLE I--ADDRESSING THE HOUSING SHORTAGE

SEC. 101. HOUSING TRUST FUND.

    Section 1338(a) of the Federal Housing Enterprises Financial Safety 
and Soundness Act of 1992 (12 U.S.C. 4568(a)) is amended by adding at 
the end the following:
            ``(3) Authorization of appropriations.--There is authorized 
        to be appropriated to the Housing Trust Fund $45,000,000,000 
        for each of fiscal years 2022 through 2031.''.

SEC. 102. SECTION 202 SUPPORTIVE HOUSING FOR THE ELDERLY PROGRAM.

    There is authorized to be appropriated to the Secretary for fiscal 
year 2022, to remain available until September 30, 2031--
            (1) $2,500,000,000 for the supportive housing for the 
        elderly program authorized under section 202 of the Housing Act 
        of 1959 (12 U.S.C. 1701q), which shall be used--
                    (A) for capital advance awards in accordance with 
                section 202(c)(1) of the Housing Act of 1959 (12 U.S.C. 
                1701q(c)(1)) to recipients that are eligible under that 
                Act;
                    (B) for section 8 project-based rental assistance 
                contracts in accordance with subsection (b) of this 
                section and section 8 of the United States Housing Act 
                of 1937 (42 U.S.C. 1437f), for capital advance 
                projects; and
                    (C) for service coordinators;
            (2) $15,000,000, to provide technical assistance to support 
        State-level efforts to improve the design and delivery of 
        voluntary supportive services for residents of any housing 
        assisted under the Housing Act of 1959 (Public Law 101-625) and 
        other housing supporting low-income older adults; and
            (3) $125,000,000 for the costs to the Secretary of 
        administration and oversight.

SEC. 103. SECTION 811 SUPPORTIVE HOUSING FOR PEOPLE WITH DISABILITIES.

    There is authorized to be appropriated to the Secretary for fiscal 
year 2022, to remain available until September 30, 2031--
            (1) $900,000,000 for capital advances, including amendments 
        to capital advance contracts, for supportive housing for 
        persons with disabilities, as authorized by section 811 of the 
        Cranston-Gonzalez National Affordable Housing Act (42 U.S.C. 
        8013), for project rental assistance for supportive housing for 
        persons with disabilities under subsection (d)(2) of such 
        section 811 (42 U.S.C. 8013), for project assistance contracts 
        pursuant to section 202(h) of the Housing Act of 1959 (12 
        U.S.C. 1701q(h)), and for project rental assistance to State 
        housing finance agencies and other appropriate entities as 
        authorized under subsection (b)(3) of such section 811 (42 
        U.S.C. 8013);
            (2) $15,000,000 for providing technical assistance to 
        support State-level efforts to integrate housing assistance and 
        voluntary supportive services for residents of housing 
        receiving such assistance; and
            (3) $87,000,000 for the costs to the Secretary of 
        administration and oversight.

SEC. 104. HOME INVESTMENT PARTNERSHIPS PROGRAM.

    (a) Authorization of Appropriations.--There is authorized to be 
appropriated to the Secretary for fiscal year 2022, to remain available 
until September 30, 2031--
            (1) $40,000,000,000, for activities and assistance for the 
        HOME Investment Partnerships Program (in this section referred 
        to as the ``HOME program''), as authorized under title II of 
        the Cranston-Gonzalez National Affordable Housing Act (42 
        U.S.C. 12721 et seq.);
            (2) $100,000,000 to make new awards to or increase prior 
        awards to existing technical assistance providers, including 
        for technical assistance to grantees regarding best practices 
        for coordination of available funds provided under this section 
        with other forms of assistance, such as with project-based 
        rental assistance; and
            (3) $360,000,000 for the costs to the Secretary of 
        administration and oversight of the HOME program and the 
        Housing Trust Fund established under section 1338(a) of the 
        Federal Housing Enterprises Financial Safety and Soundness Act 
        of 1992 (12 U.S.C. 4568(a)).
    (b) Administration.--Notwithstanding subsections (c) and (d)(1) of 
section 212 of the Cranston-Gonzalez National Affordable Housing Act 
(42 U.S.C. 12742), eligible grantees may use not more than 15 percent 
of their allocations under this section for administrative and planning 
costs.

SEC. 105. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE FOR NAVIGATING FEDERAL AND STATE HOUSING 
              FUNDING SOURCES.

    (a) Establishment.--The Secretary shall establish a grant program 
to provide technical assistance to States relating to the understanding 
of the relationship between Federal and State housing funding sources 
and how to best use those sources to finance housing projects in the 
State, such as permanent supportive housing, including resources, 
tools, and products that--
            (1) provide assistance on coordinating a single application 
        for multiple funding sources;
            (2) provide assistance on consolidating funding sources and 
        implementing reporting requirements at the State level; and
            (3) support staff capacity within State housing finance 
        agencies to maintain the collaborations and systems necessary 
        to better align types of funding with need and expand access to 
        housing stability.
    (b) Authorization of Appropriations.--There is authorized to be 
appropriated to the Secretary such sums as may be necessary, to remain 
available until expended, to carry out this section.

SEC. 106. PERMANENT AUTHORIZATION OF UNITED STATES INTERAGENCY COUNCIL 
              ON HOMELESSNESS AND ESTABLISHMENT OF RACIAL EQUITY 
              COMMISSION.

    Title II of the McKinney-Vento Homeless Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 
11311 et seq.) is amended--
            (1) in section 208 (42 U.S.C. 11318), by striking the 
        sentence and inserting the following: ``There is authorized to 
        be appropriated for each fiscal year $10,000,000 to carry out 
        this title.''; and
            (2) by striking section 209 (42 U.S.C. 11319) and inserting 
        the following:

``SEC. 209. RACIAL EQUITY COMMISSION.

    ``(a) Establishment of Commission.--
            ``(1) In general.--There is established a commission to be 
        known as the Commission on Racial Equity in Housing (in this 
        section referred to as the `Commission') to support the Council 
        with efforts to conduct research into, collect, analyze, and 
        make publicly available data on, and provide leadership and 
        coordination for furthering racial equity in housing, examining 
        the impacts of structural racism on housing and homelessness, 
        and the effectiveness of intervention strategies to address 
        these impacts.
            ``(2) Reporting.--The Commission shall report to the 
        Executive Director of the Council and work in partnership with 
        employees of the Council.
    ``(b) Membership.--
            ``(1) Composition.--The Commission shall be composed of 14 
        members, who shall be--
                    ``(A) appointed by the Executive Director of the 
                Council not later than January 1, 2024; and
                    ``(B) fairly balanced in terms of points of view 
                represented and background experience.
            ``(2) Qualifications.--Each member of the Commission shall 
        have--
                    ``(A) proven expertise in directing, assembling, or 
                applying capital resources from a variety of sources to 
                the successful development of affordable housing, 
                assisted living facilities, or health care facilities;
                    ``(B) lived experience with homelessness; or
                    ``(C) demonstrated experience in--
                            ``(i) homeless services, affordable 
                        housing, or housing law; and
                            ``(ii) racial equity work.
            ``(3) Co-chairpersons.--The Executive Director shall 
        appoint 2 co-chairpersons of the Commission from among the 
        members of the Commission.
            ``(4) Vacancies.--Any vacancy on the Commission shall not 
        affect its powers and shall be filled in the manner in which 
        the original appointment was made.
            ``(5) Prohibition of pay.--Members of the Commission shall 
        serve without pay.
            ``(6) Travel expenses.--Each member of the Commission shall 
        receive travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of 
        subsistence, in accordance with sections 5702 and 5703 of title 
        5, United States Code.
            ``(7) Quorum.--A majority of the members of the Commission 
        shall constitute a quorum but a lesser number may hold 
        hearings.
            ``(8) Meetings.--The Commission shall meet at the call of 
        the co-chairpersons of the Commission.
    ``(c) Director and Staff.--
            ``(1) Director.--The Commission shall have a Director who 
        shall be--
                    ``(A) appointed by the co-chairpersons of the 
                Commission; and
                    ``(B) paid at a rate not to exceed the rate of 
                basic pay payable for level V of the Executive Schedule 
                under section 5316 of title 5, United States Code.
            ``(2) Staff.--The Commission may appoint personnel as 
        appropriate subject to the provisions of title 5, United States 
        Code, governing appointments in the competitive service, and 
        who shall be paid in accordance with the provisions of chapter 
        51 and subchapter III of chapter 53 of that title relating to 
        classification and General Schedule pay rates.
            ``(3) Experts and consultants.--The Council may procure 
        temporary and intermittent services to support the work of the 
        Commission under section 3109(b) of title 5, United States 
        Code, but at rates for individuals not to exceed the daily 
        equivalent of the maximum annual rate of basic pay payable for 
        the General Schedule.
            ``(4) Staff of federal agencies.--Upon request of the 
        Council and the Commission, the head of any Federal department 
        or agency may detail, on a reimbursable basis, any of the 
        personnel of that department or agency to the Commission to 
        assist it in carrying out its duties under this section.
    ``(d) Duties.--The Commission shall--
            ``(1) work with the Council to make recommendations, 
        inform, and participate in efforts to conduct research into, 
        collect, analyze, and make publicly available data on, and 
        provide leadership and coordination for furthering racial 
        equity in housing, examining the impacts of structural racism 
        on housing and homelessness, and the effectiveness of 
        intervention strategies to address these impacts; and
            ``(2) work with the Council to implement the Federal 
        Strategic Plan to Prevent and End Homelessness.
    ``(e) Reports.--The Council shall submit to Congress, the Secretary 
of Housing and Urban Development, the Secretary of Health and Human 
Services, the Secretary of Transportation, the Secretary of Education, 
the Secretary of Labor, the Secretary of Defense, the Secretary of 
Agriculture, the Secretary of Veterans Affairs, the Secretary of the 
Treasury, the Attorney General, the Secretary of the Interior, the 
Chair of the Federal Reserve, the Comptroller of the Currency, the 
Director of the Office of Thrift Supervision, the Chair of the Federal 
Deposit Insurance Corporation, and such other individuals as the 
Commission determines relevant an annual report on research findings 
with recommendations to improve racial equity in housing and to disrupt 
processes that preserve and reinforce racism and racial disparities in 
housing and homelessness services.
    ``(f) Termination.--Section 14 of the Federal Advisory Committee 
Act (5 U.S.C. App.) shall not apply to the Commission.
    ``(g) Authorization of Appropriations.--There is authorized to be 
appropriated such sums as may be necessary to carry out this 
section.''.

                   TITLE II--ADDRESSING HOMELESSNESS

SEC. 201. EXPANSION OF HOUSING CHOICE VOUCHER PROGRAM.

    (a) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Eligible household.--The term ``eligible household'' 
        means a family who initially--
                    (A) has an income that does not exceed 50 percent 
                of the maximum income limitation for extremely low-
                income families established by the Secretary pursuant 
                to section 3(b)(2)(C) of the United States Housing Act 
                of 1937 (42 U.S.C. 1437a(b)(2)(C)); or
                    (B) is an extremely low-income family that includes 
                an individual who is an individual who is a recipient 
                of supplemental security income benefits under title 
                XVI of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1381 et 
                seq.).
            (2) Extremely low-income family; public housing agency; 
        state.--The terms ``extremely low-income family'', ``public 
        housing agency'', and ``State'' have the meanings given those 
        terms in section 3(b) of the United States Housing Act of 1937 
        (42 U.S.C. 1437a(b)).
    (b) Expanded Vouchers.--
            (1) Funding.--There is appropriated, out of any money in 
        the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, for providing 
        incremental vouchers for rental assistance under section 8(o) 
        of the United States Housing Act of 1937 (42 U.S.C. 1437f(o)) 
        in accordance with this section for each of fiscal years 2022 
        through 2025, the amount necessary to fund--
                    (A) the number of incremental vouchers required to 
                be allocated under paragraph (2);
                    (B) annual renewals of the vouchers allocated under 
                paragraph (2); and
                    (C) administrative fees for vouchers allocated 
                under paragraph (2).
            (2) Allocation.--
                    (A) Incremental vouchers.--The Secretary shall 
                allocate 500,000 incremental vouchers in fiscal year 
                2022 and 1,000,000 incremental vouchers in increments 
                of 500,000 in each calendar year from 2023 through 2025 
                under this section to public housing agencies pursuant 
                to section 213(d) of the Housing and Community 
                Development Act of 1974 (42 U.S.C. 1439(d)).
                    (B) Selection criteria.--The Secretary shall, by 
                notice in the Federal Register, establish selection 
                criteria under section 213(d) of the Housing and 
                Community Development Act of 1974 (42 U.S.C. 1439(d)) 
                that prioritizes housing needs among eligible 
                households and severe housing hardship, such as 
                experiencing homelessness, overcrowding, or evictions.
    (c) Entitlement to Vouchers.--
            (1) In general.--On and after the date that is 5 years 
        after the date of enactment of this Act, any family that is 
        otherwise eligible for tenant-based rental assistance under 
        section 8(o) of the United States Housing Act of 1937 (42 
        U.S.C. 1437f(o)) shall be entitled to that rental assistance 
        during any period that the family is an eligible household.
            (2) Funding.--There is appropriated, out of any money in 
        the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, such sums as may be 
        necessary--
                    (A) to provide assistance under section 8(o) of the 
                United States Housing Act of 1937 (42 U.S.C. 1437f(o)) 
                in accordance with the entitlement under paragraph (1) 
                of this subsection for each eligible household in the 
                amount determined under such section 8(o); and
                    (B) to provide administrative fees under section 
                8(q) of the United States Housing Act of 1937 (42 
                U.S.C. 1437f(q)) in connection with each voucher for 
                assistance provided pursuant to subparagraph (A) of 
                this paragraph.

SEC. 202. PROJECT-BASED RENTAL ASSISTANCE.

    (a) Authorization of Appropriations.--In addition to amounts 
otherwise available, there is authorized to be appropriated to the 
Secretary for fiscal year 2022, to remain available until September 30, 
2031--
            (1) $14,500,000,000 for the project-based rental assistance 
        program, as authorized under section 8(b) of the United States 
        Housing Act of 1937 (42 U.S.C. 1437f(b), subject to the terms 
        and conditions of subsection (b) of this section;
            (2) $40,000,000 for providing technical assistance to 
        recipients of or applicants for project-based rental assistance 
        or to States allocating the project-based rental assistance; 
        and
            (3) $200,000,000 for the costs to the Secretary of 
        administration and oversight.
    (b) Terms and Conditions.--
            (1) Authority.--Notwithstanding section 8(a) of the United 
        States Housing Act of 1937 (42 U.S.C. 1437f(a)), the Secretary 
        may use amounts made available under this section--
                    (A) to provide assistance payments with respect to 
                newly constructed housing, existing housing, or 
                substantially rehabilitated non-housing structures for 
                use as new multifamily housing in accordance with this 
                section and the provisions of section 8 of the United 
                States Housing Act of 1937 (42 U.S.C. 1437f); and
                    (B) for performance-based contract administrators 
                for project-based assistance under section 8 of the 
                United States Housing Act of 1937 (42 U.S.C. 1437f), 
                for carrying out this section and section 8 of the 
                United States Housing Act of 1937 (42 U.S.C. 1437f).
            (2) Project-based rental assistance.--
                    (A) In general.--The Secretary may make assistance 
                payments using amounts made available under this 
                section pursuant to contracts with owners or 
                prospective owners who agree to construct housing, to 
                substantially rehabilitate existing housing, to 
                substantially rehabilitate non-housing structures for 
                use as new multifamily housing, or to attach the 
                assistance to newly constructed housing in which some 
                or all of the units shall be available for occupancy by 
                very low-income families in accordance with the 
                provisions of section 8 of the United States Housing 
                Act of 1937 (42 U.S.C. 1437f), under terms determined 
                by the Secretary.
                    (B) Priority.--In awarding contracts pursuant to 
                this section, the Secretary shall give priority to 
                owners or prospective owners of multifamily housing 
                projects located or to be located in areas of high 
                opportunity, as defined by the Secretary, in areas 
                experiencing economic growth or rising housing prices 
                to prevent displacement or secure affordable housing 
                for low-income households, or that serve people at risk 
                of homelessness or that integrate additional units that 
                are accessible for persons with mobility impairments 
                and persons with hearing or visual impairments beyond 
                those required by applicable Federal accessibility 
                standards.

SEC. 203. EMERGENCY SOLUTIONS GRANT PROGRAM.

    (a) Authorization of Appropriations.--There is authorized to be 
appropriated to the Secretary for fiscal year 2022 $5,000,000,000, to 
remain available until September 30, 2031, to make grants under the 
emergency solutions grant program authorized under subtitle B of title 
IV of the McKinney-Vento Homeless Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 11371 et 
seq.).
    (b) Maximum Allocation for Emergency Shelter Activities.--A 
recipient of a grant using amounts appropriated under subsection (a) in 
any fiscal year may not use an amount of the assistance for emergency 
shelter activities that exceeds the greater of--
            (1) 40 percent of the aggregate amount of that assistance 
        provided for the grantee for that fiscal year; or
            (2) the amount expended by the grantee for emergency 
        shelter activities during fiscal year 2010.

SEC. 204. CONTINUUM OF CARE GRANT PROGRAM.

    (a) Authorization of Appropriations.--There is authorized to be 
appropriated to the Secretary for fiscal year 2022 $15,000,000,000, to 
remain available until the end of fiscal year 2031, to make grants 
under the continuum of care program authorized under subtitle C of the 
McKinney-Vento Homeless Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 11381 et seq.).
    (b) Minimum Allocation for Permanent Housing for Homeless 
Individuals and Families With Disabilities.--Of amounts appropriated 
under subsection (a) for a fiscal year, not less than 50 percent shall 
be used for permanent housing for homeless individuals with 
disabilities and homeless families that include such an individual who 
is an adult or a minor head of household if no adult is present in the 
household.
    (c) Prioritization of Continuum of Care.--In awarding grants using 
amounts appropriated under subsection (a), the Secretary shall 
prioritize funding for applicants that provide documentation of 
coordination with certain systems serving young people and can answer 
questions regarding how the applicant works with child welfare 
organizations, the juvenile and adult justice system, and institutions 
of mental and physical health to ensure that participants in the 
programs are not released into homelessness.

SEC. 205. PROGRAM ADMINISTRATION, TRAINING, TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE, AND 
              CAPACITY BUILDING.

    In addition to amounts otherwise available, there is authorized to 
be appropriated for fiscal year 2022, to remain available until 
expended--
            (1) $1,000,000,000 to the Secretary for the costs to the 
        Secretary of administering and overseeing the implementation of 
        this title and the programs of the Department of Housing and 
        Urban Development generally and new awards or increasing prior 
        awards to provide training, technical assistance, and capacity 
        building related to the programs of the Department of Housing 
        and Urban Development;
            (2) $5,000,000 to the United States Interagency Council on 
        Homelessness for necessary expenses in carrying out the 
        functions of the Council pursuant to title II of the McKinney-
        Vento Homeless Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 11311 et seq.); and
            (3) $10,000,000 to the Secretary for necessary salaries and 
        expenses of the Office of the Inspector General of the 
        Department of Housing and Urban Development in carrying out the 
        Inspector General Act of 1978 (5 U.S.C. App.).

SEC. 206. GAO REPORT ON EVICTION DATA.

    Not later than 180 days after the date of enactment of this Act, 
the Comptroller General of the United States shall submit to Congress a 
report that examines--
            (1) with respect to eviction moratoriums during the COVID-
        19 pandemic--
                    (A) how eviction moratoriums have contributed to 
                housing stability;
                    (B) an analysis of formal and informal evictions 
                during the periods in which the moratoriums were in 
                effect; and
                    (C) an economic analysis of how the eviction 
                moratoriums saved public funds, such as by reducing 
                shelter costs;
            (2) whether women, Black, Hispanic, and other minority 
        renters disproportionately faced eviction during the COVID-19 
        pandemic, and an accounting of the disproportionate risk of 
        eviction faced by veterans, children, the elderly, and 
        individuals living with disabilities during the COVID-19 
        pandemic;
            (3) the barriers that exist to collecting the data related 
        to paragraphs (1) and (2);
            (4) the barriers that exist to collecting, digitizing, and 
        standardizing data from the beginning to the end of the 
        eviction process, such as pre-eviction information, the 
        renter's race or ethnicity, age and gender, as well as the 
        composition of the household and landlord data; and
            (5) a study of the relationship between emergency rental 
        assistance distribution and eviction patterns, as well as how 
        emergency rental assistance affected evictions, during the 
        periods in which the eviction moratoriums were in effect during 
        the COVID-19 pandemic.

     TITLE III--INVESTING IN INNOVATIVE COMMUNITY-DRIVEN SOLUTIONS

SEC. 301. SAFE PARKING PROGRAM GRANTS.

    (a) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Eligible entity.--The term ``eligible entity'' means--
                    (A) a unit of general purpose local government;
                    (B) an Indian tribe or a tribally designated 
                housing entity (as those terms are defined in section 4 
                of the Native American Housing Assistance and Self-
                Determination Act of 1996 (25 U.S.C. 4103));
                    (C) a nonprofit organization that provides services 
                to homeless persons; or
                    (D) a collaborative applicant or other organization 
                or entity funded under the Continuum of Care program 
                under subtitle C of title IV of the McKinney-Vento 
                Homeless Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 11381 et seq.).
            (2) Essential service.--The term ``essential service'' 
        means an essential service described in section 576.102 of 
        title 24, Code of Federal Regulations, or any successor 
        regulation.
            (3) Homeless person.--The term ``homeless person'' has the 
        meaning given the term in section 103 of the McKinney-Vento 
        Homeless Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 11302).
            (4) Safe parking program.--The term ``safe parking 
        program'' means a program that--
                    (A) provides a homeless person living in a vehicle, 
                including a motor home, with a safe place to park the 
                vehicle overnight to facilitate a transition to more 
                stable housing; and
                    (B) provides permanent rehousing services and 
                essential services.
    (b) Establishment of Program.--Not later than 180 days after the 
date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall establish a grant 
program to provide amounts to eligible entities for costs associated 
with--
            (1) the establishment and operation of a new safe parking 
        program; or
            (2) the operation of a safe parking program in existence as 
        of the date on which amounts are provided.
    (c) Grant Term.--The term of a grant awarded under subsection (b) 
shall be 5 years.
    (d) Amount.--
            (1) In general.--During the 5-year term of a grant awarded 
        under subsection (b), the Secretary shall distribute 20 percent 
        of the grant amounts each year.
            (2) Cap.--An eligible entity may not receive more than 
        $5,000,000 in grant amounts under subsection (b).
    (e) Applications.--
            (1) In general.--To be eligible to receive a grant under 
        subsection (b), an eligible entity shall submit an application 
        to the Secretary at the time, in the manner, and containing the 
        information that the Secretary requires, including a 
        description of how the eligible entity will use any amounts 
        received.
            (2) Priority.--The Secretary shall give priority to 
        applications from eligible entities that serve homeless persons 
        in underserved areas (as defined in section 81.2 of title 24, 
        Code of Federal Regulations, or any successor regulation).
    (f) Use of Funds.--Except as provided in subsection (h), any 
eligible entity that is awarded a grant under subsection (b) shall use 
the grant amounts for costs associated with--
            (1) establishing and operating a safe parking program;
            (2) providing permanent rehousing assistance to families 
        using the safe parking program, such as case management 
        services;
            (3) employing staff who maintain the safety and health of 
        participants in the safe parking program and monitor program 
        compliance with subtitle C of title IV of the McKinney-Vento 
        Homeless Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 11381 et seq.), if 
        applicable;
            (4) establishing and maintaining the operation of hygiene 
        facilities and restrooms for homeless persons;
            (5) maintaining the vehicles of homeless persons using a 
        safe parking program and providing gas for those persons to use 
        their vehicles for activities that will help them obtain or 
        maintain housing, including--
                    (A) driving to work, school, or medical 
                appointments; and
                    (B) searching for a home; or
            (6) entering data and information into a homeless 
        management information system (as that term is used in section 
        402(f)(3) of the McKinney-Vento Homeless Assistance Act (42 
        U.S.C. 11360a(f)(3))).
    (g) Multiple Locations.--An eligible entity may use amounts 
provided under subsection (b) to establish or continue operating a safe 
parking program at multiple locations.
    (h) Alternative Use of Funds.--If an eligible entity determines 
that a safe parking program is no longer necessary, the eligible entity 
may, after approval from the Secretary, use amounts provided under 
subsection (b) for activities that are eligible for the use of 
Emergency Solutions Grants Program amounts under section 415 of the 
McKinney-Vento Homeless Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 11374).
    (i) Rehousing and Case Management Services.--A homeless person who 
makes use of a safe parking program established or operated using 
amounts awarded under subsection (b) shall not be required to accept 
case management or rehousing services offered as part of the program.
    (j) Reports to Congress.--
            (1) Initial report.--Not later than 180 days after the last 
        day of the second fiscal year beginning after the date of 
        enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall submit to Congress 
        an initial report on the impact of grants awarded under 
        subsection (b), including, to the extent determinable, any data 
        about--
                    (A) the number of homeless persons living in 
                vehicles in the geographic region over which the 
                eligible entity has jurisdiction, or in which the 
                eligible entity operates, during each of the 7 previous 
                years;
                    (B) the demographics and number of homeless persons 
                who choose to participate in a safe parking program; 
                and
                    (C) the number of homeless persons who choose to 
                participate in a safe parking program and exit into 
                permanent housing.
            (2) Final report.--Not later than 180 days after the last 
        day of the fifth fiscal year beginning after the date of 
        enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall submit to Congress a 
        final report on the impact of grants awarded under subsection 
        (b), including, to the extent determinable, any data described 
        in subparagraphs (A), (B), and (C) of paragraph (1) of this 
        subsection.
    (k) Termination of Grant Program.--The Secretary may not award a 
grant under subsection (b) after the last day of the fifth fiscal year 
beginning after the date of enactment of this Act.
    (l) Authorization of Appropriations.--There is authorized to be 
appropriated to carry out this section $25,000,000 for each of the 
first 5 fiscal years beginning after the date of enactment of this Act.

SEC. 302. HOTEL, MOTEL, AND COMMERCIAL ACQUISITIONS AND CONVERSIONS TO 
              PERMANENT HOUSING.

    (a) Authorization of Appropriations.--There is authorized to be 
appropriated to the Secretary for fiscal year 2022, $500,000,000, to 
remain available until September 30, 2031, for--
            (1) projects related to the acquisition, rehabilitation, 
        renovation, or conversion of transitional housing, temporary 
        shelters, and other spaces, such as hotels, motels, government-
        owned properties, and commercial business spaces such as 
        shopping malls, to address urgent safety and public health 
        needs for individuals experiencing homelessness and housing 
        instability, provided that the funds are used for non-
        congregate shelter or creating more permanent supportive 
        housing; and
            (2) supportive services for individuals housed in the 
        spaces described in paragraph (1), including--
                    (A) activities listed in section 401(29) of the 
                McKinney-Vento Homeless Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 
                11360(29));
                    (B) housing counseling; and
                    (C) homeless prevention services.
    (b) Implementation.--The Secretary shall have authority to issue 
such regulations or other notices, guidance, forms, instructions, and 
publications as may be necessary or appropriate to carry out the 
programs, projects, or activities authorized under this section, 
including to ensure that such programs, projects, or activities are 
completed in a timely and effective manner.

SEC. 303. EVICTION PROTECTION GRANT PROGRAM.

    (a) Authorization of Appropriations.--There is authorized to be 
appropriated to the Secretary for fiscal year 2022, $800,000,000, to 
remain available until September 30, 2031, for an eviction protection 
grant program established by the Secretary to support experienced legal 
service providers in providing legal assistance at no cost to low-
income tenants at risk of or subject to eviction.
    (b) Implementation.--The Secretary shall have authority to issue 
such regulations or other notices, guidance, forms, instructions, and 
publications as may be necessary or appropriate to carry out the 
programs, projects, or activities authorized under this section, 
including to ensure that such programs, projects, or activities are 
completed in a timely and effective manner.

SEC. 304. MOBILE CRISIS INTERVENTION TEAMS GRANTS.

    (a) Grant Authorization.--The Attorney General may make grants to 
States, units of local government, public and community defender 
systems, and nonprofit organizations to create or expand mobile crisis 
intervention teams to address homelessness and reduce recidivism.
    (b) Application.--
            (1) In general.--An entity seeking a grant under this 
        section shall submit to the Attorney General an application at 
        such time, in such manner, and containing such information as 
        the Attorney General may reasonably require, including an 
        assurance described in paragraph (2).
            (2) Assurance described.--An assurance described in this 
        paragraph is an assurance that--
                    (A) the entity has in place a policy protecting 
                employees, individuals, and communities served by the 
                entity from discrimination under applicable civil 
                rights laws; and
                    (B) the policy described in subparagraph (A) 
                includes protection from discrimination on the basis of 
                gender-related identity, appearance, mannerisms, or 
                other gender-related characteristics of an individual, 
                regardless of the individual's designated sex at birth.
            (3) Nonprofit expertise.--In addition to the assurance 
        described in paragraph (2), a nonprofit organization seeking a 
        grant under this section shall demonstrate in the application 
        submitted under this subsection that the organization has a 
        proven history of--
                    (A) successful engagement with populations 
                experiencing homelessness and housing instability, 
                including members of a population at higher risk of 
                homelessness; or
                    (B) assisting communities to engage in alternatives 
                to penalizing homelessness.
    (c) Use of Funds.--An entity that receives a grant under this 
section may use funds received under this section for creating, 
supporting, expanding, or studying mobile crisis intervention teams 
that are trained to provide stabilization services to individuals with 
an urgent medical or psychological need, as an alternative to a law 
enforcement response, which teams may include healthcare professionals, 
mental health professionals, addiction counselors, housing referral 
specialists, groups serving or representing justice system-involved or 
homeless individuals, and other related resource providers.
    (d) Authorization of Appropriations.--There is authorized to be 
appropriated to carry out this section $50,000,000 for the first fiscal 
year beginning after the date of enactment of this Act and for each of 
the 9 succeeding fiscal years thereafter.

SEC. 305. LIBRARY CONSORTIUM PILOT GRANTS.

    Part A of title V of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 290aa 
et seq.) is amended by adding at the end the following:

``SEC. 506B. LIBRARY CONSORTIUM PILOT GRANTS.

    ``(a) Definitions.--In this section:
            ``(1) Eligible entity.--The term `eligible entity' means--
                    ``(A) an eligible library;
                    ``(B) a library agency that is an official agency 
                of a State or other unit of government and is charged 
                by the law governing it with the extension and 
                development of public library services within its 
                jurisdiction;
                    ``(C) an eligible library consortium; or
                    ``(D) a library association that exists on a 
                permanent basis, serves libraries or library 
                professionals on a national, regional, State, or local 
                level, and engages in activities designed to advance 
                the well-being of libraries and the library profession.
            ``(2) Eligible library.--The term `eligible library' 
        means--
                    ``(A) a public library;
                    ``(B) an elementary or secondary school library;
                    ``(C) a library that is operated by an institution 
                of higher education;
                    ``(D) a research library or archive that is not an 
                integral part of an institution of higher education and 
                that makes publicly available library services and 
                materials that are suitable for scholarly research and 
                not otherwise available; or
                    ``(E) a Tribal library.
            ``(3) Eligible library consortium.--The term `eligible 
        library consortium' means a local, statewide, regional, 
        interstate, or international cooperative association of library 
        entities that provides for the systematic and effective 
        coordination of the resources of eligible libraries, and 
        information centers that work to improve the services delivered 
        to the clientele of these libraries.
    ``(b) Grant Program.--From amounts made available under this 
section for a fiscal year, the Assistant Secretary shall award grants, 
on a competitive basis, to eligible entities to enable those eligible 
entities to carry out pilot programs to address the needs of homeless 
individuals or individuals at risk of homelessness.
    ``(c) Use of Funds.--
            ``(1) In general.--Each eligible entity receiving funds 
        under this section may use such funds to provide programs or 
        resources that address the needs of homeless individuals or 
        individuals at risk of homelessness by--
                    ``(A) connecting them with resources to help them 
                transition to stable, independent or supported living, 
                through the eligible entity's own activities or through 
                subgrants to eligible libraries, as appropriate;
                    ``(B) providing homeless individuals or individuals 
                at risk of homelessness with programs on issues such as 
                health, mortgage or rental assistance, and applying for 
                government benefits; or
                    ``(C) partnering with other community organizations 
                or the locality's department of public health for 
                outreach activities and connections to other relevant 
                services.
            ``(2) Criteria for subgrants.--In awarding a subgrant under 
        this section, an eligible entity shall--
                    ``(A) require eligible libraries desiring a 
                subgrant to submit an application containing--
                            ``(i) the estimated number of homeless 
                        individuals or individuals at risk of 
                        homelessness that will be served under the 
                        homelessness-related programs to be funded by 
                        the subgrant; and
                            ``(ii) any other criteria established by 
                        the grantee in the application submitted under 
                        subsection (d); and
                    ``(B) give preference to eligible libraries that 
                propose to carry out programs or develop resources that 
                integrate existing Federal or State programs that serve 
                homeless individuals or individuals at risk of 
                homelessness.
    ``(d) Application.--An eligible entity desiring a grant under this 
section shall submit an application at such time, in such manner, and 
containing such information as the Assistant Secretary may require. 
Each application shall include--
            ``(1) a description of the homelessness-related programs or 
        resources that the eligible entity will support (in accordance 
        with subsection (c)(1)) either through its own activities or 
        through subgrants to eligible libraries;
            ``(2) a description of how community or governmental 
        partners will be involved in the homelessness-related programs 
        or resources provided by the eligible entity; and
            ``(3) in the case of projects that the eligible entity 
        intends to carry out through subgrants--
                    ``(A) a description of how the eligible entity will 
                make subgrants, including any priorities or 
                considerations that will be applied in making such 
                subgrants;
                    ``(B) a description of how the eligible entity will 
                disseminate, in a timely manner, information regarding 
                the subgrants, and the application process for such 
                subgrants;
                    ``(C) a description of the criteria that the 
                eligible entity will require for the programs carried 
                out by subgrantees with funds awarded by that eligible 
                entity; and
                    ``(D) an assurance that each eligible library that 
                receives a subgrant will use the funds from that 
                subgrant to provide programs that primarily serve 
                homeless individuals or individuals at risk of 
                homelessness.
    ``(e) Consultation.--In carrying out this section, the Assistant 
Secretary--
            ``(1) shall consult with the Director of the Institute of 
        Museum and Library Services and the Secretary of Housing and 
        Urban Development; and
            ``(2) may consult with the Interagency Council on 
        Homelessness or any other appropriate Federal agency or office 
        to help ensure that funds are disbursed and utilized 
        effectively.
    ``(f) Reports.--Each eligible entity receiving a grant under this 
section for a fiscal year shall prepare and submit a report to the 
Assistant Secretary, in such form and containing such information, as 
the Assistant Secretary may reasonably require to determine the extent 
to which funds provided under this section have been effective in 
carrying out the purposes of this section.
    ``(g) Authorization of Appropriations.--There is authorized to be 
appropriated to carry out this section $10,000,000 for the first fiscal 
year beginning after the date of enactment of this section and for each 
of the 9 succeeding fiscal years thereafter.''.

SEC. 306. REPORT ON INCLUSIVE TRANSIT-ORIENTED DEVELOPMENT TO ENHANCE 
              CLIMATE MITIGATION AND DISASTER RESILIENCY.

    Not later than 180 days after the date of enactment of this Act, 
the Secretary shall submit to Congress a report on how to add a focus 
to housing programs of the Department of Housing and Urban Development 
on--
            (1) infill projects that better connect people to jobs and 
        transit and reduce greenhouse gas emissions; and
            (2) supporting developers and local governments 
        constructing units on existing or underused urban land close to 
        city amenities and transportation.

SEC. 307. ESTABLISHING AN INNOVATION PILOT WITHIN THE CARBON REDUCTION 
              PROGRAM.

    Section 175(c) of title 23, United States Code, is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (1), in the matter preceding subparagraph 
        (A), by striking ``paragraph (2)'' and inserting ``paragraphs 
        (2) and (3)''; and
            (2) by adding at the end the following:
            ``(3) Innovation pilot.--
                    ``(A) In general.--In addition to eligible projects 
                under paragraphs (1) and (2), funds apportioned to a 
                State under section 104(b)(7) may be used for 
                innovative strategies to reduce transportation 
                emissions, including associated infrastructure 
                improvements that will increase the share of 
                nonmotorized trips and improve the efficiency of 
                existing surface transportation infrastructure to 
                address carbon reduction.
                    ``(B) Notice.--Not later than 120 days after the 
                date of enactment of this paragraph, the Secretary 
                shall provide notice and guidance for interested 
                entities to participate in activities under 
                subparagraph (A).
                    ``(C) Exclusion.--Funds used to carry out a project 
                under subparagraph (A) may not be used on a project 
                that increases net capacity for vehicular travel.''.

SEC. 308. MAKING INFILL HOUSING AND OTHER TRANSPORTATION EFFICIENCY 
              PROJECTS ELIGIBLE FOR RAISE GRANTS.

    Section 6702(a)(3) of title 49, United States Code, is amended--
            (1) in subparagraph (G), by striking ``and'' at the end;
            (2) by redesignating subparagraph (H) as subparagraph (I); 
        and
            (3) by inserting after subparagraph (G) the following:
                    ``(H) a project or series of projects to reduce 
                transportation emissions, including associated 
                infrastructure improvements to support infill 
                development or transit-oriented development, and to 
                increase nonmotorized trips, subject to the conditions 
                that--
                            ``(i) the project or series of projects 
                        shall directly improve the efficiency of 
                        existing surface transportation infrastructure; 
                        and
                            ``(ii) the Federal share for the project or 
                        series of projects shall be used to fund only 
                        the elements of the project or series that 
                        provide public benefits; and''.
                                 &lt;all&gt;
</pre></body></html>
