<html><body><pre>
[Congressional Bills 112th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[S. 948 Introduced in Senate (IS)]

112th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                 S. 948

 To promote the deployment of plug-in electric drive vehicles, and for 
                            other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                   IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

                              May 11, 2011

 Mr. Merkley (for himself and Mr. Alexander) introduced the following 
bill; which was read twice and referred to the Committee on Energy and 
                           Natural Resources

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
 To promote the deployment of plug-in electric drive vehicles, and for 
                            other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE; TABLE OF CONTENTS.

    (a) Short Title.--This Act may be cited as the ``Promoting Electric 
Vehicles Act of 2011''.
    (b) Table of Contents.--The table of contents of this Act is as 
follows:

Sec. 1. Short title; table of contents.
Sec. 2. Findings.
Sec. 3. Definitions.
  TITLE I--NATIONAL PLUG-IN ELECTRIC DRIVE VEHICLE DEPLOYMENT PROGRAM.

Sec. 101. National Plug-In Electric Drive Vehicle Deployment Program.
Sec. 102. National assessment and plan.
Sec. 103. Technical assistance.
Sec. 104. Workforce training.
Sec. 105. Federal fleets.
Sec. 106. Targeted Plug-in Electric Drive Vehicle Deployment 
                            Communities Program.
Sec. 107. Plug-in electric drive vehicle private fleet upgrade program.
                   TITLE II--RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT

Sec. 201. Research and development program.
Sec. 202. Advanced batteries for tomorrow prize.
Sec. 203. Study on the supply of raw materials.
Sec. 204. Study on the collection and preservation of data collected 
                            from plug-in electric drive vehicles.
                        TITLE III--MISCELLANEOUS

Sec. 301. Utility planning for plug-in electric drive vehicles.
Sec. 302. Loan guarantees.
Sec. 303. Prohibition on disposing of advanced batteries in landfills.
Sec. 304. Plug-in Electric Drive Vehicle Technical Advisory Committee.
Sec. 305. Plug-in Electric Drive Vehicle Interagency Task Force.

SEC. 2. FINDINGS.

    Congress finds that--
            (1) the United States is the largest consumer of petroleum 
        in the world, consuming 19,500,000 barrels per day of petroleum 
        products during 2008;
            (2) high and volatile international oil prices represent a 
        significant and ongoing threat to the economic and national 
        security of the United States;
            (3) many of the nations on which the United States relies 
        for petroleum supplies or that significantly affect the world 
        petroleum market share neither the national interest nor the 
        values of the United States;
            (4) the United States imports more than 50 percent of the 
        petroleum needs of the country each day;
            (5) in 2008, the net deficit of the United States in 
        petroleum trade amounted to more than $380,000,000,000, or 
        nearly 60 percent of the total trade deficit;
            (6) the transportation sector of the United States accounts 
        for over \2/3\ of total national petroleum consumption and is 
        94 percent reliant on petroleum;
            (7) the electrification of the transportation sector 
        represents a direct pathway to significant reduction in 
        petroleum dependence, because passenger cars and light trucks 
        account for more than 60 percent of the transportation 
        petroleum demand and more than 40 percent of total petroleum 
        demand in the United States;
            (8) the electrification of the transportation sector 
        promotes national energy security because the electric power 
        sector uses a diverse range of domestic electricity generation 
        sources;
            (9) plug-in electric drive vehicles, when running on 
        electric power, produce no tailpipe emissions;
            (10) the deployment of 700,000 plug-in electric drive 
        vehicles would result in a petroleum savings of approximately 
        10,000,000 barrels per year compared to the annual petroleum 
        consumption as of the date of enactment of this Act;
            (11) in 2030, the United States could feasibly deploy more 
        than 100,000,000 plug-in electric drive vehicles, which would 
        result in a petroleum savings of more than 1,000,000,000 
        barrels of petroleum per year and greenhouse gas reductions of 
        over 300,000,000 tons of carbon dioxide compared to the annual 
        petroleum consumption and greenhouse gas emissions as of the 
        date of enactment of this Act; and
            (12) a targeted deployment program for plug-in electric 
        drive vehicles that is focused on competitively selected 
        deployment communities--
                    (A) is a critical component of a comprehensive 
                effort to speed plug-in electric drive vehicle 
                penetration rates;
                    (B) will contribute to the larger national effort 
                to deploy plug-in electric drive vehicles;
                    (C) will inform best practices for the wide-scale 
                deployment of plug-in electric drive vehicles; and
                    (D) will substantially reduce the oil consumption 
                of the United States.

SEC. 3. DEFINITIONS.

    (a) In General.--In this Act:
            (1) Agency.--The term ``agency'' has the meaning given the 
        term ``Executive agency'' in section 105 of title 5, United 
        States Code.
            (2) Charging infrastructure.--The term ``charging 
        infrastructure'' means any property (not including a building) 
        if the property is used for the recharging of plug-in electric 
        drive vehicles, including electrical panel upgrades, wiring, 
        conduit, trenching, pedestals, and related equipment.
            (3) Committee.--The term ``Committee'' means the Plug-in 
        Electric Drive Vehicle Technical Advisory Committee established 
        by section 304.
            (4) Deployment community.--The term ``deployment 
        community'' means a community selected by the Secretary to be 
        part of the targeted plug-in electric drive vehicles deployment 
        communities program under section 106.
            (5) Electric utility.--The term ``electric utility'' has 
        the meaning given the term in section 3 of the Public Utility 
        Regulatory Policies Act of 1978 (16 U.S.C. 2602).
            (6) Federal-aid system of highways.--The term ``Federal-aid 
        system of highways'' means a highway system described in 
        section 103 of title 23, United States Code.
            (7) Plug-in electric drive vehicle.--The term ``plug-in 
        electric drive vehicle'' has the meaning given the term in 
        section 131(a)(5) of the Energy Independence and Security Act 
        of 2007 (42 U.S.C. 17011(a)(5)).
            (8) Prize.--The term ``Prize'' means the Advanced Batteries 
        for Tomorrow Prize established by section 202.
            (9) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary 
        of Energy.
            (10) Task force.--The term ``Task Force'' means the Plug-in 
        Electric Drive Vehicle Interagency Task Force established by 
        section 305.
    (b) Definition of Plug-In Electric Drive Vehicle.--Section 
131(a)(5) of the Energy Independence and Security Act of 2007 (42 
U.S.C. 17011(a)(5)) is amended--
            (1) by redesignating subparagraphs (A), (B), and (C) as 
        clauses (i), (ii), and (iii), respectively, and indenting 
        appropriately;
            (2) by striking ``means a vehicle that--'' and inserting 
        ``means--
                    ``(A) a vehicle that--'';
            (3) in subparagraph (A)(iii) (as so redesignated), by 
        striking the period at the end and inserting ``; and'';
            (4) by adding at the end the following:
                    (A) any other motor vehicle--
                            ``(i) for which the motive electric power 
                        can be recharged from an external source of 
                        power; and
                            ``(ii) that has a maximum speed of greater 
                        than 25 miles per hour.''.

  TITLE I--NATIONAL PLUG-IN ELECTRIC DRIVE VEHICLE DEPLOYMENT PROGRAM.

SEC. 101. NATIONAL PLUG-IN ELECTRIC DRIVE VEHICLE DEPLOYMENT PROGRAM.

    (a) In General.--There is established within the Department of 
Energy a national plug-in electric drive vehicle deployment program for 
the purpose of assisting in the deployment of plug-in electric drive 
vehicles.
    (b) Goals.--The goals of the national program described in 
subsection (a) include--
            (1) the reduction and displacement of petroleum use by 
        accelerating the deployment of plug-in electric drive vehicles 
        in the United States;
            (2) the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions by 
        accelerating the deployment of plug-in electric drive vehicles 
        in the United States;
            (3) the facilitation of the rapid deployment of plug-in 
        electric drive vehicles, particularly into the mainstream 
        consumer market;
            (4) the achievement of significant market penetrations by 
        plug-in electric drive vehicles nationally;
            (5) the establishment of models for the rapid deployment of 
        plug-in electric drive vehicles nationally, including models 
        for the deployment of residential, private, and publicly 
        available charging infrastructure;
            (6) the increase of consumer knowledge and acceptance of 
        plug-in electric drive vehicles;
            (7) the encouragement of the innovation and investment 
        necessary to achieve mass market deployment of plug-in electric 
        drive vehicles;
            (8) the facilitation of the integration of plug-in electric 
        drive vehicles into electricity distribution systems and the 
        larger electric grid while maintaining grid system performance 
        and reliability;
            (9) the provision of technical assistance to communities 
        across the United States to prepare for plug-in electric drive 
        vehicles; and
            (10) the support of workforce training across the United 
        States relating to plug-in electric drive vehicles.
    (c) Duties.--In carrying out this title, the Secretary shall--
            (1) provide technical assistance to State, local, and 
        tribal governments that want to create deployment programs for 
        plug-in electric drive vehicles in the communities over which 
        the governments have jurisdiction;
            (2) perform national assessments of the potential 
        deployment of plug-in electric drive vehicles under section 
        102;
            (3) synthesize and disseminate data from the deployment of 
        plug-in electric drive vehicles;
            (4) develop best practices for the successful deployment of 
        plug-in electric drive vehicles;
            (5) carry out workforce training under section 104;
            (6) establish the targeted plug-in electric drive vehicle 
        deployment communities program under section 106; and
            (7) in conjunction with the Task Force, make 
        recommendations to Congress and the President on methods to 
        reduce the barriers to plug-in electric drive vehicle 
        deployment.
    (d) Report.--Not later than 18 months after the date of enactment 
of this Act and biennially thereafter, the Secretary shall submit to 
the appropriate committees of Congress a report on the progress made in 
implementing the national program described in subsection (a) that 
includes--
            (1) a description of the progress made by--
                    (A) the technical assistance program under section 
                103; and
                    (B) the workforce training program under section 
                104; and
            (2) any updated recommendations of the Secretary for 
        changes in Federal programs to promote the purposes of this 
        title.
    (e) National Information Clearinghouse.--The Secretary shall make 
available to the public, in a timely manner, information regarding--
            (1) the cost, performance, usage data, and technical data 
        regarding plug-in electric drive vehicles and associated 
        infrastructure, including information from the deployment 
        communities established under section 106; and
            (2) any other educational information that the Secretary 
        determines to be appropriate.
    (f) Authorization of Appropriations.--For the period of fiscal 
years 2011 through 2016, there are authorized to be appropriated 
$100,000,000 to carry out sections 101 through 103.

SEC. 102. NATIONAL ASSESSMENT AND PLAN.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary shall carry out a national 
assessment and develop a national plan for plug-in electric drive 
vehicle deployment that includes--
            (1) an assessment of the maximum feasible deployment of 
        plug-in electric drive vehicles by 2020 and 2030;
            (2) the establishment of national goals for market 
        penetration of plug-in electric drive vehicles by 2020 and 
        2030;
            (3) a plan for providing technical assistance to 
        communities across the United States to prepare for plug-in 
        electric drive vehicle deployment;
            (4) a plan for quantifying the reduction in petroleum 
        consumption and the net impact on greenhouse gas emissions due 
        to the deployment of plug-in electric drive vehicles;
            (5) in consultation with the Task Force, any 
        recommendations to the President and to Congress for changes in 
        Federal programs (including laws, regulations, and 
        guidelines)--
                    (A) to better promote the deployment of plug-in 
                electric drive vehicles; and
                    (B) to reduce barriers to the deployment of plug-in 
                electric drive vehicles; and
            (6) a plan for integrating the successes and barriers to 
        deployment identified by the deployment communities program 
        established under section 106 to prepare communities across the 
        United States for the rapid deployment of plug-in electric 
        drive vehicles;
    (b) Timing.--
            (1) Initial draft.--Not later than 1 year after the date of 
        enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall complete an initial 
        draft of the national plan that includes the matters described 
        in paragraphs (1) through (5) of subsection (a).
            (2) Final version.--Not later than 18 months after the date 
        of enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall complete a final 
        version of the national plan that includes the matters 
        described in paragraphs (1) through (6) of subsection (a).
    (c) Updates.--Not later than 2 years after the date of development 
of the plan described in subsection (a), and not less frequently than 
once every 2 years thereafter, the Secretary shall use market data and 
information from the targeted plug-in electric drive vehicle deployment 
communities program established under section 106 and other relevant 
data to update the plan to reflect real world market conditions.

SEC. 103. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE.

    (a) Technical Assistance to State, Local, and Tribal Governments.--
            (1) In general.--In carrying out this title, the Secretary 
        shall provide, at the request of the Governor, Mayor, county 
        executive, or the designee of such an official, technical 
        assistance to State, local, and tribal governments to assist 
        with the deployment of plug-in electric drive vehicles.
            (2) Requirements.--The technical assistance described in 
        paragraph (1) shall include--
                    (A) training on codes and standards for building 
                and safety inspectors;
                    (B) training on best practices for expediting 
                permits and inspections;
                    (C) education and outreach on frequently asked 
                questions relating to the various types of plug-in 
                electric drive vehicles and associated infrastructure, 
                battery technology, and disposal; and
                    (D) the dissemination of information regarding best 
                practices for the deployment of plug-in electric drive 
                vehicles.
            (3) Priority.--In providing technical assistance under this 
        subsection, the Secretary shall give priority to--
                    (A) communities that have established public and 
                private partnerships, including partnerships comprised 
                of--
                            (i) elected and appointed officials from 
                        each of the participating State, local, and 
                        tribal governments;
                            (ii) relevant generators and distributors 
                        of electricity;
                            (iii) public utility commissions;
                            (iv) departments of public works and 
                        transportation;
                            (v) owners and operators of property that 
                        will be essential to the deployment of a 
                        sufficient level of publicly available charging 
                        infrastructure (including privately owned 
                        parking lots or structures and commercial 
                        entities with public access locations);
                            (vi) plug-in electric drive vehicle 
                        manufacturers or retailers;
                            (vii) third-party providers of charging 
                        infrastructure or services;
                            (viii) owners of any major fleet that will 
                        participate in the program;
                            (ix) as appropriate, owners and operators 
                        of regional electric power distribution and 
                        transmission facilities; and
                            (x) other existing community coalitions 
                        recognized by the Department of Energy;
                    (B) communities that, as determined by the 
                Secretary, have best demonstrated that the public is 
                likely to embrace plug-in electric drive vehicles, 
                giving particular consideration to communities that--
                            (i) have documented waiting lists to 
                        purchase plug-in electric drive vehicles;
                            (ii) have developed projections of the 
                        quantity of plug-in electric drive vehicles 
                        supplied to dealers; and
                            (iii) have assessed the quantity of 
                        charging infrastructure installed or for which 
                        permits have been issued;
                    (C) communities that have shown a commitment to 
                serving diverse consumer charging infrastructure needs, 
                including the charging infrastructure needs for single- 
                and multi-family housing and public and privately owned 
                commercial infrastructure; and
                    (D) communities that have established regulatory 
                and educational efforts to facilitate consumer 
                acceptance of plug-in electric drive vehicles, 
                including by--
                            (i) adopting (or being in the process of 
                        adopting) streamlined permitting and 
                        inspections processes for residential charging 
                        infrastructure; and
                            (ii) providing customer informational 
                        resources, including providing plug-in electric 
                        drive information on community or other 
                        websites.
            (4) Best practices.--The Secretary shall collect and 
        disseminate information to State, local, and tribal governments 
        creating plans to deploy plug-in electric drive vehicles on 
        best practices (including codes and standards) that uses data 
        from--
                    (A) the program established by section 106;
                    (B) the activities carried out by the Task Force; 
                and
                    (C) existing academic and industry studies of the 
                factors that contribute to the successful deployment of 
                new technologies, particularly studies relating to 
                alternative fueled vehicles.
            (5) Grants.--
                    (A) In general.--The Secretary shall establish a 
                program to provide grants to State, local, and tribal 
                governments or to partnerships of government and 
                private entities to assist the governments and 
                partnerships--
                            (i) in preparing a community deployment 
                        plan under section 106; and
                            (ii) in preparing and implementing programs 
                        that support the deployment of plug-in electric 
                        drive vehicles.
                    (B) Application.--A State, local, or tribal 
                government that seeks to receive a grant under this 
                paragraph shall submit to the Secretary an application 
                for the grant at such time, in such form, and 
                containing such information as the Secretary may 
                prescribe.
                    (C) Use of funds.--A State, local, or tribal 
                government receiving a grant under this paragraph shall 
                use the funds--
                            (i) to develop a community deployment plan 
                        that shall be submitted to the next available 
                        competition under section 106; and
                            (ii) to carry out activities that encourage 
                        the deployment of plug-in electric drive 
                        vehicles including--
                                    (I) planning for and installing 
                                charging infrastructure, particularly 
                                to develop and demonstrate diverse and 
                                cost-effective planning, installation, 
                                and operations options for deployment 
                                of single family and multifamily 
                                residential, workplace, and publicly 
                                available charging infrastructure;
                                    (II) updating building, zoning, or 
                                parking codes and permitting or 
                                inspection processes;
                                    (III) workforce training, including 
                                the training of permitting officials;
                                    (IV) public education described in 
                                the proposed marketing plan;
                                    (V) supplementing (and not 
                                supplanting) the number of plug-in 
                                electric drive vehicles that are 
                                purchased by State, local, and tribal 
                                governments; and
                                    (VI) any other activities, as 
                                determined to be necessary by the 
                                Secretary.
                    (D) Criteria.--The Secretary shall develop and 
                publish criteria for the selection of technical 
                assistance grants, including requirements for the 
                submission of applications under this paragraph.
                    (E) Authorization of appropriations.--There are 
                authorized to be appropriated such sums as are 
                necessary to carry out this paragraph.
    (b) Updating Model Building Codes, Permitting and Inspection 
Processes, and Zoning or Parking Rules.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 1 year after the date of 
        enactment of this Act, the Secretary, in consultation with the 
        American Society of Heating, Refrigerating and Air-Conditioning 
        Engineers, the International Code Council, and any other 
        organizations that the Secretary determines to be appropriate, 
        shall develop and publish guidance for--
                    (A) model building codes for the inclusion of 
                separate circuits for charging infrastructure, as 
                appropriate, in new construction and major renovations 
                of private residences, buildings, or other structures 
                that could provide publicly available charging 
                infrastructure;
                    (B) model construction permitting or inspection 
                processes that allow for the expedited installation of 
                charging infrastructure for purchasers of plug-in 
                electric drive vehicles (including a permitting process 
                that allows a vehicle purchaser to have charging 
                infrastructure installed not later than 1 week after a 
                request); and
                    (C) model zoning, parking rules, or other local 
                ordinances that--
                            (i) facilitate the installation of publicly 
                        available charging infrastructure, including 
                        commercial entities that provide public access 
                        to infrastructure; and
                            (ii) allow for access to publicly available 
                        charging infrastructure.
            (2) Optional adoption.--An applicant for selection for 
        technical assistance under this section or as a deployment 
        community under section 106 shall not be required to use the 
        model building codes, permitting and inspection processes, or 
        zoning, parking rules, or other ordinances included in the 
        report under paragraph (1).
            (3) Smart grid integration.--In developing the model codes 
        or ordinances described in paragraph (1), the Secretary shall 
        consider smart grid integration.

SEC. 104. WORKFORCE TRAINING.

    (a) Maintenance and Support.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary, in consultation with the 
        Committee and the Task Force, shall award grants to 
        institutions of higher education and other qualified training 
        and education institutions for the establishment of programs to 
        provide training and education for vocational workforce 
        development through centers of excellence.
            (2) Purpose.--Training funded under this subsection shall 
        be intended to ensure that the workforce has the necessary 
        skills needed to work on and maintain, and provide emergency 
        assistance relating to, plug-in electric drive vehicles and the 
        infrastructure required to support plug-in electric drive 
        vehicles.
            (3) Scope.--Training funded under this subsection shall 
        include training for--
                    (A) first responders;
                    (B) electricians and contractors who will be 
                installing infrastructure;
                    (C) engineers;
                    (D) code inspection officials; and
                    (E) dealers and mechanics.
    (b) Design.--The Secretary shall award grants to institutions of 
higher education and other qualified training and education 
institutions for the establishment of programs to provide training and 
education in designing plug-in electric drive vehicles and associated 
components and infrastructure to ensure that the United States can lead 
the world in this field.
    (c) Authorization of Appropriations.--There is authorized to be 
appropriated $150,000,000 to carry out this section.

SEC. 105. FEDERAL FLEETS.

    (a) In General.--Electricity consumed by Federal agencies to fuel 
plug-in electric drive vehicles--
            (1) is an alternative fuel (as defined in section 301 of 
        the Energy Policy Act of 1992 (42 U.S.C. 13218)); and
            (2) shall be accounted for under Federal fleet management 
        reporting requirements, not under Federal building management 
        reporting requirements.
    (b) Assessment and Report.--Not later than 180 days after the date 
of enactment of this Act and every 3 years thereafter, the Federal 
Energy Management Program of the Department of Energy and the General 
Services Administration, in consultation with the Task Force, shall 
complete an assessment of Federal Government fleets, including the 
Postal Service and the Department of Defense, and submit a report to 
Congress that describes--
            (1) for each Federal agency, which types of vehicles the 
        agency uses that would or would not be suitable for near-term 
        and medium-term conversion to plug-in electric drive vehicles, 
        taking into account the types of vehicles for which plug-in 
        electric drive vehicles could provide comparable functionality 
        and lifecycle costs;
            (2) how many plug-in electric drive vehicles could be 
        deployed by the Federal Government in 5 years and in 10 years, 
        assuming that plug-in electric drive vehicles are available and 
        are purchased when new vehicles are needed or existing vehicles 
        are replaced;
            (3) the estimated cost to the Federal Government for 
        vehicle purchases under paragraph (2); and
            (4) a description of any updates to the assessment based on 
        new market data.
    (c) Inventory and Data Collection.--
            (1) In general.--In carrying out the assessment and report 
        under subsection (b), the Federal Energy Management Program, in 
        consultation with the General Services Administration, shall--
                    (A) develop an information request for each agency 
                that operates a fleet of at least 20 motor vehicles; 
                and
                    (B) establish guidelines for each agency to use in 
                developing a plan to deploy plug-in electric drive 
                vehicles.
            (2) Agency responses.--Each agency that operates a fleet of 
        at least 20 motor vehicles shall--
                    (A) collect information on the vehicle fleet of the 
                agency in response to the information request described 
                in paragraph (1); and
                    (B) develop a plan to deploy plug-in electric drive 
                vehicles.
            (3) Analysis of responses.--The Federal Energy Management 
        Program shall--
                    (A) analyze the information submitted by each 
                agency under paragraph (2);
                    (B) approve or suggest amendments to the plan of 
                each agency to ensure that the plan is consistent with 
                the goals and requirements of this Act; and
                    (C) submit a plan to Congress and the General 
                Services Administration to be used in developing the 
                pilot program described in subsection (e).
    (d) Budget Request.--Each agency of the Federal Government shall 
include plug-in electric drive vehicle purchases identified in the 
report under subsection (b) in the budget of the agency to be included 
in the budget of the United States Government submitted by the 
President under section 1105 of title 31, United States Code.
    (e) Pilot Program To Deploy Plug-In Electric Drive Vehicles in the 
Federal Fleet.--
            (1) In general.--The Administrator of General Services 
        shall acquire plug-in electric drive vehicles and the requisite 
        charging infrastructure to be deployed in a range of locations 
        in Federal Government fleets, which may include the United 
        States Postal Service and the Department of Defense, during the 
        5-year period beginning on the date of enactment of this Act.
            (2) Data collection.--The Administrator of General Services 
        shall collect data regarding--
                    (A) the cost, performance, and use of plug-in 
                electric drive vehicles in the Federal fleet;
                    (B) the deployment and integration of plug-in 
                electric drive vehicles in the Federal fleet; and
                    (C) the contribution of plug-in electric drive 
                vehicles in the Federal fleet toward reducing the use 
                of fossil fuels and greenhouse gas emissions.
            (3) Report.--Not later than 6 years after the date of 
        enactment of this Act, the Administrator of General Services 
        shall submit to the appropriate committees of Congress a report 
        that--
                    (A) describes the status of plug-in electric drive 
                vehicles in the Federal fleet; and
                    (B) includes an analysis of the data collected 
                under this subsection.
            (4) Public web site.--The Federal Energy Management Program 
        shall maintain and regularly update a publicly available Web 
        site that provides information on the status of plug-in 
        electric drive vehicles in the Federal fleet.
    (f) Acquisition Priority.--Section 507(g) of the Energy Policy Act 
of 1992 (42 U.S.C. 13257(g)) is amended by adding at the end the 
following:
            ``(5) Priority.--The Secretary shall, to the maximum extent 
        practicable, prioritize the acquisition of plug-in electric 
        drive vehicles (as defined in section 131(a) of the Energy 
        Independence and Security Act of 2007 (42 U.S.C. 17011(a)) over 
        nonelectric alternative fueled vehicles.''.
    (g) Maximum Purchase Price of Motor Vehicle.--Section 702 of the 
Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2010 (31 U.S.C. 1343 note; Public Law 
111-117) is amended--
            (1) by striking ``section 16 of the Act of August 2, 1946 
        (60 Stat. 810),'' and inserting ``section 1343(c) of title 31, 
        United States Code,''; and
            (2) by inserting before the period at the end the 
        following: ``: Provided further, That the limits set forth in 
        this section shall not apply to any vehicle that is a 
        commercial vehicle and that operates using an emerging motor 
        vehicle technology, including plug-in hybrid electric and 
        hydrogen fuel cell vehicles''.
    (h) Authorization of Appropriations.--There is authorized to be 
appropriated for the Federal Government to pay for incremental costs to 
purchase or lease plug-in electric drive vehicles and the requisite 
charging infrastructure for Federal fleets $25,000,000.

SEC. 106. TARGETED PLUG-IN ELECTRIC DRIVE VEHICLE DEPLOYMENT 
              COMMUNITIES PROGRAM.

    (a) Establishment.--
            (1) In general.--There is established within the national 
        plug-in electric drive deployment program established under 
        section 101 a targeted plug-in electric drive vehicle 
        deployment communities program (referred to in this section as 
        the ``Program'').
            (2) Existing activities.--In carrying out the Program, the 
        Secretary shall coordinate and supplement, not supplant, any 
        ongoing plug-in electric drive deployment activities under 
        section 131 of the Energy Independence and Security Act of 2007 
        (42 U.S.C. 17011).
            (3) Deployment.--
                    (A) In general.--The Secretary shall establish a 
                competitive process to select deployment communities 
                for the Program.
                    (B) Eligible entities.--In selecting participants 
                for the Program under paragraph (1), the Secretary 
                shall only consider applications submitted by State, 
                tribal, or local government entities (or groups of 
                State, tribal, or local government entities).
                    (C) Selection.--Not later than 1 year after the 
                date of enactment of this Act and not later than 1 year 
                after the date on which any subsequent amounts are 
                appropriated for the Program, the Secretary shall 
                select the deployment communities under this paragraph.
                    (D) Termination.--The Program shall be carried out 
                for a 3-year period beginning on the date funding under 
                this Act is first provided to the deployment community.
    (b) Goals.--The goals of the Program are--
            (1) to facilitate the rapid deployment of plug-in electric 
        drive vehicles, including--
                    (A) the deployment of 400,000 plug-in electric 
                drive vehicles in the deployment communities selected 
                under paragraph (2);
                    (B) the near-term achievement of significant market 
                penetration in deployment communities; and
                    (C) supporting the achievement of significant 
                market penetration nationally;
            (2) to establish models for the rapid deployment of plug-in 
        electric drive vehicles nationally, including for the 
        deployment of single-family and multifamily residential, 
        workplace, and publicly available charging infrastructure;
            (3) to increase consumer knowledge and acceptance of, and 
        exposure to, plug-in electric drive vehicles;
            (4) to encourage the innovation and investment necessary to 
        achieve mass market deployment of plug-in electric drive 
        vehicles;
            (5) to demonstrate the integration of plug-in electric 
        drive vehicles into electricity distribution systems and the 
        larger electric grid while maintaining or improving grid system 
        performance, security, and reliability;
            (6) to demonstrate protocols and communication standards 
        that facilitate vehicle integration into the grid and provide 
        seamless charging for consumers traveling through multiple 
        utility distribution systems;
            (7) to investigate differences among deployment communities 
        and to develop best practices for implementing vehicle 
        electrification in various communities, including best 
        practices for planning for and facilitating the construction of 
        residential, workplace, and publicly available infrastructure 
        to support plug-in electric drive vehicles;
            (8) to collect comprehensive data on the purchase and use 
        of plug-in electric drive vehicles, including charging profile 
        data at unit and aggregate levels, to inform best practices for 
        rapidly deploying plug-in electric drive vehicles in other 
        locations, including for the installation of charging 
        infrastructure;
            (9) to reduce and displace petroleum use and reduce 
        greenhouse gas emissions by accelerating the deployment of 
        plug-in electric drive vehicles in the United States; and
            (10) to increase domestic manufacturing capacity and 
        commercialization in a manner that will establish the United 
        States as a world leader in plug-in electric drive vehicle 
        technologies.
    (c) Deployment Community Selection Criteria.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary shall ensure, to the maximum 
        extent practicable, that selected deployment communities serve 
        as models of deployment for various communities across the 
        United States.
            (2) Selection.--In selecting communities under this 
        section, the Secretary--
                    (A) shall ensure, to the maximum extent 
                practicable, that--
                            (i) the combination of selected communities 
                        is diverse in population, population density, 
                        demographics, urban and suburban composition, 
                        typical commuting patterns, climate, and type 
                        of utility (including investor-owned, publicly 
                        owned, cooperatively owned, distribution-only, 
                        and vertically integrated utilities);
                            (ii) the combination of selected 
                        communities is diverse in geographic 
                        distribution, and at least 1 deployment 
                        community is located in each Petroleum 
                        Administration for Defense District;
                            (iii) at least 1 community selected has a 
                        population of less than 500,000;
                            (iv) grants are of a sufficient amount such 
                        that each deployment community will achieve 
                        significant market penetration, particularly 
                        into the mainstream consumer market; and
                            (v) the deployment communities are 
                        representative of other communities across the 
                        United States;
                    (B) is encouraged to select a combination of 
                deployment communities that includes multiple models or 
                approaches for deploying plug-in electric drive 
                vehicles that the Secretary believes are reasonably 
                likely to be effective, including multiple approaches 
                to the deployment of charging infrastructure;
                    (C) in addition to the criteria described in 
                subparagraph (A), may give preference to applicants 
                proposing a greater non-Federal cost share; and
                    (D) when considering deployment community plans, 
                shall take into account previous Department of Energy 
                and other Federal investments to ensure that the 
                maximum domestic benefit from Federal investments is 
                realized.
            (3) Criteria.--
                    (A) In general.--Not later than 120 days after the 
                date of enactment of this Act, and not later than 90 
                days after the date on which any subsequent amounts are 
                appropriated for the Program, the Secretary shall 
                publish criteria for the selection of deployment 
                communities that include requirements that applications 
                be submitted by a State, tribal, or local government 
                entity (or groups of State, tribal, or local government 
                entities).
                    (B) Application requirements.--The criteria 
                published by the Secretary under subparagraph (A) shall 
                include application requirements that, at a minimum, 
                include--
                            (i) achievable goals and methodologies 
                        for--
                                    (I) the number of plug-in electric 
                                drive vehicles to be deployed in the 
                                community;
                                    (II) the expected percentage of 
                                light-duty vehicle sales that would be 
                                sales of plug-in electric drive 
                                vehicles;
                                    (III) the adoption of plug-in 
                                electric drive vehicles (including 
                                medium- or heavy-duty vehicles) in 
                                private and public fleets during the 3-
                                year duration of the Program; and
                                    (IV) a method to generate revenue 
                                to maintain the infrastructure 
                                investments made by the Program after 
                                the termination of the Program;
                            (ii) data that demonstrate that--
                                    (I) the public is likely to embrace 
                                plug-in electric drive vehicles, which 
                                may include--
                                            (aa) the quantity of plug-
                                        in electric drive vehicles 
                                        purchased;
                                            (bb) the number of 
                                        individuals on a waiting list 
                                        to purchase a plug-in electric 
                                        drive vehicle;
                                            (cc) projections of the 
                                        quantity of plug-in electric 
                                        drive vehicles supplied to 
                                        dealers; and
                                            (dd) any assessment of the 
                                        quantity of charging 
                                        infrastructure installed or for 
                                        which permits have been issued; 
                                        and
                                    (II) automobile manufacturers and 
                                dealers will be able to provide and 
                                service the targeted number of plug-in 
                                electric drive vehicles in the 
                                community for the duration of the 
                                program;
                            (iii) clearly defined geographic boundaries 
                        of the proposed deployment area;
                            (iv) a community deployment plan for the 
                        deployment of plug-in electric drive vehicles, 
                        charging infrastructure, and services in the 
                        deployment community;
                            (v) assurances that a majority of the 
                        vehicle deployments anticipated in the plan 
                        will be personal vehicles authorized to travel 
                        on the United States Federal-aid system of 
                        highways, and secondarily, private or public 
                        sector plug-in electric drive fleet vehicles, 
                        but may also include--
                                    (I) private or public sector plug-
                                in electric drive fleet vehicles;
                                    (II) medium- and heavy-duty plug-in 
                                hybrid vehicles; and
                                    (III) any other plug-in electric 
                                drive vehicle authorized to travel on 
                                the United States Federal-aid system of 
                                highways; and
                            (vi) any other merit-based criteria, as 
                        determined by the Secretary.
            (4) Community deployment plans.--Plans for the deployment 
        of plug-in electric drive vehicles shall include--
                    (A) a proposed level of cost sharing in accordance 
                with subsection (d)(2)(C);
                    (B) documentation demonstrating a substantial 
                partnership with relevant stakeholders, including--
                            (i) a list of stakeholders that includes--
                                    (I) elected and appointed officials 
                                from each of the participating State, 
                                local, and tribal governments;
                                    (II) all relevant generators and 
                                distributors of electricity;
                                    (III) State utility regulatory 
                                authorities;
                                    (IV) departments of public works 
                                and transportation;
                                    (V) owners and operators of 
                                property that will be essential to the 
                                deployment of a sufficient level of 
                                publicly available charging 
                                infrastructure (including privately 
                                owned parking lots or structures and 
                                commercial entities with public access 
                                locations);
                                    (VI) plug-in electric drive vehicle 
                                manufacturers or retailers;
                                    (VII) third-party providers of 
                                residential, workplace, private, and 
                                publicly available charging 
                                infrastructure or services;
                                    (VIII) owners of any major fleet 
                                that will participate in the program;
                                    (IX) as appropriate, owners and 
                                operators of regional electric power 
                                distribution and transmission 
                                facilities; and
                                    (X) as appropriate, other existing 
                                community coalitions recognized by the 
                                Department of Energy;
                            (ii) evidence of the commitment of the 
                        stakeholders to participate in the partnership;
                            (iii) a clear description of the role and 
                        responsibilities of each stakeholder; and
                            (iv) a plan for continuing the engagement 
                        and participation of the stakeholders, as 
                        appropriate, throughout the implementation of 
                        the deployment plan;
                    (C) a description of the number of plug-in electric 
                drive vehicles anticipated to be plug-in electric drive 
                personal vehicles and the number of plug-in electric 
                drive vehicles anticipated to be privately owned fleet 
                or public fleet vehicles;
                    (D) a plan for deploying residential, workplace, 
                private, and publicly available charging 
                infrastructure, including--
                            (i) an assessment of the number of 
                        consumers who will have access to private 
                        residential charging infrastructure in single-
                        family or multifamily residences;
                            (ii) options for accommodating plug-in 
                        electric drive vehicle owners who are not able 
                        to charge vehicles at their place of residence;
                            (iii) an assessment of the number of 
                        consumers who will have access to workplace 
                        charging infrastructure;
                            (iv) a plan for ensuring that the charging 
                        infrastructure or plug-in electric drive 
                        vehicle be able to send and receive the 
                        information needed to interact with the grid 
                        and be compatible with smart grid technologies 
                        to the extent feasible;
                            (v) an estimate of the number and 
                        distribution of publicly and privately owned 
                        charging stations that will be publicly or 
                        commercially available;
                            (vi) an estimate of the quantity of 
                        charging infrastructure that will be privately 
                        funded or located on private property; and
                            (vii) a description of equipment to be 
                        deployed, including assurances that, to the 
                        maximum extent practicable, equipment to be 
                        deployed will meet open, nonproprietary 
                        standards for connecting to plug-in electric 
                        drive vehicles that are either--
                                    (I) commonly accepted by industry 
                                at the time the equipment is being 
                                acquired; or
                                    (II) meet the standards developed 
                                by the Director of the National 
                                Institute of Standards and Technology 
                                under section 1305 of the Energy 
                                Independence and Security Act of 2007 
                                (42 U.S.C. 17385);
                    (E) a plan for effective marketing of and consumer 
                education relating to plug-in electric drive vehicles, 
                charging services, and infrastructure;
                    (F) descriptions of updated building codes (or a 
                plan to update building codes before or during the 
                grant period) to include charging infrastructure or 
                dedicated circuits for charging infrastructure, as 
                appropriate, in new construction and major renovations;
                    (G) descriptions of updated construction permitting 
                or inspection processes (or a plan to update 
                construction permitting or inspection processes) to 
                allow for expedited installation of charging 
                infrastructure for purchasers of plug-in electric drive 
                vehicles, including a permitting process that allows a 
                vehicle purchaser to have charging infrastructure 
                installed in a timely manner;
                    (H) descriptions of updated zoning, parking rules, 
                or other local ordinances as are necessary to 
                facilitate the installation of publicly available 
                charging infrastructure and to allow for access to 
                publicly available charging infrastructure, as 
                appropriate;
                    (I) descriptions of incentives for residents in a 
                deployment community who purchase and register a new 
                plug-in electric drive vehicle, in addition to any 
                Federal incentives, including--
                            (i) a rebate of part of the purchase price 
                        of the vehicle;
                            (ii) reductions in sales taxes or 
                        registration fees;
                            (iii) rebates or reductions in the costs of 
                        permitting, purchasing, or installing home 
                        plug-in electric drive vehicle charging 
                        infrastructure; and
                            (iv) rebates or reductions in State or 
                        local toll road access charges;
                    (J) additional consumer benefits, such as preferred 
                parking spaces or single-rider access to high-occupancy 
                vehicle lanes for plug-in electric drive vehicles;
                    (K) a proposed plan for making necessary utility 
                and grid upgrades, including economically sound and 
                cybersecure information technology upgrades and 
                employee training, and a plan for recovering the cost 
                of the upgrades;
                    (L) a description of utility, grid operator, or 
                third-party charging service provider, policies and 
                plans for accommodating the deployment of plug-in 
                electric drive vehicles, including--
                            (i) rate structures or provisions and 
                        billing protocols for the charging of plug-in 
                        electric drive vehicles;
                            (ii) analysis of potential impacts to the 
                        grid;
                            (iii) plans for using information 
                        technology or third-party aggregators--
                                    (I) to minimize the effects of 
                                charging on peak loads;
                                    (II) to enhance reliability; and
                                    (III) to provide other grid 
                                benefits;
                            (iv) plans for working with smart grid 
                        technologies or third-party aggregators for the 
                        purposes of smart charging and for allowing 2-
                        way communication;
                    (M) a deployment timeline;
                    (N) a plan for monitoring and evaluating the 
                implementation of the plan, including metrics for 
                assessing the success of the deployment and an approach 
                to updating the plan, as appropriate; and
                    (O) a description of the manner in which any grant 
                funds applied for under subsection (d) will be used and 
                the proposed local cost share for the funds.
    (d) Applications and Grants.--
            (1) Applications.--
                    (A) In general.--Not later than 150 days after the 
                date of publication by the Secretary of selection 
                criteria described in subsection (c)(3), any State, 
                tribal, or local government, or group of State, tribal, 
                or local governments may apply to the Secretary to 
                become a deployment community.
                    (B) Joint sponsorship.--
                            (i) In general.--An application submitted 
                        under subparagraph (A) may be jointly sponsored 
                        by electric utilities, automobile 
                        manufacturers, technology providers, carsharing 
                        companies or organizations, third-party plug-in 
                        electric drive vehicle service providers, or 
                        other appropriated entities.
                            (ii) Disbursement of grants.--A grant 
                        provided under this subsection shall only be 
                        disbursed to a State, tribal, or local 
                        government, or group of State, tribal, or local 
                        governments, regardless of whether the 
                        application is jointly sponsored under clause 
                        (i).
            (2) Grants.--
                    (A) In general.--In each application, the applicant 
                may request up to $250,000,000 in financial assistance 
                from the Secretary to fund projects in the deployment 
                community.
                    (B) Use of funds.--Funds provided through a grant 
                under this paragraph may be used to help implement the 
                plan for the deployment of plug-in electric drive 
                vehicles included in the application, including--
                            (i) reducing the cost and increasing the 
                        consumer adoption of plug-in electric drive 
                        vehicles through incentives as described in 
                        subsection (c)(4)(I);
                            (ii) planning for and installing charging 
                        infrastructure, including offering additional 
                        incentives as described in subsection 
                        (c)(4)(I);
                            (iii) updating building codes, zoning or 
                        parking rules, or permitting or inspection 
                        processes as described in subparagraphs (F), 
                        (G), and (H) of subsection (c)(4);
                            (iv) workforce training, including training 
                        of permitting officials;
                            (v) public education and marketing 
                        described in the proposed marketing plan;
                            (vi) supplementing (and not supplanting) 
                        the number of plug-in electric drive vehicles 
                        that are purchased by State, local, and tribal 
                        governments; and
                            (vii) necessary utility and grid upgrades 
                        as described in subsection (c)(4)(K).
                    (C) Cost-sharing.--
                            (i) In general.--A grant provided under 
                        this paragraph shall be subject to a minimum 
                        non-Federal cost-sharing requirement of 80 
                        percent.
                            (ii) Non-federal sources.--The Secretary 
                        shall--
                                    (I) determine the appropriate cost 
                                share for each selected applicant; and
                                    (II) require that not less than 80 
                                percent of the cost of an activity 
                                funded by a grant under this paragraph 
                                be provided by a non-Federal source.
                            (iii) Reduction.--The Secretary may reduce 
                        or eliminate the cost-sharing requirement 
                        described in clause (i), as the Secretary 
                        determines to be necessary.
                            (iv) Calculation of amount.--In calculating 
                        the amount of the non-Federal share under this 
                        section, the Secretary--
                                    (I) may include allowable costs in 
                                accordance with the applicable cost 
                                principles, including--
                                            (aa) cash;
                                            (bb) personnel costs;
                                            (cc) the value of a 
                                        service, other resource, or 
                                        third party in-kind 
                                        contribution determined in 
                                        accordance with the applicable 
                                        circular of the Office of 
                                        Management and Budget;
                                            (dd) indirect costs or 
                                        facilities and administrative 
                                        costs; or
                                            (ee) any funds received 
                                        under the power program of the 
                                        Tennessee Valley Authority or 
                                        any Power Marketing 
                                        Administration (except to the 
                                        extent that such funds are made 
                                        available under an annual 
                                        appropriation Act);
                                    (II) shall include contributions 
                                made by State, tribal, or local 
                                government entities and private 
                                entities; and
                                    (III) shall not include--
                                            (aa) revenues or royalties 
                                        from the prospective operation 
                                        of an activity beyond the time 
                                        considered in the grant;
                                            (bb) proceeds from the 
                                        prospective sale of an asset of 
                                        an activity; or
                                            (cc) other appropriated 
                                        Federal funds.
                            (v) Repayment of federal share.--The 
                        Secretary shall not require repayment of the 
                        Federal share of a cost-shared activity under 
                        this section as a condition of providing a 
                        grant.
                            (vi) Title to property.--The Secretary may 
                        vest title or other property interests acquired 
                        under projects funded under this Act in any 
                        entity, including the United States.
                    (D) Other federal assistance.--The Secretary shall 
                consider the receipt of other Federal funds received by 
                the applicant in determining the cost share of the 
                applicant.
            (3) Selection.--Not later than 120 days after an 
        application deadline has been established under paragraph (1), 
        the Secretary shall announce the names of the deployment 
        communities selected under this subsection.
    (e) Reporting Requirements.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary, in consultation with the 
        Committee, shall--
                    (A) determine what data will be required to be 
                collected by participants in deployment communities and 
                submitted to the Department to allow for analysis of 
                the deployment communities;
                    (B) provide for the protection of consumer privacy, 
                as appropriate; and
                    (C) develop metrics to evaluate the performance of 
                the deployment communities.
            (2) Provision of data.--As a condition of participation in 
        the Program, a deployment community shall provide any data 
        identified by the Secretary under paragraph (1).
            (3) Reports.--
                    (A) Interim report.--Not later than 3 years after 
                the date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall 
                submit to Congress an interim report that contains--
                            (i) a description of the status of--
                                    (I) the deployment communities and 
                                the implementation of the deployment 
                                plan of each deployment community;
                                    (II) the rate of vehicle 
                                manufacturing deployment and market 
                                penetration of plug-in electric drive 
                                vehicles; and
                                    (III) the deployment of residential 
                                and publicly available infrastructure;
                            (ii) a description of the challenges 
                        experienced and lessons learned from the 
                        program to date, including the activities 
                        described in clause (i); and
                            (iii) an analysis of the data collected 
                        under this subsection.
                    (B) Final report.--On completion of the Program, 
                the Secretary shall submit to Congress a final report 
                that contains--
                            (i) updates on the information described in 
                        subparagraph (A);
                            (ii) a description of the successes and 
                        failures of the Program;
                            (iii) recommendations on whether to promote 
                        further deployment of electric vehicles; and
                            (iv) if additional deployment communities 
                        are recommended, information on--
                                    (I) the number of additional 
                                deployment communities that should be 
                                selected;
                                    (II) the manner in which criteria 
                                for selection should be updated;
                                    (III) the manner in which incentive 
                                structures for deployment should be 
                                changed; and
                                    (IV) whether other forms of onboard 
                                energy storage for electric drive 
                                vehicles should be included.
    (f) Proprietary Information.--The Secretary shall, as appropriate, 
provide for the protection of proprietary information and intellectual 
property rights.
    (g) Authorization of Appropriations.--There is authorized to be 
appropriated to carry out this section $2,000,000,000.
    (h) Conforming Amendment.--Section 166(b)(5) of title 23, United 
States Code, is amended--
            (1) in subparagraph (A), by striking ``Before September 30, 
        2009, the State'' and inserting ``The State''; and
            (2) in subparagraph (B), by striking ``Before September 30, 
        2009, the State'' and inserting ``The State''.

SEC. 107. PLUG-IN ELECTRIC DRIVE VEHICLE PRIVATE FLEET UPGRADE PROGRAM.

    (a) Establishment.--
            (1) In general.--There is established within the national 
        plug-in electric drive deployment program established under 
        section 101 a plug-in electric drive vehicle private fleet 
        upgrade program (referred to in this section as the 
        ``Program'').
    (b) Competitive Grants.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary shall establish a 
        competitive process to select electric drive vehicle fleets for 
        the Program to receive grants.
            (2) Eligible entities.--In selecting participants for the 
        Program under paragraph (1), the Secretary shall only consider 
        applications (including joint applications) submitted by 
        companies that--
                    (A) are private, nongovernmental entities;
                    (B) are headquartered in the United States; and
                    (C) plan to purchase, or enter into contracts for 
                hire, not less than 100 plug-in electric drive 
                vehicles.
            (3) Selection criteria.--Not later than 120 days after the 
        date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall publish a 
        set of selection criteria for the grants competition that shall 
        include--
                    (A) offering the highest cost-share relative to the 
                value of the Federal grant offered under the Program;
                    (B) to the maximum extent practicable, serving as 
                models of deployment for other private companies across 
                the United States; and
                    (C) meeting other criteria considered appropriate 
                by the Secretary.
            (4) Applications and grants.--
                    (A) In general.--Not later than 120 days after the 
                date of publication by the Secretary of the selection 
                criteria described in paragraph (3), any company that 
                meets the eligibility criteria described in paragraph 
                (2) may apply to the Secretary to receive a grant.
                    (B) Grants.--
                            (i) In general.--In each application, the 
                        applicant may apply for grants of not more than 
                        $20,000,000.
                            (ii) Use of funds.--Funds provided through 
                        a grant under this subsection may be used--
                                    (I) to purchase plug-in electric 
                                drive vehicles;
                                    (II) to plan for and install 
                                charging infrastructure; and
                                    (III) to carry out other activities 
                                considered appropriate by the 
                                Secretary.
                            (iii) Cost-sharing.--
                                    (I) In general.--A grant provided 
                                under this subsection shall be subject 
                                to a minimum non-Federal cost-sharing 
                                requirement of 80 percent.
                                    (II) Non-federal sources.--The 
                                Secretary shall--
                                            (aa) determine the 
                                        appropriate cost share for each 
                                        selected applicant; and
                                            (bb) subject to subclause 
                                        (III), require that not less 
                                        than 80 percent of the cost of 
                                        an activity funded by a grant 
                                        under this subsection be 
                                        provided from a non-Federal 
                                        source.
                                    (III) Reduction.--The Secretary may 
                                reduce or eliminate the cost-sharing 
                                requirement described in subclause (I), 
                                as the Secretary determines to be 
                                necessary.
                                    (IV) Repayment of federal share.--
                                The Secretary shall not require 
                                repayment of the Federal share of a 
                                cost-shared activity under this section 
                                as a condition of providing a grant.
                                    (V) Title to property.--The receipt 
                                of Federal funds under this section 
                                shall not prohibit the purchaser of a 
                                vehicle, equipment, or other property 
                                from retaining sole, permanent title to 
                                the vehicle, equipment, or property at 
                                the conclusion of the Program.
                            (iv) Other federal assistance.--The 
                        Secretary shall consider the receipt of other 
                        Federal funds by the applicant in determining 
                        the cost share of the applicant.
                    (C) Selection.--Not later than 120 days after the 
                application deadline established under subparagraph 
                (A), the Secretary shall announce the names of the 
                applicants selected to receive grants under this 
                section.
            (5) Reporting requirements.--
                    (A) In general.--The Secretary shall--
                            (i) determine what data will be required to 
                        be collected by participants in the Program and 
                        submitted to the Secretary to permit analysis 
                        of the Program; and
                            (ii) develop metrics to determine the 
                        success of the deployment communities.
                    (B) Provision of data.--As a condition of 
                participation in the Program, an applicant shall 
                provide any data determined by the Secretary under 
                subparagraph (A).
                    (C) Proprietary information.--In carrying out this 
                paragraph, the Secretary shall, as appropriate, provide 
                for the protection of proprietary information and 
                intellectual property rights.
    (c) Loan Guarantees.--Section 1703(b) of the Energy Policy Act of 
2005 (42 U.S.C. 16513(b)) is amended by adding at the end the 
following:
            ``(11) Plug-in electric drive vehicle fleets.''.
    (d) Authorization of Appropriations.--There is authorized to be 
appropriated to carry out this section $300,000,000.

                   TITLE II--RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT

SEC. 201. RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM.

    (a) Research and Development Program.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary, in consultation with the 
        Committee, shall establish a program to fund research and 
        development in advanced batteries, plug-in electric drive 
        vehicle components, plug-in electric drive infrastructure, and 
        other technologies supporting the development, manufacture, and 
        deployment of plug-in electric drive vehicles and charging 
        infrastructure.
            (2) Use of funds.--The program may include funding for--
                    (A) the development of low-cost, smart-charging and 
                vehicle-to-grid connectivity technology;
                    (B) the benchmarking and assessment of open 
                software systems using nationally established 
                evaluation criteria; and
                    (C) new technologies in electricity storage or 
                electric drive components for vehicles.
            (3) Report.--Not later than 4 years after the date of 
        enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall submit to Congress a 
        report describing the status of the program described in 
        paragraph (1).
            (4) Supplemental funding.--Funds provided under this 
        section shall supplement (and not supplant) funds made 
        available for research and development under the Vehicles 
        Technology Program of the Department of Energy.
    (b) Secondary Use Applications Program.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary, in consultation with the 
        Committee, shall carry out a research, development, and 
        demonstration program that builds upon any work carried out 
        under section 915 of the Energy Policy Act of 2005 (42 U.S.C. 
        16195) and--
                    (A) identifies possible uses of a vehicle battery 
                after the useful life of the battery in a vehicle has 
                been exhausted;
                    (B) assesses the potential for markets for uses 
                described in subparagraph (A) to develop, as well as 
                any barriers to the development of the markets;
                    (C) identifies the infrastructure, technology, and 
                equipment needed to manage the charging activity of the 
                batteries used in stationary sources; and
                    (D) identifies the potential uses of a vehicle 
                battery--
                            (i) with the most promise for market 
                        development; and
                            (ii) for which market development would be 
                        aided by a demonstration project.
            (2) Report.--Not later than 2 years after the date of 
        enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall submit to the 
        appropriate committees of Congress an initial report on the 
        findings of the program described in paragraph (1), including 
        recommendations for stationary energy storage and other 
        potential applications for batteries used in plug-in electric 
        drive vehicles.
    (c) Secondary Use Demonstration Projects.--
            (1) In general.--Based on the results of the program 
        described in subsection (b), the Secretary, in consultation 
        with the Committee, shall develop guidelines for projects that 
        demonstrate the secondary uses of vehicle batteries.
            (2) Publication of guidelines.--Not later than 30 months 
        after the date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall--
                    (A) publish the guidelines described in paragraph 
                (1); and
                    (B) solicit applications for funding for 
                demonstration projects.
            (3) Grant program.--Not later than 38 months after the date 
        of enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall select proposals 
        for grant funding under this section, based on an assessment of 
        which proposals are mostly likely to contribute to the 
        development of a secondary market for batteries.
    (d) Materials Recycling Study.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary, in consultation with the 
        Committee, shall carry out a study on the recycling of 
        materials from plug-in electric drive vehicles and the 
        batteries used in plug-in electric drive vehicles.
            (2) Report.--Not later than 2 years after the date of 
        enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall submit to the 
        appropriate committees of Congress a report on the findings of 
        the study described in paragraph (1).
    (e) ARPA-E Plug-In Electric Drive Vehicle Research and Development 
Programs.--Funds made available under this section shall be used--
            (1) by the Advanced Research Projects Agency--Energy 
        established by section 5012(b) of the America COMPETES Act (42 
        U.S.C. 16538(b)) (referred to in this subsection as ``ARPA-E'') 
        to fund high-risk, high-reward research and development 
        programs supporting the development, manufacture, and 
        deployment of plug-in electric drive vehicles and charging 
        infrastructure, including advanced batteries, plug-in electric 
        drive components, and plug-in electric drive infrastructure; 
        and
            (2) to supplement (and not supplant) funds made available 
        for ARPA-E.
    (f) Authorization of Appropriations.--There is authorized to be 
appropriated to carry out this section $235,000,000, including--
            (1) $10,000,000 for use in conducting the program described 
        in subsection (a) for fiscal years 2011 through 2016;
            (2) $5,000,000 for use in conducting the program described 
        in subsection (b) for fiscal years 2011 through 2016;
            (3) $15,000,000 for use in providing grants described in 
        subsection (c) for fiscal years 2011 through 2016;
            (4) $5,000,000 for use in conducting the study described in 
        subsection (d) for fiscal years 2011 through 2013; and
            (5) $200,000,000 for use in conducting the program 
        described in subsection (e) for fiscal years 2011 through 2020.

SEC. 202. ADVANCED BATTERIES FOR TOMORROW PRIZE.

    (a) In General.--Not later than 1 year after the date of enactment 
of this Act, as part of the program described in section 1008 of the 
Energy Policy Act of 2005 (42 U.S.C. 16396), the Secretary shall 
establish the Advanced Batteries for Tomorrow Prize to competitively 
award cash prizes in accordance with this section to advance the 
research, development, demonstration, and commercial application of a 
500-mile vehicle battery.
    (b) Battery Specifications.--
            (1) In general.--To be eligible for the Prize, a battery 
        submitted by an entrant shall be--
                    (A) able to power a plug-in electric drive vehicle 
                authorized to travel on the United States Federal-aid 
                system of highways for at least 500 miles before 
                recharging;
                    (B) of a size that would not be cost-prohibitive or 
                create space constraints, if mass-produced; and
                    (C) cost-effective (measured in cost per kilowatt 
                hour), if mass-produced.
            (2) Additional requirements.--The Secretary, in 
        consultation with the Committee, shall establish any additional 
        battery specifications that the Secretary and the Committee 
        determine to be necessary.
    (c) Private Funds.--
            (1) In general.--Subject to paragraph (2) and 
        notwithstanding section 3302 of title 31, United States Code, 
        the Secretary may accept, retain, and use funds contributed by 
        any person, government entity, or organization for purposes of 
        carrying out this subsection--
                    (A) without further appropriation; and
                    (B) without fiscal year limitation.
            (2) Restriction on participation.--An entity providing 
        private funds for the Prize may not participate in the 
        competition for the Prize.
    (d) Technical Review.--The Secretary, in consultation with the 
Committee, shall establish a technical review committee composed of 
non-Federal officers to review data submitted by Prize entrants under 
this section and determine whether the data meets the prize 
specifications described in subsection (b).
    (e) Third Party Administration.--The Secretary may select, on a 
competitive basis, a third party to administer awards provided under 
this section.
    (f) Eligibility.--To be eligible for an award under this section--
            (1) in the case of a private entity, the entity shall be 
        incorporated in and maintain a primary place of business in the 
        United States; and
            (2) in the case of an individual (whether participating as 
        a single individual or in a group), the individual shall be a 
        citizen or lawful permanent resident of the United States.
    (g) Award Amounts.--
            (1) In general.--Subject to the availability of funds to 
        carry out this section, the amount of the Prize shall be 
        $10,000,000.
            (2) Breakthrough achievement awards.--In addition to the 
        award described in paragraph (1), the Secretary, in 
        consultation with the technical review committee established 
        under subsection (d), may award cash prizes, in amounts 
        determined by the Secretary, in recognition of breakthrough 
        achievements in research, development, demonstration, and 
        commercial application of--
                    (A) activities described in subsection (b); or
                    (B) advances in battery durability, energy density, 
                and power density.
    (h) 500-Mile Battery Award Fund.--
            (1) Establishment.--There is established in the Treasury of 
        the United States a fund to be known as the ``500-mile Battery 
        Fund'' (referred to in this section as the ``Fund''), to be 
        administered by the Secretary, to be available without fiscal 
        year limitation and subject to appropriation, to award amounts 
        under this section.
            (2) Transfers to fund.--The Fund shall consist of--
                    (A) such amounts as are appropriated to the Fund 
                under subsection (i); and
                    (B) such amounts as are described in subsection (c) 
                and that are provided for the Fund.
            (3) Prohibition.--Amounts in the Fund may not be made 
        available for any purpose other than a purposes described in 
        subsection (a).
            (4) Annual reports.--
                    (A) In general.--Not later than 60 days after the 
                end of each fiscal year beginning with fiscal year 
                2012, the Secretary shall submit a report on the 
                operation of the Fund during the fiscal year to--
                            (i) the Committees on Appropriations of the 
                        House of Representatives and of the Senate;
                            (ii) the Committee on Energy and Natural 
                        Resources of the Senate; and
                            (iii) the Committee on Energy and Commerce 
                        of the House of Representatives.
                    (B) Contents.--Each report shall include, for the 
                fiscal year covered by the report, the following:
                            (i) A statement of the amounts deposited 
                        into the Fund.
                            (ii) A description of the expenditures made 
                        from the Fund for the fiscal year, including 
                        the purpose of the expenditures.
                            (iii) Recommendations for additional 
                        authorities to fulfill the purpose of the Fund.
                            (iv) A statement of the balance remaining 
                        in the Fund at the end of the fiscal year.
            (5) Separate appropriations account.--Section 1105(a) of 
        title 31, United States Code, is amended--
                    (A) by redesignating paragraphs (35) and (36) as 
                paragraphs (36) and (37), respectively;
                    (B) by redesignating the second paragraph (33) 
                (relating to obligational authority and outlays 
                requested for homeland security) as paragraph (35); and
                    (C) by adding at the end the following:
            ``(38) a separate statement for the 500-mile Battery Fund 
        established under section 8(h) of the `Promoting Electric 
        Vehicles Act of 2011', which shall include the estimated amount 
        of deposits into the Fund, obligations, and outlays from the 
        Fund.''.
    (i) Authorization of Appropriations.--There is authorized to be 
appropriated--
            (1) $10,000,000 to carry out subsection (g)(1); and
            (2) $1,000,000 to carry out subsection (g)(2).

SEC. 203. STUDY ON THE SUPPLY OF RAW MATERIALS.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary of the Interior, in consultation 
with the Secretary and the Task Force, shall conduct a study that--
            (1) identifies the raw materials needed for the manufacture 
        of plug-in electric drive vehicles, batteries, and other 
        components for plug-in electric drive vehicles, and for the 
        infrastructure needed to support plug-in electric drive 
        vehicles;
            (2) describes the primary or original sources and known 
        reserves and resources of those raw materials;
            (3) assesses, in consultation with an independent analysis 
        entity designated by the Secretary, the degree of risk to the 
        manufacture, maintenance, deployment, and use of plug-in 
        electric drive vehicles associated with the supply of those raw 
        materials; and
            (4) identifies pathways to securing reliable and resilient 
        supplies of those raw materials.
    (b) Report.--Not later than 3 years after the date of enactment of 
this Act, the Secretary of the Interior shall submit to Congress a 
report that describes the results of the study.
    (c) Authorization of Appropriations.--There is authorized to be 
appropriated to carry out this subsection $1,500,000.

SEC. 204. STUDY ON THE COLLECTION AND PRESERVATION OF DATA COLLECTED 
              FROM PLUG-IN ELECTRIC DRIVE VEHICLES.

    (a) In General.--Not later than 180 days after the date of 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary, in consultation with the 
Committee, shall enter into an agreement with the National Academy of 
Sciences under which the Academy shall conduct a study that--
            (1) identifies--
                    (A) the data that may be collected from plug-in 
                electric drive vehicles, including data on the 
                location, charging patterns, and usage of plug-in 
                electric drive vehicles;
                    (B) the scientific, economic, commercial, security, 
                and historic potential of the data described in 
                subparagraph (A); and
                    (C) any laws or regulations that relate to the data 
                described in subparagraph (A); and
            (2) analyzes and provides recommendations on matters that 
        include procedures, technologies, and rules relating to the 
        collection, storage, and preservation of the data described in 
        paragraph (1)(A).
    (b) Report.--Not later than 15 months after the date of an 
agreement between the Secretary and the Academy under subsection (a), 
the National Academy of Sciences shall submit to the appropriate 
committees of Congress a report that describes the results of the study 
under subsection (a).
    (c) Authorization of Appropriations.--There is authorized to be 
appropriated to carry out this section $1,000,000.

                        TITLE III--MISCELLANEOUS

SEC. 301. UTILITY PLANNING FOR PLUG-IN ELECTRIC DRIVE VEHICLES.

    (a) In General.--The Public Utility Regulatory Policies Act of 1978 
(16 U.S.C. 2601 et seq.) is amended--
            (1) in section 111(d) (16 U.S.C. 2621(d)), by adding at the 
        end the following:
            ``(20) Plug-in electric drive vehicle planning.--
                    ``(A) Utility plan for plug-in electric drive 
                vehicles.--
                            ``(i) In general.--Not later than 2 years 
                        after the date of enactment of this paragraph, 
                        each electric utility shall develop a plan to 
                        support the use of plug-in electric drive 
                        vehicles in the service area of the electric 
                        utility.
                            ``(ii) Requirements.--A plan under clause 
                        (i) shall investigate--
                                    ``(I) various levels of potential 
                                penetration of plug-in electric drive 
                                vehicles in the utility service area;
                                    ``(II) the potential impacts that 
                                the various levels of penetration and 
                                charging scenarios (including charging 
                                rates and daily hours of charging) 
                                would have on generation, distribution 
                                infrastructure, and the operation of 
                                the transmission grid; and
                                    ``(III) the role of third parties 
                                in providing reliable and economical 
                                charging services.
                            ``(iii) Waiver.--
                                    ``(I) In general.--An electric 
                                utility that determines that the 
                                electric utility will not be impacted 
                                by plug-in electric drive vehicles 
                                during the 5-year period beginning on 
                                the date of enactment of this paragraph 
                                may petition the Secretary to waive 
                                clause (i) for 5 years.
                                    ``(II) Approval.--Approval of a 
                                waiver under subclause (I) shall be in 
                                the sole discretion of the Secretary.
                            ``(iv) Updates.--
                                    ``(I) In general.--Each electric 
                                utility shall update the plan of the 
                                electric utility every 2 years.
                                    ``(II) Resubmission of waiver.--An 
                                electric utility that received a waiver 
                                under clause (iii) and wants the waiver 
                                to continue after the expiration of the 
                                waiver shall be required to resubmit 
                                the waiver.
                            ``(v) Exemption.--If the Secretary 
                        determines that a plan required by a State 
                        regulatory authority meets the requirements of 
                        this paragraph, the Secretary may accept that 
                        plan and exempt the electric utility submitting 
                        the plan from the requirements of clause (i).
                    ``(B) Support requirements.--Each State regulatory 
                authority (in the case of each electric utility for 
                which the authority has ratemaking authority) and each 
                publicly owned utility and cooperative utility shall--
                            ``(i) participate in any local plan for the 
                        deployment of recharging infrastructure in 
                        communities located in the footprint of the 
                        authority or utility;
                            ``(ii) require that charging infrastructure 
                        deployed is interoperable with products of all 
                        auto manufacturers to the maximum extent 
                        practicable; and
                            ``(iii) consider adopting minimum 
                        requirements for deployment of electrical 
                        charging infrastructure and other appropriate 
                        requirements necessary to support the use of 
                        plug-in electric drive vehicles.
                    ``(C) Cost recovery.--Each State regulatory 
                authority (in the case of each electric utility for 
                which the authority has ratemaking authority) and each 
                publicly owned utility and cooperative utility may 
                consider whether, and to what extent, to allow cost 
                recovery for plans and implementation of plans.
                    ``(D) Determination.--Not later than 3 years after 
                the date of enactment of this paragraph, each State 
                regulatory authority (with respect to each electric 
                utility for which the authority has ratemaking 
                authority), and each publicly owned utility and 
                cooperative electric utility, shall complete the 
                consideration, and shall make the determination, 
                referred to in subsection (a) with respect to the 
                standard established by this paragraph.'';
            (2) in section 112(c) (16 U.S.C. 2622(c))--
                    (A) in the first sentence, by striking ``Each 
                State'' and inserting the following:
            ``(1) In general.--Each State'';
                    (B) in the second sentence, by striking ``In the 
                case'' and inserting the following:
            ``(2) Specific standards.--
                    ``(A) Net metering and fossil fuel generation 
                efficiency.--In the case'';
                    (C) in the third sentence, by striking ``In the 
                case'' and inserting the following:
                    ``(B) Time-based metering and communications.--In 
                the case'';
                    (D) in the fourth sentence--
                            (i) by striking ``In the case'' and 
                        inserting the following:
                    ``(C) Interconnection.--In the case''; and
                            (ii) by striking ``paragraph (15)'' and 
                        inserting ``paragraph (15) of section 111(d)'';
                    (E) in the fifth sentence, by striking ``In the 
                case'' and inserting the following:
                    ``(D) Integrated resource planning, rate design 
                modifications, smart grid investments, smart grid 
                information.--In the case''; and
                    (F) by adding at the end the following:
                    ``(E) Plug-in electric drive vehicle planning.--In 
                the case of the standards established by paragraph (20) 
                of section 111(d), the reference contained in this 
                subsection to the date of enactment of this Act shall 
                be deemed to be a reference to the date of enactment of 
                that paragraph.''; and
            (3) in section 112(d) (16 U.S.C. 2622(d)), in the matter 
        preceding paragraph (1), by striking ``(19)'' and inserting 
        ``(20)''.
    (b) Report.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary, in consultation with the 
        Technical Advisory Committee, shall convene a group of utility 
        stakeholders, charging infrastructure providers, third party 
        aggregators, and others, as appropriate, to discuss and 
        determine the potential models for the technically and 
        logistically challenging issues involved in using electricity 
        as a fuel for vehicles, including--
                    (A) accommodation for billing for charging a plug-
                in electric drive vehicle, both at home and at publicly 
                available charging infrastructure;
                    (B) plans for anticipating vehicle to grid 
                applications that will allow batteries in cars as well 
                as banks of batteries to be used for grid storage, 
                ancillary services provision, and backup power;
                    (C) integration of plug-in electric drive vehicles 
                with smart grid, including protocols and standards, 
                necessary equipment, and information technology 
                systems; and
                    (D) any other barriers to installing sufficient and 
                appropriate charging infrastructure.
            (2) Report.--Not later than 2 years after the date of 
        enactment of this Act and biennially thereafter, the Secretary 
        shall submit to the appropriate committees of Congress a report 
        that includes--
                    (A) the issues and model solutions described in 
                paragraph (1); and
                    (B) any other issues that the Task Force and 
                Secretary determine to be appropriate.

SEC. 302. LOAN GUARANTEES.

    (a) Loan Guarantees for Advanced Battery Purchases for Use in 
Stationary Applications.--Subtitle B of title I of the Energy 
Independence and Security Act of 2007 (42 U.S.C. 17011 et seq.) is 
amended by adding at the end the following:

``SEC. 137. LOAN GUARANTEES FOR ADVANCED BATTERY PURCHASES.

    ``(a) Definitions.--In this section:
            ``(1) Qualified automotive battery.--The term `qualified 
        automotive battery' means a battery that--
                    ``(A) has at least 4 kilowatt hours of battery 
                capacity; and
                    ``(B) is designed for use in qualified plug-in 
                electric drive motor vehicles but is purchased for 
                nonautomotive applications.
            ``(2) Eligible entity.--The term `eligible entity' means--
                    ``(A) an original equipment manufacturer;
                    ``(B) an electric utility;
                    ``(C) any provider of range extension 
                infrastructure; or
                    ``(D) any other qualified entity, as determined by 
                the Secretary.
    ``(b) Loan Guarantees.--
            ``(1) In general.--The Secretary shall guarantee loans made 
        to eligible entities for the aggregate purchase of not less 
        than 200 qualified automotive batteries in a calendar year that 
        have a total minimum power rating of 1 megawatt and use 
        advanced battery technology.
            ``(2) Restriction.--As a condition of receiving a loan 
        guarantee under this section, an entity purchasing qualified 
        automotive batteries with loan funds guaranteed under this 
        section shall comply with the provisions of the Buy American 
        Act (41 U.S.C. 10a et seq.).
    ``(c) Regulations.--The Secretary shall promulgate such regulations 
as are necessary to carry out this section.
    ``(d) Authorization of Appropriations.--There is authorized to be 
appropriated to carry out this section $50,000,000.''.
    (b) Loan Guarantees for Charging Infrastructure.--Section 1705(a) 
of the Energy Policy Act of 2005 (42 U.S.C. 16516(a)) is amended by 
adding at the end the following:
            ``(4) Charging infrastructure and networks of charging 
        infrastructure for plug-in drive electric vehicles, if the 
        charging infrastructure will be operational prior to December 
        31, 2016.''.

SEC. 303. PROHIBITION ON DISPOSING OF ADVANCED BATTERIES IN LANDFILLS.

    (a) Definition of Advanced Battery.--
            (1) In general.--In this section, the term ``advanced 
        battery'' means a battery that is a secondary (rechargeable) 
        electrochemical energy storage device that has enhanced energy 
        capacity.
            (2) Exclusions.--The term ``advanced battery'' does not 
        include--
                    (A) a primary nonrechargeable battery; or
                    (B) a lead-acid battery that is used to start or 
                serve as the principal electrical power source for a 
                plug-in electric drive vehicle.
    (b) Requirement.--An advanced battery from a plug-in electric drive 
vehicle shall be disposed of in accordance with the Solid Waste 
Disposal Act (42 U.S.C. 6901 et seq.) (commonly known as the ``Resource 
Conservation and Recovery Act of 1976'').

SEC. 304. PLUG-IN ELECTRIC DRIVE VEHICLE TECHNICAL ADVISORY COMMITTEE.

    (a) In General.--There is established the Plug-in Electric Drive 
Vehicle Technical Advisory Committee to advise the Secretary on the 
programs and activities under this Act.
    (b) Mission.--The mission of the Committee shall be to advise the 
Secretary on technical matters, including--
            (1) the priorities for research and development;
            (2) means of accelerating the deployment of safe, 
        economical, and efficient plug-in electric drive vehicles for 
        mass market adoption;
            (3) the development and deployment of charging 
        infrastructure;
            (4) the development of uniform codes, standards, and safety 
        protocols for plug-in electric drive vehicles and charging 
        infrastructure; and
            (5) reporting on the competitiveness of the United States 
        in plug-in electric drive vehicle and infrastructure research, 
        manufacturing, and deployment.
    (c) Membership.--
            (1) Members.--
                    (A) In general.--The Committee shall consist of not 
                less than 12, but not more than 25, members.
                    (B) Representation.--The Secretary shall appoint 
                the members to Committee from among representatives 
                of--
                            (i) domestic industry;
                            (ii) institutions of higher education;
                            (iii) professional societies;
                            (iv) Federal, State, and local governmental 
                        agencies (including the National Laboratories); 
                        and
                            (v) financial, transportation, labor, 
                        environmental, electric utility, or other 
                        appropriate organizations or individuals with 
                        direct experience in deploying and marketing 
                        plug-in electric drive vehicles, as the 
                        Secretary determines to be necessary.
            (2) Terms.--
                    (A) In general.--The term of a Committee member 
                shall not be longer than 3 years.
                    (B) Staggered terms.--The Secretary may appoint 
                members to the Committee for differing term lengths to 
                ensure continuity in the functioning of the Committee.
                    (C) Reappointments.--A member of the Committee 
                whose term is expiring may be reappointed.
            (3) Chairperson.--The Committee shall have a chairperson, 
        who shall be elected by and from the members.
    (d) Review.--The Committee shall review and make recommendations to 
the Secretary on the implementation of programs and activities under 
this Act.
    (e) Response.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary shall consider and may adopt 
        any recommendation of the Committee under subsection (c).
            (2) Biennial report.--
                    (A) In general.--Not later than 2 years after the 
                date of enactment of this Act and every 2 years 
                thereafter, the Secretary shall submit to the 
                appropriate committees of Congress a report describing 
                any new recommendations of the Committee.
                    (B) Contents.--The report shall include--
                            (i) a description of the manner in which 
                        the Secretary has implemented or plans to 
                        implement the recommendations of the Committee; 
                        or
                            (ii) an explanation of the reason that a 
                        recommendation of the Committee has not been 
                        implemented.
                    (C) Timing.--The report described in this paragraph 
                shall be submitted by the Secretary at the same time 
                the President submits the budget proposal for the 
                Department of Energy to Congress.
    (f) Coordination.--The Committee shall--
            (1) hold joint annual meetings with the Hydrogen and Fuel 
        Cell Technical Advisory Committee established by section 807 of 
        the Energy Policy Act of 2005 (42 U.S.C. 16156) to help 
        coordinate the work and recommendations of the Committees; and
            (2) coordinate efforts, to the maximum extent practicable, 
        with all existing independent, departmental, and other advisory 
        Committees, as determined to be appropriate by the Secretary.
    (g) Support.--The Secretary shall provide to the Committee the 
resources necessary to carry out this section, as determined to be 
necessary by the Secretary.

SEC. 305. PLUG-IN ELECTRIC DRIVE VEHICLE INTERAGENCY TASK FORCE.

    (a) In General.--Not later than 120 days after the date of 
enactment of this Act, the President shall establish the Plug-in 
Electric Drive Vehicle Interagency Task Force, to be chaired by the 
Secretary and which shall consist of at least 1 representative from 
each of--
            (1) the Office of Science and Technology Policy;
            (2) the Council on Environmental Quality;
            (3) the Department of Energy;
            (4) the Department of Transportation;
            (5) the Department of Defense;
            (6) the Department of Commerce (including the National 
        Institute of Standards and Technology);
            (7) the Environmental Protection Agency;
            (8) the General Services Administration; and
            (9) any other Federal agencies that the President 
        determines to be appropriate.
    (b) Mission.--The mission of the Task Force shall be to ensure 
awareness, coordination, and integration of the activities of the 
Federal Government relating to plug-in electric drive vehicles, 
including--
            (1) plug-in electric drive vehicle research and development 
        (including necessary components);
            (2) the development of widely accepted smart-grid standards 
        and protocols for charging infrastructure;
            (3) the relationship of plug-in electric drive vehicle 
        charging practices to electric utility regulation;
            (4) the relationship of plug-in electric drive vehicle 
        deployment to system reliability and security;
            (5) the general deployment of plug-in electric drive 
        vehicles in the Federal, State, and local governments and for 
        private use;
            (6) the development of uniform codes, standards, and safety 
        protocols for plug-in electric drive vehicles and charging 
        infrastructure; and
            (7) the alignment of international plug-in electric drive 
        vehicle standards.
    (c) Activities.--
            (1) In general.--In carrying out this section, the Task 
        Force may--
                    (A) organize workshops and conferences;
                    (B) issue publications; and
                    (C) create databases.
            (2) Mandatory activities.--In carrying out this section, 
        the Task Force shall--
                    (A) foster the exchange of generic, nonproprietary 
                information and technology among industry, academia, 
                and the Federal Government;
                    (B) integrate and disseminate technical and other 
                information made available as a result of the programs 
                and activities under this Act;
                    (C) support education about plug-in electric drive 
                vehicles;
                    (D) monitor, analyze, and report on the effects of 
                plug-in electric drive vehicle deployment on the 
                environment and public health, including air emissions 
                from vehicles and electricity generating units; and
                    (E) review and report on--
                            (i) opportunities to use Federal programs 
                        (including laws, regulations, and guidelines) 
                        to promote the deployment of plug-in electric 
                        drive vehicles; and
                            (ii) any barriers to the deployment of 
                        plug-in electric drive vehicles, including 
                        barriers that are attributable to Federal 
                        programs (including laws, regulations, and 
                        guidelines).
    (d) Agency Cooperation.--A Federal agency--
            (1) shall cooperate with the Task Force; and
            (2) provide, on request of the Task Force, appropriate 
        assistance in carrying out this section, in accordance with 
        applicable Federal laws (including regulations).
                                 &lt;all&gt;
</pre></body></html>
