<html><body><pre>
[Congressional Bills 110th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H.R. 2401 Introduced in House (IH)]







110th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                H. R. 2401

     To provide for greater access and opportunities for socially 
disadvantaged farmers, to create incentives for research, conservation, 
 and market viability, to provide a healthy and just work environment 
  for agricultural workers, to provide Americans with healthier food 
 choices, to address hunger and poverty in the United States, and for 
                            other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                              May 21, 2007

Mr. Baca (for himself, Mrs. Napolitano, Mr. Gutierrez, Mr. Serrano, Mr. 
Grijalva, Ms. Solis, Mr. Reyes, Mr. Ortiz, Ms. Velazquez, Mr. Hinojosa, 
  Mr. Becerra, Mr. Sires, Mr. Fortuno, Mr. Rodriguez, Mr. Pastor, Mr. 
  Lincoln Diaz-Balart of Florida, Mr. Cuellar, Ms. Roybal-Allard, Mr. 
 Gonzalez, Mr. Salazar, and Ms. Ros-Lehtinen) introduced the following 
   bill; which was referred to the Committee on Agriculture, and in 
 addition to the Committee on Education and Labor, for a period to be 
subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for consideration 
  of such provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the committee 
                               concerned

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
     To provide for greater access and opportunities for socially 
disadvantaged farmers, to create incentives for research, conservation, 
 and market viability, to provide a healthy and just work environment 
  for agricultural workers, to provide Americans with healthier food 
 choices, to address hunger and poverty in the United States, and for 
                            other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE AND TABLE OF CONTENTS.

    (a) Short Title.--This Act may be cited as the ``Nutrition and 
Opportunities for the Underserved and Rural Incentives to Secure the 
Heartland Act of 2007'' or the ``NOURISH Act of 2007''.
    (b) Table of Contents.--The table of contents for this Act is as 
follows:

Sec. 1. Short title and table of contents.
Sec. 2. Findings.
   TITLE I--POLICY TO PROMOTE INVOLVEMENT OF SOCIALLY DISADVANTAGED 
                          FARMERS AND RANCHERS

Sec. 101. Establishment.
Sec. 102. Administration.
Sec. 103. Eligibility.
Sec. 104. Producer payment structure.
Sec. 105. Technical assistance.
Sec. 106. Duties of the Secretary.
                TITLE II--REVIEW OF PENDING FORECLOSURES

Sec. 201. USDA Minority Producer Land Preservation Commission.
Sec. 202. Requirement that foreclosure notices include information 
                            about the Commission.
         TITLE III--OUTREACH, TRANSPARENCY, AND ACCOUNTABILITY

Sec. 301. Outreach, transparency, and accountability.
Sec. 302. Improved data requirements.
Sec. 303. Expansion of support for Hispanic-serving institutions.
          TITLE IV--FARM WORKER AND COMPETITIVENESS PROVISIONS

                         Subtitle A--Pesticides

Sec. 401. Pesticides.
             Subtitle B--Office of Farmworker Coordination

Sec. 411. Office of Farmworker Coordination.
             Subtitle C--Major Disaster Assistance Programs

Sec. 421. Emergency grants to assist low-income migrant and seasonal 
                            farmworkers.
                Subtitle D--Agricultural Fair Practices

Sec. 431. Agricultural fair practices.
Sec. 432. Application.
                         TITLE V--CONSERVATION

Sec. 501. Conservation access initiative to encourage greater 
                            participation by socially disadvantaged 
                            farmers and ranchers in conservation 
                            programs.
Sec. 502. Other diversity provisions.
Sec. 503. Conservation reserve program.
Sec. 504. Reauthorization of and increased enrollment authority for 
                            grassland reserve program.
Sec. 505. Environmental quality incentives program.
Sec. 506. Reauthorization of and increased funding for wildlife habitat 
                            incentive program.
Sec. 507. Integrated pest management initiative.
Sec. 508. Value Added Funding and Technical Assistance.
                     TITLE VI--HEALTHY FOOD CHOICES

Sec. 601. Findings.
Sec. 602. Reauthorization of and increased funding for community food 
                            project competitive grants.
Sec. 603. Expansion of Fresh Fruit and Vegetable Program.
Sec. 604. Authorization level for farm-to-cafeteria activities.
Sec. 605. Extension of WIC farmers' market nutrition program.
Sec. 606. Senior farmers' market nutrition program.
Sec. 607. Farmers' market promotion program.
Sec. 608. Department of Defense and Department of Agriculture 
                            procurement of locally produced 
                            agricultural products.
Sec. 609. Fruit and vegetable nutrition promotion program.
Sec. 610. Use of ``Dietary Guidelines for Americans'' in special 
                            nutrition programs and school lunch 
                            programs.
Sec. 611. Section 32 specialty crop purchases.
Sec. 612. Administration of Food Stamp Program.
         TITLE VII--PROMOTION OF NEW MARKETS AND FARM VIABILITY

Sec. 701. National organic certification and transition cost share 
                            program.
            TITLE VIII--RURAL REGIONAL INVESTMENT INITIATIVE

Sec. 801. Rural regional investment initiative.
Sec. 802. Rural regional entrepreneurship program.
                          TITLE IX--NUTRITION

Sec. 901. Renaming the Food Stamp Program.
                 Subtitle A--Improving Benefit Adequacy

Sec. 911. Strengthening the food purchasing power of low-income 
                            Americans.
Sec. 912. Supporting working families with child care expenses.
Sec. 913. Exclusion of combat-related military pay from countable 
                            income.
Sec. 914. Increasing the minimum benefit.
 Subtitle B--Improving Food Security and Simplifying Program Operations

Sec. 921. Allowable countable resources.
Sec. 922. Exclusion of retirement accounts from countable financial 
                            resources.
Sec. 923. Exclusion of education accounts from countable financial 
                            resources.
Sec. 924. Simplifying work requirement.
Sec. 925. Fairness for legal immigrants.
Sec. 926. Clarifying eligibility.
Sec. 927. Ensuring proper screening.
Sec. 928. Clarification of simplified administrative reporting 
                            requirement.
Subtitle C--Connecting Eligible Families and Individuals to Food Stamps

Sec. 931. Facilitating simplified reporting.
Sec. 932. State option for telephonic signature.
Sec. 933. Reauthorization of Food Stamp Program and food distribution 
                            program on Indian reservations.
Sec. 934. Access to benefits.
Sec. 935. Outreach grants.
Sec. 936. Improving program operations and program effectiveness.
Sec. 937. Improving performance bonuses for States.
Sec. 938. Supporting State efforts during natural disasters.
Sec. 939. Addressing hunger in the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico.
Sec. 940. Study on comparable access to food stamp benefits for Puerto 
                            Rico.
Sec. 941. Expanding the use of food stamps at farmers' markets.
   Subtitle D--Supporting the Emergency Food Bank Network and Other 
                           Community Partners

Sec. 951. Commodities for the emergency food assistance program.
Sec. 952. Accountable program administration.

SEC. 2. FINDINGS.

    Congress finds the following:
            (1) Latinos are the fasting growing population of new 
        farmers, increasing by over 40,000 from 1992-2002. They run 
        diversified operations largely producing cattle, fresh fruit 
        and vegetables and other diverse products that are not covered 
        by Federal agricultural programs. As a result, approximately 90 
        percent of Latino farmers and ranchers do not benefit from the 
        commodity program payments, which consume half of all farm 
        spending. These and other immigrant farmers represent the 
        future of American Agriculture and with support can meet the 
        growing demand from consumers for local and ethnic specialty 
        crops, and protect fertile farmland from sprawling urban 
        development.
            (2) The loss of farmers and farmland for small and mid-
        sized farmers farming along the urban edge, especially Latino 
        and other socially disadvantaged farmers, who have experienced 
        a long history of discrimination, is a growing threat to the 
        future of American agriculture. Farms provide valuable 
        environmental benefits to our urban communities by preserving 
        open space and the quality of our air and water and protecting 
        wild life habitat. The 2007 Farm Bill should ensure that small 
        and mid-sized producers, particularly Latino and other socially 
        disadvantaged producers, have access to farmland protection, 
        conservation, research and other programs that ensure their 
        viability, while providing incentives and support for beginning 
        farmers.
            (3) The Nation's 2.5 million migrant and seasonal farm 
        workers produce the food found on the dinner tables of all 
        Americans. Despite these contributions, farm workers suffer 
        from the highest rate of toxic chemical injuries of any workers 
        in the United States and earn only $10,000 to $12,500 per year, 
        working long hours under strenuous conditions. Thirteen states 
        do not require farm workers to be covered by workers' 
        compensation coverage for on-the-job injuries and only eight 
        percent of farm workers reported that their employers provided 
        them with any health insurance. Many farm workers also face 
        substandard housing conditions due to high cost, physical 
        deficiencies or over crowding. The 2007 Farm Bill should 
        improve farm worker safety and health, particularly as it 
        relates to toxic pesticides and expanded research on farm 
        worker health and safety.
            (4) Current Federal farm policies also do too little to 
        promote outreach and to serve Latino farmers and operators. 
        Barriers include a failure to provide service that is 
        linguistically and culturally appropriate, a failure to 
        recognize farm experience gained through work as a farm worker 
        or as a farmer in their nation of origin.
            (5) As a growing sector within agriculture, Latino and 
        other socially disadvantaged farmers need new programs to help 
        them catch up with other farmers who have had access to more 
        benefits and services, as well as policies and programs that 
        will hold United States Department of Agriculture accountable 
        for provided equitable access to programs.
            (6) A major problem facing low-income communities and 
        communities of color across the United States is lack of access 
        to fresh fruits and vegetables and other healthy foods. Whether 
        in their retail shops or school cafeterias', many Americans 
        lack opportunities to make healthy food choices-contributing to 
        alarming increases in rates of obesity and diet related 
        disease. If current trends continue, one in three Caucasian 
        children, and one in two African American and Latino children 
        in America will have diabetes by the time they are eighteen. 
        The 2007 Farm Bill should help reverse the alarming trends of 
        poor health and failing farms by linking the food access needs 
        of consumers with the needs of specialty crop producers, 
        through innovative nutrition, marketing and distribution 
        programs.
            (7) With hunger and food insecurity on the rise we must 
        strengthen the safety-net for food insecure families. According 
        to the United States Department of Agriculture, 38 million 
        people in America live with hunger or the threat of hunger, 
        including 14 million children. Yet at the same time, a large 
        percentage of eligible families do not participate in the Food 
        Stamp Program. The Farm Bill must include a strong nutrition 
        title that helps families in need put food on the table.

   TITLE I--POLICY TO PROMOTE INVOLVEMENT OF SOCIALLY DISADVANTAGED 
                          FARMERS AND RANCHERS

SEC. 101. ESTABLISHMENT.

    (a) Establishment.--The Secretary of Agriculture shall establish 
and carryout, for each of fiscal years 2008 through 2013, a program to 
enhance the viability of minority and socially disadvantaged farmer and 
ranchers who own or operate agricultural operations by assisting such 
farmer and ranchers to reduce their risks, improve their access to 
markets, and better utilize the programs and services of the Department 
of Agriculture.
    (b) Improved Access.--One of the purposes of the program shall be 
to ensure the viability and success of minority and socially 
disadvantaged farmers and ranchers by promoting the involvement of 
socially disadvantaged farmers and ranchers in the full range of 
services to ensure producer access to commodity, credit, risk 
management and disaster protection, conservation, marketing, nutrition, 
value-added, rural development, and other programs and services of the 
Department.
    (c) Accurate Reflection of Contributions.--Another of the purposes 
of the program shall be to assure that the number and economic 
contributions of socially disadvantaged farmers and ranchers are 
accurately reflected in the census of agriculture.

SEC. 102. ADMINISTRATION.

    In order to implement the policies and programs established or 
modified under this title, the Secretary shall use the Risk Management 
Agency Office of Civil Rights and Community Outreach.

SEC. 103. ELIGIBILITY.

    (a) In General.--To be eligible to participate in programs made 
available under this title, a producer shall--
            (1) be a socially disadvantaged farmer or rancher;
            (2) be a producer who, as an owner, operator, landlord, 
        tenant, sharecropper or enrolled member of an Indian tribe--
                    (A) shares in the risk of producing any crop or 
                livestock; and
                    (B) is entitled to share in the crop or livestock 
                available for marketing from a farm (or would have 
                shared had the crop or livestock been produced) or 
                produces more than 50 percent of the food needed for 
                family consumption;
            (3) submit to the Secretary, and obtain the approval of the 
        Secretary for, a risk management and market access plan that 
        meets the minimum requirements in section 104; and
            (4) enter into a risk management and marker access contract 
        with the Secretary to carry out the risk management and market 
        access plan.
    (b) Definitions.--In this title:
            (1) Socially disadvantaged.--The term ``socially 
        disadvantaged'' means, with respect to a farmer or rancher, 
        that the farmer or rancher is a member of a socially 
        disadvataged group.
            (2) Socially disadvantaged group defined.--The term 
        ``socially disadvantaged group'' means a group whose members 
        have been subjected to racial or ethnic prejudice because of 
        their identity as members of a group without regard to their 
        individual qualities.

SEC. 104. PRODUCER PAYMENT STRUCTURE.

    (a) Producer Development Payments.--The Secretary is authorized to 
provide direct payments to the producers defined under section 103 if 
risk management and market access plans are implemented within any 
fiscal year pursuant to a plan developed in a fiscal year prior to 
payment by the Secretary.
    (b) Enrollment Procedure.--To enroll in this program, an eligible 
producer must--
            (1) complete and maintain the practices in the 
        qualification level in subsection (c)(1)(A);
            (2) describe the tier of the risk management and market 
        access plan, and the particular risk management and market 
        access practices to be implemented in accordance with this 
        subsection; and
            (3) identify the qualified technical assistance provider 
        who will serve as a liaison to the Department and supply 
        technical assistance to assure completion of the plan.
    (c) Payment Structure.--The Secretary shall make annual producer 
payments under this title for participation at 1 of the following 
levels for a period not to exceed a total of 7 years, as follows:
            (1) Qualification level.--The qualification level payment 
        shall be $5,000 with $2,500 paid up front if, within the first 
        year, the producer--
                    (A) files an IRS schedule F or a qualified 
                substitute for enrolled members of Indian Tribes;
                    (B) registers at the Farm Service Agency office as 
                a farm or rancher, or informs the Secretary the reason 
                for which registration was not allowed;
                    (C) signs up for any crop insurance or NAP programs 
                for which the producer is qualified, or provides a plan 
                to achieve qualification or inform the Secretary if no 
                plan or program exists for the form of production on 
                the farm or ranch; and
                    (D) receives technical assistance to be included in 
                the Minority Farm Registry and complete the next Census 
                of Agriculture.
        The Secretary shall provide to the National Agriculture 
        Statistics Service information sufficient for inclusion of each 
        producer who qualifies under this section in the next census of 
        agriculture.
            (2) First tier payments.--First Tier payments shall be 
        $10,000 annually for up to 3 years if the producer provides, 
        develops, and implements a plan to complete at least two of 
        following practices in each year:
                    (A) prepares a farm and home plan;
                    (B) prepares an estate plan;
                    (C) prepares risk management plan, including 
                accessing family health insurance;
                    (D) prepares a conservation plan;
                    (E) enters into a contract for purchase or sale of 
                farm land;
                    (F) acquires a computer, high-speed internet 
                access, and software, and training in the use of these 
                tools;
                    (G) prepares a plan to transition to another crop 
                or crops;
                    (H) applies for at least one farm program of the 
                Department; or
                    (I) other practices as determined by the Secretary.
            (3) Second tier payments.--Second Tier payments shall be 
        $25,000 annually for up to 3 years if the producer develops and 
        implements a plan to complete at least 2 of the following 
        practices in each year:
                    (A) mentor another farmer;
                    (B) seek nomination and election to a Conservation 
                District Board or FSA County Committee;
                    (C) meet standards for Good Agricultural Practices, 
                Organic Certification, or other market certifications;
                    (D) develop and implement a marketing plan or a 
                business plan;
                    (E) access liability or other expanded insurance, 
                including revenue insurance;
                    (F) access farmers markets or improved marketing 
                contracts;
                    (G) participate in farmers market nutrition, school 
                food or other nutrition programs;
                    (H) develop and implement plan to meet regulatory 
                requirements, including labor, workers compensation, 
                and pesticide health and safety standards, livestock 
                and animal ID;
                    (I) seek irrigation and other production 
                assistance, land or waste management; or
                    (J) other practices as determined by the Secretary.
            (4) Third tier payments.--Third Tier payments shall be 
        $45,000 annually for up to 3 years if the producer develops and 
        implements a plan to complete at least 2 of the following 
        practices in each year:
                    (A) develop or participate in a cooperative or 
                marketing association;
                    (B) develop a value-added enterprise;
                    (C) improve marketing, including development of 
                brands and innovative forms of marketing by web or 
                other means;
                    (D) develop intrastructure or processing;
                    (E) enhance the participation of a cooperative or a 
                group of farmers in nutrition and health programs;
                    (F) construct or improve housing for farmworkers;
                    (G) enter into direct contracts to secure adequate 
                labor to meet production needs;
                    (H) protect land use and development rights; or
                    (I) other practices as determined by the Secretary.

SEC. 105. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE.

    (a) In General.--For each of fiscal years 2008 through 2013, the 
Secretary shall provide technical assistance through qualified 
technical assistance providers to producers for the development and 
implementation of a risk management and market access plans at each 
tier.
    (b) Technical Assistance Provider.--In this section, the term 
``technical assistance provider'' is an organization or educational 
institutions that qualifies as an eligible entity under section 
2501(e)(5) of the Food, Agriculture, Conservation, and Trade Act of 
1990 (7 U.S.C. 2279(e)(5)).
    (c) Qualified Technical Assistance Provider.--In this section, the 
term ``qualified technical assistance provider'' means a technical 
assistance provider that has been recognized by the Risk Management 
Agency as qualified to provide the service in this program. The term 
shall include the following:
            (1) An 1890 institution or 1994 institution (as defined in 
        section 2 of the Agricultural Research, Extension, and 
        Education Reform Act of 1998 (7 U.S.C. 7601)), including West 
        Virginia State College.
            (2) An Indian tribal community college or an Alaska Native 
        cooperative college.
            (3) An Hispanic-serving institution (as defined in section 
        1404 of the National Agricultural Research, Extension, and 
        Teaching Policy Act of 1977 (7 U.S.C. 3103)).
            (4) Any other institution of higher education (as defined 
        in section 101 of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 
        1001) that has demonstrated experience in providing agriculture 
        education or other agriculturally related services to socially 
        disadvantaged farmers or ranchers in a region.
    (d) Limitations.--A qualified technical service provider shall not 
receive payment for services in excess of--
            (1) $2,000, for services under section 104(c)(1);
            (2) $3,000, for services under section 104(c)(2);
            (3) $4,000, for services under section 104(c)(3); or
            (4) $5,000, for services under section 104(c)(4).

SEC. 106. DUTIES OF THE SECRETARY.

    (a) Regulations.--Not later than 270 days after the date of 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Agriculture shall promulgate 
regulations implementing the program provided in this title.
    (b) Staffing and Administration.--The Secretary shall provide in 
the Risk Management Office of Civil Rights and Community Outreach not 
less than 10 staff positions at headquarters, and such field staff for 
the Office as the Secretary deems necessary to implement this program 
in States where the number of applicants exceeds 500, to conduct the 
administration of the program provided in this title.
    (c) Departmental Coordination.--The Secretary shall provide support 
for the Small Farms Emphasis Program established in the Department of 
Agriculture to work across agencies in the Department to assure 
coordination of services among agencies for socially disadvantaged 
farmers and ranchers under the program provided under this title, and 
in partnership with qualified technical assistance providers, to 
provide such coordination and training activities as necessary.
    (d) Funding.--Of the funds of the Commodity Credit Corporation, the 
Secretary shall make available such sums as are necessary to carry out 
this title for each of fiscal years 2008 through 2013.

                TITLE II--REVIEW OF PENDING FORECLOSURES

SEC. 201. USDA MINORITY PRODUCER LAND PRESERVATION COMMISSION.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary of Agriculture (in this section 
referred to as the ``Secretary'') shall establish in the Department of 
Agriculture a commission to be known as the ``USDA Minority Producer 
Land Preservation Commission'' (in this section referred to as the 
``Commission'').
    (b) Duties.--
            (1) Review of pending foreclosure proceedings of the 
        department of agriculture.--
                    (A) Actions to be taken on receipt of petition.--On 
                receipt of a petition from a socially disadvantaged 
                farmer or rancher (as defined in section 355(e)(2) of 
                the Consolidated Farm and Rural Development Act) with 
                respect to a foreclosure action of the Department of 
                Agriculture that is pending with respect to a farm or 
                ranch owned or operated by the petitioner--
                            (i) the Commission shall--
                                    (I) commence an investigation of 
                                the claims made in the petition; and
                                    (II) notify the Secretary that the 
                                Commission has received the petition; 
                                and
                            (ii) the foreclosure action shall be 
                        suspended, and interest shall not be payable on 
                        any credit obligation of the petitioner which 
                        is the subject of the foreclosure action, until 
                        the earliest of--
                                    (I) the date the petitioner submits 
                                to the Commission a written request to 
                                consider the petition to be withdrawn;
                                    (II) the date the Commission 
                                determines that the claims made in the 
                                petition are without foundation or that 
                                there has been no wrongdoing by any 
                                governmental entity in the 
                                circumstances which gave rise to, or 
                                the conduct of, the action;
                                    (III) the date the claims made in 
                                the petition have been fully and 
                                finally adjudicated in a court of 
                                competent jurisdiction;
                                    (IV) the date the Commission 
                                submits a final report to the Secretary 
                                under subparagraph (C)(ii) with respect 
                                to the petition; or
                                    (V) the date the Commission 
                                terminates.
                    (B) Matters to be investigated; recommendations.--
                In investigating a petition, the Commission shall--
                            (i) determine whether (and if so, the 
                        extent to which) conduct of the Federal 
                        Government, or any State or local government, 
                        contributed to the conditions leading to the 
                        foreclosure action;
                            (ii) determine whether the foreclosure 
                        action is being conducted in accordance with 
                        applicable laws and regulations; and
                            (iii) on the basis of the determinations, 
                        develop such recommendations as may be 
                        necessary and appropriate with respect to the 
                        petition.
                    (C) Reports to the secretary.--
                            (i) Preliminary report.--Within 60 (or, if 
                        the Commission needs more time, 90) days after 
                        receipt of a petition, the Commission shall 
                        submit to the Secretary a report which contains 
                        the preliminary determinations and 
                        recommendations of the Commission with respect 
                        to the petition.
                            (ii) Final report.--When the Commission 
                        completes its investigation of a petition, the 
                        Commission shall submit to the Secretary a 
                        report which contains the final determinations 
                        and recommendations of the Commission with 
                        respect to the petition.
                    (D) Foreclosure action defined.--In this paragraph, 
                the term ``foreclosure action'' means any action or 
                proceeding in the nature of foreclosure or acceleration 
                of a credit obligation, and any similar action or 
                proceeding.
            (2) Annual reports to the congress.--The Commission shall 
        submit annually to the Committees on Agriculture and on 
        Government Reform of the House of Representatives and the 
        Committees on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry and on 
        Homeland Security and Government Affairs of the Senate a report 
        that contains--
                    (A) a summary of the reports submitted under 
                paragraph (1)(C)(ii) in the period covered by the 
                report; and
                    (B) such legislative and administrative 
                recommendations as may be necessary and appropriate to 
                improve the credibility, accuracy, and fairness of the 
                process for foreclosing or taking other similar action 
                on loans made by the Department of Agriculture.
    (c) Membership.--
            (1) Number and appointment.--
                    (A) In general.--Within 180 days after the date of 
                the enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall appoint 
                9 individuals to be the members of the Commission, as 
                follows:
                            (i) 3 members shall be appointed from among 
                        those who represent the interests of community-
                        based organizations.
                            (ii) 3 members shall be appointed from 
                        among those who represent the interests of land 
                        grant colleges and universities.
                            (iii) 3 members shall be appointed from 
                        among those who represent the interests of 
                        local governments located in rural areas.
                    (B) Geographical diversity.--In making appointments 
                to the Commission, the Secretary shall, to the extent 
                practicable, ensure geographical diversity.
                    (C) Political affiliation.--Not more than 4 members 
                appointed to the Commission may be of the same 
                political party.
            (2) Term of office.--
                    (A) Length of term.--
                            (i) In general.--Each Commission member 
                        shall be appointed for a term of 3 years, 
                        subject to clause (ii).
                            (ii) Dismissal.--
                                    (I) Conflict of interest.--The term 
                                of office of a Commission member shall 
                                cease on a determination by the 
                                Secretary that continued service by the 
                                member would pose an unavoidable 
                                conflict of interest for the member.
                                    (II) 3 missed meetings.--The term 
                                of office of a Commission member shall 
                                cease when the member has been absent 
                                from 3 Commission meetings, without 
                                being excused by the Secretary from 
                                attendance.
                    (B) Limitation on number of terms.--The Secretary 
                may not appoint an individual to be a Commission member 
                more than twice.
                    (C) Vacancies.--A vacancy in the Commission shall 
                be filled in the manner in which the original 
                appointment was made.
            (3) Compensation.--To the extent or in the amounts provided 
        in advance in appropriation Acts, each Commission member shall 
        be paid at a rate equal to the minimum rate of basic pay for 
        GS-14 of the General Schedule for each day (including travel 
        time) during which they are engaged in the actual performance 
        of Commission duties.
    (d) Powers of Commission.--
            (1) Hearings and sessions.--The Commission may, for the 
        purpose of carrying out this section, hold hearings, sit and 
        act at times and places, take testimony, and receive evidence 
        as the Commission considers appropriate. The Commission may 
        administer oaths or affirmations to witnesses appearing before 
        the Commission.
            (2) Obtaining official data.--The Commission may secure 
        directly from any department or agency of the United States 
        information necessary to enable the Commission to carry out 
        this section. On request of the Chairperson of the Commission, 
        the head of that department or agency shall furnish that 
        information to the Commission.
            (3) Experts and consultants.--The Chairperson of the 
        Commission may procure temporary and intermittent services 
        under section 3109(b) of title 5, United States Code.
            (4) Staff of federal agencies.--On request of the 
        Chairperson of the Commission, the head of any Federal 
        department or agency may detail, on a reimbursable basis, any 
        of the personnel of that department or agency to the Commission 
        to assist the Commission in carrying out this section.
            (5) Administrative support services.--On request of the 
        Chairman of the Commission, the Administrator of General 
        Services shall provide to the Commission, on a reimbursable 
        basis, the administrative support services necessary for the 
        Commission to carry out this section.
            (6) Mails.--The Commission may use the United States mails 
        in the same manner and under the same conditions as other 
        departments and agencies of the United States.
    (e) Procedural Rules.--
            (1) Chairperson.--The Chairperson of the Commission shall 
        be designated by the Secretary at the time of appointment.
            (2) Meetings.--
                    (A) How called.--The Commission shall meet at the 
                call of the Chairperson.
                    (B) Frequency.--While there is a case pending 
                before the Commision, the Commission shall meet at 
                regular intervals not less frequently than 10 times 
                every 12 months.
                    (C) Advance notice.--Not less than 7 days before a 
                Commission meeting, the Commission shall cause to have 
                published in a local newspaper of record the location 
                and time of the meeting.
                    (D) Public meetings.--Each Commission meeting shall 
                be open to members of the public.
                    (E) Quorum.--5 members of the Commission shall 
                constitute a quorum but a lesser number may hold 
                hearings.
            (3) Records.--The Commission shall create and maintain a 
        record of each Commission meeting, and shall make the record 
        available for public inspection.
    (f) Termination.--The Commission shall terminate 9 years after the 
date of the enactment of this Act. Section 14(a)(2)(B) of the Federal 
Advisory Committee Act (5 U.S.C. App.; relating to the termination of 
advisory committees) shall not apply to the Commission.
    (g) Regulations.--The Secretary shall prescribe such regulations as 
may be necessary to carry out this section.
    (h) Effective Date.--This section shall be effective October 1, 
2007.

SEC. 202. REQUIREMENT THAT FORECLOSURE NOTICES INCLUDE INFORMATION 
              ABOUT THE COMMISSION.

    The Secretary of Agriculture shall include in any notice 
transmitted to a socially disadvantaged farmer or rancher (as defined 
in section 355(e)(2) of the Consolidated Farm and Rural Development 
Act) of any foreclosure action (as defined in section 201(b)(1)(D) of 
this Act) of the Department of Agriculture with respect to a farm or 
ranch owned or operated by the farmer or rancher information about the 
USDA Minority Producer Land Preservation Commission established under 
section 201 of this Act, including how to submit a petition to the 
Commission.

         TITLE III--OUTREACH, TRANSPARENCY, AND ACCOUNTABILITY

SEC. 301. OUTREACH, TRANSPARENCY, AND ACCOUNTABILITY.

    Section 2501 of the Food, Agriculture, Conservation, and Trade Act 
of 1990 (7 U.S.C. 2279(e)) is amended--
            (1) in subsection (a)--
                    (A) by striking pargraph (2) and inserting the 
                following:
            ``(2) Requirements.--The outreach and technical assistance 
        program under paragraph (1) shall be used exclusively to--
                    ``(A) enhance coordination of the outreach, 
                technical assistance, and education efforts authorized 
                under various agriculture programs; and
                    ``(B) assist the Secretary in--
                            ``(i) reaching socially disadvantaged 
                        farmers and ranchers and prospective socially 
                        disadvantaged farmers and ranchers in a 
                        culturally and linguistically appropriate 
                        manner;
                            ``(ii) improving the participation of these 
                        farmers in Department programs (computed in 
                        accordance with section 2501A(c)); and
                            ``(iii) calling the attention of the 
                        Secretary to gaps in programs and service 
                        delivery that have impeded the participation of 
                        socially disadvantaged farmers and ranchers or 
                        prospective socially disadvantaged farmers and 
                        ranchers.''; and
                    (B) in paragraph (3)--
                            (i) in subparagraph (A)--
                                    (I) by striking ``may'' and 
                                inserting ``shall'';
                                    (II) by inserting ``who meets the 
                                requirements of paragraph (2)'' after 
                                ``entity''; and
                                    (III) by striking ``information'' 
                                and inserting ``outreach''; and
                            (ii) by adding at the end the following:
                    ``(D) The Secretary shall provide automatic multi-
                year renewal of grants, contracts, and other agreements 
                with an organization that received funding under this 
                section before January 1, 1993, that continues to 
                fulfill the requirements as an eligible entity.'';
            (2) in subsection (a)(4)--
                    (A) in subparagraph (A), by striking ``$25,000,000 
                for each of fiscal years 2002 through 2007'' and 
                inserting ``$100,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2008 
                through 2012''; and
                    (B) by adding at the end the following:
                    ``(C) Limitation on use of funds for administrative 
                expenses.--Not more than 5 percent of the amounts made 
                available under this paragraph for a fiscal year may be 
                used for expenses of administering the program under 
                this section.'';
            (3) in subsection (b)(1), by striking ``State cooperative 
        extension services'' and inserting ``Natural Resource 
        Conservation Service''; and
            (4) in subsection (e)(5)(A)--
                    (A) in clause (i), by inserting ``represents and'' 
                before ``has demonstrated'';
                    (B) in clause (ii)--
                            (i) by inserting ``and on behalf of'' 
                        before ``socially'';
                            (ii) by striking ``2-year'' and inserting 
                        ``5-year''; and
                            (iii) by striking ``and'' at the end; and
                    (C) by redesignating clause (iii) as clause (iv) 
                and insertign after clause (ii) the following:
                            ``(iii) has a legitimate address and 
                        office, and a verifiable client or membership 
                        list; and''.

SEC. 302. IMPROVED DATA REQUIREMENTS.

    Section 2501A of the Food, Agriculture, Conservation, and Trade Act 
of 1990 (7 U.S.C. 2279-1) is amended by striking subsection (c) and 
inserting the following:
    ``(c) Compilation of Program Participation Data.--
            ``(1) Annual requirement.--For each county and State in the 
        United States, the Secretary of Agriculture shall compile 
        annually program participation rate data regarding socially 
        disadvantaged farmers and ranchers by computing--
                    ``(A) actual numbers; and
                    ``(B) the participation rate of all farmers and 
                ranchers according to race, ethnicity, and gender as a 
                percentage of the total participation of all farmers 
                and ranchers for each program of the Department of 
                Agriculture established for farmers or ranchers.
            ``(2) Annual report.--The Secretary of Agriculture shall 
        provide the data required under subsection (c)(1) in a 
        searchable data base with a national summary for each program 
        and the number and rate of participation by program for each 
        county and State.
    ``(d) Authority To Collect Data.--The heads of the agencies of the 
Department of Agriculture shall collect and transmit to the Secretary 
of Agriculture such data as may be necessary to enable the Secretary to 
carry out subsection (c)(1).
    ``(e) Limitations on Use of Data.--The Secretary of Agriculture 
shall not disclose the names or individual data of any program 
participant. The data shall be used exclusively for the purposes 
authorized in subsection (a) and not for the evaluation of individual 
applications for assistance, except as otherwise provided.
    ``(f) Data Compilation Procedures.--The Secretary of Agriculture 
shall compile data under this section by using the technologies and 
systems of the National Agricultural Statistical Service (NASS). NASS 
shall present the data, updated annually, as a searchable database, 
aggregated by program at the county, State, and national level. The 
presentation of the data shall allow comparisons at each such level to 
the number of farms at each such level in the most recent census of 
agriculture.''.

SEC. 303. EXPANSION OF SUPPORT FOR HISPANIC-SERVING INSTITUTIONS.

    Section 1455(c) of the National Agricultural Research, Extension, 
and Teaching Policy Act of 1977 (7 U.S.C. 3241(c)) is amended by 
striking ``$20,000,000 for each of fiscal years 1997 through 2007'' and 
inserting ``100,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2008 through 2012''.

          TITLE IV--FARM WORKER AND COMPETITIVENESS PROVISIONS

                         Subtitle A--Pesticides

SEC. 401. PESTICIDES.

    (a) Recordkeeping and Reporting.--
            (1) Amendment.--Section 1491 of the Food, Agriculture, 
        Conservation, and Trade Act of 1990 (7 U.S.C. 136i-1) is 
        amended to read as follows:

``SEC. 1491. PESTICIDE RECORDKEEPING.

    ``(a) Requirements.--
            ``(1) In general.--The Secretary of Agriculture, in 
        consultation with the Administrator of the Environmental 
        Protection Agency, shall require certified commercial 
        applicators and private applicators of pesticides (whether for 
        general use or restricted use) to maintain--
                    ``(A) records comparable to records maintained by 
                commercial applicators of pesticides, as required by 
                the State in which the pesticide is used, or
                    ``(B) if there is no State requirement for the 
                maintenance of records, records that contain the 
                product and chemical name, the registration number 
                assigned to the pesticide under the Federal 
                Insecticide, Fungicide, and Rodenticide Act, amount, 
                date and time of application, and location of 
                application of each such pesticide used in agricultural 
                production,
        for a period of 20 years after the pesticide is used.
            ``(2) Provision of records to certain persons.--Within 30 
        days of a pesticide application, a certified commercial 
        applicator shall provide a copy of records maintained under 
        paragraph (1) to the person for whom such application was 
        provided.
            ``(3) Provision of records to secretary.--Within 30 days of 
        a pesticide application, a certified commercial applicator or 
        private applicator shall provide a copy of records maintained 
        under paragraph (1) to--
                    ``(A) any State agency designated by the State for 
                such purpose; and
                    ``(B) the Secretary of Agriculture.
            ``(4) Maintenance by secretary.--
                    ``(A) Requirement.--Subject to subparagraph (B), 
                the Secretary of Agriculture shall maintain records 
                submitted to the Secretary under paragraph (3) for a 
                period of at least 20 years after the pesticide is 
                used.
                    ``(B) Exception.--The Secretary of Agriculture is 
                not required to maintain records pursuant to 
                subparagraph (A) if the Secretary determines that the 
                State in which the pesticide is used will maintain such 
                records for a period of at least 20 years after such 
                use.
    ``(b) Access to Records.--
            ``(1) In general.--Upon request, records maintained under 
        subsection (a) shall be made available by applicators and by 
        the Secretary of Agriculture to the following:
                    ``(A) A Federal or State agency that deals with 
                pesticide use or any health, occupational safety, or 
                environmental issue related to the use of pesticides.
                    ``(B) Health care professionals treating persons 
                who reasonably believe that they have been exposed to 
                pesticides.
                    ``(C) Agricultural workers who reasonably believe 
                they have been exposed to pesticides, their immediate 
                family members, and their representatives.
                    ``(D) Researchers conducting studies on pesticides, 
                occupational safety or health, or environmental 
                conditions.
            ``(2) Agencies.--In the case of Federal agencies, such 
        access to records maintained under subsection (a) shall be 
        through the Secretary of Agriculture, or the Secretary's 
        designee. State agency requests for access to records 
        maintained under subsection (a) shall be through the lead State 
        agency so designated by the State.
            ``(3) Health care personnel.--When a health professional 
        determines that pesticide information maintained under this 
        section is necessary to provide medical treatment or first aid 
        to an individual who may have been exposed to pesticides for 
        which the information is maintained, upon request applicators 
        and the Secretary of Agriculture shall promptly provide 
        applicable records maintained under subsection (a) and 
        available label information to that health professional. In the 
        case of an emergency, such records and information shall be 
        provided immediately.
            ``(4) Agricultural workers.--When an agricultural worker 
        reasonably believes he or she has been exposed to pesticides, 
        upon request applicators and the Secretary of Agriculture shall 
        provide applicable records maintained under subsection (a) to 
        such worker, the worker's family member, or the worker's 
        representative within 5 business days of the request. In the 
        case of an emergency, such records shall be provided 
        immediately.
            ``(5) Researchers.--When a researcher is conducting a study 
        on a pesticide, occupational safety or health, or environmental 
        conditions, upon request applicators and the Secretary of 
        Agriculture shall provide applicable records maintained under 
        subsection (a) to such researcher within 30 days of the 
        request.
    ``(c) Access to Contact Information.--Upon request, the person for 
whom a pesticide application was provided shall provide the name and 
contact information of the applicator to a health care professional 
described in subsection (b)(3) or an agricultural worker, family 
member, or representative described in subsection (b)(4).
    ``(d) Surveys and Analyses.--Each Federal agency described in 
subsection (b)(1)(A) shall conduct surveys and record the data from 
individual applicators to facilitate statistical analysis for 
environmental and agronomic purposes, but in reports based on survey 
data the Federal agency shall not release data, including the location 
from which the data was derived, that would directly or indirectly 
reveal the identity of individual producers.
    ``(e) Penalty.--The Secretary of Agriculture shall be responsible 
for the enforcement of subsections (a), (b), and (c). A violation of 
subsection (a) or (b) by an applicator, or a violation of subsection 
(c) by a person described in such subsection, shall--
            ``(1) in the case of the first offense, be subject to a 
        fine of not more than $ 1,000; and
            ``(2) in the case of subsequent offenses, be subject to a 
        fine of not less than $ 2,000 for each violation, except that 
        the penalty shall be less than $1,000 if the Secretary 
        determines that the applicator or person made a good faith 
        effort to comply with such subsection.
    ``(f) Federal or State Provisions.--The requirements of this 
section shall not affect provisions of other Federal or State laws.
    ``(g) Surveys and Reports.--The Secretary of Agriculture and the 
Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency shall survey the 
records maintained under subsection (a) to develop and maintain a 
database that is sufficient to enable the Secretary and the 
Administrator to publish comprehensive reports, at least on an annual 
basis, concerning agricultural and nonagricultural pesticide use. The 
Secretary and Administrator shall enter into a memorandum of 
understanding to define their respective responsibilities under this 
subsection in order to avoid duplication of effort. Such reports shall 
be transmitted to Congress not later than April 1 of each year.
    ``(h) Regulations.--The Secretary of Agriculture and the 
Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency shall promulgate 
revised regulations on their respective areas of responsibility 
implementing this section not later than 180 days after the enactment 
of the NOURISH Act of 2007.''.
            (2) Effective date.--The amendment made by paragraph (1) 
        takes effect on the date that is 180 days after the enactment 
        of the NOURISH Act of 2007.
    (b) Inclusion of Long-Term Adverse Health Effects in Labeling.--
Paragraph (2) of section 2(q) of the Federal Insecticide, Fungicide, 
and Rodenticide Act (7 U.S.C. 136(q)) is amended--
            (1) in subparagraph (C), by striking ``and'' at the end;
            (2) in subparagraph (D)(iii), by striking the period at the 
        end and inserting ``; and''; and
            (3) by adding at the end the following:
                    ``(E) the pesticide is registered for an 
                agricultural use and its labeling does not include 
                information on long-term adverse health effects 
                associated with exposure to the pesticide, such as 
                cancer in individuals so exposed and their children, 
                birth defects, adverse reproductive effects such as 
                infertility or still births, and neurological 
                damage.''.
    (c) Research by CDC.--
            (1) Increased risks among farm workers.--
                    (A) In general.--The Director of the Centers for 
                Disease Control and Prevention shall conduct or support 
                research on increased risks of cancer or birth defects 
                among farm workers who have occupational exposure to 
                pesticide and their children.
                    (B) Authorization of appropriations.--To carry out 
                this paragraph, there is authorized to be appropriated 
                $5,000,000 for fiscal year 2008.
            (2) Biological indicators and clinical tests.--
                    (A) In general.--The Director of the Centers for 
                Disease Control and Prevention shall conduct or support 
                research to identify objective biological indicators, 
                and to develop new and additional inexpensive clinical 
                tests, to enable clinicians to diagnose overexposure to 
                pesticides.
                    (B) Authorization of appropriations.--To carry out 
                this paragraph, there is authorized to be appropriated 
                $5,000,000 for fiscal year 2008.
    (d) Research by USDA.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary of Agriculture shall conduct 
        or support research on alternatives to agricultural pesticides 
        that have been associated with cancer, birth defects, adverse 
        reproductive effects, or severe neurological disorders in 
        animal studies or epidemiological research.
            (2) Authorization of appropriations.--To carry out this 
        subsection, there is authorized to be appropriated $5,000,000 
        for fiscal year 2008.
    (e) Research by EPA.--
            (1) In general.--The Administrator of the Environmental 
        Protection Agency shall conduct or support research to develop 
        field level tests to determine when pesticide-treated fields 
        are safe to reenter.
            (2) Authorization of appropriations.--To carry out this 
        subsection, there is authorized to be appropriated $7,500,000 
        for fiscal year 2008.

             Subtitle B--Office of Farmworker Coordination

SEC. 411. OFFICE OF FARMWORKER COORDINATION.

    (a) Establishment.--The Secretary of Agriculture shall establish, 
within the Office of Civil Rights and Community Outreach of the Risk 
Management Agency of the Department of Agriculture, an office of 
Farmworker Coordination, which shall be led by the USDA Farmworker 
Coordinator
    (b) Duties.--The Secretary may delegate to the USDA Farmworker 
Coordinator responsibility for any or all of the following:
            (1) Administering the program established by section 2281 
        of the Food, Agriculture, Conservation, and Trade Act of 1990 
        (42 U.S.C. 5177a), as amended by section 421, providing for 
        emergency grants to assist low-income migrant and seasonal 
        farmworkers.
            (2) Serving as a liaison to community based non-profit 
        organizations who represent and have at least 3 years 
        experience serving low income migrant and seasonal farmworkers.
            (3) Conducting field visits in those areas the Secretary 
        considers to have the most risk of disasters or the greatest 
        concentration of farm workers, or both.
            (4) Providing the Secretary with a regular assessment of 
        all current Department of Agriculture programs that serve or 
        affect low-income and migrant seasonal farmworkers, and of 
        improvements that can be made to these programs and services.
            (5) Coordinating with the Department and other Federal 
        agencies to assure that farmworker needs are assessed and met 
        during declared disasters and other emergencies.
            (6) Coordinating with State and local agencies as needed in 
        times of disaster to assure farmworker needs are assessed and 
        met.
            (7) Coordinating with the USDA Small Farms Working Groups, 
        Outreach Coordinators, and other entities to better integrate 
        farmworker perspectives, concerns and interests into the 
        ongoing programs of the Department.
            (8) Consulting with minority serving institutions referred 
        to in section 105(c) on research, program improvements or 
        agricultural education opportunities that may assist low-income 
        and migrant seasonal farmworkers
            (9) Ensuring that necessary and appropriate components 
        relating to migrant and seasonal farmworkers are properly 
        incorporated into all strategic planning initiatives of the 
        Department.
            (10) Assuring that farmworkers have access to services and 
        support to enter agriculture as producers.
    (c) Authorization of Appropriations.--There are authorized to be 
appropriated such funds as are necessary for the efficient management 
of the Farmworker Coordination Office.

             Subtitle C--Major Disaster Assistance Programs

SEC. 421. EMERGENCY GRANTS TO ASSIST LOW-INCOME MIGRANT AND SEASONAL 
              FARMWORKERS.

    Section 2281 of the Food, Agriculture, Conservation, and Trade Act 
of 1990 (42 U.S.C. 5177a) is amended to read as follows:

``SEC. 2281. EMERGENCY GRANTS TO ASSIST LOW-INCOME MIGRANT AND SEASONAL 
              FARMWORKERS.

    ``(a) Grants Available.--The Secretary of Agriculture may make 
grants to public agencies or private organizations with tax exempt 
status under section 501(c)(3) of 1986 that have at least 5 years 
demonstrated experience in providing emergency services to low-income 
migrant and seasonal farmworkers where the Secretary determines that a 
local, State or national emergency or disaster has caused low-income 
migrant or seasonal farmworkers to lose income, to be unable to work, 
or to stay home or return home in anticipation of work shortages. 
Emergency services to be provided with assistance received under this 
section shall be focused on aid to allow farmworkers to meet or access 
other resources to meet short-term emergency family needs for food, 
clothing, employment, transportation and housing assistance necessary 
to allow low income and migrant seasonal farmworkers to remain in the 
disaster area and may include such other types of assistance as the 
Secretary of Agriculture determines to be necessary and appropriate.
    ``(b) Low-Income Migrant or Seasonal Farmworker Defined.--For the 
purposes of this section, the term `low-income migrant or seasonal 
farmworker' means an individual--
            ``(1) who has, during any consecutive 12 month period 
        within the preceding 24 month period, performed farm work for 
        wages;
            ``(2) who has received not less than one-half of such 
        individual's total income, or been employed at least one-half 
        of total work time in farm work; and
            ``(3) whose annual family income within the 12 month period 
        referred to in paragraph (1) does not exceed the higher of the 
        poverty level or 70 percent of the lower living standard income 
        level.
    ``(c) Disaster Fund.--The Secretary shall maintain a disaster fund 
of $2,000,000 to be used for immediate assistance for events described 
in subsection (a). Of the funds of the Commodity Credit Corporation, 
the Secretary shall make available such sums as are necessary to 
maintain the disaster fund at $2,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2008 
through 2013.
    ``(d) Authorization of Appropriations.--In addition to the sums 
allocated in subsection (c), there are authorized to be appropriated 
such sums as may be necessary to carry out this section. The Secretary 
shall review the impact of disasters on low-income migrant or seasonal 
farmworkers in each disaster for which supplemental funds are requested 
in order to request additional funds to meet the needs described in 
subsection (a) with respect to such disaster.
    ``(e) Administration.--Not more than 10 percent of the funds 
provided under subsections (c) and (d) may be used by the Secretary to 
administer this section.''.

                Subtitle D--Agricultural Fair Practices

SEC. 431. AGRICULTURAL FAIR PRACTICES.

    The Agricultural Fair Practices Act of 1967 (7 U.S.C. 2301 et seq.) 
is amended to read as follows:

``SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE; TABLE OF CONTENTS.

    ``(a) In General.--This Act may be cited as the `Agricultural Fair 
Practices Act of 1967'.
    ``(b) Table of Contents.--The table of contents of this Act is as 
follows:

``Sec. 1. Short title; table of contents.
``Sec. 2. Definitions.
                ``TITLE I--AGRICULTURAL TRADE PRACTICES

``Sec. 101. Office of Special Counsel for Competition Matters.
  ``TITLE II--PROHIBITIONS ON ANY UNFAIR, UNJUSTLY DISCRIMINATORY, OR 
  DECEPTIVE ACT, DEVICE, OR ANTI-COMPETITIVE PRACTICE IN AGRICULTURAL 
                                COMMERCE

``Sec. 201. Prohibitions involving crops.
``Sec. 202. Prohibitions involving producer associations and production 
                            contracts.
``Sec. 203. Production contracts and marketing contracts.
``Sec. 204. Production contracts.
``Sec. 205. Authority of Secretary to promulgate rules and regulations.
``Sec. 206. Enforcement.
``Sec. 207. Effect on other laws.
``Sec. 208. Assignment of association dues and fees.
``Sec. 209. Severability.

``SEC. 2. DEFINITIONS.

    ``In this Act:
            ``(1) Agricultural commodity.--
                    ``(A) In general.--Except as provided in 
                subparagraph (B), the term `agricultural commodity' has 
                the meaning given the term in section 102 of the 
                Agricultural Trade Act of 1978 (7 U.S.C. 5602).
                    ``(B) Exception.--In section 201, the term 
                `agricultural commodity'--
                            ``(i) means a crop; and
                            ``(ii) does not include a perishable 
                        agricultural commodity, as that term is defined 
                        in section 1(b) of the Perishable Agricultural 
                        Commodities Act, 1930 (7 U.S.C. 499a(b)).
            ``(2) Agricultural cooperative.--The term `agricultural 
        cooperative' means an association of persons engaged in the 
        production, marketing, or processing of an agricultural 
        commodity that meets the requirements of the Act entitled `An 
        Act to authorize association of producers of agricultural 
        products' (commonly known as the `Capper-Volstead Act') (7 
        U.S.C. 291 et seq.).
            ``(3) Association of producers.--
                    ``(A) In general.--The term `association of 
                producers' means an association of producers of 
                agricultural commodities that engages in the marketing, 
                bargaining, shipping, or processing of agricultural 
                commodities or of agricultural services.
                    ``(B) Inclusions.--The term `association of 
                producers' includes--
                            ``(i) an organization dedicated to 
                        promoting the common interest and general 
                        welfare of producers of agricultural 
                        commodities;
                            ``(ii) a cooperative association (as 
                        defined in section 15(a) of the Agricultural 
                        Marketing Act (12 U.S.C. 1141j(a))); and
                            ``(iii) an association described in the 
                        first section of the Act entitled `An Act to 
                        authorize association of producers of 
                        agricultural products' (commonly known as the 
                        `Capper-Volstead Act') (7 U.S.C. 291).
            ``(4) Capital investment.--The term `capital investment' 
        means an investment in--
                    ``(A) a structure, such as a building or manure 
                storage structure; or
                    ``(B) machinery or equipment associated with 
                producing an agricultural commodity that has a useful 
                life of more than 1 year.
            ``(5) Commission merchant.--The term `commission merchant' 
        means any person engaged in the business of receiving in 
        interstate or foreign commerce any agricultural commodity for 
        sale on commission.
            ``(6) Contract livestock facility.--The term `contract 
        livestock facility' means a facility in which livestock or a 
        product of live livestock is produced under a production 
        contract by a contract producer.
            ``(7) Contractor.--The term `contractor' means a person 
        that, in accordance with a production contract, owns, or will 
        own, an agricultural commodity that is produced by a contract 
        producer.
            ``(8) Contract producer.--The term `contract producer' 
        means a producer that produces an agricultural commodity under 
        a production contract.
            ``(9) Covered person.--The term `covered person' means a 
        dealer, handler, contractor, processor, or commission merchant.
            ``(10) Crop.--The term `crop' means an agricultural 
        commodity produced from a plant.
            ``(11) Dealer.--The term `dealer' means any person engaged 
        in the business of buying, selling, or marketing agricultural 
        commodities in interstate or foreign commerce.
            ``(12) Department.--The term `Department' means the 
        Department of Agriculture.
            ``(13) Handler.--The term `handler' means any person 
        engaged in the business or practice of--
                    ``(A) acquiring agricultural commodities from 
                producers or associations of producers for processing 
                or sale;
                    ``(B) grading, packaging, handling, storing, or 
                processing agricultural commodities received from 
                producers or associations of producers;
                    ``(C) contracting or negotiating contracts or other 
                arrangements, written or oral, with or on behalf of 
                producers or associations of producers with respect to 
                the production or marketing of any agricultural 
                commodity; or
                    ``(D) acting as an agent or broker for a handler in 
                the performance of any function or act described in 
                subparagraph (A), (B), or (C).
            ``(14) Investment requirement.--The term `investment 
        requirement' means a provision in a production contract that 
        requires a contract producer to make a capital investment 
        associated with producing an agricultural commodity that, but 
        for the production contract, the contract producer would not 
        have made.
            ``(15) Livestock.--The term `livestock' has the meaning 
        given the term in section 602 of the Agricultural Act of 1949 
        (7 U.S.C. 1471).
            ``(16) Marketing contract.--The term `marketing contract' 
        means a written agreement between a covered person and a 
        producer for the purchase of an agricultural commodity produced 
        or raised by the producer.
            ``(17) Person.--The term `person' includes an individual, 
        partnership, corporation, limited liability company, limited 
        partnership, or association.
            ``(18) Processor.--The term `processor' means--
                    ``(A) any person (other than an agricultural 
                cooperative) engaged in the business of handling, 
                preparing, or manufacturing (including slaughtering) an 
                agricultural commodity or the products of an 
                agricultural commodity for sale or marketing in 
                interstate or foreign commerce; and
                    ``(B) an agricultural cooperative that handles, 
                prepares, or manufactures (including slaughtering) 
                agricultural commodities of its members' own 
                production.
            ``(19) Produce.--The term `produce' means--
                    ``(A) to provide feed or services relating to the 
                care and feeding of livestock, including milking dairy 
                cattle and storing raw milk; or
                    ``(B) to plant, raise, harvest, and store a crop, 
                including preparing soil for planting and applying a 
                fertilizer, soil conditioner, or pesticide to a crop.
            ``(20) Producer.--The term `producer' means a person 
        engaged in the production of an agricultural commodity as a 
        farmer, planter, rancher, dairyman, poultryman, or fruit, 
        vegetable, or nut grower.
            ``(21) Production contract.--
                    ``(A) In general.--The term `production contract' 
                means a written agreement that provides for--
                            ``(i) the production of an agricultural 
                        commodity by a contract producer; or
                            ``(ii) the provision of a management 
                        service relating to the production of an 
                        agricultural commodity by a contract producer.
                    ``(B) Inclusions.--The term `production contract' 
                includes--
                            ``(i) a contract between a contractor and a 
                        contract producer for the production of an 
                        agricultural commodity; or
                            ``(ii) a contract between a contractor and 
                        a contract producer for the provision of a 
                        management service in the production of an 
                        agricultural commodity.
            ``(22) Secretary.--The term `Secretary' means the Secretary 
        of Agriculture.

                ``TITLE I--AGRICULTURAL TRADE PRACTICES

``SEC. 101. OFFICE OF SPECIAL COUNSEL FOR COMPETITION MATTERS.

    ``(a) Establishment.--
            ``(1) In general.--There is established within the 
        Department an office to be known as the `Office of Special 
        Counsel for Competition Matters'.
            ``(2) Duties.--The Office shall--
                    ``(A) investigate and prosecute violations of this 
                Act and the Packers and Stockyards Act, 1921 (7 U.S.C. 
                181 et seq.);
                    ``(B) serve as a liaison between, and act in 
                consultation with, the Department and the Department of 
                Justice and the Federal Trade Commission with respect 
                to competition and trade practices in the food and 
                agricultural sector; and
                    ``(C) maintain a staff of attorneys and other 
                professionals with the appropriate expertise.
    ``(b) Special Counsel for Competition Matters.--
            ``(1) In general.--The Office shall be headed by the 
        Special Counsel for Competition Matters, who shall be appointed 
        by the President, by and with the advice and consent of the 
        Senate.
            ``(2) Prosecutorial authority.--Notwithstanding title 28, 
        United States Code, the Special Counsel for Competition Matters 
        shall have the authority to bring any civil or administrative 
        action authorized under this Act or the Packers and Stockyards 
        Act, 1921 (7 U.S.C. 181 et seq.).

  ``TITLE II--PROHIBITIONS ON ANY UNFAIR, UNJUSTLY DISCRIMINATORY, OR 
  DECEPTIVE ACT, DEVICE, OR ANTI-COMPETITIVE PRACTICE IN AGRICULTURAL 
                                COMMERCE

``SEC. 201. PROHIBITIONS INVOLVING CROPS.

    ``(a) Prohibition on Any Unfair, Unjustly Discriminatory, or 
Deceptive Act, Device, or Anti-Competitive Practice.--Any unfair, 
unjustly discriminatory, or deceptive act, device, or anti-competitive 
practice in or affecting the marketing, receiving, purchasing, sale, or 
contracting for the production of any agricultural commodity by any 
covered person shall be unlawful.
    ``(b) Other Unlawful Acts.--It shall be unlawful for any covered 
person--
            ``(1) to make or give any undue or unreasonable preference 
        or advantage to any particular person or locality in any 
        respect, or subject any particular person or locality to any 
        undue or unreasonable prejudice or disadvantage in any respect;
            ``(2) to sell or otherwise transfer to or for any other 
        person, or buy or otherwise receive from or for any other 
        person, any article for the purpose or with the effect of 
        manipulating or controlling prices, or of creating a monopoly 
        in the acquisition of, buying, selling, or dealing in, any 
        article, or of restraining commerce;
            ``(3) to engage in any course of business or do any act for 
        the purpose or with the effect or manipulating or controlling 
        prices, or of creating a monopoly in the acquisition of, 
        buying, selling, or dealing in, any article, or of restraining 
        commerce;
            ``(4) to conspire, combine, agree, or arrange with any 
        other person--
                    ``(A) to apportion territory for carrying on 
                business;
                    ``(B) to apportion purchases or sales of any 
                article; or
                    ``(C) to manipulate or control prices; or
            ``(5) to conspire, combine, agree, or arrange with any 
        other person to do, or aid or abet the doing of, any act made 
        unlawful by paragraph (1), (2), (3), or (4).
    ``(c) Public Policy Considerations.--In determining whether an act, 
device, or anti-competitive practice described in subsection (a) is 
unfair, a court may consider whether--
            ``(1) a reasonable person would consider the act, device, 
        or practice unfair under the circumstances, whether or not the 
        act, device, or practice has previously been found unlawful; or
            ``(2) the act, device, or practice may violate standards 
        established by Federal or State law (including common law and 
        regulations).

``SEC. 202. PROHIBITIONS INVOLVING PRODUCER ASSOCIATIONS AND PRODUCTION 
              CONTRACTS.

    ``(a) Any Unlawful Act Involving Producer Associations and 
Production Contracts.--It shall be unlawful for any covered person--
            ``(1)(A) to interfere with, restrain, or coerce any 
        producer in the exercise of the right of the producer to join 
        and belong to, or to refrain from joining or belonging to, an 
        association of producers; or
            ``(B) to refuse to deal with any producer because of the 
        exercise of the right of the producer to join and belong to the 
        association;
            ``(2) to discriminate against any producer with respect to 
        price, quantity, quality, or other terms of purchase, 
        acquisition, or other handling of an agricultural commodity 
        because of the membership of the producer in, or the contract 
        of the producer with, an association of producers;
            ``(3) to coerce or intimidate any producer to enter into, 
        maintain, breach, cancel, or terminate a membership agreement 
        or marketing contract with an association of producers or a 
        contract with a covered person;
            ``(4) to pay or loan money, give any thing of value, or 
        offer any other inducement or reward to a producer for refusing 
        to or ceasing to belong to an association of producers;
            ``(5) to make false reports about the finances, management, 
        or activities of an association of producers or covered 
        persons;
            ``(6) to conspire, combine, agree, or arrange with any 
        other person to do, or aid or abet the performance of, any act 
        made unlawful by this Act;
            ``(7)(A) to interfere with the formation or administration 
        of any association of producers; or
            ``(B) to contribute financial or other support to an 
        association of producers; or
            ``(8) to fail to bargain in good faith with an association 
        of producers.
    ``(b) Any Unlawful Act in Production Contracts.--It shall be 
unlawful for a covered person that is a party to a production 
contract--
            ``(1) to fail to act in good faith with respect to the 
        performance and enforcement of the production contract;
            ``(2) to fail to include 1 or more cover pages that 
        disclose provisions of the production contract relating to--
                    ``(A) duration;
                    ``(B) termination;
                    ``(C) renewal and renegotiation standards;
                    ``(D) responsibility for environmental damage;
                    ``(E) factors to be used in determining payment;
                    ``(F) responsibility for obtaining and complying 
                with Federal, State, and local permits;
                    ``(G) assignability;
                    ``(H) the applicable State law and venue;
                    ``(I) the effect of oral modifications;
                    ``(J) remedies for breach;
                    ``(K) in the case of a livestock or poultry 
                production contract, the minimum number of animals 
                subject to the contract;
                    ``(L) other rules or provisions incorporated in the 
                contract by reference; and
                    ``(M) any other terms that the Secretary determines 
                to be appropriate for disclosure; or
            ``(3) to violate any of the requirements relating to 
        production contracts under section 204.
    ``(c) Public Policy Considerations.--In determining whether an act, 
device, or anti-competitive practice described in section 201(a), with 
respect to the production of an agricultural commodity, is unfair, a 
court may consider whether--
            ``(1) a reasonable person would consider the act, device, 
        or practice unfair under the circumstances, whether or not the 
        act, device, or practice has previously been found unlawful; or
            ``(2) the act, device, or practice may violate standards 
        established by Federal or State law (including common law and 
        regulations).

``SEC. 203. PRODUCTION CONTRACTS AND MARKETING CONTRACTS.

    ``(a) Confidentiality.--Any provision of a production contract or a 
marketing contract that requires that the production contract or 
marketing contract remain confidential is void, except as the provision 
applies to a trade secret to which section 552 of title 5, United 
States Code, applies.
    ``(b) Arbitration.--If a livestock or poultry contract or marketing 
contract provides for the use of arbitration to resolve a controversy 
under the livestock or poultry contract or marketing contract, 
arbitration may be used to settle the controversy only if, after the 
controversy arises, both parties consent in writing to use arbitration 
to settle the controversy.

``SEC. 204. PRODUCTION CONTRACTS.

    ``(a) Right of Contract Producers To Cancel Production Contracts.--
            ``(1) In general.--A contract producer may cancel a 
        production contract by mailing a cancellation notice to the 
        contractor not later than the later of--
                    ``(A) the date that is 3 business days after the 
                date on which the production contract is executed; or
                    ``(B) any cancellation date specified in the 
                production contract.
            ``(2) Disclosure.--A production contract shall clearly 
        disclose--
                    ``(A) the right of the contract producer to cancel 
                the production contract;
                    ``(B) the method by which the contract producer may 
                cancel the production contract; and
                    ``(C) the deadline for canceling the production 
                contract.
    ``(b) Production Contracts Involving Investment Requirements.--
            ``(1) Applicability.--This subsection applies only to a 
        production contract between a contract producer and a 
        contractor if, but for the production contract, the contract 
        producer would not have made a capital investment of $100,000 
        or more.
            ``(2) Restrictions on contract termination.--
                    ``(A) Notice of termination.--Except as provided in 
                subparagraph (C), a contractor shall not terminate or 
                cancel a production contract unless the contractor 
                provides the contract producer with written notice of 
                the intention of the contractor to terminate or cancel 
                the production contract at least 180 days before the 
                effective date of the termination or cancellation.
                    ``(B) Requirements.--The written notice required 
                under subparagraph (A) shall include alleged causes of 
                the termination.
                    ``(C) Exceptions.--A contractor may terminate or 
                cancel a production contract without notice as required 
                under subparagraph (A) if the basis for the termination 
                or cancellation is--
                            ``(i) a voluntary abandonment of the 
                        contractual relationship by the contract 
                        producer, such as a complete failure of the 
                        contract producer to perform under the 
                        production contract;
                            ``(ii) the conviction of the contract 
                        producer of an offense of fraud or theft 
                        committed against the contractor; or
                            ``(iii) the natural end of the production 
                        contract in accordance with the terms of the 
                        production contract.
                    ``(D) Right to cure.--
                            ``(i) In general.--If, not later than 180 
                        days after the date on which the contract 
                        producer receives written notice under 
                        subparagraph (A), the contract producer 
                        remedies each cause of the breach of contract 
                        alleged in the written notice, the contractor 
                        may not terminate or cancel a production 
                        contract under this paragraph.
                            ``(ii) No admission of breach.--The remedy 
                        or attempt to remedy the causes for the breach 
                        of contract by the contract producer under 
                        clause (i) does not constitute an admission of 
                        breach of contract.
    ``(c) Additional Capital Investments in Production Contracts.--
            ``(1) In general.--A covered person shall not require a 
        contract producer to make additional capital investments in 
        connection with a production contract that exceed the initial 
        investment requirements of the production contract.
            ``(2) Exceptions.--Notwithstanding paragraph (1), a covered 
        person may require additional capital investments if--
                    ``(A) the additional capital investments are offset 
                by reasonable additional consideration, including 
                compensation or a modification to the terms of the 
                production contract; and
                    ``(B) the contract producer agrees in writing that 
                there is acceptable and satisfactory consideration for 
                the additional capital investment.

``SEC. 205. AUTHORITY OF SECRETARY TO PROMULGATE RULES AND REGULATIONS.

    ``The Secretary, acting through the Special Counsel for Competition 
Matters, may promulgate such rules and regulations as are necessary to 
carry out this Act and the Packers and Stockyards Act, 1921 (7 U.S.C. 
181 et seq.), including rules and regulations--
            ``(1) relating to unfair, unjustly discriminatory, or 
        deceptive acts, devices, or anti-competitive practices in 
        agriculture;
            ``(2) that define with specificity any act, device, or 
        practice that is to be prohibited as unfair, unjustly 
        discriminatory, or any deceptive act, device, or anti-
        competitive practice in agriculture under section 201 or 202; 
        and
            ``(3) to prevent any unfair, unjustly discriminatory, or 
        deceptive act, device, or anti-competitive practice from 
        occurring in agriculture.

``SEC. 206. ENFORCEMENT.

    ``(a) Civil Actions by the Secretary Against Covered Persons.--In 
any case in which the Secretary has reasonable cause to believe that 
any covered person has engaged in any act or practice that violates 
this Act, the Secretary may bring a civil action in the United States 
district court of the jurisdiction of residence of the covered person 
by filing a complaint requesting preventive relief, including an 
application for a permanent or temporary injunction, restraining order, 
or other order, against the covered person.
    ``(b) Civil Actions Against Covered Persons.--
            ``(1) Preventive relief.--
                    ``(A) In general.--In any case in which any covered 
                person has engaged, or there are reasonable grounds to 
                believe that any covered person is about to engage, in 
                any act or practice prohibited by this Act, a civil 
                action for preventive relief, including an application 
                for a permanent or temporary injunction, restraining 
                order, or other order, may be instituted by the person 
                aggrieved in the United States district court of the 
                jurisdiction of residence of the aggrieved person.
                    ``(B) Security.--The court may provide that no 
                restraining order or preliminary injunction shall issue 
                unless security is provided by the applicant, in such 
                sum as the court determines to be appropriate, for the 
                payment of such costs and damages as may be incurred or 
                suffered by any party that is found to have been 
                wrongfully enjoined or restrained.
            ``(2) Damages.--
                    ``(A) In general.--Any person injured in the 
                business or property of the person by reason of any 
                violation of, or combination or conspiracy to violate, 
                this Act may bring a civil action in the United States 
                district court of the jurisdiction of residence of the 
                injured person or any State court of competent 
                jurisdiction to recover--
                            ``(i) damages sustained by the person as a 
                        result of the violation; and
                            ``(ii) any additional penalty that the 
                        court may allow, but not more than $1,000 per 
                        violation.
                    ``(B) Limitation on actions.--A civil action under 
                subparagraph (A) shall be barred unless commenced 
                within 4 years after the cause of action accrues.
            ``(3) Attorneys' fees.--In any action commenced under 
        paragraph (1) or (2), the court may allow the prevailing party 
        the costs of the litigation, including reasonable attorneys' 
        fees.
    ``(c) Jurisdiction of District Courts.--Not later than 4 years 
after the date on which a violation of this Act occurs, an action to 
enforce this Act may be brought in--
            ``(1) the United States district court of the jurisdiction 
        of residence of the aggrieved person, notwithstanding the fact 
        that an aggrieved person has not exhausted all administrative 
        or other remedies provided by law; or
            ``(2) any other court of competent jurisdiction in the 
        State of residence of the aggrieved person.
    ``(d) Choice of Law, Jurisdiction, and Venue.--
            ``(1) Choice of law.--Any provision in a production 
        contract requiring the application of the law of a State other 
        than the State in which the producer resides is void and 
        unenforceable.
            ``(2) Jurisdiction.--A covered person that enters into a 
        production contract with a producer shall be subject to 
        personal jurisdiction in the State in which the producer 
        resides.
            ``(3) Venue.--Venue shall be determined on the basis of the 
        residence of the producer.
    ``(e) Liability for Acts of Agents.--In the construction and 
enforcement of this Act, the act, omission, or failure of any officer, 
agent, or person acting for or employed by any other person within the 
scope of the employment or office of the officer, agent, or person, 
shall be considered to be the act, omission, or failure of the other 
person.

``SEC. 207. EFFECT ON OTHER LAWS.

    ``(a) State Laws.--
            ``(1) In general.--Subject to paragraph (2), this Act does 
        not annul, alter, or affect, or exempt any person subject to 
        this Act from complying with, the law of any State with respect 
        to trade practices in agriculture.
            ``(2) Exception.--
                    ``(A) In general.--This Act annuls, alters, or 
                affects, or exempts a person from, a State law referred 
                to in paragraph (1) to the extent the State law is 
                inconsistent with this Act.
                    ``(B) Inconsistency.--For the purposes of this 
                paragraph, a State law is not inconsistent with this 
                Act if the protection that the law affords any producer 
                is greater than the protection provided to a producer 
                by this Act.
    ``(b) State Courts.--This Act does not deprive a State court of 
jurisdiction under a State law dealing with the same subject as this 
Act.
    ``(c) Relationship to Other Laws.--The Packers and Stockyards Act, 
1921 (7 U.S.C. 181 et seq.) and the Perishable Agricultural Commodities 
Act, 1930 (7 U.S.C. 499a et seq.) shall control if there is a conflict 
between those Acts and section 206.

``SEC. 208. ASSIGNMENT OF ASSOCIATION DUES AND FEES.

    ``(a) In General.--A producer of an agricultural commodity or 
service may execute, as a clause in a production contract or a 
marketing contract, an assignment of dues or fees to, or the deduction 
of a sum to be retained by, an association of producers authorized by 
contract to represent the producer, under which assignment a covered 
person shall--
            ``(1) deduct a portion of the amount to be paid for 
        products or services of the producer under a production 
        contract or a marketing contract; and
            ``(2) pay, on behalf of the producer, the portion over to 
        the association as dues or fees or a sum to be retained by the 
        association.
    ``(b) Duty of Covered Person.--After a covered person receives 
notice from a producer of an assignment under subsection (a), the 
covered person shall--
            ``(1) deduct the amount authorized by the assignment from 
        the amount paid for any agricultural commodity sold by the 
        producer or for any service rendered under any production 
        contract or marketing contract; and
            ``(2) on payment to producers for the product or service, 
        pay the amount over to the association or the assignee of the 
        association.

``SEC. 209. SEVERABILITY.

    ``If any provision of this Act or application of any provision of 
this Act is held invalid, the remainder of this Act and the application 
of the provision to other persons and circumstances shall not be 
affected by the invalidity.''.

SEC. 432. APPLICATION.

    The amendment made by section 101 applies to any contract entered 
into on or after the date of enactment of this Act.

                         TITLE V--CONSERVATION

SEC. 501. CONSERVATION ACCESS INITIATIVE TO ENCOURAGE GREATER 
              PARTICIPATION BY SOCIALLY DISADVANTAGED FARMERS AND 
              RANCHERS IN CONSERVATION PROGRAMS.

    (a) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Socially disadvantaged group.--The term ``socially 
        disadvantaged group'' means a group of persons whose members 
        have been subjected to racial or ethnic prejudice because of 
        their identity as members of a group without regard to their 
        individual qualities.
            (2) Socially disadvantaged farmer or rancher.--The term 
        ``socially disadvantaged farmer or rancher'' means a farmer or 
        rancher who is a member of a socially disadvantaged group.
            (3) Eligible entity.--The term ``eligible entity'' means 
        any of the following:
                    (A) Any community-based organization, network, or 
                coalition of community-based organizations that--
                            (i) has demonstrated experience in 
                        providing agricultural education or other 
                        agriculturally related services to socially 
                        disadvantaged farmers or ranchers;
                            (ii) has provided to the Secretary of 
                        Agriculture documentary evidence of work with 
                        socially disadvantaged farmers or ranchers for 
                        not less than a five-year period preceding the 
                        submission of an application for assistance 
                        under this section; and
                            (iii) does not engage in activities 
                        prohibited under section 501(c)(3) of the 
                        Internal Revenue Code of 1986.
                    (B) An Indian tribe (as defined in section 4 of the 
                Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act 
                (25 U.S.C. 450b)) or a national tribal organization 
                that has demonstrated experience in providing 
                agriculture education or other agriculturally related 
                services to socially disadvantaged farmers or ranchers 
                in a region.
                    (C) An 1890 institution or 1994 institution (as 
                defined in section 2 of the Agricultural Research, 
                Extension, and Education Reform Act of 1998 (7 U.S.C. 
                7601)), including West Virginia State College.
                    (D) An Indian tribal community college or an Alaska 
                Native cooperative college.
                    (E) An Hispanic-serving institution (as defined in 
                section 1404 of the National Agricultural Research, 
                Extension, and Teaching Policy Act of 1977 (7 U.S.C. 
                3103)).
                    (F) Any other institution of higher education (as 
                defined in section 101 of the Higher Education Act of 
                1965 (20 U.S.C. 1001)) that has demonstrated experience 
                in providing agriculture education or other 
                agriculturally related services to socially 
                disadvantaged farmers or ranchers in a region.
    (b) Initiative.--With respect to all programs authorized or amended 
by this title, the Secretary of Agriculture shall establish a 
conservation initiative for socially disadvantaged farmers or ranchers. 
With respect to such programs that serve an Indian tribe, the Secretary 
shall be required to pay the costs of office space to carry out 
conservation functions authorized under this section.
    (c) Special Rule for Cost-Share Payments.--Notwithstanding the 
actual cost sharing requirements imposed by a program authorized or 
amended by this title, the Secretary of Agriculture may pay up to 100 
percent of the costs incurred by a socially disadvantaged farmer or 
rancher to participate in the program.
    (d) Outreach and Assistance.--The Secretary of Agriculture shall 
carry out an outreach and technical assistance program to encourage and 
assist socially disadvantaged farmers or ranchers to participate 
equitably in the full range of agricultural programs authorized or 
amended by this title.
    (e) Grants and Contracts.--The Secretary of Agriculture may make 
grants to, and enter into contracts and other agreements with, an 
eligible entity to provide information and technical assistance to 
socially disadvantaged farmers or ranchers so that they can participate 
equitably in the full range of agricultural programs authorized or 
amended by this title.
    (f) Relationship to Other Law.--The authority to carry out this 
section shall be in addition to any other authority provided in this or 
any other Act.
    (g) Funding.--The Secretary of Agriculture may reserve up to 10 
percent of the funds provided for a fiscal year for financial 
assistance under the conservation programs under subtitle D of title 
XII of the Food Security Act of 1985 (16 U.S.C. 3830 et seq.) to carry 
out this section.

SEC. 502. OTHER DIVERSITY PROVISIONS.

    Each conservation program would be amended in order to accomplish 
the following:
            (1) Increase funding and expand opportunities in the NRCS 
        Small Farm Initiative for socially disadvantaged farmers and 
        ranchers.
            (2) Global cost share across programs should be established 
        at or above 95 percent for socially disadvantaged farmers and 
        ranchers, and provisions should be adopted to allow up-front 
        payments to these farmers.
            (3) Catch up provisions including percentage set asides 
        should be provided to fill in gaps in support for socially 
        disadvantaged farmers and ranchers should be included to 
        provide assistance in key areas such as irrigation.

SEC. 503. CONSERVATION RESERVE PROGRAM.

    (a) Extension.--
            (1) Funding extension.--Section 1241(a) of the Food 
        Security Act of 1985 (16 U.S.C. 3841(a)) is amended--
                    (A) in the matter preceding paragraph (1), by 
                striking ``2007'' and inserting ``2013''; and
                    (B) in paragraph (1), by striking ``The'' and 
                inserting ``For each of fiscal years 2002 through 2013, 
                the''.
            (2) Conforming amendments.--Section 1231 of such Act (16 
        U.S.C. 3831) is amended--
                    (A) in subsection (a), by striking ``2007'' and 
                inserting ``2013'';
                    (B) in subsection (d), by striking ``2007'' and 
                inserting ``2013'';
                    (C) in subsection (e)(3), by striking ``2002'' and 
                inserting ``2008''; and
                    (D) in subsection (h)(1), by striking ``2007'' and 
                inserting ``2013''.
    (b) Eligible Land.--Section 1231(b) of such Act (16 U.S.C. 3831(b)) 
is amended--
            (1) by striking the period at the end of paragraph (1) and 
        inserting a semicolon;
            (2) by striking ``or'' at the end of paragraph (4)(C);
            (3) by striking the period at the end of paragraph (5) and 
        inserting ``; or''; and
            (4) by adding at the end the following new paragraphs:
            ``(6) marginal pasture land or hay land that is otherwise 
        ineligible, if the land is to be devoted to native vegetation 
        appropriate to the locale and--
                    ``(A) will provide suitable habitat for State or 
                federally listed threatened or endangered species or 
                species determined by the Secretary of the Interior to 
                be species of concern; or
                    ``(B) will contribute to the restoration of an 
                endangered ecosystem or rare and declining forest 
                ecosystem, as defined by the Secretary.''.
    (c) Enrollment Goals.--Section 1231(d) of such Act (16 U.S.C. 
3831(d)) is amended--
            (1) by striking ``The Secretary'' and inserting:
            ``(1) Acreage authorized.--The Secretary''; and
            (2) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
            ``(2) Enrollment goals.--For the period beginning on the 
        date of the enactment of this paragraph and ending on December 
        31, 2013, the Secretary shall establish a goal--
                    ``(A) to enroll not less than 7,000,000 acres of 
                eligible land, including land to be devoted to the 
                restoration of rare and declining forests, through the 
                continuous enrollment program and the conservation 
                reserve enhancement program; and
                    ``(B) to maintain enrollment of at least 7,800,000 
                acres in the Prairie Pothole Region National 
                Conservation Priority Area.''.
    (d) Contracts To Restore Rare and Declining Forests.--(d) Section 
1231(e)(2) of such Act (16 U.S.C. 3831(e)(2)) is amended by adding at 
the end the following new subparagraph:
                    ``(C) Rare and declining forests.--In the case of 
                land to be devoted to the restoration of rare and 
                declining forest ecosystems, as determined by the 
                Secretary, the Secretary may enter into contracts of 
                more than 15 years.''.
    (e) Balance of Natural Resource Purposes.--Section 1231(j) of such 
Act (16 U.S.C. 3831(j)) is amended--
            (1) by striking ``In determining'' and inserting the 
        following:
            ``(1) Equitable balance of conservation purposes.--In 
        determining'';
            (2) by striking the period at the end and inserting ``, but 
        need not balance all conservation purposes with respect to each 
        particular contract offer.''; and
            (3) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
            ``(2) Wildlife.--In considering the extent to which a 
        contract offer will achieve the conservation purposes of the 
        program related to wildlife habitat, the Secretary shall 
        consider the extent to which the contract offer will contribute 
        to increased populations of wildlife, including waterfowl, 
        nongame grassland birds and neotropical migrants, and assist in 
        the recovery of at-risk species.''.
    (f) Duties of Participants.--Section 1232(a) of such Act (16 U.S.C. 
3832(a)) is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (4)--
                    (A) by redesignating subparagraphs (A) and (B) as 
                subparagraphs (B) and (C), respectively; and
                    (B) by inserting before subparagraph (B), as so 
                redesignated, the following new subparagraph:
                    ``(A) approved vegetative cover shall not include 
                vegetative cover inappropriate to the locale;'';
            (2) by redesignating paragraphs (5) through (10) as 
        paragraphs (6) through (11), respectively;
            (3) by inserting after paragraph (4) the following new 
        paragraph:
            ``(5) to undertake appropriate management activities on the 
        land as needed throughout the term of the contract to achieve 
        the purposes of the conservation reserve program;''; and
            (4) in subparagraph (A)(i)(II) of paragraph (8), as so 
        redesignated, by inserting after ``may be conducted'' the 
        following: ``, taking into account grassland types and species, 
        location, weather conditions, and other factors that determine 
        to what extent harvesting and grazing activities will advance 
        the conservation purposes of the program''.
    (g) Conservation Plan.--Section 1232(b)(1) of such Act (16 U.S.C. 
3832(b)(1)) is amended--
            (1) in subparagraph (A), by striking ``; and'' and 
        inserting ``, including appropriate management activities 
        required by subsection (a)(5);'' and
            (2) by adding at the end the following new subparagraph:
                    ``(C) criteria for conducting any commercial use to 
                be permitted, including criteria for managed harvesting 
                and grazing specifying frequency, timing, number of 
                animal units, percentage of field, and other criteria 
                to ensure that managed harvesting and grazing advances 
                the conservation purposes of the program; and''.
    (h) Cost-Share and Management Assistance.--Section 1234(b) of such 
Act (16 U.S.C. 3834(b)) is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (1), by inserting before the period at the 
        end the following: ``, except that the Secretary shall pay 75 
        percent of the cost of establishing bottomland hardwood trees 
        and longleaf pine''; and
            (2) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
            ``(6) Management costs.--The Secretary shall pay 75 percent 
        of the cost of management activities, including the use of 
        prescribed fire, control of invasive species, and native 
        understory restoration on land devoted to trees, that are 
        required under a contract entered into under this subchapter, 
        subject to such limits as the Secretary may establish.''.
    (i) Acceptance of Contract Offers.--Section 1234(c)(3) of such Act 
(16 U.S.C. 3834(c)(3)) is amended--
            (1) by striking ``In determining'' and inserting the 
        following:
                    ``(A) Maximizing environmental benefits.--In 
                determining'';
            (2) by striking ``may'' and all that follows through ``take 
        into consideration'' and inserting ``shall take into 
        consideration'';
            (3) by striking ``benefits; and'' and inserting ``benefits. 
        The Secretary shall establish criteria for the acceptance of 
        contract offers that will maximize environmental benefits, 
        including criteria related to the characteristics of the land 
        that is the subject of the contract offer, its location, 
        proposed cover and proposed management practices.'';
            (4) by striking ``(B) establish'' and inserting the 
        following:
                    ``(B) Flexibility.--The Secretary may establish'';
            (5) by striking ``abated.'' and inserting ``abated, in 
        order to more effectively address specific State or regional 
        resource concerns and conservation priorities, including 
        restoration of rare and declining forest ecosystems.''; and
            (6) by adding at the end the following new subparagraph:
                    ``(C) Relationship to other conservation 
                programs.--In the enrollment of land in the 
                conservation reserve established under this subchapter, 
                the Secretary shall give a priority to land that cannot 
                produce comparable environmental benefits if maintained 
                in agricultural production and enrolled in the 
                environmental quality incentives program or other 
                program designed to assist producers in improving the 
                environmental performance of working agricultural 
                land.''.
    (j) Conservation Reserve Enhancement Program.--Section 1234(f)(1) 
of such Act is (16 U.S.C. 3834(f)) is amended by adding at the end the 
following new sentence: ``The Secretary may waive this payment 
limitation for persons participating in a conservation reserve 
enhancement program if the Secretary determines such a waiver is 
necessary to achieve the objectives of the conservation reserve 
enhancement program.''.

SEC. 504. REAUTHORIZATION OF AND INCREASED ENROLLMENT AUTHORITY FOR 
              GRASSLAND RESERVE PROGRAM.

    (a) Extension and Funding.--Section 1241(a) of the Food Security 
Act of 1985 (16 U.S.C. 3841(a)) is amended by striking paragraph (5) 
and inserting the following new paragraph:
            ``(5) For each of fiscal years 2002 through 2013, the 
        grassland reserve program under subchapter C of chapter 2.''.
    (b) Enrollment Goals and Limitation on Use of Rental Agreements.--
Section 1238N(b) of such Act (16 U.S.C. 3838N(b)) is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (1), by striking ``2,000,000 acres'' and 
        inserting ``10,000,000 acres''; and
            (2) by striking paragraph (3) and inserting the following 
        new paragraphs:
            ``(3) Limitation on use of rental agreements.--Of the total 
        number of acres enrolled in the program at any one time through 
        the methods described in paragraph (2)(A), not more than 30 
        percent of the acres shall be enrolled through the use of 
        rental agreements described in clause (i) of such paragraph.
            ``(4) Enrollment goal.--For the period beginning on the 
        date of the enactment of this paragraph and ending on December 
        31, 2013, the Secretary shall establish a goal to enroll not 
        less than 2,000,000 acres of native grasslands in the 
        program.''.
    (c) Enrollment of Conservation Reserve Program Land.--Section 1238N 
of such Act (16 U.S.C. 3838N) is amended by adding at the end the 
following new subsection:
    ``(d) Enrollment of Conservation Reserve Program Land.--
            ``(1) Enrollment authorized.--Subject to the eligibility 
        requirements of subsection (c) and all other requirements of 
        this subchapter, land enrolled in the conservation reserve 
        program may be enrolled in the grassland reserve program if the 
        Secretary determines that the land is of high ecological value 
        and under significant threat of conversion to other uses.
            ``(2) Maximum enrollment.--The enrollment of conservation 
        reserve program land under this subsection shall not exceed 50 
        percent of the total number of acres enrolled in the grassland 
        reserve program in a given fiscal year.
            ``(3) Prohibition on duplication of payments.--Land 
        enrolled in the grassland reserve program under this subsection 
        shall no longer be eligible for payments under the conservation 
        reserve program.''.
    (d) Equity for Pasture-Based Operations.--Section 1238N of such Act 
(16 U.S.C. 3838N) is further amended by inserting after subsection (d), 
as added by subsection (c), the following new subsection:
    ``(e) Equity for Pasture-Based Operations.--Consistent with the 
other requirements of the program, the Secretary shall implement the 
program in a manner that ensures that, to the greatest extent 
practicable, landowners operating pasture-based systems have an equal 
opportunity to enroll in the program.''.
    (e) Biodiversity.--Section 1238O of such Act (16 U.S.C. 3838o) is 
amended--
            (1) by redesignating subsections (d) and (e) as subsections 
        (e) and (f), respectively; and
            (2) by adding at the end the following new subsection:
    ``(f) Biodiversity.--In emphasizing support for biodiversity 
consistent with the requirements of subsection (c), the Secretary shall 
give priority to agreements and easements that protect and restore 
habitat for rare, threatened, endangered, and candidate species or 
further the goals and objectives of the State's comprehensive wildlife 
conservation strategy.''.
    (f) Special Grasslands Reserve Enhancement Program.--Section 1238P 
of such Act (16 U.S.C. 3838p) is amended by adding at the end the 
following new subsection:
    ``(e) Special Grasslands Reserve Enhancement Agreements.--
            ``(1) Agreements.--The Secretary may enter into a special 
        grasslands reserve enhancement agreement with a State under 
        which the Secretary will make payments to the State or 
        political subdivisions or agencies of the State to advance the 
        purposes of the grassland reserve program in the State.
            ``(2) Payment limitations.--Section 1305(d) of the Omnibus 
        Budget Reconciliation Act of 1987 (7 U.S.C. 1308 note; Public 
        Law 100-203) shall not apply to payments received by a State or 
        political subdivision or agency thereof in connection with an 
        agreement entered into under subsection (a).''.

SEC. 505. ENVIRONMENTAL QUALITY INCENTIVES PROGRAM.

    (a) Extension.--
            (1) Funding extension and increase.--Section 1241(a) of the 
        Food Security Act of 1985 (16 U.S.C. 3841(a)) is amended by 
        striking paragraph (6) and inserting the following new 
        paragraph:
            ``(6) The environmental quality incentives program under 
        chapter 4, using, to the maximum extent practicable--
                    ``(A) $1,400,000,000 in fiscal year 2008;
                    ``(B) $1,600,000,000 in fiscal year 2009;
                    ``(C) $1,800,000,000 in each of fiscal years 2010 
                and 2011; and
                    ``(D) $2,000,000,000 in fiscal year 2012.''.
            (2) Conforming amendments.--Chapter 4 of subtitle D of 
        title XII of such Act is amended--
                    (A) in section 1240B(a)(1) (16 U.S.C. 3839aa-
                2(a)(1)), by striking ``2007'' and inserting ``2012''; 
                and
                    (B) in subsection 1240G (16 U.S.C. 3839aa-7), by 
                striking ``2007'' and inserting ``2012''.
    (b) Demonstration of Structural and Land Management Practices.--
            (1) Eligibility.--Section 1240B(a)(2) of the Food Security 
        Act of 1985 (16 U.S.C. 3839aa-(a)(2)) is amended--
                    (A) by striking ``and'' at the end of subparagraph 
                (A);
                    (B) by striking the period at the end of 
                subparagraph (B) and inserting ``; and''; and
                    (C) by adding at the end the following new 
                subparagraph:
                    ``(C) a producer that demonstrates a structural or 
                land management practice, including project monitoring, 
                measurement, outreach, or education shall be eligible 
                to receive cost-share or incentive payments.''.
            (2) Conforming amendments.--(A) Section 1240(3) of such Act 
        (16 U.S.C. 3839aa(3)) is amended by striking ``and maintain'' 
        and inserting ``, maintain, and demonstrate''.
            (B) Section 1240F(1) of such Act (16 U.S.C. 3839aa-6(1)) is 
        amended by striking ``and implementing'' and inserting ``, 
        implementing, or demonstrating''.
    (c) Predator Deterrence.--Section 1240B(a) of the Food Security Act 
of 1985 (16 U.S.C. 3839aa-(a)) is amended by adding at the end the 
following paragraph:
            ``(3) Predator deterrence.--A producer that implements 
        practices or other measures as part of a system of proactive 
        predator deterrence for large carnivores, including the use of 
        range riders, removal of carcasses, and installation of 
        electric fencing around calving areas, shall be eligible to 
        receive cost-share or incentive payments under this chapter.''.
    (d) Bidding Down.--Section 1240B(c) of the Food Security Act of 
1985 (16 U.S.C. 3839aa-2(c)) is amended by inserting before the period 
at the end the following: ``, except that this prohibition does not 
relieve the Secretary of the obligation to ensure that cost-
effectiveness is prioritized in the evaluation of offers and payments, 
as provided by section 1240C(1)''.
    (e) Incentive Payment Rates.--Section 1240B(e) of the Food Security 
Act of 1985 (16 U.S.C. 3839aa-2(e)(2)) is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (1), by adding at the end the following 
        new sentence: ``The Secretary shall establish different rates 
        to accommodate variation in the cost of practices and product 
        value.''; and
            (2) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
            ``(3) Rates for component practices.--The Secretary shall 
        develop additional incentive payment rates for components of a 
        practice that promotes residue, nutrient, pest, invasive 
        species, or air quality management. The amount and rate of 
        incentive payments for a component practice shall be scaled 
        according to the anticipated level of impact of that practice 
        on the priority resource concerns, such that more advanced 
        management practices that yield greater environmental benefit 
        will receive higher payments.''.
    (f) Allocation of Funding.--Section 1240B(g) of the Food Security 
Act of 1985 (16 U.S.C. 3839aa-2(g)) is amended by adding at the end the 
following new sentence: ``When making initial allocations of funds to 
States to make cost-share and incentive payments under this chapter, 
the Secretary shall consider to what degree producers in each State are 
under pressure to comply with existing local, State, or Federal 
environmental regulations, or may have to comply with such regulations 
in the future.''.
    (g) Evaluation of Applications for Cost-Share Payments and 
Incentive Payments.--Section 1240C of the Food Security Act of 1985 (16 
U.S.C. 3839aa-3) is amended to read as follows:

``SEC. 1240C. EVALUATION OF APPLICATIONS FOR COST-SHARE PAYMENTS AND 
              INCENTIVE PAYMENTS.

    ``(a) Priorities and Criteria.--In evaluating applications for 
cost-share payments and incentive payments, the Secretary shall--
            ``(1) prioritize applications based on how effectively and 
        comprehensively designated resource concerns are addressed;
            ``(2) prioritize applications based on their overall level 
        of cost-effectiveness to ensure that the conservation 
        practices, systems, and approaches proposed are the most 
        efficient means of producing the proposed project's anticipated 
        environmental benefits;
            ``(3) reward higher levels of environmental performance, 
        such as advanced levels of management within management 
        practices; and
            ``(4) develop criteria for evaluating applications that 
        will ensure that national, State, and local conservation 
        priorities are effectively addressed.
    ``(b) Wildlife.--In evaluating applications for cost-share payments 
and incentive payments related to projects intended primarily to 
improve wildlife habitat, the Secretary, in addition to meeting the 
requirements of subsection (a), shall give priority to applications 
that protect and restore habitat for rare, threatened, endangered, and 
candidate species or further the goals and objectives of the State 
comprehensive wildlife conservation strategy.''.
    (h) Support for Program Plans.--Section 1240F of the Food Security 
Act of 1985 (16 U.S.C. 3839aa-6) is amended--
            (1) by striking ``and'' at the end of paragraph (1);
            (2) by striking the period at the end of paragraph (2) and 
        inserting ``; and''; and
            (3) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
            ``(3) developing partnerships with other agencies and 
        contracting with technical assistance providers to supplement 
        Department expertise and staffing capacity as necessary.''.
    (i) Conservation Innovation Grants.--Section 1240H of the Food 
Security Act of 1985 (16 U.S.C. 3839aa-8) is amended--
            (1) in subsection (a), by striking ``may'' and inserting 
        ``shall'';
            (2) in subsection (b)--
                    (A) by striking ``may'' and inserting ``shall'';
                    (B) in paragraph (2)--
                            (i) by striking ``and'' at the end of 
                        subparagraph (A); and
                            (ii) by adding at the end the following new 
                        subparagraph:
                    ``(C) alternative energy projects, such as solar 
                and wind power energy systems and conversion of 
                equipment to run on bio-fuels, to reduce greenhouse gas 
                emissions and reliance on fossil fuels in farm 
                operations;'';
                    (C) by striking the period at the end of paragraph 
                (3) and inserting ``; and''; and
                    (D) by adding at the end the following new 
                paragraph:
            ``(4) include a plan for technology transfer.'';
            (3) by adding at the end the following new subsections:
    ``(d) Technology Transfer.--To the maximum extent practicable, the 
Secretary shall ensure efficient, effective transfer of innovative 
technologies and approaches demonstrated through projects that receive 
funding under this section.
    ``(e) Funding.--Of the amounts made available under section 
1241(a)(6) to carry out this chapter, the Secretary shall use to carry 
out this section--
            ``(1) $40,000,000 for fiscal year 2008;
            ``(2) $50,000,000 for fiscal year 2009;
            ``(3) $60,000,000 for fiscal year 2010; and
            ``(4) $75,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2011 and 
        2012.''.
    (j) Funding Under Ground and Surface Water Conservation Program.--
Section 1240I of the Food Security Act of 1985 (16 U.S.C. 3839aa-9) is 
amended by striking subsection (c) and inserting the following new 
subsection:
    ``(b) Funding.--The Secretary shall use $100,000,000 of the funds 
of the Commodity Credit Corporation to carry out this section for each 
of fiscal years 2008 through 2012. These funds are in addition to 
amounts made available under section 1241(a)(6) to carry out this 
chapter.''.
    (k) Air Quality Improvement and Performance Incentives for 
States.--Chapter 4 of subtitle D of title XII of such Act is amended by 
adding at the end the following new sections:

``SEC. 1240J. AIR QUALITY IMPROVEMENT.

    ``(a) Availability of Cost-Share Payments and Incentive Payments.--
In carrying out this chapter, the Secretary shall promote air quality 
by providing cost-share payments and incentive payments to individual 
producers to address air quality concerns associated with agriculture.
    ``(b) Eligible Practices, Cost-Share.--
            ``(1) Reduction of emissions of criteria pollutants and 
        airborne toxins.--In addition to practices eligible for cost-
        share payments under this chapter, the Secretary shall provide 
        cost-share payments to producers under this section for mobile 
        or stationary equipment, including engines, used in an 
        agricultural operation that will reduce emissions of criteria 
        pollutants and airborne toxins.
            ``(2) Considerations.--In evaluating applications for cost-
        share assistance for equipment described in paragraph (1), the 
        Secretary shall prioritize assistance for equipment that--
                    ``(A) is the most cost-effective in addressing air 
                quality concerns; and
                    ``(B) will assist producers in meeting State or 
                local regulatory requirements related to air quality.
    ``(c) Locations.--In order for producers to receive payments under 
this section, a project must be located in a county--
            ``(1) that is in non-attainment for ambient air quality 
        standards for ozone, particulate matter, or both;
            ``(2) in which there is air quality degradation, recognized 
        by a State or local regulating agency, to which agricultural 
        emissions significantly contribute; or
            ``(3) in which the Secretary determines that pesticide 
        drift is a priority concern.
    ``(d) Priority.--The Secretary shall give priority to projects 
that--
            ``(1) involve multiple producers implementing eligible 
        conservation activities in a coordinated way to promote air 
        quality; or
            ``(2) are designed to encourage broad adoption of 
        innovative approaches, including approaches involving the use 
        of innovative technologies and integrated pest management, so 
        long as the technologies do not have the unintended consequence 
        of compromising other environmental goals.
    ``(e) Funding.--
            ``(1) Amounts.--The Secretary shall use funds of the 
        Commodity Credit Corporation to carry out this section in the 
        following amounts:
                    ``(A) $25,000,000 for fiscal year 2008;
                    ``(B) $45,000,000 for fiscal year 2009;
                    ``(C) $60,000,000 for fiscal year 2010;
                    ``(D) $75,000,000 for fiscal year 2011; and
                    ``(E) $100,000,000 for fiscal year 2012.
            ``(2) Relation to other funds.--The funds made available 
        under paragraph (1) are in addition to amounts made available 
        under section 1241(a)(6) to carry out this chapter.

``SEC. 1240K. PERFORMANCE INCENTIVES FOR STATES.

    ``(a) High Level of Performance Bonus.--For each of fiscal years 
2008 through 2012, 20 percent of the funds made available under this 
chapter shall be reserved by the Secretary for bonus allocations to 
States that demonstrate a high level of performance in implementing the 
environmental quality incentives program.
    ``(b) Special Considerations.--In evaluating State performance 
under subsection (a), the Secretary shall reward States that--
            ``(1) consistently meet the requirements of section 1240C 
        in evaluating offers and payments;
            ``(2) dedicate a portion of their annual environmental 
        quality incentives program allocation to multi-producer 
        cooperative efforts to address specific resource concerns;
            ``(3) demonstrate effective and efficient program delivery, 
        including the provision of adequate technical assistance to all 
        program participants through appropriate staffing and through 
        cooperation with other Federal, State, Tribal, and local 
        agencies, for-profit and nonprofit organizations, and 
        individuals with demonstrated expertise in the planning and 
        implementation of conservation practices, systems, and 
        approaches;
            ``(4) collaborate with other Federal and State agencies, 
        local governments, educational institutions, and for-profit and 
        nonprofit organizations to evaluate the environmental outcomes 
        associated with implementation of the environmental quality 
        incentives program;
            ``(5) ensure broad participation in State Technical 
        Committees; and
            ``(6) ensure that priorities established at the State level 
        are effectively addressed by local work groups.''.

SEC. 506. REAUTHORIZATION OF AND INCREASED FUNDING FOR WILDLIFE HABITAT 
              INCENTIVE PROGRAM.

    (a) Extension and Funding.--Section 1241(a)(7) of the Food Security 
Act of 1985 (16 U.S.C. 3841(a)(7)) is amended by striking subparagraphs 
(A) through (D) and inserting the following new subparagraphs:
                    ``(A) $85,000,000 in fiscal year 2007;
                    ``(B) $100,000,000 in fiscal year 2008;
                    ``(C) $140,000,000 in fiscal year 2009;
                    ``(D) $200,000,000 in each of fiscal years 2010 and 
                2011; and
                    ``(E) $300,000,000 in each of fiscal years 2012 and 
                2013.''.
    (b) Funding Set-Aside for Long-Term Agreements.--Section 
1240N(b)(2) of such Act (16 U.S.C. 3839bb-1(b)(2)) is amended by 
striking subparagraph (B) and inserting the following:
                    ``(B) Funds for long-term agreements.--To the 
                maximum extent practicable, the Secretary shall use 25 
                percent of the funds made available under section 
                1241(a)(7) for a fiscal year to carry out during that 
                fiscal year contracts and agreements described in 
                subparagraph (A).''.
    (c) Incentive Payments and Program Priorities.--Section 1240N of 
such Act (16 U.S.C. 3839bb-1) is amended by adding at the end the 
following new subsection:
    ``(d) Incentive Payments and Program Priorities.--
            ``(1) Priorities.--In carrying out this section, the 
        Secretary shall give priority to agreements and contracts that 
        will--
                    ``(A) protect or restore habitat for a federally or 
                State-listed rare, threatened, endangered, and 
                candidate species; or
                    ``(B) further the goals and objectives of a State's 
                comprehensive wildlife conservation strategy.
            ``(2) Incentive payments for certain agreements and 
        applications.--In a case in which the Secretary enters into an 
        agreement or contract described in paragraph (1), the Secretary 
        may provide incentive payments to landowners under the 
        agreement or contract, including the cost of management 
        activities needed during the term of the agreement or 
        contract.''.
    (d) Fish Habitat.--Section 1240N of such Act (16 U.S.C. 3839bb-1) 
is further amended by inserting after subsection (d), as added by 
subsection (c), the following new subsection:
    ``(e) Development of Fish Habitat.--
            ``(1) Purposes of cost-share payments.--Subsection 
        (b)(1)(D) authorizes the Secretary to make cost-share payments 
        to landowners to develop fish habitat. The development of fish 
        habitat using such cost-share payments may include activities--
                    ``(A) to protect streamside areas, including 
                through the installation of riparian fencing and 
                improved stream crossings;
                    ``(B) to repair in-stream habitat;
                    ``(C) to improve water flows and water quality, 
                including through channel restoration;
                    ``(D) to initiate watershed management and planning 
                in areas in which streams are in a degraded condition 
                due to past agricultural or forestry practices; and
                    ``(E) to undertake other types of stream habitat 
                improvement approved by the Secretary.
            ``(2) Priority projects.--When considering applications 
        describing projects to protect or restore fish habitat, the 
        Secretary shall give priority to applicants who will use the 
        cost-share payments to carry out a project--
                    ``(A) to remove a small dam or in-stream structure;
                    ``(B) to improve fish passage, including through 
                culvert repair and maintenance;
                    ``(C) to protect streamside areas;
                    ``(D) to improve water flows, including through 
                irrigation efficiency improvements; or
                    ``(E) to improve in-stream flow quality or timing 
                or temperature regimes.
            ``(3) Priority for projects including upland 
        improvements.--In addition to the priority projects described 
        in paragraph (2), to ensure that projects intended to protect 
        or restore fish habitat also address the causes of stream 
        habitat degradation, the Secretary shall give priority among 
        applications describing such projects to applicants who 
        demonstrate that upland improvements associated with the stream 
        habitat improvement, including erosion and nutrient management 
        have been, or will be, carried out.''.

SEC. 507. INTEGRATED PEST MANAGEMENT INITIATIVE.

    (a) Initiative Required.--The Secretary of Agriculture shall 
implement an integrated pest management initiative in priority areas 
identified by the Secretary pursuant to subsection (b) for the purpose 
of assisting agricultural producers operating in a priority area to 
comply with pest management regulations and alleviate the need for 
additional regulations regarding pest management activities.
    (b) Identification of Priority Areas.--
            (1) Identification.--The Secretary of Agriculture shall 
        identify priority areas where the adoption by agricultural 
        producers of integrated pest management practices and 
        approaches offers the greatest potential benefit to producers 
        seeking to comply with pest management regulations and 
        alleviate the need for additional regulations regarding pest 
        management activities. At a minimum, priority areas shall 
        include agricultural lands dominated by the production of 
        specialty crops and agricultural lands where agricultural pest 
        management activities are regulated for the purpose of 
        mitigating specific impacts to human health or the environment, 
        such as an area in which pollutants exceed authorized total 
        maximum daily load or an air quality non-attainment area.
            (2) Consultation.--The Secretary shall identify priority 
        areas in consultation with the Environmental Protection Agency, 
        the United States Geological Service, the United States Fish 
        and Wildlife Service, agricultural producers, appropriated 
        State agencies, and other interested persons.
    (c) Activities in Priority Areas.--
            (1) Expedited approval of management practices.--The 
        Secretary of Agriculture shall develop the best-available 
        integrated pest management practices for the primary 
        agricultural commodities and significant pests in each priority 
        area identified under subsection (b) and expedite approval of 
        these practices for implementation by agricultural producers.
            (2) Improved evaluation of management plans.--The Secretary 
        shall develop and make available criteria to enable staff of 
        the Natural Resources Conservation Service and agricultural 
        producers operating in priority areas identified under 
        subsection (b) to effectively compare pest management plans, 
        considering relative risks and potential benefits to multiple 
        resources of concern, including air, surface water, ground 
        water, bees and other pollinators, wildlife, and worker safety.
            (3) Technical assistance.--The Secretary may enter in 
        cooperative agreements, memorandums of understanding, and 
        contracts for services with technical service providers, other 
        agencies, and non-Federal organizations, as necessary, to 
        assist in providing technical assistance regarding integrated 
        pest management planning and implementation to producers 
        operating in priority areas identified under subsection (b).
            (4) Marketing.--The Secretary may market the availability 
        of integrated pest management tools and training to 
        agricultural producers in the priority areas identified under 
        subsection (b).
            (5) Program integration.--The Secretary shall set goals for 
        integrating the integrated pest management initiative with the 
        environmental quality incentives program established under 
        chapter 4 of subtitle D of title XII of the Food Security Act 
        of 1985 (16 U.S.C. 3839aa et seq.) and other conservation 
        programs in each priority area identified under subsection (b), 
        including indicators of the extent to which these programs fund 
        integrated pest management practices and the extent to which 
        supported integrated pest management practices reduce pesticide 
        use and risk.
    (d) Annual Report.--The Secretary of Agriculture shall submit to 
Congress an annual report on the integrated pest management initiative, 
including progress in meeting the program integration goals set under 
subsection (c)(5).
    (e) Funding.--The Secretary of Agriculture may use funds provided 
for the conservation security program and environmental quality 
incentives program under subtitle D of title XII of the Food Security 
Act of 1985 (16 U.S.C. 3830 et seq.) to implement the integrated pest 
management initiative.

SEC. 508. VALUE ADDED FUNDING AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE.

    Socially disadvantaged farmers and ranchers have not been able to 
take advantage of grant funding under the existing value added 
competitive grant program. Adding on-farm value to existing farm 
products is critical to these largely small-scale and diverse producers 
in order to expand their access to new and emerging markets. The 
existing value added program will be amended to provide for legislative 
set asides of at least 10 percent targeted to socially disadvantaged 
farmers and ranchers in a national pool with a peer review process 
similar to that used in the cooperative development program. Increased 
fund should be provided for the program. These funds should also 
prioritize projects benefiting small and mid-sized growers.

                     TITLE VI--HEALTHY FOOD CHOICES

SEC. 601. FINDINGS.

    Congress finds the following:
            (1) Fruits and vegetables offer consumers a healthy and 
        nutritious product that is recognized as critical to the 
        prevention of heart disease, stroke, and some cancers and other 
        chronic diseases, the reduction of obesity and diabetes, and 
        the maintenance of overall good health.
            (2) Proper nutrition is critical in promoting good health, 
        preventing disease, and improving quality of life.
            (3) Agriculture policies and related domestic and 
        international nutrition assistance programs should support 
        incentives and key strategies that help Americans reach 
        national health goals and ultimately reduce health care costs.

SEC. 602. REAUTHORIZATION OF AND INCREASED FUNDING FOR COMMUNITY FOOD 
              PROJECT COMPETITIVE GRANTS.

    (a) Authority To Provide Assistance.--Section 25(b) of the Food 
Stamp Act of 1977 (7 U.S.C. 2034(b)) is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (1) by striking ``From amounts made 
        available to carry out this Act, the Secretary may'' and 
        inserting ``The Secretary shall''; and
            (2) by striking paragraph (2) and inserting the following:
            ``(2) Funding amounts.--From amounts made available to 
        carry out this Act, the Secretary shall use $30,000,000 for 
        each of fiscal years 2008 through 2013 to make grants under 
        this section.''.
    (b) Preference for Certain Projects.--Section 25(d) of the Food 
Stamp Act of 1977 (7 U.S.C. 2034(d)) is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (3) by striking ``or'' at the end;
            (2) in paragraph (4) by striking the period at the end and 
        inserting ``; or'' ; and
            (3) by adding at the end the following:
            ``(5) serve special project needs in areas of--
                    ``(A) transportation and processing for expanding 
                institutional and emergency food service demand for 
                local food;
                    ``(B) retail access to healthy foods in underserved 
                markets;
                    ``(C) integration of urban and metro-area food 
                production in food projects; and
                    ``(D) technical assistance for youth, socially 
                disadvantaged individuals, and limited resource 
                groups.''.
    (c) Matching Funds Requirements.--Section 25(e)(1) of the Food 
Stamp Act of 1977 (7 U.S.C. 2034(e)(1)) is amended by striking ``50'' 
and inserting ``75''.
    (d) Term of Grant.--Section 25(f)(2) of the Food Stamp Act of 1977 
(7 U.S.C. 2034(f)(2)) is amended by striking ``3'' and inserting ``5''.
    (e) Funding.--Section 25(h)(4) of the Food Stamp Act of 1977 (7 
U.S.C. 2034(h)(4)) is amended--
            (1) by striking ``fiscal years 2003 through 2007'' and 
        inserting ``fiscal years 2008 through 2013''; and
            (2) by striking ``$200,000'' and inserting ``$500,000''.

SEC. 603. EXPANSION OF FRESH FRUIT AND VEGETABLE PROGRAM.

    Section 18 of the Richard B. Russell National School Lunch Act (42 
U.S.C. 1769) is amended in subsection (g)--
            (1) in paragraph (1)--
                    (A) in the matter preceding subparagraph (A), by 
                striking ``July 2004'' and inserting ``July 2007''; and
                    (B) by amending subparagraphs (A) and (B) to read 
                as follows:
                    ``(A) 100 elementary or secondary schools in each 
                State;
                    ``(B) additional elementary or secondary schools in 
                each State in proportion to the student population of 
                the State; and'';
            (2) in paragraph (3)(A), by striking ``paragraph (1)(B)'' 
        and inserting ``paragraph (1)'';
            (3) in paragraph (5), in each of subparagraphs (A) and (B), 
        by striking ``2008'' and inserting ``2011''; and
            (4) in paragraph (6)(B)--
                    (A) in clause (i)--
                            (i) by striking ``October 1, 2004, and on 
                        each October 1 thereafter,'' and inserting 
                        ``October 1, 2007, and on each October 1 
                        thereafter,''; and
                            (ii) by striking ``$9,000,000'' and 
                        inserting ``$300,000,000''; and
                    (B) by adding at the end the following:
                            ``(iii) Administrative expenses.--For 
                        fiscal year 2008 and each succeeding fiscal 
                        year, of the amount available to carry out this 
                        subsection, the Secretary may reserve not more 
                        than 1 percent of that amount for 
                        administrative expenses in carrying out this 
                        subsection.
                            ``(iv) State administrative costs.--For 
                        fiscal year 2008 and each succeeding fiscal 
                        year, of the amount received by a State to 
                        carry out this subsection, the State may use 
                        not more than 5 percent of that amount for 
                        administrative expenses in carrying out this 
                        subsection. To be eligible to use such funds 
                        for such expenses, the State must submit to the 
                        Secretary a plan indicating how the State 
                        intends to use such funds.
                            ``(v) Federal requirements.--The Secretary 
                        shall establish requirements to be followed by 
                        States in administering this subsection. The 
                        initial set of requirements shall be 
                        established not later than 1 year after the 
                        date of the enactment of this clause.''.

SEC. 604. AUTHORIZATION LEVEL FOR FARM-TO-CAFETERIA ACTIVITIES.

    Section 18 of the Richard B. Russell National School Lunch Act (42 
U.S.C. 1769) is amended in subsection (i)(2) by striking ``such sums as 
are necessary'' and all that follows through the period at the end and 
inserting ``to carry out this subsection $20,000,000 for each of fiscal 
years 2008 through 2013.''.

SEC. 605. EXTENSION OF WIC FARMERS' MARKET NUTRITION PROGRAM.

    Section 17(m)(9)(A) of the Child Nutrition Act of 1966 (42 U.S.C. 
1786(m)(9)(A)) is amended--
            (1) in clause (i), by striking ``2009'' and inserting 
        ``2013''; and
            (2) by striking clause (ii) and inserting the following:
                            ``(ii) Mandatory funding.--Of the funds of 
                        the Commodity Credit Corporation, the Secretary 
                        shall make available to carry out this 
                        subsection $20,000,000 for fiscal year 2008, 
                        $30,000,000 for fiscal year 2009, $45,000,000 
                        for fiscal year 2010, $60,000,000 for fiscal 
                        year 2011, and not less than $75,000,000 for 
                        fiscal year 2012 and each fiscal year  
                        thereafter. Such funds shall remain available 
                        until expended.''.

SEC. 606. SENIOR FARMERS' MARKET NUTRITION PROGRAM.

    Section 4402 of the Farm Security and Rural Investment Act of 2002 
(7 U.S.C. 3007) is amended--
            (1) in subsection (a) by striking ``$5,000,000'' and all 
        that follows through ``2007'', and inserting ``$20,000,000 for 
        fiscal year 2008, $30,000,000 for fiscal year 2009, $45,000,000 
        for fiscal year 2010, $60,000,000 for fiscal year 2011, and not 
        less than $75,000,000 for fiscal year 2012 and each fiscal year 
        thereafter'';
            (2) in subsection (b)--
                    (A) in paragraph (2) by striking ``and'' at the 
                end,
                    (B) in paragraph (3) by striking the period at the 
                end and inserting ``; and'', and
                    (C) by adding at the end the following:
            ``(4) to promote the transition to organic and other 
        environmentally beneficial food production systems.''; and
            (3) by adding at the end the following new subsection:
    ``(d) Eligible Participants; Benefit Levels.--The regulations 
required by subsection (c)--
            ``(1) shall allow for participation by farmers' markets, 
        and roadside stands, community supported agriculture programs; 
        and
            ``(2) shall not limit the ability of State or regional 
        programs to set benefit levels per individual senior.''.

SEC. 607. FARMERS' MARKET PROMOTION PROGRAM.

    Section 6 of the Farmer-to-Consumer Direct Marketing Act of 1976 (7 
U.S.C. 3005) is amended by striking subsections (d) and (e) and 
inserting the following:
    ``(d) Criteria and Guidelines.--
            ``(1) In general.--The Secretary shall establish criteria 
        and guidelines for the submission, evaluation, and funding of 
        proposed projects under the Program.
            ``(2) Priority.--The Secretary shall prioritize for funding 
        projects that will support, encourage, or promote the 
        transition to organic and other environmentally beneficial 
        forms of agricultural production.
    ``(e) Funding.--The Secretary shall use $25,000,000 of funds of the 
Commodity Credit Corporation to carry out this section in each of the 
fiscal years 2008 through 2013, of which $5,000,000 shall be used to 
support the use of electronic benefit transfers at farmers' markets.''.

SEC. 608. DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE AND DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE 
              PROCUREMENT OF LOCALLY PRODUCED AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTS.

    (a) Findings.--Congress finds the following:
            (1) Locally procured agricultural products, as compared to 
        products transported from distant sources--
                    (A) are often harvested closer to full ripeness and 
                can have higher nutritional quality;
                    (B) can have improved ripeness, taste, or 
                selection, which can increase rates of consumption of 
                agricultural products; and
                    (C) are more efficient to store, distribute, and 
                package.
            (2) Use of local produce--
                    (A) reduces dependence upon foreign oil by reducing 
                fuel consumption rates associated with the production 
                or transportation of agricultural products;
                    (B) can help to improve the ability of those using 
                the procurement system to provide education on 
                nutrition, farming, sustainability, energy efficiency, 
                and the importance of local purchases to the local 
                economy;
                    (C) helps to maintain a robust logistics network 
                for agricultural product procurement; and
                    (D) promotes farm, business, and economic 
                development by accessing local markets.
            (3) Section 9(j) of the Richard B. Russell National School 
        Lunch Act (42 U.S.C. 1758(j)) directs the Secretary of 
        Agriculture to encourage institutions participating in the 
        school lunch program established under that Act and the school 
        breakfast program established by section 4 of the Child 
        Nutrition Act of 1966 (42 U.S.C. 1773) to purchase, in addition 
        to other food purchases, locally produced foods, to the maximum 
        extent practicable and appropriate.
    (b) Department of Defense Geographic Procurement Preference.--
Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the Department of Defense 
may use a geographic preference to purchase locally produced 
agricultural products for--
            (1) the Defense Supply Center Philadelphia;
            (2) the Department of Defense Farm to School Program;
            (3) the Department of Defense Fresh Fruit and Vegetable 
        Program;
            (4) the service academies;
            (5) Department of Defense domestic dependant schools;
            (6) other Department of Defense schools under chapter 108 
        of title 10, United States Code;
            (7) commissary and exchange stores; and
            (8) morale, welfare, and recreation facilities operated by 
        the Department of Defense
    (c) Department of Agriculture and Related Entities Geographic 
Procurement Preference.--Notwithstanding any other provision of law, 
the Department of Agriculture, schools, local educational agencies, and 
other entities may use a geographic preference to purchase locally 
produced agricultural products for--
            (1) the school breakfast program established by section 4 
        of the Child Nutrition Act of 1966 (42 U.S.C. 1773);
            (2) the school lunch program established under the Richard 
        B. Russell National School Lunch Act (42 U.S.C. 1751 et seq.);
            (3) the summer food service program for children 
        established under section 13 of the Richard B. Russell National 
        School Lunch Act (42 U.S.C. 1761); and
            (4) the child and adult care food program established under 
        section 17 of the Richard B. Russell National School Lunch Act 
        (42 U.S.C. 1766).
    (d) Addition of Geographic Preference.--In the case of the purchase 
of agricultural products for a program or entity described in 
subsection (b) or (c), the local food service director or other entity 
making the purchase may include the geographic preference provided by 
such subsections in bid specifications and may select a bid involving 
locally produced agricultural products, even if that bid is not the 
lowest bid.
    (e) Reporting.--A school, local educational agency, or other entity 
participating in one or more of the programs described in subsection 
(c) shall report to the Secretary of Agriculture if the school, local 
educational agency, or other entity pays more than 10 percent more than 
the lowest bid to purchase locally produced agricultural products in 
accordance with this section.
    (f) Review.--The Secretary of Defense and the Secretary of 
Agriculture shall periodically review the use of the geographic 
preference provided by this section to prevent fraud or abuse.

SEC. 609. FRUIT AND VEGETABLE NUTRITION PROMOTION PROGRAM.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary of Agriculture, acting through the 
Administrator of the Agricultural Marketing Service, shall establish 
and carry out a program to provide assistance to eligible trade 
organizations described in subsection (c) to increase the consumption 
of fruits and vegetables in the United States to meet Federal health 
guidelines.
    (b) Requirements for Participation.--To be eligible for assistance 
under this section, an organization shall--
            (1) be an eligible trade organization;
            (2) prepare and submit a plan to increase the consumption 
        of fruits and vegetables in the United States to the 
        Administrator of the Agricultural Marketing Service that meets 
        any guidelines governing such plans established by the 
        Administrator; and
            (3) meet any other requirements established by the 
        Administrator.
    (c) Eligible Trade Organizations.--An eligible trade organization 
under this section shall be--
            (1) a nonprofit fruit and vegetable trade organizations in 
        the United States;
            (2) a nonprofit State or regional fruit and vegetable 
        organization;
            (3) a fruit and vegetable agricultural cooperative in the 
        United States;
            (4) a commodity board or commission in the United States; 
        or
            (5) a small business engaged in the fruit and vegetable 
        industry in the United States.
    (d) Matching Funds.--Assistance provided under this section shall 
not exceed--
            (1) in the case of an organization described in paragraphs 
        (1) through (4) of subsection (c), 90 percent of the cost of 
        the plan to increase the consumption of fruits and vegetables 
        in the United States submitted under subsection (b)(2); and
            (2) in the case of an organization described in subsection 
        (c)(5), 50 percent of the cost of the plan to increase the 
        consumption of fruits and vegetables in the United States 
        submitted under subsection (b)(2).
    (e) Funding.--Of the funds available to the Commodity Credit 
Corporation, the Administrator of the Agricultural Marketing Service 
shall use $100,000,000 in each of fiscal years 2008 through 2011 to 
carry out this section.

SEC. 610. USE OF ``DIETARY GUIDELINES FOR AMERICANS'' IN SPECIAL 
              NUTRITION PROGRAMS AND SCHOOL LUNCH PROGRAMS.

    Section 9(a) of the Richard B. Russell National School Lunch Act 
(42 U.S.C. 1758(a)) is amended by adding at the end the following:
            ``(5) Allocations to be based on dietary guidelines.--For 
        school year 2007 and each school year thereafter, the Secretary 
        shall ensure that allocations of food and food ingredients 
        offered in school nutrition programs under this Act and the 
        Child Nutrition Act of 1966 (42 U.S.C. 1771 et seq.) are based 
        on the most recent Dietary Guidelines for Americans.''.

SEC. 611. SECTION 32 SPECIALTY CROP PURCHASES.

    (a) Minimum Level of Purchases.--Section 32 of the Act of August 
24, 1935 (7 U.S.C. 612c) is amended in the sixth sentence by inserting 
after ``and their products'' the following: ``, and, for each of fiscal 
years 2008 through 2012, the Secretary of Agriculture shall devote not 
less than $400,000,000 of sums appropriated under this section to 
purchases of non-basic agricultural commodities, such as fruits, 
vegetables, and other specialty food crops''.
    (b) Expansion of DOD Fresh Program.--Such section is further 
amended by inserting after the sixth sentence, as amended by subsection 
(a), the following new sentence: ``Of the funds specified in the 
preceding sentence, the Secretary of Agriculture shall expend not less 
than $50,000,000 for fiscal year 2008, $75,000,000 for both fiscal 
years 2009 and 2010, $100,000,000 for fiscal year 2011, and 
$125,000,000 for fiscal year 2012 for the purchase of fresh fruits and 
vegetables for distribution to schools and service institutions in 
accordance with section 6(a) of the Richard B. Russell National School 
Lunch Act (42 U.S.C. 1755(a)).''.

SEC. 612. ADMINISTRATION OF FOOD STAMP PROGRAM.

    Section 11(e)(1)(A) of the Food Stamp Act of 1977 (7 U.S.C. 
2020(e)(1)(A) is amended by inserting ``, and provide food stamp 
nutrition education'' after ``program''.

         TITLE VII--PROMOTION OF NEW MARKETS AND FARM VIABILITY

SEC. 701. NATIONAL ORGANIC CERTIFICATION AND TRANSITION COST SHARE 
              PROGRAM.

    Section 10606 of the Farm Security and Rural Investment Act of 2002 
(7 U.S.C. 6523) is amended to read as follows:

``SEC. 10606. NATIONAL ORGANIC CERTIFICATION AND TRANSITION COST SHARE 
              PROGRAM.

    ``(a) In General.--Of the funds of the Commodity Credit 
Corporation, the Secretary of Agriculture (acting through the Natural 
Resources Conservation Service) shall use $80,000,000 for each of 
fiscal years 2008 through 2013 to establish a national organic 
certification and transition cost-share program to assist producers and 
handlers of agricultural products in obtaining certification under the 
national organic production program established under the Organic Foods 
Production Act of 1990 (7 U.S.C. 6501 et seq.) and to assist producers 
and handlers in making the transition to organic production under the 
such program.
    ``(b) Certification Costs.--
            ``(1) In general.--The Secretary shall pay under this 
        section a portion of the costs incurred by a producer or 
        handler in obtaining certification under the national organic 
        production program, as certified to and approved by the 
        Secretary.
            ``(2) Maximum amount.--The amount of a payment made to a 
        producer or handler for certification under this section shall 
        be $750 per year.
            ``(3) Funding.--Of the funds made available under 
        subsection (a), the Secretary (acting through the Agricultural 
        Marketing Service) shall use $25,000,000 for each of the fiscal 
        years 2008 through 2013 to share up to 75 percent of the cost 
        of certification.
    ``(c) Accreditation and Enforcement Costs.--Of the funds made 
available under subsection (a), the Secretary (acting through the 
Agricultural Marketing Service) shall use $5,000,000 for each of the 
fiscal years 2008 through 2013 to fund the accreditation and 
enforcement programs operated by the National Organic Program to 
implement the accreditation and enforcement provisions of the Organic 
Foods Production Act of 1990.
    ``(d) Reimbursements for Infrastructure Necessary To Implement 
Organic Practice Standards.--
            ``(1) Establishment.--Not later than 180 days after the 
        date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall 
        establish a program to reimburse producers and handlers for the 
        costs of transition to organic production.
            ``(2) Program.--Under the program established under 
        paragraph (1), the Secretary (acting through the Natural 
        Resources Conservation Service) shall use $50,000,000 for each 
        of the fiscal years 2008 through 2013 to assist producers and 
        handlers developing and implementing infrastructure and 
        practices necessary to transition land and animals to meet the 
        requirements of the Organic Food Production Act of 1990.
            ``(3) Plan submission.--The Secretary may only reimburse a 
        producer or handler under this section if the producer or 
        handler submits to the Secretary an organic transition plan 
        that contains the expected costs for infrastructure and 
        practices, the environmental and economic benefits derived from 
        the infrastructure or implementing organic practice standards, 
        and a demonstration of the existence of a market or the 
        reasonable expectation of a future market for the products to 
        be produced or handled.
            ``(4) Appropriate infrastructure and practice standards.--
        The Secretary shall only reimburse producers and handlers under 
        this subsection for the costs of the following:
                    ``(A) Organic practices and activities during 
                transition to certified organic production consistent 
                with an approved plan to transition to certified 
                organic production.
                    ``(B) Farm infrastructure necessary to implement 
                organic practice standards, including livestock 
                watering facilities and fencing, so long as such 
                infrastructure is consistent with an approved plan to 
                transition to certified organic production.
                    ``(C) Organic livestock welfare measures, so long 
                as such infrastructure or practices and activities are 
                necessary to implement an organic practice standard and 
                are consistent with an approved plan to transition to 
                certified organic production.
                    ``(D) Advanced organic practices consistent with 
                approved certified organic production.
                    ``(E) Technical assistance, including the costs of 
                developing an approved transition plan under this 
                section.
                    ``(F) Other measures the Secretary, after 
                consultation with the National Organic Standards Board, 
                determines are appropriate.
            ``(5) Organic transition technical advice.--The Secretary 
        shall consult with the National Organic Standards Board 
        regarding the elements of an approved organic transition plan 
        and to identify and recommend ways that the Secretary may 
        generally use the resources provided for programs under 
        subtitle D of title XII of the Food Security Act of 1985 (16 
        U.S.C. 3830 et seq.) to facilitate transition to organic 
        production, including the resources provided by the 
        Environmental Quality Incentives Program and the Conservation 
        Security Program.
            ``(6) Maximum amount for transition reimbursement.--Except 
        as provided in (A) and (B), the maximum amount of reimbursement 
        paid to a producer or handler for transition to organic 
        production under this section shall be $10,000 per fiscal year.
                    ``(A) Specialty crops.--In the case of an 
                individual or entity who annually produces three or 
                more types of specialty crops, the individual or entity 
                may not receive, directly or indirectly, cost-share or 
                incentive payments under this section that, in the 
                aggregate, exceed $20,000 per year, for a period not to 
                exceed four years.
                    ``(B) Dairy.--In the case of an individual or 
                entity whose principal farming enterprise is dairy, the 
                individual or entity may not receive, directly or 
                indirectly, cost-share or incentive payments under this 
                section that, in the aggregate, exceed $20,000 per 
                year, for a period not to exceed four years.
            ``(7) Eligible fiscal years.--A producer or handler may 
        only receive payments--
                    ``(A) in four fiscal years; and
                    ``(B) after the first payment, in the fiscal year 
                in which such payment was made and the three subsequent 
                fiscal years.
            ``(8) Transition reimbursements.--A certified organic 
        producer or handler under the national organic production 
        program shall be eligible for reimbursements to make the 
        transition to organic production for new lands and livestock.
            ``(9) Suspension authority.--To ensure orderly and 
        continued growth in organic farming--
                    ``(A) prior to each fiscal year and no later than 
                October 1st of each year, the Secretary shall publish 
                organic commodity specific assessments analyzing the 
                domestic production and consumption, import and export 
                organic market demand and growth potential for each 
                organic commodity and the anticipated number and total 
                amount of new reimbursements for the following year 
                affecting each commodity; and
                    ``(B) the Secretary shall not enroll new producers 
                under this subsection if, for any particular 
                agricultural commodity, any new producers would produce 
                an increased amount of that agricultural commodity that 
                the Secretary finds is reasonably anticipated to affect 
                the continuing economic viability of farmers currently 
                certified under the national organic production program 
                or would create unreasonable geographic disparities in 
                the distribution of reimbursements provided under this 
                section.
            ``(10) Appeals.--An applicant seeking transition assistance 
        under this section has the right to appeal an adverse decision 
        by Secretary with regard to an application for assistance, as 
        provided in section 275 of the Department of Agriculture 
        Reorganization Act of 1994 (7 U.S.C. 6995).
    ``(e) Technical and Educational Assistance.--Of the funds made 
available under subsection (a) for a fiscal year, the Secretary shall 
use not less than $15,000,000 to provide technical and educational 
assistance to producers and handlers to carry out this section, 
including entering into cooperative agreements with qualified entities 
to implement the transition to organic production.
    ``(f) Reporting.--Not later than March 1 of each year, the 
Secretary shall submit to Congress and the National Organic Standards 
Board a report detailing State-by-State expenditures on certification, 
including the number of producers and handlers served by the program, 
and State-by-State expenditures on transition assistance, including the 
number of producers and handlers served by the program, the practices 
implemented, an assessment of the impacts of the program on organic 
production, and recommended reforms, if any.''.

            TITLE VIII--RURAL REGIONAL INVESTMENT INITIATIVE

SEC. 801. RURAL REGIONAL INVESTMENT INITIATIVE.

    (a) Definition of Eligible Area.--Section 385B of the Consolidated 
Farm and Rural Development Act (7 U.S.C. 2009dd-1) is amended by 
striking paragraph (3) and inserting the following:
            ``(3) Eligible area.--The term `eligible area' means a 
        nonmetropolitan county that, based on information contained in 
        the 2000 decennial census, has a population that resides in 
        areas more than 50 percent of which are classified as rural by 
        the Secretary.''.
    (b) Composition of Regional Boards.--Section 385C(b)(2)(A) of the 
Consolidated Farm and Rural Development Act (7 U.S.C. 2009dd-
2(b)(2)(A)) is amended by striking clauses (vi) and (vii) and inserting 
the following:
                            ``(vi) academic institutions, including 
                        community colleges;
                            ``(vii) faith-based organizations;
                            ``(viii) other entities and organizations, 
                        as determined by the Regional Board; and
                            ``(ix) consortia of entities and 
                        organizations described in clauses (i) through 
                        (viii).''.
    (c) Composition of National Board on Rural America.--Section 
385D(b)(1)(A) of the Consolidated Farm and Rural Development Act (7 
U.S.C. 2009dd-3(b)(1)(A)) is amended by striking clauses (iv) through 
(vii) and inserting the following:
                            ``(iv) representatives of State and local 
                        governments;
                            ``(v) representatives of the rural 
                        philanthropic community;
                            ``(vi) representatives of Indian tribes (as 
                        defined in section 4 of the Indian Self-
                        Determination and Education Assistance Act (25 
                        U.S.C. 450b));
                            ``(vii) representatives of nonprofit 
                        organizations;
                            ``(viii) representatives of academic 
                        institutions, including community colleges; and
                            ``(ix) representatives of such other 
                        entities or organizations as the Secretary 
                        considers to be appropriate.''.
    (d) Amount of Grants.--Section 385E of the Consolidated Farm and 
Rural Development Act (7 U.S.C. 2009dd-4) is amended--
            (1) in subsection (a), by striking ``$100,000,000'' and 
        inserting ``$200,000,000 each year''; and
            (2) in subsection (b)--
                    (A) in the matter before paragraph (1), by 
                inserting ``each year'' after ``shall use'';
                    (B) in paragraph (1), by striking ``$8,000,000'' 
                and inserting ``$20,000,000'';
                    (C) in paragraph (2)--
                            (i) by striking ``$87,000,000'' and 
                        inserting ``$135,000,000''; and
                            (ii) by striking ``and'' at the end;
                    (D) by redesignating paragraph (3) as paragraph 
                (4); and
                    (E) by inserting after paragraph (2) the following:
            ``(3) not less than $40,000,000 to carry out section 385I; 
        and''.
    (e) Rural Strategic Investment Planning Grants.--Section 385F of 
the Consolidated Farm and Rural Development Act (7 U.S.C. 2009dd-5) is 
amended--
            (1) by striking subsection (c) and inserting the following:
    ``(c) Preferences.--In awarding planning grants, the National Board 
shall give a preference to planning grants that will be used--
            ``(1) to address community capacity building and community 
        sustainability;
            ``(2) to incorporate other Federal agency development 
        plans; or
            ``(3) to leverage available public and private assets.''; 
        and
            (2) in subsection (d), by striking ``$100,000'' and 
        inserting ``$250,000''.
    (f) Innovation Grants.--Section 385G of the Consolidated Farm and 
Rural Development Act (7 U.S.C. 2009dd-6) is amended--
            (1) in subsection (a), by inserting ``to be administered by 
        the Office of Rural Development'' after ``innovation grants'';
            (2) in subsection (d)(7), by inserting ``, including 
        poverty alleviation'' before the period at the end; and
            (3) in subsection (e)--
                    (A) by redesignating paragraph (4) as paragraph 
                (5); and
                    (B) by inserting after paragraph (3) the following:
            ``(4) Non-federal organizations.--A Regional Board may 
        select 1 or more non-Federal organizations to manage and use 
        innovation grants approved and awarded under this section.''.

SEC. 802. RURAL REGIONAL ENTREPRENEURSHIP PROGRAM.

    Subtitle I of the Consolidated Farm and Rural Development Act (7 
U.S.C. 2009dd et seq.) is amended by adding at the end the following:

``SEC. 385I. RURAL REGIONAL ENTREPRENEURSHIP PROGRAM.

    ``(a) Definition of Rural Entrepreneur.--The term `rural 
entrepreneur' means a microentrepreneur, or prospective 
microentrepreneur--
            ``(1) the principal place of business of which is in an 
        eligible area; and
            ``(2) that is unable to obtain sufficient training, 
        technical assistance, or microcredit elsewhere, as determined 
        by the Secretary.
    ``(b) Program.--The Secretary shall establish a rural regional 
entrepreneurship program under which the Secretary shall provide grants 
to stimulate rural entrepreneurship and provide technical assistance, 
research, and evaluation to rural entrepreneurs.
    ``(c) Block Grants.--
            ``(1) In general.--From amounts made available under 
        subsection (f), the Secretary shall use $15,000,000 for each 
        fiscal year to make block grants to States in accordance with 
        this subsection.
            ``(2) Amount of grant.--A grant to a State under this 
        subsection for any fiscal year shall be in an amount that is, 
        as determined by the National Board--
                    ``(A) not more than $400,000; and
                    ``(B) not less than $200,000.
            ``(3)  Cost share.--To be eligible to receive a grant under 
        this subsection, a State shall match any grant funds received 
        under this subsection with an equal or greater amount of non-
        Federal funds.
            ``(4) Use of funds.--A State shall use funds received under 
        this subsection to support multi-county entrepreneurship 
        development systems focused on eligible areas in consultation 
        with the RUPRI Center for Rural Entrepreneurship.
    ``(d) Competitive Regional Entrepreneurship Grants.--
            ``(1) In general.--From amounts made available under 
        subsection (f), the Secretary shall--
                    ``(A) transfer $15,000,000 for each fiscal year to 
                the National Board to make regional entrepreneurship 
                grants to rural entrepreneurs through a competitive 
                application process; and
                    ``(B) use at least $10,000,000 to make grants to 
                successful applicants identified as regional 
                intermediaries under subsection (e)(3).
            ``(2) Administration.--The Under Secretary for Rural 
        Development shall administer grants under this subsection.
    ``(e) Center for Rural Entrepreneurship.--
            ``(1) In general.--From amounts made available under 
        subsection (f), the Secretary shall transfer $10,000,000 for 
        each fiscal year to the RUPRI Center for Rural Entrepreneurship 
        (referred to in this subsection as the `Center') for use in 
        accordance with this subsection.
            ``(2) Research, evaluation, and data collection and 
        analysis.--
                    ``(A) In general.--Of the amount transferred to the 
                Center under paragraph (1), the Center shall use 
                $5,000,000 for each fiscal year to carry out research, 
                evaluation, and data collection and analysis programs, 
                of which not less than $500,000 for each fiscal year 
                shall be used to enter into contracts, in accordance 
                with a national research agenda approved by the 
                National Board, with each of--
                            ``(i) the regional rural development 
                        centers described in section 1670(a) of the 
                        Food, Agriculture, Conservation, and Trade Act 
                        of 1990 (7 U.S.C. 5923(a)); and
                            ``(ii) the Economic Research Service.
                    ``(B) Coordination and focus of programs.--The 
                programs carried out under this paragraph shall--
                            ``(i) be coordinated by the Center across a 
                        broad range of higher education institutions 
                        and research organizations; and
                            ``(ii) focus on providing insights and 
                        creating opportunities for sustained 
                        entrepreneurship development in rural areas of 
                        the United States.
            ``(3) Regional intermediaries.--Of the amount transferred 
        to the Center under paragraph (1), the Center shall use 
        $4,000,000 for each fiscal year to establish and maintain a 
        nationwide network of regional intermediaries with the capacity 
        and tools--
                    ``(A) to provide effective entrepreneurship 
                development information, training, and technical 
                assistance to rural regions and communities in the 
                United States; and
                    ``(B) to enhance the effectiveness of organizations 
                that provide direct technical assistance and training 
                services to rural entrepreneurs.
            ``(4) Management activities and reports.--Of the amount 
        transferred to the Center under paragraph (1), the Center shall 
        use $1,000,000 for each fiscal year--
                    ``(A) to enhance and sustain the capacity and 
                ability of the Center to direct and manage the programs 
                and activities described in paragraphs (1), (2), and 
                (3); and
                    ``(B) to submit--
                            ``(i) to the National Board, an annual 
                        report that describes those programs and 
                        activities carried out during the year covered 
                        by the report; and
                            ``(ii) to the Secretary, an annual report 
                        that describes the state of entrepreneurship in 
                        the United States during the year covered by 
                        the report.
            ``(5) Availability of funds; contracts.--
                    ``(A) Availability of funds.--Funds made available 
                under this subsection shall remain available until 
                expended, including for any purpose under this section.
                    ``(B) Contracts.--Each contract entered into by the 
                Center and an individual or entity shall be based on 
                the performance of the individual or entity.
    ``(f) Funding.--Of funds made available under section 385E(b)(3), 
for each of fiscal years 2008 through 2012, the Secretary shall use to 
carry out this section $40,000,000, to remain available until 
expended.''.

                          TITLE IX--NUTRITION

SEC. 901. RENAMING THE FOOD STAMP PROGRAM.

    (a) Amendment.--Section 3(h) of the Food Stamp Act of 1977 (7 
U.S.C. 2012(h)) is amended by striking ``Food stamp program'' and 
inserting ``Secure Nutrition Access Program''.
    (b) References.--Any reference to the food stamp program iin any 
law, regulation, document, paper, or other record of the United States 
shall be deemed to be a reference to the Secure Nutrition Access 
Program.

                 Subtitle A--Improving Benefit Adequacy

SEC. 911. STRENGTHENING THE FOOD PURCHASING POWER OF LOW-INCOME 
              AMERICANS.

    Section 5(e)(1) of the Food Stamp Act of 1977 (7 U.S.C. 2014(e)(1)) 
is amended--
            (1) in subparagraph (A)(ii) by striking ``not less than 
        $134'' and all that follows to the end of the clause and 
        inserting the following: ``not less than--
                                    ``(I) for fiscal year 2008, $150, 
                                $256, $212, and $132, respectively;
                                    ``(II) for fiscal year 2009, $170, 
                                $291, $240, and $150, respectively;
                                    ``(III) for fiscal year 2010, $180, 
                                $308, $254, and $159, respectively;
                                    ``(IV) for fiscal year 2011, $201, 
                                $344, $284, and $177, respectively; and
                                    ``(V) for each fiscal year 
                                thereafter, an amount that is equal to 
                                the amount from the previous fiscal 
                                year adjusted to the nearest lower 
                                dollar increment to reflect changes in 
                                the Consumer Price Index for all urban 
                                consumers published by the Bureau of 
                                Labor Statistics, for items other than 
                                food, for the twelve months ending the 
                                preceding June 30.''; and
            (2) in subparagraph (B)(ii) by striking ``not less than 
        $269.'' and inserting the following: ``not less than--
                                    ``(I) for fiscal year 2008, $301;
                                    ``(II) for fiscal year 2009, $341;
                                    ``(III) for fiscal year 2010, $361;
                                    ``(IV) for fiscal year 2011, $404; 
                                and
                                    ``(V) for each fiscal year 
                                thereafter, an amount that is equal to 
                                the amount from the previous fiscal 
                                year adjusted to the nearest lower 
                                dollar increment to reflect changes in 
                                the Consumer Price Index for all urban 
                                consumers published by the Bureau of 
                                Labor Statistics, for items other than 
                                food, for the twelve months ending the 
                                preceding June 30.''.

SEC. 912. SUPPORTING WORKING FAMILIES WITH CHILD CARE EXPENSES.

    Section 5(e)(3)(A) of the Food Stamp Act of 1977 (7 U.S.C. 
2014(e)(3)(A)) is amended by striking ``, the maximum allowable level 
of which shall be $200 per month for each dependent child under 2 years 
of age and $175 per month for each other dependent,''.

SEC. 913. EXCLUSION OF COMBAT-RELATED MILITARY PAY FROM COUNTABLE 
              INCOME.

    Section 5(d) of the Food Stamp Act of 2007 (7 U.S.C. 2014(d)) is 
amended--
            (1) by striking `` and (18)'', and inserting ``(18)'', and
            (2) by inserting before the period at the end the 
        following:
``and (19) any additional payment received under chapter 5 of title 37, 
United States Code, by a member of the United States Armed Forces 
deployed to a designated combat zone for the duration of the member's 
deployment if the additional pay is the result of deployment to or 
while serving in a combat zone, and it was not received immediately 
prior to serving in the combat zone''.

SEC. 914. INCREASING THE MINIMUM BENEFIT.

    Section 8(a) of the Food Stamp Act of 1977 (7 U.S.C. 2017(a)) is 
amended by striking ``be $10 per month.'' and inserting ``be--
            ``(1) for fiscal year 2008, 10 percent of the thrifty food 
        plan for a household containing one member, as determined by 
        the Secretary under section 3(o);
            ``(2) for fiscal year 2009, 13 percent of the thrifty food 
        plan for a household containing one member, as determined by 
        the Secretary under section 3(o);
            ``(3) for fiscal year 2010, 15 percent of the thrifty food 
        plan for a household containing one member, as determined by 
        the Secretary under section 3(o);
            ``(4) for fiscal year 2011, 18 percent of the thrifty food 
        plan for a household containing one member, as determined by 
        the Secretary under section 3(o);
            ``(5) for fiscal year 2012 and each fiscal year thereafter, 
        20 percent of the thrifty food plan for a household containing 
        one member, as determined by the Secretary under section 
        3(o).''.

 Subtitle B--Improving Food Security and Simplifying Program Operations

SEC. 921. ALLOWABLE COUNTABLE RESOURCES.

    Section 5(g) of the Food Stamp Act of 1977 (7 U.S.C. 2014(g)) is 
amended--
            (1) by striking ``(g)(1) The Secretary'' and inserting the 
        following:
    ``(g) Allowable Financial Resources.--
            ``(1) Total amount.--
                    ``(A) In general.--The Secretary'';
            (2) in subparagraph (A) (as designated by paragraph (1))--
                    (A) by striking ``$2,000'' and inserting ``$3,700 
                (as adjusted in accordance with subparagraph (B))''; 
                and
                    (B) by striking ``$3,000'' and inserting ``$5,500 
                (as adjusted in accordance with subparagraph (B))''; 
                and
            (3) by adding at the end the following:
                    ``(B) Adjustment for inflation.--
                            ``(i) In general.--Beginning on October 1, 
                        2008, and each October 1 thereafter, the 
                        amounts in subparagraph (A) shall be adjusted 
                        to the nearest $100 increment to reflect 
                        changes for the 12-month period ending the 
                        preceding June in the Consumer Price Index for 
                        All Urban Consumers published by the Bureau of 
                        Labor Statistics of the Department of Labor.
                            ``(ii) Requirement.--Each adjustment under 
                        clause (i) shall be based on the unrounded 
                        amount for the prior 12-month period.''.

SEC. 922. EXCLUSION OF RETIREMENT ACCOUNTS FROM COUNTABLE FINANCIAL 
              RESOURCES.

    (a) Accounts.--Section 5(g)(2)(B)(v) of the Food Stamp Act of 1977 
(7 U.S.C. 2014(g)(2)(B)(v)) is amended by striking ``or retirement 
account (including an individual account)'' and inserting ``account''.
    (b) Mandatory and Discretionary Exclusions.--Section 5(g) of the 
Food Stamp Act of 1977 (7 U.S.C. 2014(g)) is amended by adding at the 
end the following:
            ``(7) Exclusion of retirement accounts from countable 
        financial resources.--
                    ``(A) Mandatory exclusions.--The Secretary shall 
                exclude from financial resources under this subsection 
                the value of any funds in a plan, contract, or account, 
                described in sections 401(a), 403(a), 403(b), 408, 
                408A, 457(b), and 501(c)(18) of the Internal Revenue 
                Code of 1986 and the value of funds in a Federal Thrift 
                Savings Plan account as provided in section 8439 of 
                title 5, United States Code.
                    ``(B) Discretionary exclusions.--The Secretary may 
                exclude from financial resources under this subsection 
                the value of any other retirement plans, contracts, or 
                accounts (as determined by the Secretary through 
                regulation).''.

SEC. 923. EXCLUSION OF EDUCATION ACCOUNTS FROM COUNTABLE FINANCIAL 
              RESOURCES.

    Section 5(g) of the Food Stamp Act of 1977 (7 U.S.C. 2014(g), as 
amended by section 922, is amended by adding at the end the following:
            ``(8) Exclusion of education accounts from countable 
        financial resources.--
                    ``(A) Mandatory exclusions.--The Secretary shall 
                exclude from financial resources under this subsection 
                the value of any funds in a qualified tuition program 
                described in section 529 of the Internal Revenue Code 
                of 1986 or in a Coverdell education savings account 
                under section 530 of that Code.
                    ``(B) Discretional exclusions.--The Secretary may 
                exclude from financial resources under this subsection 
                the value of any other education programs, contracts, 
                or accounts (as determined by the Secretary through 
                regulation.''.

SEC. 924. SIMPLIFYING WORK REQUIREMENT.

    Section 6(o) of the Food Stamp Act of 1977 (7 U.S.C. 2015(o)) is 
amended--
            (1) in paragraph (1)(C) by deleting ``, other than a job 
        search program or a job search training program'';
            (2) in paragraph (2)--
                    (A) by striking ``36'' and replacing it with 
                ``12''; and
                    (B) by striking ``3'' and replacing it with ``6''; 
                and
            (3) by striking paragraph (5) and inserting:
            ``(5) Subsequent eligibility.--Individuals denied 
        eligibility under paragraph (2) shall regain eligibility to 
        participate in the food stamp program if the State agency 
        determines, pursuant to standards promulgated by the Secretary, 
        that the individuals have been supporting themselves through 
        work. An otherwise eligible individual who regains eligibility 
        under this provision may participate as long as the State 
        agency expects the individual to qualify under paragraph (3), 
        (4), or (6) and for an additional six-month period when such 
        individual does not comply with such paragraphs.''.

SEC. 925. FAIRNESS FOR LEGAL IMMIGRANTS.

    Notwithstanding sections 401(a), 402(a), and 403(a) of the Personal 
Responsibility and Work Opportunity Reconciliation At of 1996 (8 U.S.C. 
1611(a), 1612(a), 1613(a)) and section 6(f) of the Food Stamp Act of 
1977 (7 U.S.A. 2015(f)), persons who are lawfully residing in the 
United States shall be not be ineligible for food stamps on the basis 
of their immigration status or date of entry into the United States.

SEC. 926. CLARIFYING ELIGIBILITY.

    Section 421 of the Personal Responsibility and Work Opportunity 
Reconciliation At of 1996 (8 U.S.C. 1631(d)(3)) is amended --
            (1) by striking ``to the extent that a qualified alien is 
        eligible under section 1612(a)(2)(J) of this title.'' and
            (2) inserting, ``to the extent that a child is a member of 
        the food stamp household.''.

SEC. 927. ENSURING PROPER SCREENING.

    Section 11(e)(2)(B) of the Food Stamp Act of 1977 (7 U.S.C. 
2020(e)(2)(B)) is amended--
            (1) by redesignating clauses (vi) and (vii) as clauses 
        (vii) and (viii); and
            (2) by inserting after clause (v) the following:
                            ``(vi) shall provide a method for 
                        implementing of section 421 of the Personal 
                        Responsibility and Work Opportunity 
                        Reconciliation At of 1996 (8 U.S.C. 1631) that 
                        does not require any unnecessary information 
                        from persons who may be exempt from that 
                        provision;''.

SEC. 928. CLARIFICATION OF SIMPLIFIED ADMINISTRATIVE REPORTING 
              REQUIREMENT.

    Section 11(a) of the Food Stamp Act of 1977 (7 U.S.C. 2020(a)) is 
amended by adding at the end ``The administrative reporting requirement 
under 8 U.S.C. 1631(e)(2) shall be satisfied by the submission of an 
aggregate report on the numbers of such exceptions granted each 
year.''.

Subtitle C--Connecting Eligible Families and Individuals to Food Stamps

SEC. 931. FACILITATING SIMPLIFIED REPORTING.

    Section 6(c) of the Food Stamp Act of 1977 (7 U.S.C. 2015(c)(1)(A)) 
is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (1)(A), by--
                    (A) striking ``reporting by'' and inserting 
                ``reporting'';
                    (B) inserting ``for periods shorter than four 
                months by'' after the clause designations in clauses 
                (i) and (ii); and
                    (C) inserting ``by'' after the clause designation 
                in clause (iii);
            (2) in paragraph (3), by--
                    (A) striking ``Reports required to be filed monthly 
                under paragraph (1)'' and inserting ``Except as 
                provided in paragraph (1)(D)(ii), periodic reports 
                filed under paragraph (1)'';
                    (B) striking ``required to be filed monthly'';
                    (C) striking ``subject matter included in such 
                reports'' and inserting ``such households''; and
                    (D) inserting after the third sentence the 
                following: ``The State agency shall not be required to 
                act on information about such household received from 
                any source between such periodic reports unless the 
                information clearly indicates that the household is not 
                eligible, subject to standards established by the 
                Secretary, or the household requests an increase in 
                benefits.''.

SEC. 932. STATE OPTION FOR TELEPHONIC SIGNATURE.

    Section 11(e)(2)(C) of the Food Stamp Act of 1977 (7 U.S.C. 
2020(e)(2)(C)) is amended by inserting at the end: ``A State agency may 
establish a system by which an applicant household may sign an 
application through a recorded verbal assent over the telephone. Any 
such system shall--
                            ``(i) record for future reference the 
                        household member's verbal assent and the 
                        information to which assent was given;
                            ``(ii) include effective safeguards against 
                        impersonation, identity theft, or invasions of 
                        privacy;
                            ``(iii) not deny or interfere with the 
                        right of the household to apply in writing;
                            ``(iv) promptly send the household member a 
                        written copy of the signed application, with 
                        instructions on a simple procedure for 
                        correcting any errors or omissions;
                            ``(v) comply with paragraph (1)(B);
                            ``(vi) satisfy all requirements for a 
                        signature on an application under this Act and 
                        other laws applicable to the food and nutrition 
                        assistance program, with the date on which the 
                        household member provides verbal assent 
                        effective as the date of application for all 
                        purposes; and
                            ``(vii) comply with such other standards as 
                        the Secretary may establish.''.

SEC. 933. REAUTHORIZATION OF FOOD STAMP PROGRAM AND FOOD DISTRIBUTION 
              PROGRAM ON INDIAN RESERVATIONS.

    (a) Food Stamp Employment and Training.--Section 16(h)(1) of the 
Food Stamp Act of 1977 (7 U.S.C. 2025(h)(1)) is amended
            (1) in subparagraph (A)(vi)(II) by striking ``2002 through 
        2007'' and inserting ``2008 through 2012''; and
            (2) in subparagraph (E)(i) by striking ``2002 through 
        2007'' and inserting ``2008 through 2012''.
    (b) Reductions in Payments for Administrative Costs.--Section 
16(k)(3) of the Food Stamp Act of 1977 (7 U.S.C. 2025(k)(3)) is 
amended--
            (1) in the first sentence of subparagraph (A), by striking 
        ``2007'' and inserting ``2012''; and
            (2) in subparagraph (B)(ii) by striking ``2007'' and 
        inserting ``2012''.
    (c) Cash Payment Pilot Projects.--Section 17(b)(1)(B)(vi) of the 
Food Stamp Act of 1977 (7 U.S.C. 2026(b)(1)(B(vi)) is amended by 
striking ``2007'' and inserting ``2012''.
    (d) Authorization of Appropriations.--Section 18(a)(1) of the Food 
Stamp Act of 1977 (7 U.S.C. 2027(a)(1)) is amended in the first 
sentence by striking ``2003 through 2007'' and inserting ``2008 through 
2012''.
    (e) Consolidated Block Grants for Puerto Rico and American Samoa.--
Section 19(a)(2) of the Food Stamp Act of 1977 (7 U.S.C. 2028(a)(2)) is 
amended in subparagraph (A)(ii) by striking ``2007'' and inserting 
``2012''.
    (f) Commodity Distribution Program.--Section 4(a) of the 
Agriculture and Consumer Protection Act of 1973 (7 U.S.C. 612c note) is 
amended in the first sentence by striking ``2007'' and inserting 
``2012''.

SEC. 934. ACCESS TO BENEFITS.

    Section 7 of the Food Stamp Act of 1977 (7 U.S.C. 2016) is amended 
by inserting at the end the following:
    ``(k) No State agency shall establish any additional requirements 
or conditions on households to receive benefits, other than those 
specified in this section.''.

SEC. 935. OUTREACH GRANTS.

    Section 11(t)(1) of the Food Stamp Act of 2007 (7 U.S.C. 
2020(t)(1)) is amended by striking ``For each of fiscal years'' and all 
that follows through $5,000,000, and inserting ``For each of fiscal 
years 2008 through 2012, the Secretary shall use not more than 
$15,000,000''.

SEC. 936. IMPROVING PROGRAM OPERATIONS AND PROGRAM EFFECTIVENESS.

    Section 17 of the Food Stamp Act of 1977 (7.U.S.C. 2026) is amended 
by adding at the end the following:
    ``(k) Research to Improve Program Operation Effectiveness.--
            ``(1) For each of fiscal years 2008 through 2010, the 
        Secretary shall use no less than $9,000,000 of funds made 
        available under Section 18(a)(1) to conduct research and 
        demonstration projects in support of the Food Stamp Act.
            ``(2) Of the funds provided in paragraph (1), no less than 
        $4,000,000 in each fiscal year shall be used to conduct 
        research and studies on how to improve the effectiveness of 
        food stamp program operations by increasing access for eligible 
        households, reducing State agency and household administrative 
        burdens, and improving program integrity. Such studies may 
        evaluate the most effective--
                    ``(A) use of verification;
                    ``(B) telephonic and internet applications;
                    ``(C) call centers;
                    ``(D) efforts to retain eligible households at 
                recertification; and
                    ``(E) methods of providing food stamps to working 
                households, seniors, legal immigrants, and households 
                with limited English proficient households, 
                particularly in areas and States that have experienced 
                rapid growth in their non-English speaking 
                populations.''.

SEC. 937. IMPROVING PERFORMANCE BONUSES FOR STATES.

    Section 16(d)(2)(B)(ii) of the Food Stamp Act of 1977 (7 U.S.C. 
2025(d)) is amended by--
            (1) inserting ``through fiscal year 2007'' after ``each 
        fiscal year''; and
            (2) inserting at the end ``For each of fiscal years 2008 
        and thereafter, $68,000,000 shall be available under this 
        clause for performance bonus payments.''.

SEC. 938. SUPPORTING STATE EFFORTS DURING NATURAL DISASTERS.

    Section 5(h) of the Food Stamp Act of 1977 (7 U.S.C. 2014(h)) is 
amended by adding at the end the following:
            ``(4) In lieu of the payments section 16(a) would otherwise 
        require, the Secretary shall pay each State agency an amount 
        equal to 90 per centum of administrative costs allowable under 
        section 16(a) for costs related to planning and operating 
        disaster food stamp programs under this subsection.''.

SEC. 939. ADDRESSING HUNGER IN THE COMMONWEALTH OF PUERTO RICO.

    Section 19(a)(2)(A) of the Food Stamp Act of 1977 (7 U.S.C. 
2028(a)(2)(A)) is amended by--
            (1) in clause (i) by striking ``2003, $1,401,000'' and 
        inserting ``2008, $1,761,000''; and
            (2) in clause (ii) by striking ``2004'' and all that 
        follows through ``preceding fiscal year.'' and inserting the 
        following:
                        ``2009 through 2012, the amount specified in 
                        clause (i), as adjusted by the sum of the 
                        percentage by which the thrifty food plan has 
                        been adjusted under section 3(o)(4) between 
                        June 30, 2007 and June 30 of the immediately 
                        preceding fiscal year and the percentage by 
                        which the Census Bureau estimates that the 
                        total population of the Commonwealth of Puerto 
                        Rico has grown for the same period.''.

SEC. 940. STUDY ON COMPARABLE ACCESS TO FOOD STAMP BENEFITS FOR PUERTO 
              RICO.

    Section 19 of the Food Stamp Act of 1977 (7 U.S.C. 2028) is amended 
by inserting at the end the following:
    ``(e) The Secretary shall conduct a study of the feasibility and 
effects of defining the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico to be a State under 
section 3(m), in lieu of the block grant under this section. The study 
shall include--
            ``(1) an assessment of the administrative, financial 
        management, and other changes that would be required by the 
        Commonwealth to establish a comparable Food Stamp program;
            ``(2) a discussion of the appropriate program rules under 
        the other sections of the Act, such as benefit levels under 
        section 3(o), income eligibility standards under section 5(c), 
        and deduction levels under section 5(e), for the Commonwealth 
        to establish a comparable Food Stamp program;
            ``(3) an estimate of the impact on Federal and Commonwealth 
        benefit and administrative costs;
            ``(4) an estimate of the impact of the Food Stamp program 
        on hunger and food insecurity among low-income Puerto Ricans, 
        and
            ``(5) such other findings as the Secretary deems 
        appropriate.''.

SEC. 941. EXPANDING THE USE OF FOOD STAMPS AT FARMERS' MARKETS.

    Section 25 of the Food Stamp Act of 1977 (7 U.S.C. 2034) is amended 
by adding at the end the following:
    ``(i) Grants to Expand the Number of Farmers' Markets That Accept 
Food Stamp Benefits.--
            ``(1) In general.--For each of fiscal years 2008 through 
        2010, the Secretary shall use not more than $5,000,000 of funds 
        made available under section 18(a)(1) to make grants to pay 100 
        percent of the costs of eligible entities approved by the 
        Secretary to carry out projects to expand the number of 
        farmers' markets that accept food stamp benefits by--
                    ``(A) providing equipment and training necessary 
                for markets to accept food stamp benefits;
                    ``(B) educating and providing technical assistance 
                to farmers and farmers' market operators about the 
                process and benefits of accepting food stamp benefits; 
                or
                    ``(C) other activities deemed appropriate by the 
                Secretary.
            ``(2) Limitation.--A grant made under this subsection shall 
        not be made for the cost of the on-going cost of carrying out 
        any project.
            ``(3) Eligible entities.--To be eligible to receive a grant 
        under this subsection, an entity shall be--
                    ``(A) a State agency administering the Food Stamp 
                Program;
                    ``(B) a State or local government; or
                    ``(C) a private nonprofit entity that coordinates 
                farmers markets in or within a State and that operates 
                in cooperation with State or local government.
            ``(4) Selection of eligible entities.--The Secretary--
                    ``(A) shall develop criteria for the selection of 
                eligible entities to receive grants under this 
                subsection; and
                    ``(B) may give preference to any eligible entity 
                that consists of a partnership between a government 
                entity and a non-governmental entity.''.

   Subtitle D--Supporting the Emergency Food Bank Network and Other 
                           Community Partners

SEC. 951. COMMODITIES FOR THE EMERGENCY FOOD ASSISTANCE PROGRAM.

    Section 27(a) of the Food Stamp Act of 1977 (7 U.S.C. 2036(a)) is 
amended--
            (1) by striking ``(a) Purchase of Commodities.--'' and all 
        that follows through ``through 2007'' and inserting the 
        following:
    ``(a) Purchase of Commodities.--
            ``(1) In general.--As provided in paragraph (2), for each 
        of fiscal years 2008 through 2012'';
            (2) by striking ``$140,000,000 of''; and
            (3) by inserting at the end:
            ``(2) Amounts.--The following amounts are made available to 
        carry out this subsection:
                    ``(A) for fiscal year 2008, $250,000,000; and
                    ``(B) for each of fiscal years 2009 through 2012, 
                the dollar amount of commodities available in the 
                immediately preceding fiscal year adjusted by the 
                percentage by which the thrifty food plan has been 
                adjusted under section 3(o)(4) between June 30, 2007 
                and June 30 of the immediately preceding fiscal 
                year.''.

SEC. 952. ACCOUNTABLE PROGRAM ADMINISTRATION.

    (a) Prohibition.--Section 11(e)(6)(B) of the Food and Nutrition 
Assistance Act of 2007 (7 U.S.C. 2020(e)(6)(B)) is amended to read as 
follows:
                    ``(B) only State employees employed in accordance 
                with the current standards for a Merit System of 
                Personnel Administration, or any standards later 
                prescribed by the Office of Personnel Management 
                pursuant to section 208 of the Intergovernmental 
                Personnel Act of 1970 (42 U.S.C. 4728) modifying or 
                superseding such standards relating to the 
                establishment and maintenance of personnel standards on 
                a merit basis, shall--
                            ``(i) represent the State agency in any 
                        communications with a prospective applicant, 
                        applicant, or recipient household;
                            ``(ii) participate in making any 
                        determinations relating to a household`s 
                        substantive or procedural compliance with the 
                        requirements of this Act or implementing 
                        regulations, including the adequacy of the 
                        household's application or of verification or 
                        other information the household has submitted 
                        in support of that application; or
                            ``(iii) perform any other acts or 
                        participate in making any other determinations 
                        required under this subsection;''.
    (b) Waivers.--Section 17(b)(1)(B)(iv)(III)(ff) of the Food and 
Nutrition Assistance Act of 2007 (7 U.S.C. 2026(b)(1)(B)(iv)(III)(ff)) 
is amended in inserting ``or 11(e)(6)(B)'' before the semicolon.
    (c) Projects.--Section 26(f)(3)(E) of the Food and Nutrition 
Assistance Act of 2007 (7 U.S.C. 2035(f)(3)(E)) is amended by inserting 
``(6)(B)'' after ``paragraphs''.
                                 &lt;all&gt;
</pre></body></html>
