<html><body><pre>
[Congressional Bills 111th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[S. 773 Introduced in Senate (IS)]

111th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                 S. 773

To ensure the continued free flow of commerce within the United States 
       and with its global trading partners through secure cyber 
     communications, to provide for the continued development and 
   exploitation of the Internet and intranet communications for such 
  purposes, to provide for the development of a cadre of information 
technology specialists to improve and maintain effective cyber security 
          defenses against disruption, and for other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                   IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

                             April 1, 2009

  Mr. Rockefeller (for himself, Ms. Snowe, and Mr. Nelson of Florida) 
introduced the following bill; which was read twice and referred to the 
           Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
To ensure the continued free flow of commerce within the United States 
       and with its global trading partners through secure cyber 
     communications, to provide for the continued development and 
   exploitation of the Internet and intranet communications for such 
  purposes, to provide for the development of a cadre of information 
technology specialists to improve and maintain effective cybersecurity 
          defenses against disruption, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE; TABLE OF CONTENTS.

    (a) Short Title.--This Act may be cited as the ``Cybersecurity Act 
of 2009''.
    (b) Table of Contents.--The table of contents for this Act is as 
follows:

Sec. 1. Short title; table of contents.
Sec. 2. Findings.
Sec. 3. Cybersecurity Advisory Panel.
Sec. 4. Real-time cybersecurity dashboard.
Sec. 5. State and regional cybersecurity enhancement program.
Sec. 6. NIST standards development and compliance.
Sec. 7. Licensing and certification of cybersecurity professionals.
Sec. 8. Review of NTIA domain name contracts.
Sec. 9. Secure domain name addressing system.
Sec. 10. Promoting cybersecurity awareness.
Sec. 11. Federal cybersecurity research and development.
Sec. 12. Federal Cyber Scholarship-for-Service program.
Sec. 13. Cybersecurity competition and challenge.
Sec. 14. Public-private clearinghouse.
Sec. 15. Cybersecurity risk management report.
Sec. 16. Legal framework review and report.
Sec. 17. Authentication and civil liberties report.
Sec. 18. Cybersecurity responsibilities and authorities.
Sec. 19. Quadrennial cyber review.
Sec. 20. Joint intelligence threat assessment.
Sec. 21. International norms and cybersecurity deterrence measures.
Sec. 22. Federal Secure Products and Services Acquisitions Board.
Sec. 23. Definitions.

SEC. 2. FINDINGS.

    The Congress finds the following:
            (1) America's failure to protect cyberspace is one of the 
        most urgent national security problems facing the country.
            (2) Since intellectual property is now often stored in 
        digital form, industrial espionage that exploits weak 
        cybersecurity dilutes our investment in innovation while 
        subsidizing the research and development efforts of foreign 
        competitors. In the new global competition, where economic 
        strength and technological leadership are vital components of 
        national power, failing to secure cyberspace puts us at a 
        disadvantage.
            (3) According to the 2009 Annual Threat Assessment, ``a 
        successful cyber attack against a major financial service 
        provider could severely impact the national economy, while 
        cyber attacks against physical infrastructure computer systems 
        such as those that control power grids or oil refineries have 
        the potential to disrupt services for hours or weeks'' and that 
        ``Nation states and criminals target our government and private 
        sector information networks to gain competitive advantage in 
        the commercial sector.''.
            (4) The Director of National Intelligence testified before 
        the Congress on February 19, 2009, that ``a growing array of 
        state and non-state adversaries are increasingly targeting-for 
        exploitation and potentially disruption or destruction-our 
        information infrastructure, including the Internet, 
        telecommunications networks, computer systems, and embedded 
        processors and controllers in critical industries'' and these 
        trends are likely to continue.
            (5) John Brennan, the Assistant to the President for 
        Homeland Security and Counterterrorism wrote on March 2, 2009, 
        that ``our nation's security and economic prosperity depend on 
        the security, stability, and integrity of communications and 
        information infrastructure that are largely privately-owned and 
        globally-operated.''.
            (6) Paul Kurtz, a Partner and chief operating officer of 
        Good Harbor Consulting as well as a senior advisor to the Obama 
        Transition Team for cybersecurity, recently stated that the 
        United States is unprepared to respond to a ``cyber-Katrina'' 
        and that ``a massive cyber disruption could have a cascading, 
        long-term impact without adequate co-ordination between 
        government and the private sector.''.
            (7) The Cyber Strategic Inquiry 2008, sponsored by Business 
        Executives for National Security and executed by Booz Allen 
        Hamilton, recommended to ``establish a single voice for 
        cybersecurity within government'' concluding that the ``unique 
        nature of cybersecurity requires a new leadership paradigm.''.
            (8) Alan Paller, the Director of Research at the SANS 
        Institute, testified before the Congress that ``the fight 
        against cybercrime resembles an arms race where each time the 
        defenders build a new wall, the attackers create new tools to 
        scale the wall. What is particularly important in this analogy 
        is that, unlike conventional warfare where deployment takes 
        time and money and is quite visible, in the cyber world, when 
        the attackers find a new weapon, they can attack millions of 
        computers, and successfully infect hundreds of thousands, in a 
        few hours or days, and remain completely hidden.''.
            (9) According to the February 2003 National Strategy to 
        Secure Cyberspace, ``our nation's critical infrastructures are 
        composed of public and private institutions in the sectors of 
        agriculture, food, water, public health, emergency services, 
        government, defense industrial base, information and 
        telecommunications, energy, transportation, banking finance, 
        chemicals and hazardous materials, and postal and shipping. 
        Cyberspace is their nervous system--the control system of our 
        country'' and that ``the cornerstone of America's cyberspace 
        security strategy is and will remain a public-private 
        partnership.''.
            (10) According to the National Journal, Mike McConnell, the 
        former Director of National Intelligence, told President Bush 
        in May 2007 that if the 9/11 attackers had chosen computers 
        instead of airplanes as their weapons and had waged a massive 
        assault on a U.S. bank, the economic consequences would have 
        been ``an order of magnitude greater'' than those cased by the 
        physical attack on the World Trade Center. Mike McConnell has 
        subsequently referred to cybersecurity as the ``soft underbelly 
        of this country.''.
            (11) The Center for Strategic and International Studies 
        report on Cybersecurity for the 44th Presidency concluded that 
        (A) cybersecurity is now a major national security problem for 
        the United States, (B) decisions and actions must respect 
        privacy and civil liberties, and (C) only a comprehensive 
        national security strategy that embraces both the domestic and 
        international aspects of cybersecurity will make us more 
        secure. The report continued stating that the United States 
        faces ``a long-term challenge in cyberspace from foreign 
        intelligence agencies and militaries, criminals, and others, 
        and that losing this struggle will wreak serious damage on the 
        economic health and national security of the United States.''.
            (12) James Lewis, Director and Senior Fellow, Technology 
        and Public Policy Program, Center for Strategic and 
        International Studies, testified on behalf of the Center for 
        Strategic and International Studies that ``the United States is 
        not organized and lacks a coherent national strategy for 
        addressing'' cybersecurity.
            (13) President Obama said in a speech at Purdue University 
        on July 16, 2008, that ``every American depends--directly or 
        indirectly--on our system of information networks. They are 
        increasingly the backbone of our economy and our 
        infrastructure; our national security and our personal well-
        being. But it's no secret that terrorists could use our 
        computer networks to deal us a crippling blow. We know that 
        cyber-espionage and common crime is already on the rise. And 
        yet while countries like China have been quick to recognize 
        this change, for the last eight years we have been dragging our 
        feet.'' Moreover, President Obama stated that ``we need to 
        build the capacity to identify, isolate, and respond to any 
        cyber-attack.''.
            (14) The President's Information Technology Advisory 
        Committee reported in 2005 that software is a major 
        vulnerability and that ``software development methods that have 
        been the norm fail to provide the high-quality, reliable, and 
        secure software that the IT infrastructure requires. . . . 
        Today, as with cancer, vulnerable software can be invaded and 
        modified to cause damage to previously healthy software, and 
        infected software can replicate itself and be carried across 
        networks to cause damage in other systems.''.

SEC. 3. CYBERSECURITY ADVISORY PANEL.

    (a) In General.--The President shall establish or designate a 
Cybersecurity Advisory Panel.
    (b) Qualifications.--The President--
            (1) shall appoint as members of the panel representatives 
        of industry, academic, non-profit organizations, interest 
        groups and advocacy organizations, and State and local 
        governments who are qualified to provide advice and information 
        on cybersecurity research, development, demonstrations, 
        education, technology transfer, commercial application, or 
        societal and civil liberty concerns; and
            (2) may seek and give consideration to recommendations from 
        the Congress, industry, the cybersecurity community, the 
        defense community, State and local governments, and other 
        appropriate organizations.
    (c) Duties.--The panel shall advise the President on matters 
relating to the national cybersecurity program and strategy and shall 
assess--
            (1) trends and developments in cybersecurity science 
        research and development;
            (2) progress made in implementing the strategy;
            (3) the need to revise the strategy;
            (4) the balance among the components of the national 
        strategy, including funding for program components;
            (5) whether the strategy, priorities, and goals are helping 
        to maintain United States leadership and defense in 
        cybersecurity;
            (6) the management, coordination, implementation, and 
        activities of the strategy; and
            (7) whether societal and civil liberty concerns are 
        adequately addressed.
    (d) Reports.--The panel shall report, not less frequently than once 
every 2 years, to the President on its assessments under subsection (c) 
and its recommendations for ways to improve the strategy.
    (e) Travel Expenses of Non-Federal Members.--Non-Federal members of 
the panel, while attending meetings of the panel or while otherwise 
serving at the request of the head of the panel while away from their 
homes or regular places of business, may be allowed travel expenses, 
including per diem in lieu of subsistence, as authorized by section 
5703 of title 5, United States Code, for individuals in the government 
serving without pay. Nothing in this subsection shall be construed to 
prohibit members of the panel who are officers or employees of the 
United States from being allowed travel expenses, including per diem in 
lieu of subsistence, in accordance with law.
    (f) Exemption From FACA Sunset.--Section 14 of the Federal Advisory 
Committee Act (5 U.S.C. App.) shall not apply to the Advisory Panel.

SEC. 4. REAL-TIME CYBERSECURITY DASHBOARD.

    The Secretary of Commerce shall--
            (1) in consultation with the Office of Management and 
        Budget, develop a plan within 90 days after the date of 
        enactment of this Act to implement a system to provide dynamic, 
        comprehensive, real-time cybersecurity status and vulnerability 
        information of all Federal Government information systems and 
        networks managed by the Department of Commerce; and
            (2) implement the plan within 1 year after the date of 
        enactment of this Act.

SEC. 5. STATE AND REGIONAL CYBERSECURITY ENHANCEMENT PROGRAM.

    (a) Creation and Support of Cybersecurity Centers.--The Secretary 
of Commerce shall provide assistance for the creation and support of 
Regional Cybersecurity Centers for the promotion and implementation of 
cybersecurity standards. Each Center shall be affiliated with a United 
States-based nonprofit institution or organization, or consortium 
thereof, that applies for and is awarded financial assistance under 
this section.
    (b) Purpose.--The purpose of the Centers is to enhance the 
cybersecurity of small and medium sized businesses in United States 
through--
            (1) the transfer of cybersecurity standards, processes, 
        technology, and techniques developed at the National Institute 
        of Standards and Technology to Centers and, through them, to 
        small- and medium-sized companies throughout the United States;
            (2) the participation of individuals from industry, 
        universities, State governments, other Federal agencies, and, 
        when appropriate, the Institute in cooperative technology 
        transfer activities;
            (3) efforts to make new cybersecurity technology, 
        standards, and processes usable by United States-based small- 
        and medium-sized companies;
            (4) the active dissemination of scientific, engineering, 
        technical, and management information about cybersecurity to 
        industrial firms, including small- and medium-sized companies; 
        and
            (5) the utilization, when appropriate, of the expertise and 
        capability that exists in Federal laboratories other than the 
        Institute.
    (c) Activities.--The Centers shall--
            (1) disseminate cybersecurity technologies, standard, and 
        processes based on research by the Institute for the purpose of 
        demonstrations and technology transfer;
            (2) actively transfer and disseminate cybersecurity 
        strategies, best practices, standards, and technologies to 
        protect against and mitigate the risk of cyber attacks to a 
        wide range of companies and enterprises, particularly small- 
        and medium-sized businesses; and
            (3) make loans, on a selective, short-term basis, of items 
        of advanced cybersecurity countermeasures to small businesses 
        with less than 100 employees.
    (c) Duration and Amount of Support; Program Descriptions; 
Applications; Merit Review; Evaluations of Assistance.--
            (1) Financial support.--The Secretary may provide financial 
        support, not to exceed 50 percent of its annual operating and 
        maintenance costs, to any Center for a period not to exceed 6 
        years (except as provided in paragraph (5)(D)).
            (2) Program description.--Within 90 days after the date of 
        enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall publish in the 
        Federal Register a draft description of a program for 
        establishing Centers and, after a 30-day comment period, shall 
        publish a final description of the program. The description 
        shall include--
                    (A) a description of the program;
                    (B) procedures to be followed by applicants;
                    (C) criteria for determining qualified applicants;
                    (D) criteria, including those described in 
                paragraph (4), for choosing recipients of financial 
                assistance under this section from among the qualified 
                applicants; and
                    (E) maximum support levels expected to be available 
                to Centers under the program in the fourth through 
                sixth years of assistance under this section.
            (3) Applications; support commitment.--Any nonprofit 
        institution, or consortia of nonprofit institutions, may submit 
        to the Secretary an application for financial support under 
        this section, in accordance with the procedures established by 
        the Secretary. In order to receive assistance under this 
        section, an applicant shall provide adequate assurances that it 
        will contribute 50 percent or more of the proposed Center's 
        annual operating and maintenance costs for the first 3 years 
        and an increasing share for each of the next 3 years.
            (4) Award criteria.--Awards shall be made on a competitive, 
        merit-based review. In making a decision whether to approve an 
        application and provide financial support under this section, 
        the Secretary shall consider, at a minimum--
                    (A) the merits of the application, particularly 
                those portions of the application regarding technology 
                transfer, training and education, and adaptation of 
                cybersecurity technologies to the needs of particular 
                industrial sectors;
                    (B) the quality of service to be provided;
                    (C) geographical diversity and extent of service 
                area; and
                    (D) the percentage of funding and amount of in-kind 
                commitment from other sources.
            (5) Third year evaluation.--
                    (A) In general.--Each Center which receives 
                financial assistance under this section shall be 
                evaluated during its third year of operation by an 
                evaluation panel appointed by the Secretary.
                    (B) Evaluation panel.--Each evaluation panel shall 
                be composed of private experts, none of whom shall be 
                connected with the involved Center, and Federal 
                officials. An official of the Institute shall chair the 
                panel. Each evaluation panel shall measure the Center's 
                performance against the objectives specified in this 
                section.
                    (C) Positive evaluation required for continued 
                funding.--The Secretary may not provide funding for the 
                fourth through the sixth years of a Center's operation 
                unless the evaluation by the evaluation panel is 
                positive. If the evaluation is positive, the Secretary 
                may provide continued funding through the sixth year at 
                declining levels.
                    (D) Funding after sixth year.--After the sixth 
                year, the Secretary may provide additional financial 
                support to a Center if it has received a positive 
                evaluation through an independent review, under 
                procedures established by the Institute. An additional 
                independent review shall be required at least every 2 
                years after the sixth year of operation. Funding 
                received for a fiscal year under this section after the 
                sixth year of operation may not exceed one third of the 
                annual operating and maintenance costs of the Center.
            (6) Patent rights to inventions.--The provisions of chapter 
        18 of title 35, United States Code, shall (to the extent not 
        inconsistent with this section) apply to the promotion of 
        technology from research by Centers under this section except 
        for contracts for such specific technology extension or 
        transfer services as may be specified by statute or by the 
        President, or the President's designee.
    (d) Acceptance of Funds From Other Federal Departments and 
Agencies.--In addition to such sums as may be authorized and 
appropriated to the Secretary and President, or the President's 
designee, to operate the Centers program, the Secretary and the 
President, or the President's designee, also may accept funds from 
other Federal departments and agencies for the purpose of providing 
Federal funds to support Centers. Any Center which is supported with 
funds which originally came from other Federal departments and agencies 
shall be selected and operated according to the provisions of this 
section.

SEC. 6. NIST STANDARDS DEVELOPMENT AND COMPLIANCE.

    (a) In General.--Within 1 year after the date of enactment of this 
Act, the National Institute of Standards and Technology shall establish 
measurable and auditable cybersecurity standards for all Federal 
Government, government contractor, or grantee critical infrastructure 
information systems and networks in the following areas:
            (1) Cybersecurity metrics research.--The Director of the 
        National Institute of Standards and Technology shall establish 
        a research program to develop cybersecurity metrics and 
        benchmarks that can assess the economic impact of 
        cybersecurity. These metrics should measure risk reduction and 
        the cost of defense. The research shall include the development 
        automated tools to assess vulnerability and compliance.
            (2) Security controls.--The Institute shall establish 
        standards for continuously measuring the effectiveness of a 
        prioritized set of security controls that are known to block or 
        mitigate known attacks.
            (3) Software security.--The Institute shall establish 
        standards for measuring the software security using a 
        prioritized list of software weaknesses known to lead to 
        exploited and exploitable vulnerabilities. The Institute will 
        also establish a separate set of such standards for measuring 
        security in embedded software such as that found in industrial 
        control systems.
            (4) Software configuration specification language.--The 
        Institute shall, establish standard computer-readable language 
        for completely specifying the configuration of software on 
        computer systems widely used in the Federal Government, by 
        government contractors and grantees, and in private sector 
        owned critical infrastructure information systems and networks.
            (5) Standard software configuration.--The Institute shall 
        establish standard configurations consisting of security 
        settings for operating system software and software utilities 
        widely used in the Federal Government, by government 
        contractors and grantees, and in private sector owned critical 
        infrastructure information systems and networks.
            (6) Vulnerability specification language.--The Institute 
        shall establish standard computer-readable language for 
        specifying vulnerabilities in software to enable software 
        vendors to communicate vulnerability data to software users in 
        real time.
            (7) National compliance standards for all software.--
                    (A) Protocol.--The Institute shall establish a 
                standard testing and accreditation protocol for 
                software built by or for the Federal Government, its 
                contractors, and grantees, and private sector owned 
                critical infrastructure information systems and 
                networks. to ensure that it--
                            (i) meets the software security standards 
                        of paragraph (2); and
                            (ii) does not require or cause any changes 
                        to be made in the standard configurations 
                        described in paragraph (4).
                    (B) Compliance.--The Institute shall develop a 
                process or procedure to verify that--
                            (i) software development organizations 
                        comply with the protocol established under 
                        subparagraph (A) during the software 
                        development process; and
                            (ii) testing results showing evidence of 
                        adequate testing and defect reduction are 
                        provided to the Federal Government prior to 
                        deployment of software.
    (b) Criteria for Standards.--Notwithstanding any other provision of 
law (including any Executive Order), rule, regulation, or guideline, in 
establishing standards under this section, the Institute shall 
disregard the designation of an information system or network as a 
national security system or on the basis of presence of classified or 
confidential information, and shall establish standards based on risk 
profiles.
    (c) International Standards.--The Director, through the Institute 
and in coordination with appropriate Federal agencies, shall be 
responsible for United States representation in all international 
standards development related to cybersecurity, and shall develop and 
implement a strategy to optimize the United States position with 
respect to international cybersecurity standards.
    (d) Compliance Enforcement.--The Director shall--
            (1) enforce compliance with the standards developed by the 
        Institute under this section by software manufacturers, 
        distributors, and vendors; and
            (2) shall require each Federal agency, and each operator of 
        an information system or network designated by the President as 
        a critical infrastructure information system or network, 
        periodically to demonstrate compliance with the standards 
        established under this section.
    (e) FCC National Broadband Plan.--In developing the national 
broadband plan pursuant to section 6001(k) of the American Recovery and 
Reinvestment Act of 2009, the Federal Communications Commission shall 
report on the most effective and efficient means to ensure the 
cybersecurity of commercial broadband networks, including consideration 
of consumer education and outreach programs.

SEC. 7. LICENSING AND CERTIFICATION OF CYBERSECURITY PROFESSIONALS.

    (a) In General.--Within 1 year after the date of enactment of this 
Act, the Secretary of Commerce shall develop or coordinate and 
integrate a national licensing, certification, and periodic 
recertification program for cybersecurity professionals.
    (b) Mandatory Licensing.--Beginning 3 years after the date of 
enactment of this Act, it shall be unlawful for any individual to 
engage in business in the United States, or to be employed in the 
United States, as a provider of cybersecurity services to any Federal 
agency or an information system or network designated by the President, 
or the President's designee, as a critical infrastructure information 
system or network, who is not licensed and certified under the program.

SEC. 8. REVIEW OF NTIA DOMAIN NAME CONTRACTS.

    (a) In General.--No action by the Assistant Secretary of Commerce 
for Communications and Information after the date of enactment of this 
Act with respect to the renewal or modification of a contract related 
to the operation of the Internet Assigned Numbers Authority, shall be 
final until the Advisory Panel--
            (1) has reviewed the action;
            (2) considered the commercial and national security 
        implications of the action; and
            (3) approved the action.
    (b) Approval Procedure.--If the Advisory Panel does not approve 
such an action, it shall immediately notify the Assistant Secretary in 
writing of the disapproval and the reasons therefor. The Advisory Panel 
may provide recommendations to the Assistant Secretary in the notice 
for any modifications the it deems necessary to secure approval of the 
action.

SEC. 9. SECURE DOMAIN NAME ADDRESSING SYSTEM.

    (a) In General.--Within 3 years after the date of enactment of this 
Act, the Assistant Secretary of Commerce for Communications and 
Information shall develop a strategy to implement a secure domain name 
addressing system. The Assistant Secretary shall publish notice of the 
system requirements in the Federal Register together with an 
implementation schedule for Federal agencies and information systems or 
networks designated by the President, or the President's designee, as 
critical infrastructure information systems or networks.
    (b) Compliance Required.--The President shall ensure that each 
Federal agency and each such system or network implements the secure 
domain name addressing system in accordance with the schedule published 
by the Assistant Secretary.

SEC. 10. PROMOTING CYBERSECURITY AWARENESS.

    The Secretary of Commerce shall develop and implement a national 
cybersecurity awareness campaign that--
            (1) is designed to heighten public awareness of 
        cybersecurity issues and concerns;
            (2) communicates the Federal Government's role in securing 
        the Internet and protecting privacy and civil liberties with 
        respect to Internet-related activities; and
            (3) utilizes public and private sector means of providing 
        information to the public, including public service 
        announcements.

SEC. 11. FEDERAL CYBERSECURITY RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT.

    (a) Fundamental Cybersecurity Research.--The Director of the 
National Science Foundation shall give priority to computer and 
information science and engineering research to ensure substantial 
support is provided to meet the following challenges in cybersecurity:
            (1) How to design and build complex software-intensive 
        systems that are secure and reliable when first deployed.
            (2) How to test and verify that software, whether developed 
        locally or obtained from a third party, is free of significant 
        known security flaws.
            (3) How to test and verify that software obtained from a 
        third party correctly implements stated functionality, and only 
        that functionality.
            (4) How to guarantee the privacy of an individual's 
        identity, information, or lawful transactions when stored in 
        distributed systems or transmitted over networks.
            (5) How to build new protocols to enable the Internet to 
        have robust security as one of its key capabilities.
            (6) How to determine the origin of a message transmitted 
        over the Internet.
            (7) How to support privacy in conjunction with improved 
        security.
            (8) How to address the growing problem of insider threat.
    (b) Secure Coding Research.--The Director shall support research 
that evaluates selected secure coding education and improvement 
programs. The Director shall also support research on new methods of 
integrating secure coding improvement into the core curriculum of 
computer science programs and of other programs where graduates have a 
substantial probability of developing software after graduation.
    (c) Assessment of Secure Coding Education in Colleges and 
Universities.--Within one year after the date of enactment of this Act, 
the Director shall submit to the Senate Committee on Commerce, Science, 
and Transportation and the House of Representatives Committee on 
Science and Technology a report on the state of secure coding education 
in America's colleges and universities for each school that received 
National Science Foundation funding in excess of $1,000,000 during 
fiscal year 2008. The report shall include--
            (1) the number of students who earned undergraduate degrees 
        in computer science or in each other program where graduates 
        have a substantial probability of being engaged in software 
        design or development after graduation;
            (2) the percentage of those students who completed 
        substantive secure coding education or improvement programs 
        during their undergraduate experience; and
            (3) descriptions of the length and content of the education 
        and improvement programs, and a measure of the effectiveness of 
        those programs in enabling the students to master secure coding 
        and design.
    (d) Cybersecurity Modeling and Testbeds.--The Director shall 
establish a program to award grants to institutions of higher education 
to establish cybersecurity testbeds capable of realistic modeling of 
real-time cyber attacks and defenses. The purpose of this program is to 
support the rapid development of new cybersecurity defenses, 
techniques, and processes by improving understanding and assessing the 
latest technologies in a real-world environment. The testbeds shall be 
sufficiently large in order to model the scale and complexity of real 
world networks and environments.
    (e) NSF Computer and Network Security Research Grant Areas.--
Section 4(a)(1) of the Cybersecurity Research and Development Act (15 
U.S.C. 7403(a)(1)) is amended--
            (1) by striking ``and'' after the semicolon in subparagraph 
        (H);
            (2) by striking ``property.'' in subparagraph (I) and 
        inserting ``property;''; and
            (3) by adding at the end the following:
            ``(J) secure fundamental protocols that are at the heart of 
        inter-network communications and data exchange;
            ``(K) secure software engineering and software assurance, 
        including--
                    ``(i) programming languages and systems that 
                include fundamental security features;
                    ``(ii) portable or reusable code that remains 
                secure when deployed in various environments;
                    ``(iii) verification and validation technologies to 
                ensure that requirements and specifications have been 
                implemented; and
                    ``(iv) models for comparison and metrics to assure 
                that required standards have been met;
            ``(L) holistic system security that--
                    ``(i) addresses the building of secure systems from 
                trusted and untrusted components;
                    ``(ii) proactively reduces vulnerabilities;
                    ``(iii) addresses insider threats; and
                    ``(iv) supports privacy in conjunction with 
                improved security;
            ``(M) monitoring and detection; and
            ``(N) mitigation and rapid recovery methods.''.
    (f) NSF Computer and Network Security Grants.--Section 4(a)(3) of 
the Cybersecurity Research and Development Act (15 U.S.C. 7403(a)(3)) 
is amended--
            (1) by striking ``and'' in subparagraph (D);
            (2) by striking ``2007'' in subparagraph (E) and inserting 
        ``2007;''; and
            (3) by adding at the end of the following:
                    ``(F) $150,000,000 for fiscal year 2010;
                    ``(G) $155,000,000 for fiscal year 2011;
                    ``(H) $160,000,000 for fiscal year 2012;
                    ``(I) $165,000,000 for fiscal year 2013; and
                    ``(J) $170,000,000 for fiscal year 2014.''.
    (g) Computer and Network Security Centers.--Section 4(b)(7) of such 
Act (15 U.S.C. 7403(b)(7)) is amended--
            (1) by striking ``and'' in subparagraph (D);
            (2) by striking ``2007'' in subparagraph (E) and inserting 
        ``2007;''; and
            (3) by adding at the end of the following:
                    ``(F) $50,000,000 for fiscal year 2010;
                    ``(G) $52,000,000 for fiscal year 2011;
                    ``(H) $54,000,000 for fiscal year 2012;
                    ``(I) $56,000,000 for fiscal year 2013; and
                    ``(J) $58,000,000 for fiscal year 2014.''.
    (h) Computer and Network Security Capacity Building Grants.--
Section 5(a)(6) of such Act (15 U.S.C. 7404(a)(6)) is amended--
            (1) by striking ``and'' in subparagraph (D);
            (2) by striking ``2007'' in subparagraph (E) and inserting 
        ``2007;''; and
            (3) by adding at the end of the following:
                    ``(F) $40,000,000 for fiscal year 2010;
                    ``(G) $42,000,000 for fiscal year 2011;
                    ``(H) $44,000,000 for fiscal year 2012;
                    ``(I) $46,000,000 for fiscal year 2013; and
                    ``(J) $48,000,000 for fiscal year 2014.''.
    (i) Scientific and Advanced Technology Act Grants.--Section 5(b)(2) 
of such Act (15 U.S.C. 7404(b)(2)) is amended--
            (1) by striking ``and'' in subparagraph (D);
            (2) by striking ``2007'' in subparagraph (E) and inserting 
        ``2007;''; and
            (3) by adding at the end of the following:
                    ``(F) $5,000,000 for fiscal year 2010;
                    ``(G) $6,000,000 for fiscal year 2011;
                    ``(H) $7,000,000 for fiscal year 2012;
                    ``(I) $8,000,000 for fiscal year 2013; and
                    ``(J) $9,000,000 for fiscal year 2014.''.
    (j) Graduate Traineeships in Computer and Network Security 
Research.--Section 5(c)(7) of such Act (15 U.S.C. 7404(c)(7)) is 
amended--
            (1) by striking ``and'' in subparagraph (D);
            (2) by striking ``2007'' in subparagraph (E) and inserting 
        ``2007;''; and
            (3) by adding at the end of the following:
                    ``(F) $20,000,000 for fiscal year 2010;
                    ``(G) $22,000,000 for fiscal year 2011;
                    ``(H) $24,000,000 for fiscal year 2012;
                    ``(I) $26,000,000 for fiscal year 2013; and
                    ``(J) $28,000,000 for fiscal year 2014.''.
    (k) Cybersecurity Faculty Development Traineeship Program.--Section 
5(e)(9) of such Act (15 U.S.C. 7404(e)(9)) is amended by striking 
``2007.'' and inserting ``2007 and for each of fiscal years 2010 
through 2014.''.
    (l) networking and Information Technology Research and Development 
Program.--Section 204(a)(1) of the High-Performance Computing Act of 
1991 (15 U.S.C. 5524(a)(1)) is amended--
            (1) by striking ``and'' after the semicolon in subparagraph 
        (B); and
            (2) by inserting after subparagraph (C) the following:
                    ``(D) develop and propose standards and guidelines, 
                and develop measurement techniques and test methods, 
                for enhanced cybersecurity for computer networks and 
                common user interfaces to systems; and''.

SEC. 12. FEDERAL CYBER SCHOLARSHIP-FOR-SERVICE PROGRAM.

    (a) In General.--The Director of the National Science Foundation 
shall establish a Federal Cyber Scholarship-for-Service program to 
recruit and train the next generation of Federal information technology 
workers and security managers.
    (b) Program Description and Components.--The program--
            (1) shall provide scholarships, that provide full tuition, 
        fees, and a stipend, for up to 1,000 students per year in their 
        pursuit of undergraduate or graduate degrees in the 
        cybersecurity field;
            (2) shall require scholarship recipients, as a condition of 
        receiving a scholarship under the program, to agree to serve in 
        the Federal information technology workforce for a period equal 
        to the length of the scholarship following graduation if 
        offered employment in that field by a Federal agency;
            (3) shall provide opportunities for students to receive 
        temporary appointments for meaningful employment in the Federal 
        information technology workforce during school vacation periods 
        and for internships;
            (4) shall provide a procedure for identifying promising K-
        12 students for participation in summer work and internship 
        programs that would lead to certification of Federal 
        information technology workforce standards and possible future 
        employment; and
            (5) shall examine and develop, if appropriate, programs to 
        promote computer security awareness in secondary and high 
        school classrooms.
    (c) Hiring Authority.--For purposes of any law or regulation 
governing the appointment of individuals in the Federal civil service, 
upon the successful completion of their studies, students receiving a 
scholarship under the program shall be hired under the authority 
provided for in section 213.3102(r) of title 5, Code of Federal 
Regulations, and be exempt from competitive service. Upon fulfillment 
of the service term, such individuals shall be converted to a 
competitive service position without competition if the individual 
meets the requirements for that position.
    (d) Eligibility.--To be eligible to receive a scholarship under 
this section, an individual shall--
            (1) be a citizen of the United States; and
            (2) demonstrate a commitment to a career in improving the 
        Nation's cyber defenses.
    (e) Consideration and Preference.--In making selections for 
scholarships under this section, the Director shall--
            (1) consider, to the extent possible, a diverse pool of 
        applicants whose interests are of an interdisciplinary nature, 
        encompassing the social scientific as well as the technical 
        dimensions of cyber security; and
            (2) give preference to applicants that have participated in 
        the competition and challenge described in section 13.
    (f) Evaluation and Report.--The Director shall evaluate and report 
to the Senate Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation and 
the House of Representatives Committee on Science and Technology on the 
success of recruiting individuals for the scholarships.
    (g) Authorization of Appropriations.--There are authorized to be 
appropriated to the National Science Foundation to carry out this 
section--
            (1) $50,000,000 for fiscal year 2010;
            (2) $55,000,000 for fiscal year 2011;
            (3) $60,000,000 for fiscal year 2012;
            (4) $65,000,000 for fiscal year 2013; and
            (5) $70,000,000 for fiscal year 2014.

SEC. 13. CYBERSECURITY COMPETITION AND CHALLENGE.

    (a) In General.--The Director of the National Institute of 
Standards and Technology, directly or through appropriate Federal 
entities, shall establish cybersecurity competitions and challenges 
with cash prizes in order to--
            (1) attract, identify, evaluate, and recruit talented 
        individuals for the Federal information technology workforce; 
        and
            (2) stimulate innovation in basic and applied cybersecurity 
        research, technology development, and prototype demonstration 
        that have the potential for application to the Federal 
        information technology activities of the Federal Government.
    (b) Types of Competitions and Challenges.--The Director shall 
establish different competitions and challenges targeting the following 
groups:
            (1) High school students.
            (2) Undergraduate students.
            (3) Graduate students.
            (4) Academic and research institutions.
    (c) Topics.--In selecting topics for prize competitions, the 
Director shall consult widely both within and outside the Federal 
Government, and may empanel advisory committees.
    (d) Advertising.--The Director shall widely advertise prize 
competitions, in coordination with the awareness campaign under section 
10, to encourage participation.
    (e) Requirements and Registration.--For each prize competition, the 
Director shall publish a notice in the Federal Register announcing the 
subject of the competition, the rules for being eligible to participate 
in the competition, the amount of the prize, and the basis on which a 
winner will be selected.
    (f) Eligibility.--To be eligible to win a prize under this section, 
an individual or entity--
            (1) shall have registered to participate in the competition 
        pursuant to any rules promulgated by the Director under 
        subsection (d);
            (2) shall have complied with all the requirements under 
        this section;
            (3) in the case of a private entity, shall be incorporated 
        in and maintain a primary place of business in the United 
        States, and in the case of an individual, whether participating 
        singly or in a group, shall be a citizen or permanent resident 
        of the United States; and
            (4) shall not be a Federal entity or Federal employee 
        acting within the scope of his or her employment.
    (g) Judges.--For each competition, the Director, either directly or 
through an agreement under subsection (h), shall assemble a panel of 
qualified judges to select the winner or winners of the prize 
competition. Judges for each competition shall include individuals from 
the private sector. A judge may not--
            (1) have personal or financial interests in, or be an 
        employee, officer, director, or agent of any entity that is a 
        registered participant in a competition; or
            (2) have a familial or financial relationship with an 
        individual who is a registered participant.
    (h) Administering the Competition.--The Director may enter into an 
agreement with a private, nonprofit entity to administer the prize 
competition, subject to the provisions of this section.
    (i) Funding.--
            (1) Prizes.--Prizes under this section may consist of 
        Federal appropriated funds and funds provided by the private 
        sector for such cash prizes. The Director may accept funds from 
        other Federal agencies for such cash prizes. The Director may 
        not give special consideration to any private sector entity in 
        return for a donation.
            (2) Use of unexpended funds.--Notwithstanding any other 
        provision of law, funds appropriated for prize awards under 
        this section shall remain available until expended, and may be 
        transferred, reprogrammed, or expended for other purposes only 
        after the expiration of 10 fiscal years after the fiscal year 
        for which the funds were originally appropriated. No provision 
        in this section permits obligation or payment of funds in 
        violation of the Anti-Deficiency Act (31 U.S.C. 1341).
            (3) Funding required before prize announced.--No prize may 
        be announced until all the funds needed to pay out the 
        announced amount of the prize have been appropriated or 
        committed in writing by a private source. The Director may 
        increase the amount of a prize after an initial announcement is 
        made under subsection (d) if--
                    (A) notice of the increase is provided in the same 
                manner as the initial notice of the prize; and
                    (B) the funds needed to pay out the announced 
                amount of the increase have been appropriated or 
                committed in writing by a private source.
            (4) Notice required for large awards.--No prize competition 
        under this section may offer a prize in an amount greater than 
        $5,000,000 unless 30 days have elapsed after written notice has 
        been transmitted to the Senate Committee on Commerce, Science, 
        and Transportation and the House of Representatives Committee 
        on Science and Technology.
            (5) Director's approval required for certain awards.--No 
        prize competition under this section may result in the award of 
        more than $1,000,000 in cash prizes without the approval of the 
        Director.
    (j) Use of Federal Insignia.--A registered participant in a 
competition under this section may use any Federal agency's name, 
initials, or insignia only after prior review and written approval by 
the Director.
    (k) Compliance With Existing Law.--The Federal Government shall 
not, by virtue of offering or providing a prize under this section, be 
responsible for compliance by registered participants in a prize 
competition with Federal law, including licensing, export control, and 
non-proliferation laws and related regulations.
    (l) Authorization of Appropriations.--There are authorized to be 
appropriated to the National Institute of Standards and Technology to 
carry out this section $15,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2010 
through 2014.

SEC. 14. PUBLIC-PRIVATE CLEARINGHOUSE.

    (a) Designation.--The Department of Commerce shall serve as the 
clearinghouse of cybersecurity threat and vulnerability information to 
Federal Government and private sector owned critical infrastructure 
information systems and networks.
    (b) Functions.--The Secretary of Commerce--
            (1) shall have access to all relevant data concerning such 
        networks without regard to any provision of law, regulation, 
        rule, or policy restricting such access;
            (2) shall manage the sharing of Federal Government and 
        other critical infrastructure threat and vulnerability 
        information between the Federal Government and the persons 
        primarily responsible for the operation and maintenance of the 
        networks concerned; and
            (3) shall report regularly to the Congress on threat 
        information held by the Federal Government that is not shared 
        with the persons primarily responsible for the operation and 
        maintenance of the networks concerned.
    (c) Information Sharing Rules and Procedures.--Within 90 days after 
the date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall publish in the 
Federal Register a draft description of rules and procedures on how the 
Federal Government will share cybersecurity threat and vulnerability 
information with private sector critical infrastructure information 
systems and networks owners. After a 30 day comment period, the 
Secretary shall publish a final description of the rules and 
procedures. The description shall include--
            (1) the rules and procedures on how the Federal Government 
        will share cybersecurity threat and vulnerability information 
        with private sector critical infrastructure information systems 
        and networks owners;
            (2) the criteria in which private sector owners of critical 
        infrastructure information systems and networks shall share 
        actionable cybersecurity threat and vulnerability information 
        and relevant data with the Federal Government; and
            (3) any other rule or procedure that will enhance the 
        sharing of cybersecurity threat and vulnerability information 
        between private sector owners of critical infrastructure 
        information systems and networks and the Federal Government.

SEC. 15. CYBERSECURITY RISK MANAGEMENT REPORT.

    Within 1 year after the date of enactment of this Act, the 
President, or the President's designee, shall report to the Senate 
Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation and the House of 
Representatives Committee on Science and Technology on the feasibility 
of--
            (1) creating a market for cybersecurity risk management, 
        including the creation of a system of civil liability and 
        insurance (including government reinsurance); and
            (2) requiring cybersecurity to be a factor in all bond 
        ratings.

SEC. 16. LEGAL FRAMEWORK REVIEW AND REPORT.

    (a) In General.--Within 1 year after the date of enactment of this 
Act, the President, or the President's designee, through an appropriate 
entity, shall complete a comprehensive review of the Federal statutory 
and legal framework applicable to cyber-related activities in the 
United States, including--
            (1) the Privacy Protection Act of 1980 (42 U.S.C. 2000aa);
            (2) the Electronic Communications Privacy Act of 1986 (18 
        U.S.C. 2510 note);
            (3) the Computer Security Act of 1987 (15 U.S.C. 271 et 
        seq.; 40 U.S.C. 759);
            (4) the Federal Information Security Management Act of 2002 
        (44 U.S.C. 3531 et seq.);
            (5) the E-Government Act of 2002 (44 U.S.C. 9501 et seq.);
            (6) the Defense Production Act of 1950 (50 U.S.C. App. 2061 
        et seq.);
            (7) any other Federal law bearing upon cyber-related 
        activities; and
            (8) any applicable Executive Order or agency rule, 
        regulation, guideline.
    (b) Report.--Upon completion of the review, the President, or the 
President's designee, shall submit a report to the Senate Committee on 
Commerce, Science, and Transportation, the House of Representatives 
Committee on Science and Technology, and other appropriate 
Congressional Committees containing the President's, or the President's 
designee's, findings, conclusions, and recommendations.

SEC. 17. AUTHENTICATION AND CIVIL LIBERTIES REPORT.

    Within 1 year after the date of enactment of this Act, the 
President, or the President's designee, shall review, and report to 
Congress, on the feasibility of an identity management and 
authentication program, with the appropriate civil liberties and 
privacy protections, for government and critical infrastructure 
information systems and networks.

SEC. 18. CYBERSECURITY RESPONSIBILITIES AND AUTHORITY.

    The President--
            (1) within 1 year after the date of enactment of this Act, 
        shall develop and implement a comprehensive national 
        cybersecurity strategy, which shall include--
                    (A) a long-term vision of the Nation's 
                cybersecurity future; and
                    (B) a plan that encompasses all aspects of national 
                security, including the participation of the private 
                sector, including critical infrastructure operators and 
                managers;
            (2) may declare a cybersecurity emergency and order the 
        limitation or shutdown of Internet traffic to and from any 
        compromised Federal Government or United States critical 
        infrastructure information system or network;
            (3) shall designate an agency to be responsible for 
        coordinating the response and restoration of any Federal 
        Government or United States critical infrastructure information 
        system or network affected by a cybersecurity emergency 
        declaration under paragraph (2);
            (4) shall, through the appropriate department or agency, 
        review equipment that would be needed after a cybersecurity 
        attack and develop a strategy for the acquisition, storage, and 
        periodic replacement of such equipment;
            (5) shall direct the periodic mapping of Federal Government 
        and United States critical infrastructure information systems 
        or networks, and shall develop metrics to measure the 
        effectiveness of the mapping process;
            (6) may order the disconnection of any Federal Government 
        or United States critical infrastructure information systems or 
        networks in the interest of national security;
            (7) shall, through the Office of Science and Technology 
        Policy, direct an annual review of all Federal cyber technology 
        research and development investments;
            (8) may delegate original classification authority to the 
        appropriate Federal official for the purposes of improving the 
        Nation's cybersecurity posture;
            (9) shall, through the appropriate department or agency, 
        promulgate rules for Federal professional responsibilities 
        regarding cybersecurity, and shall provide to the Congress an 
        annual report on Federal agency compliance with those rules;
            (10) shall withhold additional compensation, direct 
        corrective action for Federal personnel, or terminate a Federal 
        contract in violation of Federal rules, and shall report any 
        such action to the Congress in an unclassified format within 48 
        hours after taking any such action; and
            (11) shall notify the Congress within 48 hours after 
        providing a cyber-related certification of legality to a United 
        States person.

SEC. 19. QUADRENNIAL CYBER REVIEW.

    (a) In General.--Beginning with 2013 and in every fourth year 
thereafter, the President, or the President's designee, shall complete 
a review of the cyber posture of the United States, including an 
unclassified summary of roles, missions, accomplishments, plans, and 
programs. The review shall include a comprehensive examination of the 
cyber strategy, force structure, modernization plans, infrastructure, 
budget plan, the Nation's ability to recover from a cyberemergency, and 
other elements of the cyber program and policies with a view toward 
determining and expressing the cyber strategy of the United States and 
establishing a revised cyber program for the next 4 years.
    (b) Involvement of Cybersecurity Advisory Panel.--
            (1) The President, or the President's designee, shall 
        apprise the Cybersecurity Advisory Panel established or 
        designated under section 3, on an ongoing basis, of the work 
        undertaken in the conduct of the review.
            (2) Not later than 1 year before the completion date for 
        the review, the Chairman of the Advisory Panel shall submit to 
        the President, or the President's designee, the Panel's 
        assessment of work undertaken in the conduct of the review as 
        of that date and shall include in the assessment the 
        recommendations of the Panel for improvements to the review, 
        including recommendations for additional matters to be covered 
        in the review.
    (c) Assessment of Review.--Upon completion of the review, the 
Chairman of the Advisory Panel, on behalf of the Panel, shall prepare 
and submit to the President, or the President's designee, an assessment 
of the review in time for the inclusion of the assessment in its 
entirety in the report under subsection (d).
    (d) Report.--Not later than September 30, 2013, and every 4 years 
thereafter, the President, or the President's designee, shall submit to 
the relevant congressional Committees a comprehensive report on the 
review. The report shall include--
            (1) the results of the review, including a comprehensive 
        discussion of the cyber strategy of the United States and the 
        collaboration between the public and private sectors best 
        suited to implement that strategy;
            (2) the threats examined for purposes of the review and the 
        scenarios developed in the examination of such threats;
            (3) the assumptions used in the review, including 
        assumptions relating to the cooperation of other countries and 
        levels of acceptable risk; and
            (4) the Advisory Panel's assessment.

SEC. 20. JOINT INTELLIGENCE THREAT ASSESSMENT.

    The Director of National Intelligence and the Secretary of Commerce 
shall submit to the Congress an annual assessment of, and report on, 
cybersecurity threats to and vulnerabilities of critical national 
information, communication, and data network infrastructure.

SEC. 21. INTERNATIONAL NORMS AND CYBERSECURITY DETERRANCE MEASURES.

    The President shall--
            (1) work with representatives of foreign governments--
                    (A) to develop norms, organizations, and other 
                cooperative activities for international engagement to 
                improve cybersecurity; and
                    (B) to encourage international cooperation in 
                improving cybersecurity on a global basis; and
            (2) provide an annual report to the Congress on the 
        progress of international initiatives undertaken pursuant to 
        subparagraph (A).

SEC. 22. FEDERAL SECURE PRODUCTS AND SERVICES ACQUISITIONS BOARD.

    (a) Establishment.--There is established a Secure Products and 
Services Acquisitions Board. The Board shall be responsible for 
cybersecurity review and approval of high value products and services 
acquisition and, in coordination with the National Institute of 
Standards and Technology, for the establishment of appropriate 
standards for the validation of software to be acquired by the Federal 
Government. The Director of the National Institute of Standards and 
Technology shall develop the review process and provide guidance to the 
Board. In reviewing software under this subsection, the Board may 
consider independent secure software validation and verification as key 
factor for approval.
    (b) Acquisition Standards.--The Director, in cooperation with the 
Office of Management and Budget and other appropriate Federal agencies, 
shall ensure that the Board approval is included as a prerequisite to 
the acquisition of any product or service--
            (1) subject to review by the Board; and
            (2) subject to Federal acquisition standards.
    (c) Acquisition Compliance.--After the publication of the standards 
developed under subsection (a), any proposal submitted in response to a 
request for proposals issued by a Federal agency shall demonstrate 
compliance with any such applicable standard in order to ensure that 
cybersecurity products and services are designed to be an integral part 
of the overall acquisition.

SEC. 23. DEFINITIONS.

    In this Act:
            (1) Advisory panel.--The term ``Advisory Panel'' means the 
        Cybersecurity Advisory Panel established or designated under 
        section 3.
            (2) Cyber.--The term ``cyber'' means--
                    (A) any process, program, or protocol relating to 
                the use of the Internet or an intranet, automatic data 
                processing or transmission, or telecommunication via 
                the Internet or an intranet; and
                    (B) any matter relating to, or involving the use 
                of, computers or computer networks.
            (3) Federal government and united states critical 
        infrastructure information systems and networks.--The term 
        ``Federal Government and United States critical infrastructure 
        information systems and networks'' includes--
                    (A) Federal Government information systems and 
                networks; and
                    (B) State, local, and nongovernmental information 
                systems and networks in the United States designated by 
                the President as critical infrastructure information 
                systems and networks.
            (4) Internet.--The term ``Internet'' has the meaning given 
        that term by section 4(4) of the High-Performance Computing Act 
        of 1991 (15 U.S.C. 5503(4)).
            (5) Network.--The term ``network'' has the meaning given 
        that term by section 4(5) of such Act (15 U.S.C. 5503(5)).
                                 &lt;all&gt;
</pre></body></html>
