<html><body><pre>
[Congressional Bills 108th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[S. 1555 Introduced in Senate (IS)]

  1st Session
                                S. 1555

 To designate certain public lands as wilderness and certain rivers as 
wild and scenic rivers in the State of California, to designate Salmon 
     Restoration Areas, to establish the Sacramento River National 
 Conservation Area and Ancient Bristlecone Pine Forest, and for other 
                               purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                   IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

               August 1 (legislative day, July 21), 2003

  Mrs. Boxer introduced the following bill; which was read twice and 
       referred to the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
 To designate certain public lands as wilderness and certain rivers as 
wild and scenic rivers in the State of California, to designate Salmon 
     Restoration Areas, to establish the Sacramento River National 
 Conservation Area and Ancient Bristlecone Pine Forest, and for other 
                               purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``California Wild Heritage Act of 
2003''.

SEC. 2. FINDINGS.

    Congress finds and declares that--
            (1) the publicly owned lands and rivers of California are a 
        wildland resource of extraordinary value for this and future 
        generations;
            (2) increasing pressure from California's rapidly growing 
        population threatens to irrevocably harm these remaining wild 
        areas and wild rivers;
            (3) statutory protection is needed for these areas to 
        ensure that they remain a part of our natural heritage and 
        continue to be a source of solitude and inspiration for all 
        Americans;
            (4) continuation of military activities, including 
        overflights, military rotary wing environmental training, 
        military maneuvers, testing and evaluation, and other 
        activities without limit to frequency is not incompatible with 
        the protection and proper management of the wilderness and wild 
        and scenic river resources designated by this Act;
            (5) wildfire management activities necessary to protect 
        public health and safety and private property are fully 
        allowable in wilderness areas and the Secretary may take any 
        measures deemed necessary to control or prevent fires; and
            (6) these lands shall be included in the National 
        Wilderness Preservation System and the National Wild and Scenic 
        Rivers System, in order to--
                    (A) preserve the unique wild and natural features 
                of these landscapes;
                    (B) protect a diverse array of ecosystems, plants, 
                animals, geologic structures and hydrologic features 
                that represent the natural splendor of California;
                    (C) protect and preserve historical and cultural 
                archaeological sites associated with ancient Indian 
                cultures and the settlement of California;
                    (D) protect and preserve areas that continue to be 
                used by Indian tribes for spiritual, cultural, or 
                subsistence practices;
                    (E) protect watersheds, including those that play 
                an essential role in providing municipal and 
                agricultural water and power supplies;
                    (F) provide opportunities for compatible outdoor 
                recreation, including horseback riding on saddle and 
                pack stock, hunting and fishing, hiking and camping, 
                whitewater rafting, trail running, and excursions led 
                by commercial outfitters;
                    (G) retain and enhance opportunities for scientific 
                research in pristine ecosystems; and
                    (H) promote the recovery of threatened and 
                endangered species, including salmon and steelhead.

  TITLE I--DESIGNATION OF WILDERNESS AREAS TO BE ADMINISTERED BY THE 
       BUREAU OF LAND MANAGEMENT AND UNITED STATES FOREST SERVICE

SEC. 101. DESIGNATION OF WILDERNESS.

    In furtherance of the purposes of the Wilderness Act, the following 
public lands in the State of California are hereby designated as 
wilderness, and therefore, as components of the National Wilderness 
Preservation System:
            (1) Certain lands in the Angeles National Forest which 
        comprise approximately 3,200 acres as generally depicted on a 
        map entitled ``West Fork Wilderness Area--Proposed'', dated May 
        2002, and which shall be known as the West Fork Wilderness.
            (2) Certain lands in the Angeles National Forest which 
        comprise approximately 7,680 acres as generally depicted on a 
        map entitled ``Silver Mountain Wilderness Area--Proposed'', 
        dated May 2002, and which shall be known as the Silver Mountain 
        Wilderness.
            (3) Certain lands in the Angeles National Forest which 
        comprise approximately 56,320 acres as generally depicted on a 
        map entitled ``Castaic Wilderness Area--Proposed'', dated May 
        2002, and which shall be known as the Castaic Wilderness.
            (4) Certain lands in the Angeles National Forest which 
        comprise approximately 12,160 acres as generally depicted on a 
        map entitled ``Magic Mountain Wilderness Area--Proposed'', 
        dated May 2002, and which shall be known as the Magic Mountain 
        Wilderness.
            (5) Certain lands in the Angeles National Forest which 
        comprise approximately 27,232 acres as generally depicted on a 
        map entitled ``Pleasant View Wilderness Area--Proposed'', dated 
        May 2002, and which shall be known as the Pleasant View 
        Wilderness.
            (6) Certain lands in the Angeles National Forest and the 
        San Bernardino National Forest which comprise approximately 
        12,896 acres as generally depicted on a map entitled ``Sheep 
        Mountain Wilderness Area Additions--Proposed'', dated May 2002, 
        and which are hereby incorporated in, and which shall be deemed 
        to be a part of the Sheep Mountain Wilderness designated by 
        Public Law 98-425.
            (7) Certain lands in the Angeles National Forest which 
        comprise approximately 14,720 acres as generally depicted on a 
        map entitled ``Condor Peak Wilderness Area--Proposed'', dated 
        May 2002, and which shall be known as the Condor Peak 
        Wilderness.
            (8) Certain lands in the Angeles National Forest which 
        comprise approximately 2,560 acres as generally depicted on a 
        map entitled ``Santa Clarita Canyons Wilderness Area--
        Proposed'', dated May 2002, and which shall be known as the 
        Santa Clarita Canyons Wilderness.
            (9) Certain lands in the Cleveland National Forest which 
        comprise approximately 24,488 acres as generally depicted on a 
        map entitled ``Eagle Peak Wilderness Area--Proposed'', dated 
        May 2002, and which shall be known as the Eagle Peak 
        Wilderness: Provided, That this designation shall not preclude 
        entry into this area by horses or pack stock.
            (10) Certain lands in the Cleveland National Forest which 
        comprise approximately 214 acres as generally depicted on a map 
        entitled ``Pine Creek Wilderness Additions--Proposed'', dated 
        December 18, 2002, and which are hereby incorporated in, and 
        which shall be deemed to be a part of the Pine Creek Wilderness 
        designated by Public Law 98-425.
            (11) Certain lands in the El Dorado and Humboldt-Toiyabe 
        National Forests which comprise approximately 22,360 acres as 
        generally depicted on a map entitled ``Caples Creek Wilderness 
        Area--Proposed'', dated May 2002, and which shall be known as 
        the Caples Creek Wilderness.
            (12) Certain lands in the El Dorado National Forest and 
        Lake Tahoe Basin Management Unit which comprise approximately 
        19,380 acres as generally depicted on a map entitled ``Meiss 
        Meadows Wilderness Area--Proposed'', dated May 2002, and which 
        shall be known as the Meiss Meadows Wilderness: Provided, That 
        the designation shall not preclude operation and maintenance of 
        the existing historic U.S. Forest Service Meiss Hut in the same 
        manner and degree in which operation and maintenance of such 
        cabin were occurring as of the date of introduction of this 
        Act.
            (13) Certain lands in the Humboldt-Toiyabe and Inyo 
        National Forests which comprise approximately 79,360 acres as 
        generally depicted on a map entitled ``Hoover Wilderness Area 
        Additions--Proposed'', dated May 2002, and which are hereby 
        incorporated in, and which shall be deemed to be a part of the 
        Hoover Wilderness as designated by Public Law 88-577: Provided, 
        That--
                    (A) the designation shall not preclude operation 
                and maintenance of the existing historic Piute Cabin, 
                located in the western portion of the Hoover Wilderness 
                Area Additions, in the same manner and degree in which 
                operation and maintenance of such cabin were occurring 
                as of the date of introduction of this Act; and
                    (B) the designation is not intended to restrict the 
                ongoing activities of the adjacent United States Marine 
                Corps Mountain Warfare Training Center on lands under 
                agreement with the Humboldt-Toiyabe National Forest.
            (14) Certain lands in the Inyo National Forest which 
        comprise approximately 14,800 acres as generally depicted on a 
        map entitled ``Owens River Headwaters Additions to Ansel Adams 
        Wilderness Area--Proposed'', dated May 2002, and which are 
        hereby incorporated in, and which shall be deemed to be a part 
        of the Ansel Adams Wilderness as designated by Public Law 98-
        425.
            (15) Certain lands in the Inyo National Forest and the 
        Bishop Field Office of the Bureau of Land Management which 
        comprise approximately 131,620 acres as generally depicted on a 
        map entitled ``John Muir Wilderness Area Additions--Proposed'', 
        dated May 2002, and which are hereby incorporated in, and which 
        shall be deemed to be a part of the John Muir Wilderness as 
        designated by Public Laws 88-577 and 98-425.
            (16) Certain lands in the Inyo National Forest and the 
        Bishop Field Office and Ridgecrest Field Office of the Bureau 
        of Land Management which comprise approximately 297,000 acres 
        as generally depicted on a map entitled ``White Mountains 
        Wilderness Area--Proposed'', dated May 2002, and which shall be 
        known as the White Mountains Wilderness: Provided, That 
        scientific research conducted at the White Mountains Research 
        Station Facilities operated by the University of California 
        shall be permitted to continue.
            (17) Certain lands in the Klamath National Forest which 
        comprise approximately 64,160 acres as generally depicted on a 
        map entitled ``Marble Mountain Wilderness Area Additions--
        Proposed'', dated May 2002, and which are hereby incorporated 
        in, and which shall be deemed to be a part of the Marble 
        Mountain Wilderness as designated by Public Laws 88-577 and 98-
        425.
            (18) Certain lands in the Klamath National Forest and Rogue 
        River National Forest which comprise approximately 51,600 acres 
        as generally depicted on a map entitled ``Red Butte Wilderness 
        Area Additions--Proposed'', dated May 2002, and which are 
        hereby incorporated in, and which shall be deemed to be a part 
        of the Red Butte Wilderness as designated by Public Laws 98-425 
        and 98-328.
            (19) Certain lands in the Klamath National Forest which 
        comprise approximately 19,360 acres as generally depicted on a 
        map entitled ``Russian Wilderness Area Additions--Proposed'', 
        dated May 2002, and which are hereby incorporated in, and which 
        shall be deemed to be a part of the Russian Wilderness as 
        designated by Public Law 98-425.
            (20) Certain lands in the Lassen National Forest which 
        comprise approximately 12,000 acres as generally depicted on a 
        map entitled ``Heart Lake Wilderness Area--Proposed'', dated 
        May 2002, and which shall be known as the Heart Lake 
        Wilderness.
            (21) Certain lands in the Lassen National Forest which 
        comprise approximately 4,760 acres as generally depicted on a 
        map entitled ``Wild Cattle Mountain Wilderness Area--
Proposed'', dated May 2002, and which shall be known as the Wild Cattle 
Mountain Wilderness.
            (22) Certain lands in the Lassen National Forest which 
        comprise approximately 4,280 acres as generally depicted on a 
        map entitled ``Caribou Wilderness Area Additions--Proposed'', 
        dated May 2002, and which are hereby incorporated in, and which 
        shall be deemed to be a part of the Caribou Wilderness as 
        designated by Public Laws 88-577 and 98-425.
            (23) Certain lands in the Los Padres National Forest which 
        comprise approximately 11,500 acres as generally depicted on a 
        map entitled ``Black Mountain Wilderness Area--Proposed'', 
        dated May 2002, and which shall be known as the Black Mountain 
        Wilderness.
            (24) Certain lands in the Los Padres National Forest which 
        comprise approximately 48,625 acres as generally depicted on a 
        map entitled ``Dick Smith Wilderness Area Additions--
        Proposed'', dated May 2002, and which are hereby incorporated 
        in, and which shall be deemed to be a part of the Dick Smith 
        Wilderness as designated by Public Law 98-425.
            (25) Certain lands in the Los Padres National Forest which 
        comprise approximately 3,550 acres as generally depicted on a 
        map entitled ``Garcia Wilderness Area Additions--Proposed'', 
        dated May 2002, and which are hereby incorporated in, and which 
        shall be deemed to be a part of the Garcia Wilderness as 
        designated by Public Law 102-301.
            (26) Certain lands in the Los Padres National Forest which 
        comprise approximately 9,050 acres as generally depicted on a 
        map entitled ``Machesna Wilderness Area Additions--Proposed'', 
        dated May 2002, and which are hereby incorporated in, and which 
        shall be deemed to be a part of the Machesna Wilderness as 
        designated by Public Law 98-425.
            (27) Certain lands in the Los Padres National Forest which 
        comprise approximately 47,400 acres as generally depicted on a 
        map entitled ``Matilija Wilderness Area Additions--Proposed'', 
        dated May 2002, and which are hereby incorporated in, and which 
        shall be deemed to be a part of the Matilija Wilderness as 
        designated by Public Law 102-301.
            (28) Certain lands in the Los Padres National Forest which 
        comprise approximately 64,500 acres as generally depicted on a 
        map entitled ``San Rafael Wilderness Area Additions--
        Proposed'', dated May 2002, and which are hereby incorporated 
        in, and which shall be deemed to be a part of the San Rafael 
        Wilderness as designated by Public Laws 90-271, 98-425, and 
        102-301.
            (29) Certain lands in the Los Padres National Forest which 
        comprise approximately 65,000 acres as generally depicted on a 
        map entitled ``Chumash Wilderness Area Additions--Proposed'', 
        dated May 2002, and which are hereby incorporated in, and which 
        shall be deemed to be a part of the Chumash Wilderness as 
        designated by Public Law 102-301.
            (30) Certain lands in the Los Padres National Forest which 
        comprise approximately 14,350 acres as generally depicted on a 
        map entitled ``Sespe Wilderness Area Additions--Proposed'', 
        dated May 2002, and which are hereby incorporated in, and which 
        shall be deemed to be a part of the Sespe Wilderness as 
        designated by Public Law 102-301.
            (31) Certain lands in the Mendocino National Forest which 
        comprise approximately 23,800 acres as generally depicted on a 
        map entitled ``Snow Mountain Wilderness Area Additions--
        Proposed'', dated May 2002, and which are hereby incorporated 
        in, and which shall be deemed to be a part of the Snow Mountain 
        Wilderness as designated by Public Law 98-425.
            (32) Certain lands in the Mendocino National Forest which 
        comprise approximately 10,160 acres as generally depicted on a 
        map entitled ``Sanhedrin Wilderness Area--Proposed'', dated May 
        2002, and which shall be known as the Sanhedrin Wilderness.
            (33) Certain lands in the Mendocino National Forest and the 
        Arcata Field Office of the Bureau of Land Management which 
        comprise approximately 51,790 acres as generally depicted on a 
        map entitled ``Yuki Wilderness Area--Proposed'', dated May 
        2002, and which shall be known as the Yuki Wilderness.
            (34) Certain lands in the Plumas National Forest which 
        comprise approximately 9,000 acres as generally depicted on a 
        map entitled ``Feather Falls Wilderness Area--Proposed'', dated 
        May 2002, and which shall be known as the Feather Falls 
        Wilderness.
            (35) Certain lands in the San Bernardino National Forest 
        which comprise approximately 7,040 acres as generally depicted 
        on a map entitled ``Cahuilla Wilderness Area--Proposed'', dated 
        May 2002, and which shall be known as the Cahuilla Wilderness.
            (36) Certain lands in the San Bernardino National Forest 
        which comprise approximately 8,320 acres as generally depicted 
        on a map entitled ``South Fork San Jacinto Wilderness Area--
        Proposed'', dated May 2002, and which shall be known as the 
        South Fork San Jacinto Wilderness.
            (37) Certain lands in the San Bernardino National Forest 
        which comprise approximately 8,064 acres as generally depicted 
        on a map entitled ``Cucamonga Wilderness Area Additions--
        Proposed'', dated May 2002, and which are hereby incorporated 
        in, and which shall be deemed to be a part of the Cucamonga 
        Wilderness as designated by Public Laws 88-577 and 98-425.
            (38) Certain lands in the San Bernardino National Forest 
        and the California Desert District of the Bureau of Land 
        Management which comprise approximately 17,920 acres as 
        generally depicted on a map entitled ``San Gorgonio Wilderness 
        Area Additions--Proposed'', dated May 2002, and which are 
        hereby incorporated in, and which shall be deemed to be a part 
        of the San Gorgonio Wilderness as designated by Public Laws 88-
        577, 98-425, and 103-433.
            (39) Certain lands in the San Bernardino National Forest 
        which comprise approximately 6,336 acres as generally depicted 
        on a map entitled ``Sugarloaf Wilderness Area--Proposed'', 
        dated June 2003, and which shall be known as the Sugarloaf 
        Wilderness Area.
            (40) Certain lands in the Sequoia National Forest which 
        comprise approximately 11,200 acres as generally depicted on a 
        map entitled ``Domeland Wilderness Area Additions--Proposed'', 
        dated May 2002, and which are hereby incorporated in, and which 
        shall be deemed to be a part of the Domeland Wilderness as 
        designated by Public Laws 88-577, 98-425, and 103-433.
            (41) Certain lands in the Sequoia National Forest which 
        comprise approximately 41,280 acres as generally depicted on a 
        map entitled ``Golden Trout Wilderness Area Additions--
        Proposed'', dated May 2002, and which are hereby incorporated 
        in, and which shall be deemed to be a part of the Golden Trout 
        Wilderness as designated by Public Law 95-237.
            (42) Certain lands in the Sequoia National Forest and the 
        Bakersfield Field Office of the Bureau of Land Management which 
        comprise approximately 48,000 acres as generally depicted on a 
        map entitled ``Bright Star Wilderness Area Additions--
        Proposed'', dated May 2002, and which are hereby incorporated 
        in, and which shall be deemed to be a part of the Bright Star 
        Wilderness as designated by Public Law 103-433.
            (43) Certain lands in the Sierra National Forest which 
        comprise approximately 39,360 acres as generally depicted on a 
        map entitled ``South Fork Merced Wilderness Area--Proposed'', 
        dated May 2002, and which shall be known as the South Fork 
        Merced Wilderness.
            (44) Certain lands in the Six Rivers National Forest which 
        comprise approximately 7,300 acres as generally depicted on a 
        map entitled ``Mt. Lassic Wilderness Area--Proposed'', dated 
        May 2002, and which shall be known as the Mt. Lassic 
        Wilderness.
            (45) Certain lands in the Six Rivers National Forest which 
        comprise approximately 5,740 acres as generally depicted on a 
        map entitled ``Mad River Buttes Wilderness Area--Proposed'', 
        dated May 2002, and which shall be known as the Mad River 
        Buttes Wilderness.
            (46) Certain lands in the Six Rivers and Klamath National 
        Forests which comprise approximately 86,470 acres as generally 
        depicted on a map entitled ``Siskiyou Wilderness Area 
        Additions--Proposed'', dated May 2002, and which are hereby 
        incorporated in, and which shall be deemed to be a part of the 
        Siskiyou Wilderness as designated by Public Law 98-425.
            (47) Certain lands in the Six Rivers, Mendocino, and 
        Shasta-Trinity National Forests and the Redding and Arcata 
        Field Offices of the Bureau of Land Management which comprise 
        approximately 40,550 acres as generally depicted on a map 
        entitled ``Yolla Bolly-Middle Eel Wilderness Area Additions--
        Proposed'', dated May 2002, and which are hereby incorporated 
        in, and which shall be deemed to be a part of the Yolla Bolly-
        Middle Eel Wilderness as designated by Public Laws 88-577 and 
        98-425.
            (48) Certain lands in the Six Rivers, Klamath, and Shasta-
        Trinity National Forests which comprise approximately 97,590 
        acres as generally depicted on a map entitled ``Trinity Alps 
        Wilderness Area Additions--Proposed'', dated May 2002, and 
        which are hereby incorporated in, and which shall be deemed to 
        be a part of the Trinity Alps Wilderness as designated by 
        Public Law 98-425.
            (49) Certain lands in the Six Rivers and Shasta-Trinity 
        National Forests which comprise approximately 12,750 acres as 
        generally depicted on a map entitled ``Underwood Wilderness 
        Area--Proposed'', dated May 2002, and which shall be known as 
        the Underwood Wilderness.
            (50) Certain lands in the Stanislaus National Forest which 
        comprise approximately 25,280 acres as generally depicted on a 
        map entitled ``Emigrant Wilderness Area Additions--Proposed'', 
        dated May 2002, and which are hereby incorporated in, and which 
        shall be deemed to be a part of the Emigrant Wilderness as 
        designated by Public Laws 93-632 and 98-425.
            (51) Certain lands in the Stanislaus and Humboldt-Toiyabe 
        National Forests which comprise approximately 35,200 acres as 
        generally depicted on a map entitled ``Carson Iceberg 
        Wilderness Area Additions--Proposed'', dated May 2002, and 
        which are hereby incorporated in, and which shall be deemed to 
be a part of the Carson Iceberg Wilderness as designated by Public Law 
98-425.
            (52) Certain lands in the Tahoe National Forest which 
        comprise approximately 12,160 acres as generally depicted on a 
        map entitled ``Black Oak Wilderness Area--Proposed'', dated May 
        2002, and which shall be known as the Black Oak Wilderness: 
        Provided, That this designation shall not interfere with the 
        operation of the Western States Endurance Run and the Western 
        States Trail Ride (Tevis Cup) in the same manner and degree in 
        which these events are operating as of the date of introduction 
        of this Act.
            (53) Certain lands in the Tahoe National Forest which 
        comprise approximately 2,880 acres as generally depicted on a 
        map entitled ``Duncan Canyon Wilderness Area--Proposed'', dated 
        May 2002, and which shall be known as the Duncan Canyon 
        Wilderness: Provided, That this designation shall not interfere 
        with the operation of the Western States Endurance Run and the 
        Western States Trail Ride (Tevis Cup) in the same manner and 
        degree in which these events are operating as of the date of 
        introduction of this Act.
            (54) Certain lands in the Tahoe National Forest which 
        comprise approximately 20,480 acres as generally depicted on a 
        map entitled ``North Fork American Wilderness Area--Proposed'', 
        dated May 2002, and which shall be known as the North Fork 
        American Wilderness.
            (55) Certain lands in the Tahoe National Forest which 
        comprise approximately 4,480 acres as generally depicted on a 
        map entitled ``Granite Chief Wilderness Area Additions--
        Proposed'', dated May 2002, and which are hereby incorporated 
        in, and which shall be deemed to be a part of the Granite Chief 
        Wilderness as designated by Public Law 98-425: Provided, That 
        this designation shall not interfere with the operation of the 
        Western States Endurance Run and the Western States Trail Ride 
        (Tevis Cup) in the same manner and degree in which these events 
        are operating as of the date of introduction of this Act and 
        pursuant to the April 13, 1988, determination of the Chief of 
        the U.S. Forest Service.
            (56) Certain lands in the Tahoe National Forest which 
        comprise approximately 16,350 acres as generally depicted on a 
        map entitled ``Castle Peak Wilderness Area--Proposed'', dated 
        May 2002, and which shall be known as the Castle Peak 
        Wilderness.
            (57) Certain lands in the Tahoe National Forest which 
        comprise approximately 17,280 acres as generally depicted on a 
        map entitled ``Grouse Lakes Wilderness Area--Proposed'', dated 
        May 2002, and which shall be known as the Grouse Lakes 
        Wilderness.
            (58) Certain lands in the Bishop Field Office of the Bureau 
        of Land Management and the Inyo National Forest which comprise 
        approximately 17,920 acres as generally depicted on a map 
        entitled ``Granite Mountain Wilderness Area--Proposed'', dated 
        May 2002, and which shall be known as the Granite Mountain 
        Wilderness.
            (59) Certain lands in the Bakersfield Field Office of the 
        Bureau of Land Management which comprise approximately 24,680 
        acres as generally depicted on a map entitled ``Caliente 
        Mountain Wilderness Area--Proposed'', dated May 2002, and which 
        shall be known as the Caliente Mountain Wilderness.
            (60) Certain lands in the California Desert District of the 
        Bureau of Land Management which comprise approximately 6,508 
        acres as generally depicted on a map entitled ``Carrizo Gorge 
        Wilderness Area Additions--Proposed'', dated May 2002, and 
        which are hereby incorporated in, and which shall be deemed to 
        be a part of the Carrizo Gorge Wilderness as designated by 
        Public Law 103-433.
            (61) Certain lands in the California Desert District of the 
        Bureau of Land Management which comprise approximately 6,518 
        acres as generally depicted on a map entitled ``Sawtooth 
        Mountains Wilderness Area Additions--Proposed'', dated May 
        2002, and which are hereby incorporated in, and which shall be 
        deemed to be a part of the Sawtooth Mountains Wilderness as 
        designated by Public Law 103-433.
            (62) Certain lands in the California Desert District of the 
        Bureau of Land Management and the Cleveland National Forest 
        which comprise approximately 7,604 acres as generally depicted 
        on a map entitled ``Hauser Wilderness Area Additions--
        Proposed'', dated May 2002, and which are hereby incorporated 
        in, and which shall be deemed to be a part of the Hauser 
        Wilderness as designated by Public Law 98-425.
            (63) Certain lands in the California Desert District of the 
        Bureau of Land Management which comprise approximately 1,920 
        acres as generally depicted on a map entitled ``Bighorn 
        Mountain Wilderness Area Additions--Proposed'', dated May 2002, 
        and which are hereby incorporated in, and which shall be deemed 
        to be a part of the Bighorn Mountain Wilderness as designated 
        by Public Law 103-433.
            (64) Certain lands in the California Desert District of the 
        Bureau of Land Management which comprise approximately 83,880 
        acres as generally depicted on a map entitled ``Avawatz 
        Mountains Wilderness--Proposed'', dated June 2003, and which 
        shall be known as the Avawatz Mountains Wilderness.
            (65) Certain lands in the California Desert District of the 
        Bureau of Land Management which comprise approximately 92,750 
        acres as generally depicted on a map entitled ``Cady Mountains 
        Wilderness--Proposed'', dated June 2003, and which shall be 
        known as the Cady Mountains Wilderness.
            (66) Certain lands in the California Desert District of the 
        Bureau of Land Management which comprise approximately 82,880 
        acres as generally depicted on a map entitled ``Soda Mountains 
        Wilderness--Proposed'', dated June 2002, and which shall be 
        known as the Soda Mountains Wilderness.
            (67) Certain lands in the California Desert District of the 
        Bureau of Land Management which comprise approximately 41,400 
        acres as generally depicted on a map entitled ``Kingston Range 
        Wilderness Area Additions--Proposed'', dated June 2003, and 
        which are hereby incorporated in, and which shall be deemed to 
        be a part of the Kingston Range Wilderness as designated by 
        Public Law 103-433.
            (68) Certain lands in the Alturas Field Office of the 
        Bureau of Land Management which comprise approximately 6,600 
        acres as generally depicted on a map entitled ``Pit River 
        Wilderness Area--Proposed'', dated May 2002, and which shall be 
        known as the Pit River Wilderness.
            (69) Certain lands in the Ukiah Field Office of the Bureau 
        of Land Management which comprise approximately 45,434 acres as 
        generally depicted on a map entitled ``Cache Creek Wilderness 
        Area--Proposed'', dated May 2002, and which shall be known as 
        the Cache Creek Wilderness.
            (70) Certain lands in the Ukiah Field Office of the Bureau 
        of Land Management which comprise approximately 10,880 acres as 
        generally depicted on a map entitled ``Blue Ridge Wilderness 
        Area--Proposed'', dated May 2002, and which shall be known as 
        the Blue Ridge Wilderness.
            (71) Certain lands in the Ukiah Field Office of the Bureau 
        of Land Management which comprise approximately 8,100 acres as 
        generally depicted on a map entitled ``Berryessa Peak 
        Wilderness Area--Proposed'', dated May 2002, and which shall be 
        known as the Berryessa Peak Wilderness.
            (72) Certain lands in the Ukiah Field Office of the Bureau 
        of Land Management which comprise approximately 5,880 acres as 
        generally depicted on a map entitled ``Cedar Roughs Wilderness 
        Area--Proposed'', dated May 2002, and which shall be known as 
        the Cedar Roughs Wilderness.
            (73) Certain lands in the Arcata Field Office of the Bureau 
        of Land Management which comprise approximately 41,614 acres as 
        generally depicted on a map entitled ``King Range Wilderness 
        Area--Proposed'', dated May 2002, and which shall be known as 
        the King Range Wilderness: Provided, That in case of conflict 
        between the provisions of this Act and the provisions of the 
        existing King Range National Conservation Area, established by 
        Public Law 91-476, the more restrictive provisions shall apply.
            (74) Certain lands in the Arcata Field Office of the Bureau 
        of Land Management which comprise approximately 14,000 acres as 
        generally depicted on a map entitled ``South Fork Eel 
        Wilderness Area--Proposed'', dated May 2002, and which shall be 
        known as the South Fork Eel Wilderness.

SEC. 102. ADMINISTRATION OF WILDERNESS AREAS.

    (a) Management.--Subject to valid existing rights, the wilderness 
areas designated by this Act shall be administered by the Secretary of 
the Interior or the Secretary of Agriculture (hereinafter referred to 
as the ``Secretary''), whichever has administrative jurisdiction over 
the area, in accordance with the provisions of the Wilderness Act 
governing areas designated by that Act as wilderness, except that any 
reference in such provisions to the effective date of the Wilderness 
Act (or any similar reference) shall be deemed to be a reference to the 
date of enactment of this Act.
    (b) Map and Legal Description.--As soon as practicable, but no 
later than 3 years after enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall 
file a map and a legal description of each wilderness area designated 
in this title with the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources of the 
United States Senate and the Committee on Resources of the United 
States House of Representatives. Such map and description shall have 
the same force and effect as if included in this title, except that the 
correction of clerical and typographical errors in such legal 
description may be made. Copies of such map and legal description shall 
be on file and available for public inspection in the Office of the 
Secretary with jurisdiction over the relevant wilderness areas.
    (c) Wilderness Character.--As provided in section 4(b) of the 
Wilderness Act, the Secretary administering any area designated as 
wilderness in this Act shall be responsible for preserving the 
wilderness character of the area. All activities in the areas 
designated by this Act shall be subject to regulations the Secretary 
deems necessary to fulfill the provisions of this Act.
    (d) Fire Management Activities.--The Secretary may take such 
measures in the wilderness areas designated by this Act as necessary in 
the control and prevention of fire, insects, and diseases, as provided 
in section 4(d)(1) of the Wilderness Act and in accordance with the 
guidelines contained in the Report of the Committee on Interior and 
Insular Affairs (H. Report 98-40) to accompany the California 
Wilderness Act of 1984 (Public Law 98-425). Where a wilderness area is 
adjacent to or is in close proximity to inhabited areas, the Secretary 
may take appropriate measures to control and prevent fire through 
Federal, State, and/or local agencies and jurisdictions. Such measures 
may include the use of mechanized and motorized equipment for fire 
suppression, including aircraft and fire retardant drops where 
necessary to protect public health and safety and/or residential or 
commercial structures. Within 1 year after the date of enactment of 
this Act, the Secretary shall review existing policy to ensure that 
authorized approval procedures for any such measures permit a timely 
and efficient response in case of fires requiring suppression 
activities in the wilderness areas designated by this Act. In areas 
where a wilderness area is near an inhabited area, the Secretary shall 
consider delegating the authority to approve such fire suppression 
measures to the Forest Supervisor, or the Bureau of Land Management 
District Manager or field manager, where fire hazard and risk are 
extreme. The Secretary may also review, and where appropriate, delegate 
by written agreement primary fire fighting authority and related public 
safety activities to an appropriate State or local agency.
    (e) Access to Private Property.--The Secretary shall provide 
adequate access to nonfederally owned land or interests in land within 
the boundaries of the wilderness areas designated by this Act which 
will provide the owner of such land or interest the reasonable use and 
enjoyment thereof.
    (f) Management of Private Property.--Nothing in this Act shall 
enlarge or diminish the private property rights of non-Federal 
landowners with property within the boundaries of the wilderness areas 
designated by this Act.
    (g) Hydrologic, Meterologic, Climatological Devices, Facilities, 
and Associated Equipment.--Nothing in this Act shall be construed to 
prevent the installation and maintenance of hydrologic, meteorologic, 
or climatological devices or facilities and communication equipment 
associated with such devices, or any combination of the foregoing, or 
limited motorized access to such facilities when non-motorized access 
means are not reasonably available or when time is of the essence, 
where such facilities or access are essential to flood warning, flood 
control, water supply forecasting, or reservoir operation purposes. 
Nothing in this Act shall be construed to preclude or restrict the use 
of utility helicopters for inspection or surveillance of utility 
facilities in the vicinity of wilderness areas designated by this Act.
    (h) Military Activities.--Nothing in this Act shall preclude or 
restrict low level overflights of military aircraft and air vehicles, 
military rotary wing environmental training, testing and evaluation, 
the designation of new units of special use airspace, or the use or 
establishment of military flight training routes over wilderness areas 
designated by this Act.
    (i) Horses.--Nothing in this Act shall preclude horseback riding, 
or the entry of recreational saddle or pack stock into wilderness areas 
designated by this Act.
    (j) Livestock Grazing.--Grazing of livestock and maintenance of 
previously existing facilities which are directly related to permitted 
livestock grazing activities in wilderness areas designated by this 
Act, where established prior to the date of enactment of this Act, 
shall be permitted to continue as provided in section 4(d)(4) of the 
Wilderness Act and section 108 of Public Law 96-560.
    (k) Fish and Wildlife.--Nothing in this Act shall affect hunting 
and fishing, under applicable Federal and State laws and regulations, 
within the boundaries of wilderness areas designated by this Act. 
Nothing in this Act shall be construed as affecting the jurisdiction or 
responsibilities of the State of California with respect to wildlife 
and fish on the public lands in that State as provided in section 
4(d)(7) of the Wilderness Act.
    (l) Wildlife Management.--In furtherance of the purposes and 
principles of the Wilderness Act management activities to maintain or 
restore fish and wildlife populations and the habitats to support such 
populations may be carried out within wilderness areas designated by 
this Act, where consistent with relevant wilderness management plans, 
in accordance with appropriate policies and guidelines.
    (m) Law Enforcement Activities.--Nothing in this Act shall be 
construed as precluding or otherwise affecting border operations, or 
other law enforcement activities by the Immigration and Naturalization 
Service, the Drug Enforcement Administration, the United States Customs 
Service, or other Federal, State and local law enforcement agencies 
within wilderness areas designated by these titles.
    (n) Native American Uses and Interests.--In recognition of the past 
use of wilderness areas designated under this Act by Indian people for 
traditional cultural and religious purposes, the Secretary shall ensure 
access to such wilderness areas by Indian people for such traditional 
cultural and religious purposes. In implementing this section, the 
Secretary, upon the request of an Indian tribe or Indian religious 
community, shall temporarily close to the general public use of 1 or 
more specific portions of the wilderness area in order to protect the 
privacy of traditional cultural and religious activities in such areas 
by Indian people. Any such closure shall be made to affect the smallest 
practicable area for the minimum period necessary for such purposes. 
Such access shall be consistent with the purpose and intent of Public 
Law 95-341 (42 U.S.C. 1996) commonly referred to as the ``American 
Indian Religious Freedom Act'', and the Wilderness Act (78 Stat. 890; 
16 U.S.C. 1131).
    (o) Commercial Outfitters.--Commercial outfitters may use the 
wilderness areas designated by this Act consistent with this Act and 
section 4(d)(5) of the Wilderness Act.
    (p) No Buffer Zones.--Congress does not intend for the designation 
of wilderness areas in the State of California pursuant to this Act to 
lead to the creation of protective perimeters or buffer zones around 
any such wilderness areas. The fact that nonwilderness activities or 
uses can be seen or heard from areas within a wilderness shall not, of 
itself, preclude such activities or uses up to the boundary of the 
wilderness area.
    (q) Water Resources Projects.--Nothing in this Act shall preclude 
relicensing of, assistance to, or operation and maintenance of, 
developments below or above a wilderness area or on any stream 
tributary thereto which will not invade the area or unreasonably 
diminish the existing wilderness, scenic, recreational, and fish and 
wildlife values present in the area as of the date of enactment of this 
Act.

SEC. 103. DESIGNATION OF SALMON RESTORATION AREAS.

    (a) Findings.--Congress finds and declares that--
            (1) once magnificent salmon and steelhead runs throughout 
        the State of California have generally experienced severe 
        declines resulting in the listing of these runs as threatened 
        and endangered under both Federal and State law;
            (2) economically important commercial, recreational, and 
        Tribal salmon and steelhead fisheries have collapsed in many 
        parts of the State leading to economic crises for many fishing-
        dependent communities;
            (3) salmon and steelhead are essential to the spiritual and 
        cultural practices of many Indian tribes in California and 
        these Indian tribes have suffered as a result of the decline in 
        salmon and steelhead runs throughout the State;
            (4) habitat protection is an essential component in the 
        recovery of endangered salmon and steelhead to sustainable, 
        harvestable levels; and
            (5) certain pristine areas in the State warrant special 
        protection because they offer vital, irreplaceable habitat for 
        salmon and steelhead.
    (b) Salmon Restoration Areas.--The following public lands in the 
State of California are hereby designated Salmon Restoration Areas:
            (1) Certain lands in the Shasta-Trinity National Forest 
        which comprise approximately 24,267 acres as generally depicted 
        on a map entitled ``Chinquapin Salmon Restoration Area--
        Proposed'', dated May 2002, and which shall be known as the 
        Chinquapin Salmon Restoration Area.
            (2) Certain lands in the Shasta-Trinity National Forest 
        which comprise approximately 28,400 acres as generally depicted 
        on a map entitled ``Pattison Salmon Restoration Area--
        Proposed'', dated May 2002, and which shall be known as the 
        Pattison Salmon Restoration Area.
            (3) Certain lands in the Shasta-Trinity National Forest 
        which comprise approximately 22,000 acres as generally depicted 
        on a map entitled ``South Fork Trinity Salmon Restoration 
        Area--Proposed'', dated May 2002, and which shall be known as 
        the South Fork Trinity Salmon Restoration Area.
    (c) Management.--The Salmon Restoration Areas shall be reviewed by 
the Secretary as to their suitability for designation as wilderness. 
Until Congress acts on the suitability of these areas for wilderness, 
the Salmon Restoration Areas shall be managed to promote the 
restoration of self-sustaining salmon and steelhead populations. The 
Secretary shall submit the report and findings to the President, and 
the President shall submit a recommendation to the United States Senate 
and United States House of Representatives no later than 3 years from 
the date of enactment of this Act. Subject to valid existing rights, 
the Salmon Restoration Areas designated by this section shall be 
administered by the Secretary so as to maintain their presently 
existing wilderness character and potential for inclusion in the 
National Wilderness Preservation System. The use of mechanized 
transport or motorized equipment shall be based on the selection of the 
minimum tool or administrative practice necessary to accomplish the 
purpose of maximum salmon habitat protection with the least amount of 
adverse impact on wilderness character and resources.

SEC. 104. DESIGNATION OF WILDERNESS STUDY AREAS.

    (a) In furtherance of the provisions of the Wilderness Act, the 
following public lands in the State of California are designated 
wilderness study areas and shall be reviewed by the Secretary as to 
their suitability for preservation as wilderness. The Secretary shall 
submit the report and findings to the President, and the President 
shall submit a recommendation to the United States Senate and United 
States House of Representatives no later than 3 years from the date of 
enactment of this Act:
            (1) Certain lands in the Shasta-Trinity National Forest 
        which comprise approximately 35,000 acres as generally depicted 
        on a map entitled ``Girard Ridge Wilderness Study Area--
        Proposed'', dated May 2002, and which shall be known as the 
        Girard Ridge Wilderness Study Area.
            (2) Certain lands in the Lassen National Forest which 
        comprise approximately 48,000 acres as generally depicted on a 
        map entitled ``Ishi Wilderness Additions Wilderness Study 
        Area--Proposed'', dated May 2002, and which shall be known as 
        the Ishi Additions Wilderness Study Area.
    (b) Subject to valid existing rights, the wilderness study areas 
designated by this section shall be administered by the Secretary so as 
to maintain their presently existing wilderness character and potential 
for inclusion in the National Wilderness Preservation System.

SEC. 105. DESIGNATION OF POTENTIAL WILDERNESS AREAS.

    (a) In furtherance of the provisions of the Wilderness Act, the 
following public lands in the State of California are designated 
potential wilderness areas:
            (1) Certain lands in the Arcata Field Office of the Bureau 
        of Land Management which comprise approximately 8,000 acres as 
        generally depicted on a map entitled ``Elkhorn Ridge Potential 
        Wilderness Area--Proposed'', dated May 2002, and which shall be 
        known as the Elkhorn Ridge Potential Wilderness Area.
            (2) Certain lands in the Ukiah Field Office of the Bureau 
        of Land Management which comprise approximately 8,566 acres as 
        generally depicted on a map entitled ``Payne Ranch Potential 
        Wilderness Addition to Cache Creek Wilderness Area--Proposed'', 
        dated May 2002, and which shall be known as the Payne Ranch 
        Proposed Wilderness Addition to the Cache Creek Wilderness Area 
        as designated by this Act.
    (b) Subject to valid existing rights, the potential wilderness 
areas designated by this Act shall be administered by the Secretary as 
wilderness except as provided for in subsection (c) until such time as 
said lands are designated as wilderness.
    (c) Ecological Restoration.--For purposes of ecological 
restoration, including the elimination of non-native species, road 
removal, repair of skid tracks, and other actions necessary to restore 
the natural ecosystems in these areas, the Secretary may use motorized 
equipment and mechanized transport until such time as the potential 
wilderness areas are designated as wilderness.
    (d) Wilderness Designation.--Upon removal of conditions 
incompatible with the Wilderness Act and publication by the Secretary 
in the Federal Register of notice of such removal or 5 years after the 
date of enactment of this Act, whichever comes first, the potential 
wilderness areas designated by this Act shall be designated wilderness.
    (e) Authorization of Appropriations.--There are authorized to be 
appropriated $5,000,000 annually for 5 years to the Secretary to carry 
out the ecological restoration purposes in subsection (c).

TITLE II--DESIGNATION OF WILDERNESS AREAS TO BE MANAGED BY THE NATIONAL 
                              PARK SERVICE

SEC. 201. DESIGNATION OF WILDERNESS AREAS.

    In furtherance of the purposes of the Wilderness Act, the following 
public lands in the State of California are hereby designated as 
wilderness, and therefore, as components of the National Wilderness 
Preservation System:
            (1) Certain lands in Joshua Tree National Park which 
        comprise approximately 36,672 acres as generally depicted on a 
        map entitled ``Joshua Tree National Park Wilderness Area 
        Additions--Proposed'', dated May 2002, and which are hereby 
        incorporated in, and which shall be deemed to be a part of the 
Joshua Tree National Park Wilderness as designated by Public Laws 94-
567 and 103-433.
            (2) Certain lands in Lassen Volcanic National Park which 
        comprise approximately 26,366 acres as generally depicted on a 
        map entitled ``Lassen Volcanic National Park Wilderness Area 
        Additions--Proposed'', dated May 2002, and which are hereby 
        incorporated in, and which shall be deemed to be a part of the 
        Lassen Volcanic National Park Wilderness as designated by 
        Public Law 92-510.
            (3) Certain lands in Sequoia-Kings Canyon National Park 
        which comprise approximately 68,480 acres as generally depicted 
        on a map entitled ``Mineral King Wilderness Area--Proposed'', 
        dated May 2002, and which shall be known as the John Krebs 
        Wilderness: Provided, That--
                    (A) the designation shall not preclude operation 
                and maintenance of the existing Hockett Meadow Cabin 
                and Quinn Patrol Cabin in the same manner and degree in 
                which operation and maintenance of such cabins were 
                occurring as of the date of enactment of this Act; and
                    (B) nothing in this Act shall be construed to 
                prohibit the periodic maintenance, as presently 
                permitted by the National Park Service, of the small 
                check dams on Lower Franklin, Crystal, Upper Monarch 
                and Eagle Lakes.
            (4) Lands transferred to Death Valley National Park in 
        section 203 of this Act and additional lands in Death Valley 
        National Park, which together comprise approximately 57,680 
        acres as generally depicted on a map entitled ``Death Valley 
        National Park Wilderness Area Additions--Proposed'', dated June 
        2003, and which are hereby incorporated in, and which shall be 
        deemed to be a part of the Death Valley National Park 
        Wilderness as designated by Public Law 103-433.

SEC. 202. ADMINISTRATION OF WILDERNESS AREAS.

    (a) Management.--Subject to valid existing rights, the wilderness 
areas designated by this Act shall be administered by the Secretary of 
the Interior in accordance with the provisions of the Wilderness Act 
governing areas designated by that Act as wilderness, except that any 
reference in such provisions to the effective date of the Wilderness 
Act (or any similar reference) shall be deemed to be a reference to the 
date of enactment of this Act.
    (b) Map and Legal Description.--As soon as practicable, but no 
later than 3 years after enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall 
file a map and a legal description of each wilderness area designated 
in this title with the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources of the 
Senate and the Committee on Resources of the House of Representatives. 
Such map and description shall have the same force and effect as if 
included in this title, except that the correction of clerical and 
typographical errors in such legal description may be made. Copies of 
such map and legal description shall be on file and available for 
public inspection in the Office of the Secretary with jurisdiction over 
the relevant wilderness areas.
    (c) Wilderness Character.--As provided in section 4(b) of the 
Wilderness Act, the Secretary administering any area designated as 
wilderness in this Act shall be responsible for preserving the 
wilderness character of the area. All activities in the areas 
designated by this Act shall be subject to regulations the Secretary 
deems necessary to fulfill the provisions of this Act.

SEC. 203. DEATH VALLEY BOUNDARY ADJUSTMENT.

    (a) Boundary Adjustment.-- The boundary of Death Valley National 
Park (hereinafter referred to in this section as the ``park'') is 
revised to include the lands designated as the Boundary Adjustment Area 
as shown on the map entitled ``Boundary Adjustment Map'', dated June 
2003.
    (b) Transfer and Administration of Lands.--The Secretary shall 
transfer the lands under the jurisdiction of the Bureau of Land 
Management within the Boundary Adjustment Area to the administrative 
jurisdiction of the National Park Service. The Secretary shall 
administer the lands transferred under this section as part of the park 
in accordance with applicable laws and regulations.
    (c) Military Operations at Fort Irwin.--Nothing in this section 
shall be construed as altering any authority of the Secretary of the 
Army to conduct military operations at Fort Irwin and the National 
Training Center that are authorized in any other provision of law.

             TITLE III--WILD AND SCENIC RIVER DESIGNATIONS

 SEC. 301. DESIGNATION OF WILD AND SCENIC RIVERS.

    (a) In order to preserve and protect for present and future 
generations the outstanding scenic, natural, wildlife, fishery, 
recreational, scientific, historic, and ecological values of the 
following rivers in the State of California Section 3(a) of the Wild 
and Scenic Rivers Act (16 U.S.C. 1274(a)) is amended by adding the 
following new paragraphs at the end:
            ``(  ) Black butte river, california.--The 2 miles of Black 
        Butte River from the confluence of Estell and Sheep Creeks to 
        Spanish Creek confluence, as a scenic river. The 18.5 miles of 
        Black Butte River from Spanish Creek confluence to Jumpoff 
        Creek confluence, as a wild river. The 3.5 miles of Black Butte 
        River from Jumpoff Creek confluence to confluence with Middle 
        Eel River, as a scenic river. The 5 miles of Cold Creek from 
        Plaskett Creek confluence to confluence with Black Butte River, 
        as a wild river: Provided, That within 18 months of the date of 
        enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall prepare a fire 
        management plan and a report on the cultural and historic 
        resources within the river designations in this subparagraph 
        and submit the report to Congress and provide a copy to the 
        Mendocino County board of supervisors.
            ``(  ) Buckhorn creek, california.--The 4.25 miles of 
        Buckhorn Creek from the source to Lower Buckhorn Campground, as 
        a wild river. The .25 miles of Buckhorn Creek from Lower 
        Buckhorn Campground to the confluence with Indian Creek, as a 
        scenic river.
            ``(  ) Cedar creek, california.--The 4 mile segment from 
        Inaja Reservation boundary to 0.125 miles upstream of Cedar 
Creek Road crossing, as a wild river. The 0.25 miles from 0.125 miles 
upstream of Cedar Creek Road crossing to 0.125 miles downstream of 
Cedar Creek Road crossing, as a scenic river. The 1.75 miles from 0.125 
miles downstream of Cedar Creek Road to the private property boundary 
in sec. 1, T. 14 S., R. 2 E., at Cedar Creek Falls, as a wild river.
            ``(  ) Clavey river, california.--The 5 mile segment of the 
        Lily Creek tributary from the Emigrant Wilderness boundary to a 
        point 0.1 mile downstream of an unnamed tributary at the lower 
        end of Coffin Hollow, as a wild river. The 2 mile segment of 
        the Lily Creek tributary from a point 0.1 mile downstream of an 
        unnamed tributary at the lower end of Coffin Hollow to its 
        confluence with Bell Creek, as a scenic river. The 6 mile 
        segment of the Bell Creek tributary from the Emigrant 
        Wilderness boundary to its confluence with Lily Creek, as a 
        wild river, except the 1.0 mile segment beginning a point 500 
        feet upstream from the Crabtree trail bridge shall be 
        administered as a scenic river. The 10.4 mile segment of the 
        Clavey River from the confluence of Bell Creek with Lily Creek 
        to a point where the eastern boundary of the river corridor 
        intersects with the Mi-Wok and Groveland Ranger districts 
        boundary, as a scenic river. The 3.2 mile segment of the Clavey 
        River from the Mi-Wok and Groveland Ranger districts boundary 
        to 0.25 mile upstream of the Cottonwood Road, (Forest Route 14) 
        crossing, as a wild river. The 1.75 mile segment of the Clavey 
        River from 0.25 mile upstream of the Cottonwood Road to 1.5 
        mile below it, as a scenic river. The 6.6 mile segment of the 
        Clavey River from 1.5 mile downstream of the Cottonwood Road to 
        0.25 mile upstream of Forest Road 1 N. 01, as wild river. The 2 
        mile segment of the Clavey River from 0.25 mile above Forest 
        Road 1 N. 01, crossing to 1.75 miles downstream, as a scenic 
        river. The 7.0 mile segment of the Clavey River from 1.75 miles 
        downstream from the Forest Road 1 N. 01 crossing to the 
        confluence with the Tuolumne River, as a wild river. The 2 mile 
        segment of the Bourland Creek tributary from its origin to the 
        western boundary of Bourland Research Natural Area, as a wild 
        river. The 10.3 mile segment of the Bourland Creek tributary 
        from the western boundary of Bourland Research Natural Area to 
        its confluence with Reynolds Creek, as a recreational river.
            ``(  ) Cottonwood creek, california.--The 18.1 miles from 
        spring source in sec. 27, T. 4 S., R. 34 E., to the confluence 
        with unnamed tributary directly east of Peak 6887T near the 
        center of sec. 2, T. 6 S., R. 36 E., as a wild river. The 3.8 
        miles from the unnamed tributary confluence near the center of 
        sec. 2, T. 6 S., R. 36 E., to the northern boundary of sec. 5, 
        T. 6 S., R. 37 E., as a scenic river.
            ``(  ) Deep creek, california.--The 6.5 mile segment from 
        0.125 mile downstream of the Rainbow Dam site in sec. 33, T. 2 
        N., R. 2 W., to 0.25 miles upstream of the Road 3 N. 34 
        crossing, as a wild river. The 2.5 mile segment from 0.25 miles 
        downstream of the Road 3 N. 34 crossing to 0.25 miles upstream 
        of the Trail 2 W. 01 crossing, as a wild river. The 10 mile 
        segment from 0.25 miles downstream of the Trail 2 W. 01 
        crossing to the upper limit of the Mojave dam flood zone in 
        sec. 17, T. 3 N., R. 3 W., as a wild river. The 3.5 mile 
        segment of the Holcomb Creek tributary from 0.25 miles 
        downstream of Holcomb crossing (Trail 2 W. 08/2 W. 03), as a 
        wild river.
            ``(  ) Dinkey creek, california.--The 3 miles from First 
        Dinkey Lake to 0.25 miles upstream of Road 9 S. 62 crossing, as 
        a wild river. The 0.5 miles from 0.25 miles upstream of Road 9 
        S. 62 crossing to 0.25 miles downstream of crossing, as a 
        scenic river. The 7 miles from 0.25 miles downstream of Road 9 
        S. 62 crossing to confluence with Rock Creek, as a wild river. 
        The 4.5 miles from Rock Creek confluence to the confluence with 
        Laurel Creek, as a recreation river. The 4.5 miles from Laurel 
        Creek confluence to 0.25 miles upstream of Ross Crossing (Road 
        10 S. 24), as a wild river. The 1 mile from 0.25 miles upstream 
        of Ross Crossing to 0.75 miles downstream of Ross Crossing, as 
        a scenic river. The 5.25 miles from 0.75 miles downstream of 
        Ross Crossing to 2 miles upstream of North Fork Kings 
        confluence, as a wild river. The 2 miles upstream of North Fork 
        Kings confluence to North Fork Kings confluence, as a 
        recreational river.
            ``(  ) Downie river and tributaries, california.--The 2 
        miles of the West Downie River from the northern boundary of 
        sec. 27, T. 21 N., R. 10 E., to Rattlesnake Creek confluence, 
        as a wild river. The 3 miles of Rattlesnake Creek from the 
        source in sec. 24, T. 21 N., R. 10 E., to West Branch 
        confluence, as a wild river. The 3 miles of Downie River from 
        the confluence of West Branch and Rattlesnake Creek to the 
        confluence with Grant Ravine, as a wild river. The 1.75 miles 
        of Downie River from Grant Ravine confluence to the confluence 
        with Lavezzola Creek, as a recreational river. The 2 miles of 
        Red Oak Canyon from the source in sec. 18, T. 21 N., R. 11 E., 
        to 0.5 miles upstream of confluence with Empire Creek, as a 
        wild river. The 0.5 miles of Red Oak Canyon from 0.5 miles 
        upstream of Empire Creek confluence to Empire Creek confluence, 
        as a scenic river. The 2 miles of Empire Creek from the source 
        in sec. 17, T. 12 N., R. 11 E., to 0.5 miles upstream of 
        confluence with Red Oak Canyon, as a wild river. The 4.5 miles 
        of Empire Creek from 0.5 miles upstream of Red Oak Canyon 
        confluence to confluence with Lavezzola Creek, as a scenic 
        river. The 1.5 miles of Sunnyside Creek from the confluence of 
        Sunnyside Creek and unnamed tributary in sec. 8, T. 21 N., R. 
        11 E., to Spencer Creek confluence, as a wild river. The 1.5 
        miles of Spencer Creek from Lower Spencer Lake to confluence 
        with Sunnyside Creek, as a wild river. The 5 miles of Lavezzola 
        Creek, from the confluence of Sunnyside and Spencer Creeks to 
        unnamed tributary in sec. 33, T. 21 N., R. 11 E., as a wild 
        river. The 7 miles of Lavezzola Creek, from the confluence with 
unnamed tributary in sec. 33 to Downie River confluence, as a scenic 
river. The 3.5 miles of Pauley Creek from Hawley and Snake Lakes to the 
southern boundary of sec. 26, T. 21 N., R. 11 E., as a scenic river. 
The 7.5 miles of Pauley Creek from sec. 26 to the western boundary of 
sec. 18, T. 20 N., R. 11 E., as a wild river. The 4 miles of Pauley 
Creek from sec. 18 to confluence with Downie River, as a scenic river. 
The 1.5 miles of Butcher Ranch Creek from the eastern boundary of sec. 
2, T. 20 N., R. 11 E., to the confluence with Pauley Creek, as a wild 
river.
            ``(  ) Independence creek, california.--The 2 miles from 
        the source in sec. 13, T. 18 N., R. 14 E., to the high water 
        line of Independence Lake, as a wild river.
            ``(  ) Lower kern river, california.--The 7 miles from 
        Highway 155 bridge to 100 feet upstream of Borel powerhouse, as 
        a recreational river. The 12.7 miles from 100 feet downstream 
        of Borel powerhouse to confluence with Willow Spring Creek, as 
        a scenic river. The 9.75 miles from 0.25 miles downstream of 
        Democrat Dam to 0.25 miles upstream of the Kern River 
        powerhouse, as a recreational river: Provided, That the 
        designation shall not impact the continued operation and 
        maintenance of existing water and energy facilities on or near 
        the river.
            ``(  ) Kings river, california.--The 4 miles from the 
        existing wild river boundary to the end of road 12 S. 01 (at 
        the Kings River NRT trailhead), as a wild river. The 4 miles 
        from 12 S. 01 road end to the confluence with Mill Creek, as a 
        scenic river. The 3 miles from the Mill Creek confluence to the 
        Bailey Bridge (Road 11 S. 12), as a recreational river: 
        Provided, That in the case of conflict between the provisions 
        of this Act and the provisions of the existing Kings River 
        Special Management Area, established by Public Law 100-150, the 
        more restrictive provisions shall apply.
            ``(  ) Matilija creek, california.--The 7 miles from the 
        source to the confluence with Old Man Canyon, as a wild river. 
        The 2 miles from Old Man Canyon to Murrieta Canyon, as a scenic 
        river. The 7 miles from the source of the North Fork of 
        Matilija Creek to the confluence with Matilija Creek, as a wild 
        river.
            ``(  ) Mokelumne, north fork, california.--The 5.75 miles 
        from 0.25 miles downstream of Salt Springs dam to 0.5 miles 
        downstream of Bear River confluence, as a recreational river. 
        The 11 miles from 0.5 miles downstream of Bear River confluence 
        to National Forest boundary in sec. 19, T. 7 N., R. 14 E., as a 
        wild river.
            ``(  ) Niagara creek, california.--The 1 mile from Highway 
        108 to the high water line of Donnell Reservoir, as a scenic 
        river.
            ``(  ) Owens river headwaters, california.--The 2.99 miles 
        of Deadman Creek from the 2-forked source east of San Joaquin 
        Peak to the confluence with the unnamed tributary flowing south 
        into Deadman Creek from sec. 12, T. 3 S., R. 26 E., as a wild 
        river. The 1.71 miles of Deadman Creek from the unnamed 
        tributary confluence in sec. 12, T. 3 S., R. 26 E., to Road 3 
        S. 22 crossing, as a scenic river. The 3.91 miles of Deadman 
        Creek from the Road 3 S. 22 crossing to 300 feet downstream of 
        the Highway 395 crossing, as a recreational river. The 2.97 
        miles of Deadman Creek from 300 feet downstream of the Highway 
        395 crossing to 100 feet upstream of Big Springs, as a scenic 
        river. The 0.88 miles of the Upper Owens River from 100 feet 
        upstream of Big Springs to the private property boundary in 
        sec. 19, T. 2 S., R. 28 E., as a recreational river. The 3.98 
        miles of Glass Creek from its 2-forked source to 100 feet 
        upstream of the Glass Creek Meadow Trailhead parking area in 
        sec. 29, T. 2 S., R. 27 E., as a wild river. The 1.42 miles of 
        Glass Creek from 100 feet upstream of the trailhead parking 
        area in sec. 29 to the end of the Glass Creek road in sec. 21, 
        T. 2 S., R. 27 E., as a scenic river. The 0.96 miles of Glass 
        Creek from the end of Glass Creek road in sec. 21 to the 
        confluence with Deadman Creek in sec. 27, as a recreational 
        river.
            ``(  ) Pine valley creek, california.--The 1.5 miles from 
        the private property boundary in sec. 26, T. 15 S., R. 14 E., 
        to the Pine Creek Wilderness Boundary, as a recreational river. 
        The 5.75 miles from the Pine Creek Wilderness Boundary to 0.25 
        miles upstream of Barrett Reservoir, as a wild river.
            ``(  ) Piru creek, california.--The 9 miles of the North 
        Fork Piru Creek from the source to private property in sec. 4, 
        T. 6 N., R. 21 W., as a wild river. The 1 mile of the North 
        Fork Piru Creek from the private property boundary in sec. 4 to 
        the South Fork confluence, as a scenic river. The 3.5 miles of 
        the South Fork Piru Creek from the source to the confluence 
        with the unnamed tributary in Thorn Meadows, as a wild river. 
        The 1 mile of South Fork Piru Creek from the confluence with 
        the unnamed tributary in Thorn Meadows to the confluence with 
        North Fork Piru Creek, as a scenic river. The 15 miles of Piru 
        Creek from the North and South Forks confluence to 0.125 miles 
        downstream of Road 18 N. 01 crossing, as a scenic river. The 3 
        miles of Piru Creek from 0.125 miles downstream of Road 18 N. 
        01 crossing to 0.125 miles upstream of Castaic Mine, as a wild 
        river. The 7.75 miles of Piru Creek from 0.125 miles downstream 
        of Castaic Mine to 0.25 miles upstream of Pyramid reservoir, as 
        a scenic river. The 2.75 miles of Piru Creek from 0.25 miles 
        downstream of Pyramid dam to Osito Canyon, as a recreational 
        river. The 11 miles from Osito Canyon to the southern boundary 
        of the Sespe Wilderness, as a wild river. Nothing in this Act 
        shall preclude or limit the State of California, the Department 
        of Water Resources of the State of California, United Water 
        Conservation District, and other governmental entities from 
        releasing water from Pyramid Lake into Piru Creek for 
        conveyance and delivery to Lake Piru for the water conservation 
        purposes of United Water Conservation District.
            ``(  ) Sagehen creek, california.--The 7.75 miles from the 
        source in sec. 10, T. 18 N., R. 15 E., to 0.25 miles upstream 
        of Stampede reservoir, as a scenic river.
            ``(  ) San diego river, california.--The 9 miles from the 
        northern boundary of sec. 34, T. 12 S., R. 3 E, to the private 
        property boundary in sec. 36, T. 13 S., R. 2 E., as a wild 
        river.
            ``(  ) Upper sespe creek, california.--The 1.5 miles from 
        the source to the private property boundary in sec. 10, T. 6 
        N., R. 24 W., as a scenic river. The 2 miles from the private 
        property boundary in sec. 10, T. 6 N., R. 24 W. to the Hartman 
        Ranch boundary in sec. 14, T. 6 N., R. 24 W., as a wild river. 
        The 14.5 miles from the Hartman Ranch boundary in sec. 14, T. 6 
        N., R. 24 W., to 0.125 miles downstream of Beaver Campground, 
        as a recreational river. The 2 miles from 0.125 miles 
        downstream of Beaver Campground to Rock Creek confluence, as a 
        scenic river. The 1 mile of Sespe Creek from the southern 
        boundary of section 16, T. 5 N., R. 20 W., to the southern 
        boundary of section 35, T. 4 N., R. 20 W., just upstream of the 
        confluence with Coldwater Canyon, to be administered as a wild 
        river.
            ``(  ) Stanislaus river, north fork, california.--The 5.5 
        miles of Highland Creek from 0.5 miles downstream of New Spicer 
        dam to North Fork confluence, as a wild river. The 8.5 miles of 
        the North Fork Stanislaus River, from Highland Creek confluence 
        to Little Rattlesnake Creek confluence, as a wild river. The 
        2.25 miles of the North Fork Stanislaus River, from Little 
        Rattlesnake Creek confluence to the northern edge of the 
        private property boundary in sec. 8, T. 5 N., R. 16 E., 0.25 
        miles upstream of Boards Crossing, as a recreational river. The 
        2 miles of the North Fork Stanislaus River, from 1 mile 
        downstream of Boards Crossing to the western boundary of 
        Calaveras Big Trees State Park, as a scenic river. The 7 miles 
        of the North Fork Stanislaus River from 0.25 miles downstream 
        of Road 4 N. 38 crossing to Middle Fork Stanislaus River 
        confluence, as a wild river.
            ``(  ) Tuolumne, south fork.--The 0.2 miles from the 
        Rainbow Pool Bridge to the Highway 120 Bridge, as a 
        recreational river. The 3.0 miles from the Highway 120 Bridge 
        to the Tuolumne Wild and Scenic River confluence, as a scenic 
        river: Provided, That within 18 months of the date of enactment 
        of this Act, the Secretary shall prepare a fire management plan 
        and a report on the cultural and historic resources within the 
        river designations in this subparagraph and submit the report 
        to the United States Senate, United States House of 
        Representatives, and provide a copy to the Tuolumne County 
        board of supervisors. Nothing in this subparagraph is intended 
        or shall be construed to affect any rights, obligations, 
        privileges, or benefits granted under any prior authority of 
        law, including Chapter 4 of the Act of December 19, 1913, 
        commonly referred to as the Raker Act (38 Stat. 242) and 
        including any agreement or administrative ruling entered into 
        or made effective before the enactment of this subparagraph.
    (b) Water Resources Projects.--Nothing in this Act shall preclude 
relicensing of, assistance to, or operation and maintenance of, 
developments below or above a wild, scenic, or recreational river area 
or on any stream tributary thereto which will not invade the area or 
unreasonably diminish the existing scenic, recreational, and fish and 
wildlife values present in the area as of the date of enactment of this 
Act.

SEC. 302. DESIGNATION OF WILD AND SCENIC RIVERS STUDY AREAS.

    In furtherance of the provisions of the Wild and Scenic Rivers Act, 
the following rivers in the State of California shall be reviewed by 
the Secretary as to their suitability for designation as wild, scenic, 
or recreational rivers. The Secretary shall submit a report and 
findings to the President, and the President shall submit a 
recommendation to the United States Senate and United States House of 
Representatives no later than 3 years from the date of enactment of 
this Act. Section 5(a) of the Wild and Scenic Rivers Act (16 U.S.C. 
1276(a)) is amended by adding the following new paragraphs at the end:
            ``(  ) Cache creek, california.--The approximately 32 miles 
        of Cache Creek from 0.25 miles downstream of Clear Lake dam to 
        Camp Haswell. The approximately 2 miles of the North Fork Cache 
        Creek from the Highway 20 crossing to its confluence with Cache 
        Creek.
            ``(  ) Carson river, east fork, california.--The 
        approximately 46.5 miles from the source to the Nevada 
        border.''.

         TITLE IV--SACRAMENTO RIVER NATIONAL CONSERVATION AREA

SEC. 401. DESIGNATION AND MANAGEMENT.

    (a) Purposes.--In order to conserve, protect, and enhance the 
riparian and associated areas described in subsection (b) and the 
outstanding ecological, geological, scenic, recreational, cultural, 
historical, fish and wildlife values, and other resources of such 
areas, there is hereby established the Sacramento River National 
Conservation Area (hereinafter referred to in this title as the 
``conservation area'') to be managed by the Redding Field Office of the 
Bureau of Land Management.
    (b) Areas Included.--The conservation area shall consist of the 
public lands in Tehama and Shasta Counties generally depicted on a map 
entitled ``Sacramento River National Conservation Area'' date May 2002 
and comprising approximately 17,000 acres adjacent to the Sacramento 
River, lower Battle Creek, and lower Paynes Creek.
    (c) Map.--As soon as practicable, but no later than 3 years after 
the date of enactment of this Act, a map and legal description of the 
conservation area shall be filed by the Secretary with the Committee on 
Energy and Natural Resources of the United States Senate and the 
Committee on Resources of the United States House of Representatives. 
Such map shall have the same force and effect as if included in this 
section. Copies of such map shall be on file and available for public 
inspection in the Office of the Director of the Bureau of Land 
Management, Department of the Interior, and in the appropriate office 
of the Bureau of Land Management in California.
    (d) Management of Conservation Area.--The Secretary shall manage 
the conservation area in a manner that conserves, protects, and 
enhances its resources and values, including the resources specified in 
subsection (a), pursuant to the Federal Land Policy and Management Act 
of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.) and other applicable provisions of 
law, including this title.
    (e) Withdrawal.--Subject to valid existing rights, all Federal 
lands within the conservation area are hereby withdrawn from all forms 
of entry, appropriation or disposal under the public land laws; from 
location, entry, and patent under the mining laws; and from disposition 
under all laws relating to mineral and geothermal leasing, and all 
amendments thereto.
    (f) Hunting and Fishing.--The Secretary shall permit hunting and 
fishing within the conservation area in accordance with applicable laws 
and regulations of the United States and the State of California.
    (g) Motorized Vehicles.--Use of motorized vehicles on public lands 
shall be restricted to established roadways.
    (h) Motorized Boats.--Nothing in this Act is intended to restrict 
the use of motorized boats on the Sacramento River. The counties of 
Tehama and Shasta and California Department of Boating and Waterways 
shall retain their respective authority to regulate motorized boating 
for the purpose of ensuring public safety and environmental protection.
    (i) Grazing.--The grazing of livestock on public lands, where 
authorized under permits or leases in existence as of the date of 
enactment of this Act, shall be permitted to continue subject to such 
reasonable regulations, policies, and practices as the Secretary deems 
necessary, consistent with this Act, the Federal Land Policy Management 
Act, and Bureau of Land Management regulations.
    (j) Acquisition of Property.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary may acquire land or 
        interests in land within the boundaries of the conservation 
        area depicted on the map by donation, transfer, purchase with 
        donated or appropriated funds, or exchange.
            (2) Consent.--No land or interest in land may be acquired 
        without the consent of the owner of the land.
    (k) Conservation Area Management Plan.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 3 years after the date of 
        enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall--
                    (A) develop a comprehensive plan for the long-range 
                protection and management of the conservation area; and
                    (B) transmit the plan to--
                            (i) the Committee on Energy and Natural 
                        Resources of the Senate; and
                            (ii) the Committee on Resources of the 
                        House of Representatives.
            (2) Contents of plan.--The plan--
                    (A) shall describe the appropriate uses and 
                management of the conservation area in accordance with 
                this Act;
                    (B) may incorporate appropriate decisions contained 
                in any management or activity plan for the area 
                completed prior to the date of enactment of this Act;
                    (C) may incorporate appropriate wildlife habitat 
                management plans or other plans prepared for the land 
                within or adjacent to the conservation area prior to 
                the date of enactment of this Act;
                    (D) shall be prepared in close consultation with 
                appropriate Federal, State, Tehama and Shasta Counties, 
                and local agencies; adjacent landowners; and other 
                stakeholders; and
                    (E) may use information developed prior to the date 
                of enactment of this Act in studies of the land within 
                or adjacent to the conservation area.
    (l) Authorization of Appropriations.--There are authorized such 
sums as may be necessary to carry out this title.

                TITLE V--ANCIENT BRISTLECONE PINE FOREST

SEC. 501. DESIGNATION AND MANAGEMENT.

    (a) Purposes.--In order to conserve and protect, by maintaining 
near-natural conditions, the Ancient Bristlecone Pines for public 
enjoyment and scientific study there is hereby established the Ancient 
Bristlecone Pine Forest.
    (b) Areas Included.--The Ancient Bristlecone Pine Forest shall 
consist of the public lands generally depicted on a map entitled 
``Ancient Bristlecone Pine Forest--Proposed'' dated May 2002, and 
comprising approximately 28,991 acres.
    (c) Map.--As soon as practicable, but no later than 3 years after 
the date of enactment of this Act, a map and legal description of the 
Ancient Bristlecone Pine Forest shall be filed by the Secretary with 
the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources of the United States 
Senate and the Committee on Resources of the United States House of 
Representatives. Such map shall have the same force and effect as if 
included in this section. Copies of such map shall be on file and 
available for public inspection in the Office of the Chief of the U.S. 
Forest Service, Department of Agriculture, and in the appropriate 
office of the U.S. Forest Service in California.
    (d) Management of Ancient Bristlecone Pine Forest.--
            (1) The Ancient Bristlecone Pine Forest designated by this 
        title shall be administered by the Secretary to protect the 
        resources and values of the area in accordance with the 
        purposes in subsection (a) and pursuant to the National Forest 
        Management Act of 1976 (16 U.S.C. 1600 et seq.) and other 
        applicable provisions of law, including this Title, and in a 
        manner that promotes the objectives of the management plan for 
        this area as of the date of enactment of this Act, including
                    (A) the protection of the Ancient Bristlecone Pines 
                for public enjoyment and scientific study;
                    (B) the recognition of the botanical, scenic, and 
                historical values of the area; and
                    (C) the maintenance of near-natural conditions by 
                ensuring that all activities are subordinate to the 
                needs of protecting and preserving bristlecone pines 
                and wood remnants.
            (2) The Secretary shall allow only such uses of the forest 
        as the Secretary finds will further the purposes for which the 
        forest is established.
    (e) Withdrawal.--Subject to valid existing rights, all Federal 
lands within the Ancient Bristlecone Pine Forest are hereby withdrawn 
from all forms of entry, appropriation or disposal under the public 
land laws; from location, entry, and patent under the mining laws; and 
from disposition under all laws relating to mineral and geothermal 
leasing, and all amendments thereto.
    (f) Ancient Bristlecone Pine Forest Management Plan.--Within 18 
months after the date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall 
develop and submit to the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources of 
the United States Senate and to the Committee on Resources of the 
United States House of Representatives a comprehensive management plan 
for the Ancient Bristlecone Pine Forest designated by this Title.
    (g) Existing Management.--Management guidance for the Ancient 
Bristlecone Pine Forest adopted in 1988 as part of the Inyo National 
Forest Land and Resource Management Plan regarding roads, trails, and 
facilities development, motor vehicle use, pest management, energy 
exploration, land acquisition, utilities placement, wildfire 
management, grazing, timber, riparian areas, hunting, and recreation 
shall be maintained and incorporated into the management plan in 
subsection (f). Scientific research shall be allowed according to the 
1988 plan. In all other cases of conflict between the provisions of 
this Act and the provisions of the existing management plan for the 
Ancient Bristlecone Pine Forest the more restrictive provisions shall 
apply.

               TITLE VI--AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.

SEC. 601. WILDERNESS AND WILD AND SCENIC RIVER TOURISM DEVELOPMENT.

    There is authorized to be appropriated $5,000,000 annually to the 
Secretary of Agriculture and $5,000,000 annually to the Secretary of 
the Interior to establish a program to provide ``Wilderness and Wild 
and Scenic Economic Development'' grants to communities surrounded by 
or adjacent to wilderness areas and wild, scenic, and recreational 
rivers designated by this Act, for use in creating and promoting 
wilderness and recreation related jobs, developing visitors centers, 
informational brochures and kiosks, or other methods for promoting 
wilderness and wild and scenic river tourism in these areas.

SEC. 602. WILDERNESS AND WILD AND SCENIC RIVER RECREATION.

    There is authorized to be appropriated $2,500,000 annually to the 
Secretary of Agriculture and $2,500,000 annually to the Secretary of 
the Interior for use in wilderness areas and wild, scenic, and 
recreational rivers designated by this Act to develop trails and other 
facilities that will promote and enhance the wilderness and wild and 
scenic river recreation experiences.

SEC. 603. FIRE FIGHTING.

    There is authorized to be appropriated $5,000,000 annually to the 
Secretary of Agriculture and $5,000,000 annually to the Secretary of 
the Interior for use in wilderness areas and wild, scenic, and 
recreational river segments designated by this Act to support 
firefighting activities.

SEC. 604. LAW ENFORCEMENT.

    There is authorized to be appropriated $2,000,000 annually to the 
Secretary of Agriculture and $2,000,000 annually to the Secretary of 
the Interior for use in wilderness areas and wild, scenic, and 
recreational rivers designated by this Act to support law enforcement 
activities necessary to protect visitors and the natural resources of 
these wild areas.
                                 &lt;all&gt;
</pre></body></html>
