<html><body><pre>
[Congressional Bills 110th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[S. 987 Introduced in Senate (IS)]







110th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                 S. 987

   To enhance the energy security of the United States by promoting 
                   biofuels, and for other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                   IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

                             March 26, 2007

 Mr. Bingaman (for himself and Mr. Domenici) introduced the following 
bill; which was read twice and referred to the Committee on Energy and 
                           Natural Resources

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
   To enhance the energy security of the United States by promoting 
                   biofuels, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE; TABLE OF CONTENTS.

    (a) Short Title.--This Act may be cited as the ``Biofuels for 
Energy Security and Transportation Act of 2007''.
    (b) Table of Contents.--The table of contents of this Act is as 
follows:

Sec. 1. Short title; table of contents.
Sec. 2. Definitions.
                    TITLE I--RENEWABLE FUEL STANDARD

Sec. 101. Renewable fuel standard.
                TITLE II--RENEWABLE FUELS INFRASTRUCTURE

Sec. 201. Infrastructure pilot program for renewable fuels.
Sec. 202. Bioenergy research and development.
Sec. 203. Bioresearch centers for systems biology program.
Sec. 204. Loan guarantees for renewable fuel facilities.
Sec. 205. Grants for renewable fuel production research and development 
                            in certain States.
Sec. 206. Grants for infrastructure for transportation of biomass to 
                            local biorefineries.
Sec. 207. Biorefinery information center.
Sec. 208. Conversion assistance for cellulosic biomass, waste-derived 
                            ethanol, approved renewable fuels.
Sec. 209. Alternative fuel database and materials.
Sec. 210. Fuel tank cap labeling requirement.
                           TITLE III--STUDIES

Sec. 301. Study of advanced biofuels technologies.
Sec. 302. Study of increased consumption of ethanol-blended gasoline 
                            with higher levels of ethanol.
Sec. 303. Pipeline feasibility study.
Sec. 304. Study of optimization of alternative fueled vehicles to use 
                            E-85 fuel.
Sec. 305. Study of credits for use of renewable electricity in electric 
                            vehicles.

SEC. 2. DEFINITIONS.

    In this Act:
            (1) Advanced biofuel.--
                    (A) In general.--The term ``advanced biofuel'' 
                means fuel derived from renewable biomass other than 
                corn kernels.
                    (B) Inclusions.--The term ``advanced biofuel'' 
                includes--
                            (i) ethanol derived from cellulose, 
                        hemicellulose, or lignin;
                            (ii) ethanol derived from sugar or starch, 
                        other than ethanol derived from corn kernels;
                            (iii) ethanol derived from waste material, 
                        including crop residue, other vegetative waste 
                        material, animal waste, and municipal solid 
                        waste;
                            (iv) diesel-equivalent fuel derived from 
                        renewable biomass, including vegetable oil and 
                        animal fat;
                            (v) biogas produced by the anaerobic 
                        digestion or fermentation of organic matter 
                        from renewable biomass; and
                            (vi) butanol produced by the fermentation 
                        of renewable biomass.
            (2) Cellulosic biomass ethanol.--The term ``cellulosic 
        biomass ethanol'' means ethanol derived from any cellulose, 
        hemicellulose, or lignin that is derived from renewable 
        biomass.
            (3) Conventional biofuel.--The term ``conventional 
        biofuel'' means ethanol derived from corn kernels.
            (4) Renewable biomass.--
                    (A) In general.--The term ``renewable biomass'' 
                means any organic matter that is available on a 
                renewable or recurring basis.
                    (B) Inclusions.--The term ``renewable biomass'' 
                includes--
                            (i) renewable plant material, including--
                                    (I) feed grains;
                                    (II) other agricultural 
                                commodities;
                                    (III) other plants and trees grown 
                                for energy production; and
                                    (IV) algae; and
                            (ii) waste material, including--
                                    (I) crop residue;
                                    (II) other vegetative waste 
                                material (including wood waste and wood 
                                residues);
                                    (III) animal waste and byproducts 
                                (including fats, oils, greases, and 
                                manure); and
                                    (IV) municipal solid waste.
                    (C) Exclusions.--The term ``renewable biomass'' 
                does not include old-growth timber of a forest from the 
                late successional stage of forest development.
            (5) Renewable fuel.--
                    (A) In general.--The term ``renewable fuel'' means 
                motor vehicle fuel, boiler fuel, or home heating fuel 
                that is--
                            (i) produced from renewable biomass; and
                            (ii) used to replace or reduce the quantity 
                        of fossil fuel present in a fuel mixture used 
                        to operate a motor vehicle, boiler, or furnace 
                        that would otherwise operate using fossil fuel.
                    (B) Inclusion.--The term ``renewable fuel'' 
                includes--
                            (i) conventional biofuel; and
                            (ii) advanced biofuel.
            (6) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary 
        of Energy.
            (7) Small refinery.--The term ``small refinery'' means a 
        refinery for which the average aggregate daily crude oil 
        throughput for a calendar year (as determined by dividing the 
        aggregate throughput for the calendar year by the number of 
        days in the calendar year) does not exceed 75,000 barrels.

                    TITLE I--RENEWABLE FUEL STANDARD

SEC. 101. RENEWABLE FUEL STANDARD.

    (a) Renewable Fuel Program.--
            (1) Regulations.--
                    (A) In general.--Not later than 1 year after the 
                date of enactment of this Act, the President shall 
                promulgate regulations to ensure that motor vehicle 
                fuel, home heating oil, and boiler fuel sold or 
                introduced into commerce in the United States (except 
                in noncontiguous States or territories), on an annual 
                average basis, contains the applicable volume of 
                renewable fuel determined in accordance with paragraph 
                (2).
                    (B) Provisions of regulations.--Regardless of the 
                date of promulgation, the regulations promulgated under 
                subparagraph (A)--
                            (i) shall contain compliance provisions 
                        applicable to refineries, blenders, 
                        distributors, and importers, as appropriate, to 
                        ensure that the requirements of this subsection 
                        are met; but
                            (ii) shall not--
                                    (I) restrict geographic areas in 
                                the contiguous United States in which 
                                renewable fuel may be used; or
                                    (II) impose any per-gallon 
                                obligation for the use of renewable 
                                fuel.
                    (C) Relationship to other regulations.--Regulations 
                promulgated under this paragraph shall, to the maximum 
                extent practicable, incorporate the program structure, 
                compliance, and reporting requirements established 
                under the final regulations promulgated to implement 
                the renewable fuel program established by the amendment 
                made by section 1501(a)(2) of the Energy Policy Act of 
                2005 (Public Law 109-58; 119 Stat. 1067).
            (2) Applicable volume.--
                    (A) Calendar years 2008 through 2022.--
                            (i) Renewable fuel.--For the purpose of 
                        paragraph (1), subject to clause (ii), the 
                        applicable volume for any of calendar years 
                        2008 through 2022 shall be determined in 
                        accordance with the following table:

                                    Applicable volume of renewable fuel
Calendar year:                                (in billions of gallons):
    2008..........................................                  8.5
    2009..........................................                 10.5
    2010..........................................                 12.0
    2011..........................................                 12.6
    2012..........................................                 13.2
    2013..........................................                 13.8
    2014..........................................                 14.4
    2015..........................................                 15.0
    2016..........................................                 18.0
    2017..........................................                 21.0
    2018..........................................                 24.0
    2019..........................................                 27.0
    2020..........................................                 30.0
    2021..........................................                 33.0
    2022..........................................                 36.0
                            (ii) Advanced biofuels.--For the purpose of 
                        paragraph (1), of the volume of renewable fuel 
                        required under clause (i), the applicable 
                        volume for any of calendar years 2016 through 
                        2022 for advanced biofuels shall be determined 
                        in accordance with the following table:

                                         Applicable volume of advanced 
                                                               biofuels
Calendar year:                                (in billions of gallons):
    2016..........................................                  3.0
    2017..........................................                  6.0
    2018..........................................                  9.0
    2019..........................................                 12.0
    2020..........................................                 15.0
    2021..........................................                 18.0
    2022..........................................                 21.0
                    (B) Calendar year 2023 and thereafter.--Subject to 
                subparagraph (C), for the purposes of paragraph (1), 
                the applicable volume for calendar year 2023 and each 
                calendar year thereafter shall be determined by the 
                President, in coordination with the Secretary of 
                Energy, the Secretary of Agriculture, and the 
                Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency, 
                based on a review of the implementation of the program 
                during calendar years 2007 through 2022, including a 
                review of--
                            (i) the impact of renewable fuels on the 
                        energy security of the United States;
                            (ii) the expected annual rate of future 
                        production of renewable fuels, including 
                        advanced biofuels; and
                            (iii) the impact of the use of renewable 
                        fuels on other factors, including job creation, 
                        the price and supply of agricultural 
                        commodities, rural economic development, and 
                        the environment.
                    (C) Minimum applicable volume.--Subject to 
                subparagraph (D), for the purpose of paragraph (1), the 
                applicable volume for calendar year 2023 and each 
                calendar year thereafter shall be equal to the product 
                obtained by multiplying--
                            (i) the number of gallons of gasoline that 
                        the President estimates will be sold or 
                        introduced into commerce in the calendar year; 
                        and
                            (ii) the ratio that--
                                    (I) 36,000,000,000 gallons of 
                                renewable fuel; bears to
                                    (II) the number of gallons of 
                                gasoline sold or introduced into 
                                commerce in calendar year 2022.
                    (D) Maximum quantity derived from conventional 
                biofuel feedstocks.--For the purpose of paragraph (1), 
                the applicable volume for calendar year 2023 and each 
                calendar year thereafter shall not exceed 
                15,000,000,000 gallons of conventional biofuel.
    (b) Applicable Percentages.--
            (1) Provision of estimate of volumes of gasoline sales.--
        Not later than October 31 of each of calendar years 2008 
        through 2021, the Administrator of the Energy Information 
        Administration shall provide to the President an estimate, with 
        respect to the following calendar year, of the volumes of 
        gasoline projected to be sold or introduced into commerce in 
        the United States.
            (2) Determination of applicable percentages.--
                    (A) In general.--Not later than November 30 of each 
                of calendar years 2008 through 2022, based on the 
                estimate provided under paragraph (1), the President 
                shall determine and publish in the Federal Register, 
                with respect to the following calendar year, the 
                renewable fuel obligation that ensures that the 
                requirements of subsection (a) are met.
                    (B) Required elements.--The renewable fuel 
                obligation determined for a calendar year under 
                subparagraph (A) shall--
                            (i) be applicable to refineries, blenders, 
                        and importers, as appropriate;
                            (ii) be expressed in terms of a volume 
                        percentage of gasoline sold or introduced into 
                        commerce in the United States; and
                            (iii) subject to paragraph (3)(A), consist 
                        of a single applicable percentage that applies 
                        to all categories of persons specified in 
                        clause (i).
            (3) Adjustments.--In determining the applicable percentage 
        for a calendar year, the President shall make adjustments--
                    (A) to prevent the imposition of redundant 
                obligations on any person specified in paragraph 
                (2)(B)(i); and
                    (B) to account for the use of renewable fuel during 
                the previous calendar year by small refineries that are 
                exempt under subsection (g).
    (c) Volume Conversion Factors for Renewable Fuels Based on Energy 
Content or Requirements.--
            (1) In general.--For the purpose of subsection (a), the 
        President shall assign values to specific types of advanced 
        biofuels for the purpose of satisfying the fuel volume 
        requirements of subsection (a)(2) in accordance with this 
        subsection.
            (2) Energy content relative to ethanol.--For advanced 
        biofuel, 1 gallon of the advanced biofuel shall be considered 
        to be the equivalent of 1 gallon of renewable fuel multiplied 
        by the ratio that--
                    (A) the number of British thermal units of energy 
                produced by the combustion of 1 gallon of the advanced 
                biofuel (as measured under conditions determined by the 
                Secretary); bears to
                    (B) the number of British thermal units of energy 
                produced by the combustion of 1 gallon of pure ethanol 
                (as measured under conditions determined by the 
                Secretary to be comparable to conditions described in 
                subparagraph (A)).
            (3) Transitional energy-related conversion factors for 
        cellulosic biomass ethanol.--For any of calendar years 2008 
        through 2015, 1 gallon of cellulosic biomass ethanol shall be 
        considered to be the equivalent of 2.5 gallons of renewable 
        fuel.
    (d) Credit Program.--
            (1) In general.--The President, in consultation with the 
        Secretary and the Administrator of the Environmental Protection 
        Agency, shall implement a credit program to manage the 
        renewable fuel requirement of this section in a manner 
        consistent with the credit program established by the amendment 
        made by section 1501(a)(2) of the Energy Policy Act of 2005 
        (Public Law 109-58; 119 Stat. 1067).
            (2) Market transparency.--In carrying out the credit 
        program under this subsection, the President shall facilitate 
        price transparency in markets for the sale and trade of 
        credits, with due regard for the public interest, the integrity 
        of those markets, fair competition, and the protection of 
        consumers and agricultural producers.
    (e) Seasonal Variations in Renewable Fuel Use.--
            (1) Study.--For each of calendar years 2007 through 2020, 
        the Administrator of the Energy Information Administration 
        shall conduct a study of renewable fuel blending to determine 
        whether there are excessive seasonal variations in the use of 
        renewable fuel.
            (2) Regulation of excessive seasonal variations.--If, for 
        any calendar year, the Administrator of the Energy Information 
        Administration, based on the study under paragraph (1), makes 
        the determinations specified in paragraph (3), the President 
        shall promulgate regulations to ensure that 25 percent or more 
        of the quantity of renewable fuel necessary to meet the 
        requirements of subsection (a) is used during each of the 2 
        periods specified in paragraph (4) of each subsequent calendar 
        year.
            (3) Determinations.--The determinations referred to in 
        paragraph (2) are that--
                    (A) less than 25 percent of the quantity of 
                renewable fuel necessary to meet the requirements of 
                subsection (a) has been used during 1 of the 2 periods 
                specified in paragraph (4) of the calendar year;
                    (B) a pattern of excessive seasonal variation 
                described in subparagraph (A) will continue in 
                subsequent calendar years; and
                    (C) promulgating regulations or other requirements 
                to impose a 25 percent or more seasonal use of 
                renewable fuels will not significantly--
                            (i) increase the price of motor fuels to 
                        the consumer; or
                            (ii) prevent or interfere with the 
                        attainment of national ambient air quality 
                        standards.
            (4) Periods.--The 2 periods referred to in this subsection 
        are--
                    (A) April through September; and
                    (B) January through March and October through 
                December.
    (f) Waivers.--
            (1) In general.--The President, in consultation with the 
        Secretary of Energy, the Secretary of Agriculture, and the 
        Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency, may waive 
        the requirements of subsection (a) in whole or in part on 
        petition by one or more States by reducing the national 
        quantity of renewable fuel required under subsection (a), based 
        on a determination by the President (after public notice and 
        opportunity for comment), that--
                    (A) implementation of the requirement would 
                severely harm the economy or environment of a State, a 
                region, or the United States; or
                    (B) extreme and unusual circumstances exist that 
                prevent distribution of an adequate supply of 
                domestically-produced renewable fuel to consumers in 
                the United States.
            (2) Petitions for waivers.--The President, in consultation 
        with the Secretary of Energy, the Secretary of Agriculture, and 
        the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency, shall 
        approve or disapprove a State petition for a waiver of the 
        requirements of subsection (a) within 90 days after the date on 
        which the petition is received by the President.
            (3) Termination of waivers.--A waiver granted under 
        paragraph (1) shall terminate after 1 year, but may be renewed 
        by the President after consultation with the Secretary of 
        Energy, the Secretary of Agriculture, and the Administrator of 
        the Environmental Protection Agency.
    (g) Small Refineries.--
            (1) Temporary exemption.--
                    (A) In general.--The requirements of subsection (a) 
                shall not apply to small refineries until calendar year 
                2013.
                    (B) Extension of exemption.--
                            (i) Study by secretary.--Not later than 
                        December 31, 2008, the Secretary shall submit 
                        to the President and Congress a report 
                        describing the results of a study to determine 
                        whether compliance with the requirements of 
                        subsection (a) would impose a disproportionate 
                        economic hardship on small refineries.
                            (ii) Extension of exemption.--In the case 
                        of a small refinery that the Secretary 
                        determines under clause (i) would be subject to 
                        a disproportionate economic hardship if 
                        required to comply with subsection (a), the 
                        President shall extend the exemption under 
                        subparagraph (A) for the small refinery for a 
                        period of not less than 2 additional years.
            (2) Petitions based on disproportionate economic 
        hardship.--
                    (A) Extension of exemption.--A small refinery may 
                at any time petition the President for an extension of 
                the exemption under paragraph (1) for the reason of 
                disproportionate economic hardship.
                    (B) Evaluation of petitions.--In evaluating a 
                petition under subparagraph (A), the President, in 
                consultation with the Secretary, shall consider the 
                findings of the study under paragraph (1)(B) and other 
                economic factors.
                    (C) Deadline for action on petitions.--The 
                President shall act on any petition submitted by a 
                small refinery for a hardship exemption not later than 
                90 days after the date of receipt of the petition.
            (3) Opt-in for small refineries.--A small refinery shall be 
        subject to the requirements of subsection (a) if the small 
        refinery notifies the President that the small refinery waives 
        the exemption under paragraph (1).
    (h) Penalties and Enforcement.--
            (1) Civil penalties.--
                    (A) In general.--Any person that violates a 
                regulation promulgated under subsection (a), or that 
                fails to furnish any information required under such a 
                regulation, shall be liable to the United States for a 
                civil penalty of not more than the total of--
                            (i) $25,000 for each day of the violation; 
                        and
                            (ii) the amount of economic benefit or 
                        savings received by the person resulting from 
                        the violation, as determined by the President.
                    (B) Collection.--Civil penalties under subparagraph 
                (A) shall be assessed by, and collected in a civil 
                action brought by, the Secretary or such other officer 
                of the United States as is designated by the President.
            (2) Injunctive authority.--
                    (A) In general.--The district courts of the United 
                States shall have jurisdiction to--
                            (i) restrain a violation of a regulation 
                        promulgated under subsection (a);
                            (ii) award other appropriate relief; and
                            (iii) compel the furnishing of information 
                        required under the regulation.
                    (B) Actions.--An action to restrain such violations 
                and compel such actions shall be brought by and in the 
                name of the United States.
                    (C) Subpoenas.--In the action, a subpoena for a 
                witness who is required to attend a district court in 
                any district may apply in any other district.
    (i) Effective Date.--Except as otherwise specifically provided in 
this section, this section takes effect on January 1, 2008.

                TITLE II--RENEWABLE FUELS INFRASTRUCTURE

SEC. 201. INFRASTRUCTURE PILOT PROGRAM FOR RENEWABLE FUELS.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary, in consultation with the Secretary 
of Transportation and the Administrator of the Environmental Protection 
Agency, shall establish a competitive grant pilot program (referred to 
in this section as the ``pilot program''), to be administered through 
the Vehicle Technology Deployment Program of the Department of Energy, 
to provide not more than 10 geographically-dispersed project grants to 
State governments, local governments, metropolitan transportation 
authorities, or partnerships of those entities to carry out 1 or more 
projects for the purposes described in subsection (b).
    (b) Grant Purposes.--A grant under this section shall be used for 
the establishment of refueling infrastructure corridors, as designated 
by the Secretary, for gasoline blends that contain at least 85 percent 
renewable fuel or diesel fuel that contains at least 10 percent 
renewable fuel, including--
            (1) installation of infrastructure and equipment necessary 
        to ensure adequate distribution of renewable fuels within the 
        corridor;
            (2) installation of infrastructure and equipment necessary 
        to directly support vehicles powered by renewable fuels; and
            (3) operation and maintenance of infrastructure and 
        equipment installed as part of a project funded by the grant.
    (c) Applications.--
            (1) Requirements.--
                    (A) In general.--Subject to subparagraph (B), not 
                later than 90 days after the date of enactment of this 
                Act, the Secretary shall issue requirements for use in 
                applying for grants under the pilot program.
                    (B) Minimum requirements.--At a minimum, the 
                Secretary shall require that an application for a grant 
                under this section--
                            (i) be submitted by--
                                    (I) the head of a State or local 
                                government or a metropolitan 
                                transportation authority, or any 
                                combination of those entities; and
                                    (II) a registered participant in 
                                the Vehicle Technology Deployment 
                                Program of the Department of Energy; 
                                and
                            (ii) include--
                                    (I) a description of the project 
                                proposed in the application, including 
                                the ways in which the project meets the 
                                requirements of this section;
                                    (II) an estimate of the degree of 
                                use of the project, including the 
                                estimated size of fleet of vehicles 
                                operated with renewable fuel available 
                                within the geographic region of the 
                                corridor;
                                    (III) an estimate of the potential 
                                petroleum displaced as a result of the 
                                project, and a plan to collect and 
                                disseminate petroleum displacement and 
                                other relevant data relating to the 
                                project to be funded under the grant, 
                                over the expected life of the project;
                                    (IV) a description of the means by 
                                which the project will be sustainable 
                                without Federal assistance after the 
                                completion of the term of the grant;
                                    (V) a complete description of the 
                                costs of the project, including 
                                acquisition, construction, operation, 
                                and maintenance costs over the expected 
                                life of the project; and
                                    (VI) a description of which costs 
                                of the project will be supported by 
                                Federal assistance under this 
                                subsection.
            (2) Partners.--An applicant under paragraph (1) may carry 
        out a project under the pilot program in partnership with 
        public and private entities.
    (d) Selection Criteria.--In evaluating applications under the pilot 
program, the Secretary shall--
            (1) consider the experience of each applicant with 
        previous, similar projects; and
            (2) give priority consideration to applications that--
                    (A) are most likely to maximize displacement of 
                petroleum consumption;
                    (B) demonstrate the greatest commitment on the part 
                of the applicant to ensure funding for the proposed 
                project and the greatest likelihood that the project 
                will be maintained or expanded after Federal assistance 
                under this subsection is completed;
                    (C) represent a partnership of public and private 
                entities; and
                    (D) exceed the minimum requirements of subsection 
                (c)(1)(B).
    (e) Pilot Project Requirements.--
            (1) Maximum amount.--The Secretary shall provide not more 
        than $20,000,000 in Federal assistance under the pilot program 
        to any applicant.
            (2) Cost sharing.--The non-Federal share of the cost of any 
        activity relating to renewable fuel infrastructure development 
        carried out using funds from a grant under this section shall 
        be not less than 20 percent.
            (3) Maximum period of grants.--The Secretary shall not 
        provide funds to any applicant under the pilot program for more 
        than 2 years.
            (4) Deployment and distribution.--The Secretary shall seek, 
        to the maximum extent practicable, to ensure a broad geographic 
        distribution of project sites funded by grants under this 
        section.
            (5) Transfer of information and knowledge.--The Secretary 
        shall establish mechanisms to ensure that the information and 
        knowledge gained by participants in the pilot program are 
        transferred among the pilot program participants and to other 
        interested parties, including other applicants that submitted 
        applications.
    (f) Schedule.--
            (1) Initial grants.--
                    (A) In general.--Not later than 90 days after the 
                date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall 
                publish in the Federal Register, Commerce Business 
                Daily, and such other publications as the Secretary 
                considers to be appropriate, a notice and request for 
                applications to carry out projects under the pilot 
                program.
                    (B) Deadline.--An application described in 
                subparagraph (A) shall be submitted to the Secretary by 
                not later than 180 days after the date of publication 
                of the notice under that subparagraph.
                    (C) Initial selection.--Not later than 90 days 
                after the date by which applications for grants are due 
                under subparagraph (B), the Secretary shall select by 
                competitive, peer-reviewed proposal up to 5 
                applications for projects to be awarded a grant under 
                the pilot program.
            (2) Additional grants.--
                    (A) In general.--Not later than 2 years after the 
                date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall 
                publish in the Federal Register, Commerce Business 
                Daily, and such other publications as the Secretary 
                considers to be appropriate, a notice and request for 
                additional applications to carry out projects under the 
                pilot program that incorporate the information and 
                knowledge obtained through the implementation of the 
                first round of projects authorized under the pilot 
                program.
                    (B) Deadline.--An application described in 
                subparagraph (A) shall be submitted to the Secretary by 
                not later than 180 days after the date of publication 
                of the notice under that subparagraph.
                    (C) Initial selection.--Not later than 90 days 
                after the date by which applications for grants are due 
                under subparagraph (B), the Secretary shall select by 
                competitive, peer-reviewed proposal such additional 
                applications for projects to be awarded a grant under 
                the pilot program as the Secretary determines to be 
                appropriate.
    (g) Reports to Congress.--
            (1) Initial report.--Not later than 60 days after the date 
        on which grants are awarded under this section, the Secretary 
        shall submit to Congress a report containing--
                    (A) an identification of the grant recipients and a 
                description of the projects to be funded under the 
                pilot program;
                    (B) an identification of other applicants that 
                submitted applications for the pilot program but to 
                which funding was not provided; and
                    (C) a description of the mechanisms used by the 
                Secretary to ensure that the information and knowledge 
                gained by participants in the pilot program are 
                transferred among the pilot program participants and to 
                other interested parties, including other applicants 
                that submitted applications.
            (2) Evaluation.--Not later than 2 years after the date of 
        enactment of this Act, and annually thereafter until the 
        termination of the pilot program, the Secretary shall submit to 
        Congress a report containing an evaluation of the effectiveness 
        of the pilot program, including an assessment of the petroleum 
        displacement and benefits to the environment derived from the 
        projects included in the pilot program.
    (h) Authorization of Appropriations.--There is authorized to be 
appropriated to the Secretary to carry out this section $200,000,000, 
to remain available until expended.

SEC. 202. BIOENERGY RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT.

    Section 931(c) of the Energy Policy Act of 2005 (42 U.S.C. 
16231(c)) is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (1), by striking ``$213,000,000'' and 
        inserting ``$326,000,000'';
            (2) in paragraph (2), by striking ``$251,000,000'' and 
        inserting ``$377,000,000''; and
            (3) in paragraph (3), by striking ``$274,000,000'' and 
        inserting ``$398,000,000''.

SEC. 203. BIORESEARCH CENTERS FOR SYSTEMS BIOLOGY PROGRAM.

    Section 977(a)(1) of the Energy Policy Act of 2005 (42 U.S.C. 
16317(a)(1)) is amended by inserting before the period at the end the 
following: ``, including the establishment of at least 7 bioresearch 
centers that focus on biofuels, of which at least 1 center shall be 
located in each of the 4 Petroleum Administration for Defense Districts 
with no subdistricts and 1 center shall be located in each of the 
subdistricts of the Petroleum Administration for Defense District with 
subdistricts''.

SEC. 204. LOAN GUARANTEES FOR RENEWABLE FUEL FACILITIES.

    (a) In General.--Section 1703 of the Energy Policy Act of 2005 (42 
U.S.C. 16513) is amended by adding at the end the following:
    ``(f) Renewable Fuel Facilities.--
            ``(1) In general.--The Secretary may make guarantees under 
        this title for projects that produce advanced biofuel (as 
        defined in section 2 of the Biofuels for Energy Security and 
        Transportation Act of 2007).
            ``(2) Requirements.--A project under this subsection shall 
        employ new or significantly improved technologies for the 
        production of renewable fuels as compared to commercial 
        technologies in service in the United States at the time that 
        the guarantee is issued.
            ``(3) Issuance of first loan guarantees.--The requirement 
        of section 20320(b) of division B of the Continuing 
        Appropriations Resolution, 2007 (Public Law 109-289, Public Law 
        110-5), relating to the issuance of final regulations, shall 
        not apply to the first 6 guarantees issued under this 
        subsection.
            ``(4) Project design.--A project for which a guarantee is 
        made under this subsection shall have a project design that has 
        been validated through the operation of a continuous process 
        pilot facility with an annual output of at least 50,000 gallons 
        of ethanol.
            ``(5) Maximum guaranteed principal.--The total principal 
        amount of a loan guaranteed under this subsection may not 
        exceed $250,000,000 for a single facility.
            ``(6) Amount of guarantee.--The Secretary shall guarantee 
        100 percent of the principal and interest due on 1 or more 
        loans made for a facility that is the subject of the guarantee 
        under paragraph (3).
            ``(7) Deadline.--The Secretary shall approve or disapprove 
        an application for a guarantee under this subsection not later 
        than 90 days after the date of receipt of the application.
            ``(8) Report.--Not later than 30 days after approving or 
        disapproving an application under paragraph (7), the Secretary 
        shall submit to Congress a report on the approval or 
        disapproval (including the reasons for the action).''.
    (b) Improvements to Underlying Loan Guarantee Authority.--
            (1) Definition of commercial technology.--Section 1701(1) 
        of the Energy Policy Act of 2005 (42 U.S.C. 16511(1)) is 
        amended by striking subparagraph (B) and inserting the 
        following:
                    ``(B) Exclusion.--The term `commercial technology' 
                does not include a technology if the sole use of the 
                technology is in connection with--
                            ``(i) a demonstration plant; or
                            ``(ii) a project for which the Secretary 
                        approved a loan guarantee.''.
            (2) Specific appropriation or contribution.--Section 1702 
        of the Energy Policy Act of 2005 (42 U.S.C. 16512) is amended 
        by striking subsection (b) and inserting the following:
    ``(b) Specific Appropriation or Contribution.--
            ``(1) In general.--No guarantee shall be made unless--
                    ``(A) an appropriation for the cost has been made; 
                or
                    ``(B) the Secretary has received from the borrower 
                a payment in full for the cost of the obligation and 
                deposited the payment into the Treasury.
            ``(2) Limitation.--The source of payments received from a 
        borrower under paragraph (1)(B) shall not be a loan or other 
        debt obligation that is made or guaranteed by the Federal 
        Government.
            ``(3) Relation to other laws.--Section 504(b) of the 
        Federal Credit Reform Act of 1990 (2 U.S.C. 661c(b)) shall not 
        apply to a loan or loan guarantee made in accordance with 
        paragraph (1)(B).''.
            (3) Amount.--Section 1702 of the Energy Policy Act of 2005 
        (42 U.S.C. 16512) is amended by striking subsection (c) and 
        inserting the following:
    ``(c) Amount.--
            ``(1) In general.--Subject to paragraph (2), the Secretary 
        shall guarantee up to 100 percent of the principal and interest 
        due on 1 or more loans for a facility that are the subject of 
        the guarantee.
            ``(2) Limitation.--The total amount of loans guaranteed for 
        a facility by the Secretary shall not exceed 80 percent of the 
        total cost of the facility, as estimated at the time at which 
        the guarantee is issued.''.
            (4) Subrogation.--Section 1702(g)(2) of the Energy Policy 
        Act of 2005 (42 U.S.C. 16512(g)(2)) is amended--
                    (A) by striking subparagraph (B); and
                    (B) by redesignating subparagraph (C) as 
                subparagraph (B).

SEC. 205. GRANTS FOR RENEWABLE FUEL PRODUCTION RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT 
              IN CERTAIN STATES.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary shall provide grants to eligible 
entities to conduct research into, and develop and implement, renewable 
fuel production technologies in States with low rates of ethanol 
production, including low rates of production of cellulosic biomass 
ethanol.
    (b) Eligibility.--To be eligible to receive a grant under the 
section, an entity shall--
            (1)(A) be an institution of higher education (as defined in 
        section 2 of the Energy Policy Act of 2005 (42 U.S.C. 15801)) 
        located in a State described in subsection (a); or
            (B) be a consortium of such institutions of higher 
        education, industry, State agencies, or local government 
        agencies located in the State; and
            (2) have proven experience and capabilities with relevant 
        technologies.
    (c) Authorization of Appropriations.--There is authorized to be 
appropriated to carry out this section $25,000,000 for each of fiscal 
years 2008 through 2010.

SEC. 206. GRANTS FOR INFRASTRUCTURE FOR TRANSPORTATION OF BIOMASS TO 
              LOCAL BIOREFINERIES.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary shall conduct a program under which 
the Secretary shall provide grants to local governments and other 
eligible entities (as determined by the Secretary) (referred to in this 
section as ``eligible entities'') to promote the development of 
infrastructure to support the transportation of biomass to local 
biorefineries, including by portable processing equipment.
    (b) Phases.--The Secretary shall conduct the program in the 
following phases:
            (1) Development.--In the first phase of the program, the 
        Secretary shall make grants to eligible entities to assist the 
        eligible entities in the development of local projects to 
        promote the development of infrastructure to support the 
        transportation of biomass to local biorefineries, including by 
        portable processing equipment.
            (2) Implementation.--In the second phase of the program, 
        the Secretary shall make competitive grants to eligible 
        entities to implement projects developed under paragraph (1).
    (c) Authorization of Appropriations.--There are authorized to be 
appropriated such sums as are necessary to carry out this section.

SEC. 207. BIOREFINERY INFORMATION CENTER.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary, in cooperation with the Secretary 
of Agriculture, shall establish a biorefinery information center to 
make available to interested parties information on--
            (1) renewable fuel resources, including information on 
        programs and incentives for renewable fuels;
            (2) renewable fuel producers;
            (3) renewable fuel users; and
            (4) potential renewable fuel users.
    (b) Administration.--In administering the biorefinery information 
center, the Secretary shall--
            (1) continually update information provided by the center;
            (2) make information available to interested parties on the 
        process for establishing a biorefinery; and
            (3) make information and assistance provided by the center 
        available through a toll-free telephone number and website.
    (c) Authorization of Appropriations.--There are authorized to be 
appropriated such sums as are necessary to carry out this section.

SEC. 208. CONVERSION ASSISTANCE FOR CELLULOSIC BIOMASS, WASTE-DERIVED 
              ETHANOL, APPROVED RENEWABLE FUELS.

    (a) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Approved renewable fuel.--The term ``approved renewable 
        fuels'' means an alternative or replacement fuel that--
                    (A) has been approved under title III of the Energy 
                Policy Act of 1992 (42 U.S.C. 13211 et seq.); and
                    (B) is made from renewable biomass.
            (2) Producer.--The term ``producer'' means--
                    (A) a merchant producer;
                    (B) a farm or dairy cooperative; or
                    (C) an association of agricultural producers.
            (3) Waste-derived ethanol.--The term ``waste-derived 
        ethanol'' means ethanol derived from--
                    (A) animal waste (including poultry fat and poultry 
                waste) and other waste material; or
                    (B) municipal solid waste.
    (b) Conversion Assistance.--The Secretary may provide grants to 
producers of cellulosic biomass ethanol, waste-derived ethanol, and 
approved renewable fuels in the United States to assist the producers 
in building eligible production facilities described in subsection (c) 
for the production of ethanol or approved renewable fuels.
    (c) Eligible Production Facilities.--A production facility shall be 
eligible to receive a grant under this section if the production 
facility--
            (1) is located in the United States; and
            (2) uses renewable biomass.
    (d) Authorization of Appropriations.--There are authorized to be 
appropriated to carry out this section--
            (1) $400,000,000 for fiscal year 2008;
            (2) $500,000,000 for fiscal year 2009; and
            (3) $600,000,000 for fiscal year 2010.

SEC. 209. ALTERNATIVE FUEL DATABASE AND MATERIALS.

    The Secretary and the Director of the National Institute of 
Standards and Technology shall jointly establish and make available to 
the public--
            (1) a database that describes the physical properties of 
        different types of alternative fuel; and
            (2) standard reference materials for different types of 
        alternative fuel.

SEC. 210. FUEL TANK CAP LABELING REQUIREMENT.

    Section 406(a) of the Energy Policy Act of 1992 (42 U.S.C. 
13232(a)) is amended--
            (1) by striking ``The Federal Trade Commission'' and 
        inserting the following:
            ``(1) In general.--The Federal Trade Commission''; and
            (2) by adding at the end the following:
            ``(2) Fuel tank cap labeling requirement.--Beginning with 
        model year 2010, the fuel tank cap of each alternative fueled 
        vehicle manufactured for sale in the United States shall be 
        clearly labeled to inform consumers that such vehicle can 
        operate on alternative fuel.''.

                           TITLE III--STUDIES

SEC. 301. STUDY OF ADVANCED BIOFUELS TECHNOLOGIES.

    (a) In General.--Not later than October 1, 2012, the Secretary 
shall offer to enter into a contract with the National Academy of 
Sciences under which the Academy shall conduct a study of technologies 
relating to the production, transportation, and distribution of 
advanced biofuels.
    (b) Scope.--In conducting the study, the Academy shall--
            (1) include an assessment of the maturity of advanced 
        biofuels technologies;
            (2) consider whether the rate of development of those 
        technologies will be sufficient to meet the advanced biofuel 
        standards required under section 101;
            (3) consider the effectiveness of the research and 
        development programs and activities of the Department of Energy 
        relating to advanced biofuel technologies; and
            (4) make policy recommendations to accelerate the 
        development of those technologies to commercial viability, as 
        appropriate.
    (c) Report.--Not later than November 30, 2014, the Secretary shall 
submit to the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources of the Senate 
and the Committee on Energy and Commerce of the House of 
Representatives a report describing the results of the study conducted 
under this section.

SEC. 302. STUDY OF INCREASED CONSUMPTION OF ETHANOL-BLENDED GASOLINE 
              WITH HIGHER LEVELS OF ETHANOL.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary (in cooperation with the Secretary 
of Agriculture, the Administrator of the Environmental Protection 
Agency, and the Secretary of Transportation) shall conduct a study of 
the feasibility of increasing consumption in the United States of 
ethanol-blended gasoline with levels of ethanol that are not less than 
10 percent and not more than 25 percent, including a study of 
production and infrastructure constraints on increasing the 
consumption.
    (b) Report.--Not later than 1 year after the date of enactment of 
this Act, the Secretary shall submit to Congress a report describing 
the results of the study conducted under this section.

SEC. 303. PIPELINE FEASIBILITY STUDY.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary, in coordination with the Secretary 
of Agriculture and the Secretary of Transportation, shall conduct a 
study of the feasibility of the construction of dedicated ethanol 
pipelines.
    (b) Factors.--In conducting the study, the Secretary shall 
consider--
            (1) the quantity of ethanol production that would make 
        dedicated pipelines economically viable;
            (2) existing or potential barriers to dedicated ethanol 
        pipelines, including technical, siting, financing, and 
        regulatory barriers;
            (3) market risk (including throughput risk) and means of 
        mitigating the risk;
            (4) regulatory, financing, and siting options that would 
        mitigate risk in those areas and help ensure the construction 
        of 1 or more dedicated ethanol pipelines;
            (5) financial incentives that may be necessary for the 
        construction of dedicated ethanol pipelines, including the 
        return on equity that sponsors of the initial dedicated ethanol 
        pipelines will require to invest in the pipelines;
            (6) technical factors that may compromise the safe 
        transportation of ethanol in pipelines, identifying remedial 
        and preventative measures to ensure pipeline integrity; and
            (7) such other factors as the Secretary considers 
        appropriate.
    (c) Report.--Not later than 15 months after the date of enactment 
of this Act, the Secretary shall submit to Congress a report describing 
the results of the study conducted under this section.

SEC. 304. STUDY OF OPTIMIZATION OF ALTERNATIVE FUELED VEHICLES TO USE 
              E-85 FUEL.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary shall conduct a study of methods of 
increasing the fuel efficiency of alternative fueled vehicles by 
optimizing alternative fueled vehicles to operate using E-85 fuel.
    (b) Report.--Not later than 180 days after the date of enactment of 
this Act, the Secretary shall submit to the Committee on Energy and 
Natural Resources of the Senate and the Committee on Natural Resources 
of the House of Representatives a report that describes the results of 
the study, including any recommendations of the Secretary.

SEC. 305. STUDY OF CREDITS FOR USE OF RENEWABLE ELECTRICITY IN ELECTRIC 
              VEHICLES.

    (a) Definition of Electric Vehicle.--In this section, the term 
``electric vehicle'' means an electric motor vehicle (as defined in 
section 601 of the Energy Policy Act of 1992 (42 U.S.C. 13271)) for 
which the rechargeable storage battery--
            (1) receives a charge directly from a source of electric 
        current that is external to the vehicle; and
            (2) provides a minimum of 80 percent of the motive power of 
        the vehicle.
    (b) Study.--The Secretary shall conduct a study on the feasibility 
of issuing credits under the program established under section 101(d) 
to electric vehicles powered by electricity produced from renewable 
energy sources.
    (c) Report.--Not later than 18 months after the date of enactment 
of this Act, the Secretary shall submit to the Committee on Energy and 
Natural Resources of the Senate and the Committee on Energy and 
Commerce of the House of Representatives a report that describes the 
results of the study, including a description of--
            (1) existing programs and studies on the use of renewable 
        electricity as a means of powering electric vehicles; and
            (2) alternatives for--
                    (A) designing a pilot program to determine the 
                feasibility of using renewable electricity to power 
                electric vehicles as an adjunct to a renewable fuels 
                mandate;
                    (B) allowing the use, under the pilot program 
                designed under subparagraph (A), of electricity 
                generated from nuclear energy as an additional source 
                of supply;
                    (C) identifying the source of electricity used to 
                power electric vehicles; and
                    (D) equating specific quantities of electricity to 
                quantities of renewable fuel under section 101(d).
                                 &lt;all&gt;
</pre></body></html>
