<html><body><pre>
[Congressional Bills 116th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[S. 2800 Introduced in Senate (IS)]

&lt;DOC&gt;






116th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                S. 2800

      To authorize programs of the National Aeronautics and Space 
                Administration, and for other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                   IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

                            November 6, 2019

   Mr. Cruz (for himself, Ms. Sinema, Mr. Wicker, and Ms. Cantwell) 
introduced the following bill; which was read twice and referred to the 
           Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
      To authorize programs of the National Aeronautics and Space 
                Administration, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE; TABLE OF CONTENTS.

    (a) Short Title.--This Act may be cited as the ``National 
Aeronautics and Space Administration Authorization Act of 2019''.
    (b) Table of Contents.--The table of contents of this Act is as 
follows:

Sec. 1. Short title; table of contents.
Sec. 2. Definitions.
                TITLE I--AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS

Sec. 101. Authorization of appropriations.
              TITLE II--HUMAN SPACEFLIGHT AND EXPLORATION

Sec. 201. Advanced cislunar and lunar surface capabilities.
Sec. 202. Space launch system configurations.
Sec. 203. Advanced spacesuits.
Sec. 204. Life science and physical science research.
Sec. 205. Acquisition of domestic space transportation and logistics 
                            resupply services.
Sec. 206. Rocket engine test infrastructure.
Sec. 207. Indian River Bridge.
Sec. 208. Value of International Space Station and capabilities in low-
                            Earth orbit.
Sec. 209. Extension and modification relating to International Space 
                            Station.
Sec. 210. Department of Defense activities on International Space 
                            Station.
Sec. 211. Low-Earth orbit commercialization.
Sec. 212. Maintaining a national laboratory in space.
Sec. 213. International Space Station national laboratory; property 
                            rights in inventions.
Sec. 214. Data first produced during non-NASA scientific use of the ISS 
                            national laboratory.
Sec. 215. Royalties and other payments received for designated 
                            activities.
Sec. 216. Steppingstone approach to exploration.
Sec. 217. Technical amendments relating to Artemis missions.
                           TITLE III--SCIENCE

Sec. 301. Science priorities.
Sec. 302. Lunar discovery program.
Sec. 303. Search for life.
Sec. 304. James Webb Space Telescope.
Sec. 305. Wide-Field Infrared Survey Telescope.
Sec. 306. Satellite servicing for science missions.
Sec. 307. Earth science missions and programs.
Sec. 308. Science missions to Mars.
Sec. 309. Planetary Defense Coordination Office.
Sec. 310. Suborbital science flights.
Sec. 311. Sense of Congress on small satellite science.
                         TITLE IV--AERONAUTICS

Sec. 401. Short title.
Sec. 402. Definitions.
Sec. 403. Experimental aircraft projects.
Sec. 404. Unmanned aircraft systems.
Sec. 405. 21st Century Aeronautics Capabilities Initiative.
Sec. 406. Sense of Congress on on-demand air transportation.
Sec. 407. Sense of Congress on hypersonic technology research.
                       TITLE V--SPACE TECHNOLOGY

Sec. 501. Space Technology Mission Directorate.
Sec. 502. Flight opportunities program.
Sec. 503. Small Spacecraft Technology Program.
Sec. 504. Nuclear propulsion technology.
Sec. 505. Mars-forward technologies.
                       TITLE VI--STEM ENGAGEMENT

Sec. 601. Sense of Congress.
Sec. 602. STEM education engagement activities.
Sec. 603. Skilled technical education outreach program.
                TITLE VII--WORKFORCE AND INDUSTRIAL BASE

Sec. 701. Appointment and compensation pilot program.
Sec. 702. Establishment of multi-institution consortia and university-
                            affiliated research centers.
Sec. 703. Expedited access to technical talent and expertise.
Sec. 704. Report on industrial base for civil space missions and 
                            operations.
Sec. 705. Separations and retirement incentives.
Sec. 706. Confidentiality of medical quality assurance records.
                  TITLE VIII--MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS

Sec. 801. Contracting authority.
Sec. 802. Authority for transaction prototype projects and follow-on 
                            production contracts.
Sec. 803. Protection of data and information from public disclosure.
Sec. 804. Physical security modernization.
Sec. 805. Lease of non-excess property.
Sec. 806. Cybersecurity.
Sec. 807. Limitation on cooperation with the People's Republic of 
                            China.
Sec. 808. Small satellite launch services program.
Sec. 809. 21st century space launch infrastructure.
Sec. 810. Missions of national need.
Sec. 811. Exemption from the Iran, North Korea, and Syria 
                            Nonproliferation Act.
Sec. 812. Drinking water well replacement for Chincoteague, Virginia.
Sec. 813. Passenger carrier use.
Sec. 814. SBIR phase flexibility for the National Aeronautics and Space 
                            Administration.

SEC. 2. DEFINITIONS.

    In this Act:
            (1) Administration.--The term ``Administration'' means the 
        National Aeronautics and Space Administration.
            (2) Administrator.--The term ``Administrator'' means the 
        Administrator of the National Aeronautics and Space 
        Administration.
            (3) Appropriate committees of congress.--Except as 
        otherwise expressly provided, the term ``appropriate committees 
        of Congress'' means--
                    (A) the Committee on Commerce, Science, and 
                Transportation of the Senate; and
                    (B) the Committee on Science, Space, and Technology 
                of the House of Representatives.
            (4) Cislunar space.--The term ``cislunar space'' means the 
        region of space beyond low-Earth orbit out to and including the 
        region around the surface of the Moon.
            (5) Deep space.--The term ``deep space'' means the region 
        of space beyond low-Earth orbit, including cislunar space.
            (6) Development cost.--The term ``development cost'' has 
        the meaning given the term in section 30104 of title 51, United 
        States Code.
            (7) ISS.--The term ``ISS'' means the International Space 
        Station.
            (8) ISS management entity.--The term ``ISS management 
        entity'' means the organization with which the Administrator 
        has entered into a cooperative agreement under section 504(a) 
        of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration 
        Authorization Act of 2010 (42 U.S.C. 18354(a)).
            (9) NASA.--The term ``NASA'' means the National Aeronautics 
        and Space Administration.
            (10) Orion.--The term ``Orion'' means the multipurpose crew 
        vehicle described in section 303 of the National Aeronautics 
        and Space Administration Authorization Act of 2010 (42 U.S.C. 
        18323).
            (11) OSTP.--The term ``OSTP'' means the Office of Science 
        and Technology Policy.
            (12) Space launch system.--The term ``Space Launch System'' 
        means the Space Launch System authorized under section 302 of 
        the National Aeronautics and Space Administration Act of 2010 
        (42 U.S.C. 18322).

                TITLE I--AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS

SEC. 101. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.

    There are authorized to be appropriated to the Administration for 
fiscal year 2020 $22,750,000,000 as follows:
            (1) For Exploration, $6,222,600,000.
            (2) For Space Operations, $4,150,200,000.
            (3) For Science, $6,905,700,000.
            (4) For Aeronautics, $783,900,000.
            (5) For Space Technology, $1,076,400,000.
            (6) For Science, Technology, Engineering, and Mathematics 
        Engagement, $112,000,000.
            (7) For Safety, Security, and Mission Services, 
        $2,934,800,000.
            (8) For Construction and Environmental Compliance and 
        Restoration, $524,400,000.
            (9) For Inspector General, $40,000,000.

              TITLE II--HUMAN SPACEFLIGHT AND EXPLORATION

SEC. 201. ADVANCED CISLUNAR AND LUNAR SURFACE CAPABILITIES.

    (a) Sense of Congress.--It is the sense of Congress that--
            (1) commercial entities in the United States have made 
        significant investment and progress toward the development of 
        human-class lunar landers;
            (2) NASA developed the Artemis program--
                    (A) to fulfil the goal of landing United States 
                astronauts, include the first woman and the next man, 
                on the Moon; and
                    (B) to collaborate with commercial and 
                international partners to establish sustainable lunar 
                exploration by 2028; and
            (3) in carrying out the Artemis program, the Administration 
        should ensure that the entire Artemis program is inclusive and 
        representative of all people of the United States, including 
        women and minorities.
    (b) Lander Program.--The Administrator shall foster the development 
of not more than 2 human-class lunar lander designs through public-
private partnerships.
    (c) Requirements.--In carrying out the program under subsection 
(b), the Administrator shall--
            (1) enter into industry-led partnerships using a fixed-
        price, milestone-based approach;
            (2) to the maximum extent practicable, encourage 
        reusability and sustainability of systems developed;
            (3) ensure availability of 1 or more lunar polar science 
        payloads for a demonstration mission; and
            (4) to the maximum extent practicable, offer existing 
        capabilities and assets of NASA centers to support these 
        partnerships.

SEC. 202. SPACE LAUNCH SYSTEM CONFIGURATIONS.

    (a) Mobile Launch Platform.--The Administrator is authorized to 
maintain 2 operational mobile launch platforms to enable the launch of 
multiple configurations of the Space Launch System.
    (b) Exploration Upper Stage.--To meet the capability requirements 
under section 302(c)(2) of the National Aeronautics and Space 
Administration Authorization Act of 2010 (42 U.S.C. 18322(c)(2)), the 
Administrator shall continue development of the Exploration Upper Stage 
for the Space Launch System with a scheduled availability sufficient 
for use on the third launch of the Space Launch System.
    (c) Briefing.--Not later than 90 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Administrator shall brief the appropriate 
committees of Congress on the development and scheduled availability of 
the Exploration Upper Stage for the third launch of the Space Launch 
System.
    (d) Main Propulsion Test Article.--To meet the requirements under 
section 302(c)(3) of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration 
Authorization Act of 2010 (42 U.S.C. 18322(c)(3)), the Administrator 
shall--
            (1) immediately on completion of the first full-duration 
        integrated core stage test of the Space Launch System, initiate 
        development of a main propulsion test article for the 
        integrated core stage propulsion elements of the Space Launch 
        System;
            (2) not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment 
        of this Act, submit to the appropriate committees of Congress a 
        detailed plan for the development and operation of such main 
        propulsion test article; and
            (3) use existing capabilities of NASA centers for the 
        design, manufacture, and operation of the main propulsion test 
        article.

SEC. 203. ADVANCED SPACESUITS.

    (a) Sense of Congress.--It is the sense of Congress that next-
generation advanced spacesuits are a critical technology for human 
space exploration and use of low-Earth orbit, cislunar space, the 
surface of the Moon, and Mars.
    (b) Development Plan.--The Administrator shall establish a detailed 
plan for the development and manufacture of advanced spacesuits, 
consistent with the deep space exploration goals and timetables of 
NASA.
    (c) Diverse Astronaut Corps.--The Administrator shall ensure that 
spacesuits developed and manufactured after the date of the enactment 
of this Act are capable of accommodating a wide range of sizes of 
astronauts so as to meet the needs of the diverse NASA astronaut corps.
    (d) ISS Use.--Throughout the operational life of the ISS, the 
Administrator should fully use the ISS for testing advanced spacesuits.
    (e) Prior Investments.--
            (1) In general.--In developing an advanced spacesuit, the 
        Administrator shall, to the maximum extent practicable, 
        leverage prior and existing investments in advanced spacesuit 
        technologies to maximize the benefits of such investments and 
        technologies.
            (2) Agreements with private entities.--In carrying out this 
        subsection, the Administrator may enter into 1 or more 
        agreements with 1 or more private entities for the manufacture 
        of advanced spacesuits, as the Administrator considers 
        appropriate.
    (f) Briefing.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, and semiannually thereafter until NASA procures 
advanced spacesuits under this section, the Administrator shall brief 
the appropriate committees of Congress on the development plan in 
subsection (b).

SEC. 204. LIFE SCIENCE AND PHYSICAL SCIENCE RESEARCH.

    (a) Sense of Congress.--It is the sense of Congress that--
            (1) the 2011 decadal survey on biological and physical 
        sciences in space identifies--
                    (A) many areas in which fundamental scientific 
                research is needed to efficiently advance the range of 
                human activities in space, from the first stages of 
                exploration to eventual economic development; and
                    (B) many areas of basic and applied scientific 
                research that could use the microgravity, radiation, 
                and other aspects of the spaceflight environment to 
                answer fundamental scientific questions; and
            (2) given the central role of life science and physical 
        science research in developing the future of space exploration, 
        NASA should continue to invest strategically in such research 
        to maintain United States leadership in space exploration; and
            (3) such research remains important to the objectives of 
        NASA with respect to long-duration deep space human exploration 
        to the Moon and Mars.
    (b) Program Continuation.--
            (1) In general.--In support of the goals described in 
        section 20302 of title 51, United States Code, the 
        Administrator shall continue to implement a collaborative, 
        multidisciplinary life science and physical science fundamental 
        research program--
                    (A) to build a scientific foundation for the 
                exploration and development of space;
                    (B) to investigate the mechanisms of changes to 
                biological systems and physical systems, and the 
                environments of those systems in space, including the 
                effects of long-duration exposure to deep space-related 
                environmental factors on those systems;
                    (C) to understand the effects of combined deep 
                space radiation and altered gravity levels on 
                biological systems so as to inform the development and 
                testing of potential countermeasures;
                    (D) to understand physical phenomena in reduced 
                gravity that affect design and performance of enabling 
                technologies necessary for the space exploration 
                program;
                    (E) to provide scientific opportunities to educate, 
                train, and develop the next generation of researchers 
                and engineers; and
                    (F) to provide state-of-the-art data repositories 
                and curation of large multi-data sets to enable 
                comparative research analyses.
            (2) Elements.--The program under paragraph (1) shall--
                    (A) include fundamental research relating to life 
                science, space bioscience, and physical science; and
                    (B) maximize intra-agency and interagency 
                partnerships to advance space exploration, scientific 
                knowledge, and benefits to Earth.
            (3) Use of facilities.--In carrying out the program under 
        paragraph (1), the Administrator may use ground-based, air-
        based, and space-based facilities in low-Earth orbit and beyond 
        low-Earth orbit.

SEC. 205. ACQUISITION OF DOMESTIC SPACE TRANSPORTATION AND LOGISTICS 
              RESUPPLY SERVICES.

    (a) In General.--Except as provided in subsection (b), the 
Administrator shall not enter into any contract with a person or entity 
that proposes to use, or will use, a foreign launch provider for a 
commercial service to provide space transportation or logistics 
resupply for--
            (1) the ISS; or
            (2) any Government-owned or Government-funded platform in 
        Earth orbit or cislunar space, on the lunar surface, or 
        elsewhere in space.
    (b) Exception.--The Administrator may enter into a contract with a 
person or entity that proposes to use, or will use, a foreign launch 
provider for a commercial service to carry out an activity described in 
subsection (a) if a domestic vehicle or service is unavailable.
    (c) Rule of Construction.--Nothing in this section shall be 
construed to prohibit the Administrator from entering into 1 or more 
no-exchange-of-funds collaborative agreements with an international 
partner in support of the deep space exploration plan of NASA.

SEC. 206. ROCKET ENGINE TEST INFRASTRUCTURE.

    (a) In General.--The Administrator shall carry out a program to 
modernize rocket propulsion test infrastructure at NASA facilities--
            (1) to increase capabilities;
            (2) to enhance safety;
            (3) to support propulsion development and testing; and
            (4) to foster the improvement of Government and commercial 
        space transportation and exploration.
    (b) Projects.--Projects funded under the program under subsection 
(a) may include--
            (1) infrastructure and other facilities and systems 
        relating to rocket propulsion test stands and rocket propulsion 
        testing;
            (2) enhancements to test facility capacity and flexibility; 
        and
            (3) such other projects as the Administrator considers 
        appropriate to meet the goals described in subsection (a).
    (c) Requirements.--In carrying out the program under subsection 
(a), the Administrator shall--
            (1) prioritize investments in projects that enhance test 
        and flight certification capabilities for large thrust-level 
        atmospheric and altitude engines and engine systems, and multi-
        engine integrated test capabilities; and
            (2) ensure that no project carried out under this program 
        shall adversely impact, delay, or defer testing or other 
        activities associated with facilities used for Government 
        programs, including--
                    (A) the Space Launch System and the Exploration 
                Upper Stage of the Space Launch System;
                    (B) in-space propulsion to support exploration 
                missions; or
                    (C) nuclear propulsion testing.
    (d) Savings Clause.--Nothing in this section shall preclude a NASA 
program, including the Space Launch System and the Exploration Upper 
Stage of the Space Launch System, from using the modernized test 
infrastructure developed under this section.

SEC. 207. INDIAN RIVER BRIDGE.

    The Administrator, in coordination with the heads of other Federal 
agencies that use the Indian River Bridge on the NASA Causeway, shall 
develop a plan to ensure that a bridge over the Indian River at such 
location provides access to the Eastern Range for national security, 
civil, and commercial space operations.

SEC. 208. VALUE OF INTERNATIONAL SPACE STATION AND CAPABILITIES IN LOW-
              EARTH ORBIT.

    (a) Sense of Congress.--It is the sense of Congress that--
            (1) it is in the national and economic security interests 
        of the United States to maintain a continuous human presence in 
        low-Earth orbit;
            (2) low-Earth orbit should be used as a test bed to advance 
        human space exploration and scientific discoveries; and
            (3) the ISS is a critical component of economic, 
        commercial, and industrial development in low-Earth orbit.
    (b) Human Presence Requirement.--The United States shall 
continuously maintain the capability for a continuous human presence in 
low-Earth orbit through and beyond the useful life of the ISS.

SEC. 209. EXTENSION AND MODIFICATION RELATING TO INTERNATIONAL SPACE 
              STATION.

    (a) Policy.--Section 501(a) of the National Aeronautics and Space 
Administration Authorization Act of 2010 (42 U.S.C. 18351(a)) is 
amended by striking ``2024'' and inserting ``2030''.
    (b) Maintenance of United States Segment and Assurance of Continued 
Operations.--Section 503(a) of the National Aeronautics and Space 
Administration Authorization Act of 2010 (42 U.S.C. 18353(a)) is 
amended by striking ``September 30, 2024'' and inserting ``September 
30, 2030''.
    (c) Research Capacity Allocation and Integration of Research 
Payloads.--Section 504(d) of the National Aeronautics and Space 
Administration Authorization Act of 2010 (42 U.S.C. 18354(d)) is 
amended--
            (1) in paragraph (1), in the first sentence--
                    (A) by striking ``As soon as practicable'' and all 
                that follows through ``2011,'' and inserting ``The''; 
                and
                    (B) by striking ``September 30, 2024'' and 
                inserting ``September 30, 2030''; and
            (2) in paragraph (2), in the third sentence, by striking 
        ``September 30, 2024'' and inserting ``September 30, 2030''.
    (d) Maintenance of Use.--
            (1) In general.--Section 70907 of title 51, United States 
        Code, is amended--
                    (A) in the section heading, by striking ``2024'' 
                and inserting ``2030'';
                    (B) in subsection (a), by striking ``September 30, 
                2024'' and inserting ``September 30, 2030''; and
                    (C) in subsection (b)(3), by striking ``September 
                30, 2024'' and inserting ``September 30, 2030''.
    (e) Transition Plan Reports.--Section 50111(c)(2) of title 51, 
United States Code is amended--
            (1) in the matter preceding subparagraph (A), by striking 
        ``2023'' and inserting ``2028''; and
            (2) in subparagraph (J), by striking ``2028'' and inserting 
        ``2030''.
    (f) Elimination of International Space Station National Laboratory 
Advisory Committee.--Section 70906 of title 51, United States Code, is 
repealed.
    (g) Conforming Amendments.--Chapter 709 of title 51, United States 
Code, is amended--
            (1) by redesignating section 70907 as section 70906; and
            (2) in the table of sections for the chapter, by striking 
        the items relating to sections 70906 and 70907 and inserting 
        the following:

``Sec. 70906. Maintaining use through at least 2030.''.

SEC. 210. DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE ACTIVITIES ON INTERNATIONAL SPACE 
              STATION.

    (a) In General.--Not later than March 1, 2020, the Secretary of 
Defense shall--
            (1) identify and review each activity, program, and project 
        of the Department of Defense completed, being carried out, or 
        planned to be carried out on the ISS as of the date of the 
        review; and
            (2) provide to the appropriate committees of Congress a 
        briefing that describes the results of the review.
    (b) Appropriate Committees of Congress Defined.--In this section, 
the term ``appropriate committees of Congress'' means--
            (1) the Committee on Armed Services and the Committee on 
        Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate; and
            (2) the Committee on Armed Services and the Committee on 
        Science, Space, and Technology of the House of Representatives.

SEC. 211. LOW-EARTH ORBIT COMMERCIALIZATION.

    (a) Statement of Policy.--It is the policy of the United States to 
encourage the development of a thriving and robust United States 
commercial sector in low-Earth orbit.
    (b) Preference for United States Commercial Products and 
Services.--The Administrator shall continue to increase the use of 
assets, products, and services of private entities in the United States 
to fulfill the low-Earth orbit requirements of the Administration.
    (c) Noncompetition.--
            (1) In general.--Except as provided in paragraph (2), the 
        Administrator may not offer to a foreign person or a foreign 
        government a spaceflight product or service relating to the 
        ISS, if a comparable spaceflight product or service, as 
        applicable, is offered by a private entity in the United 
        States.
            (2) Exception.--The Administrator may offer a space-flight 
        product or service relating to the ISS to the government of a 
        country that is a signatory to the Agreement Among the 
        Government of Canada, Governments of Member States of the 
        European Space Agency, the Government of Japan, the Government 
        of the Russian Federation, and the Government of the United 
        States of America Concerning Cooperation on the Civil 
        International Space Station, signed at Washington January 29, 
        1998, and entered into force on March 27, 2001 (TIAS 12927).
    (d) Short-Duration Commercial Missions.--To provide opportunities 
for additional transport of astronauts to the ISS and help establish a 
commercial market in low-Earth orbit, the Administrator may permit 
short-duration missions to the ISS for commercial passengers.
    (e) Program Authorization.--
            (1) Establishment.--The Administrator shall establish a 
        low-Earth orbit commercialization program to encourage the 
        fullest commercial use and development of space by private 
        entities in the United States.
            (2) Elements.--The program established under paragraph (1) 
        shall, to the maximum extent practicable, include activities--
                    (A) to stimulate demand for--
                            (i) space-based commercial research, 
                        development, and manufacturing;
                            (ii) spaceflight products and services; and
                            (iii) human spaceflight products and 
                        services in low-Earth orbit;
                    (B) to improve the capability of the ISS to 
                accommodate commercial users; and
                    (C) subject to paragraph (3), to foster the 
                development of commercial space stations and habitats.
            (3) Commercial space stations and habitats.--
                    (A) Priority.--With respect to an activity to 
                develop a commercial space station or habitat, the 
                Administrator shall give priority to an activity for 
                which a private entity provides a share of the cost to 
                develop and operate the activity.
                    (B) Limitation.--The Administrator may not provide 
                funding for the development of a commercial space 
                station or habitat until after the date on which the 
                Administrator awards a contract for the use of a 
                docking port on the ISS.
                    (C) Report.--Not later than 30 days after the date 
                that an award or agreement is made to carry out an 
                activity to develop a commercial space station or 
                habitat, the Administrator shall submit to the 
                appropriate committees of Congress a report on the 
                development of the commercial space station or habitat, 
                as applicable, that includes--
                            (i) a business plan that describes the 
                        manner in which the project will--
                                    (I) meet the future requirements of 
                                NASA for low-Earth orbit human space-
                                flight services; and
                                    (II) fulfill the cost-share funding 
                                prioritization under subparagraph (A); 
                                and
                            (ii) a review of the viability of the 
                        operational business case, including--
                                    (I) the level of expected 
                                Government participation;
                                    (II) a list of anticipated 
                                nongovernmental an international 
                                customers and associated contributions; 
                                and
                                    (III) an assessment of long-term 
                                sustainability for the nongovernmental 
                                customers, including an independent 
                                assessment of the viability of the 
                                market for such commercial services or 
                                products.

SEC. 212. MAINTAINING A NATIONAL LABORATORY IN SPACE.

    (a) Sense of Congress.--It is the sense of Congress that--
            (1) the United States segment of the International Space 
        Station (as defined in section 70905 of title 51, United States 
        Code), which is designated as a national laboratory under 
        section 70905(b) of title 51, United States Code--
                    (A) benefits the scientific community and promotes 
                commerce in space;
                    (B) fosters stronger relationships among NASA and 
                other Federal agencies, the private sector, and 
                research groups and universities;
                    (C) advances science, technology, engineering, and 
                mathematics education through use of the unique 
                microgravity environment; and
                    (D) advances human knowledge and international 
                cooperation;
            (2) after the ISS is decommissioned, the United States 
        should maintain a national microgravity laboratory in space;
            (3) in maintaining a national microgravity laboratory in 
        space, the United States should make appropriate accommodations 
        for different types of ownership and operation arrangements for 
        the ISS and future space stations;
            (4) to the maximum extent practicable, a national 
        microgravity laboratory in space should be maintained in 
        cooperation with international space partners; and
            (5) NASA should continue to support fundamental science 
        research on future platforms in low-Earth orbit and cislunar 
        space, orbital and suborbital flights, drop towers, and other 
        microgravity testing environments.
    (b) Report.--The Administrator, in coordination with the National 
Space Council and other Federal agencies as the Administrator considers 
appropriate, shall issue a report detailing the feasibility of 
establishing a microgravity national laboratory federally funded 
research and development center to carry out activities relating to the 
study and use of in-space conditions.

SEC. 213. INTERNATIONAL SPACE STATION NATIONAL LABORATORY; PROPERTY 
              RIGHTS IN INVENTIONS.

    (a) In General.--Subchapter III of chapter 201 of title 51, United 
States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following:
``Sec. 20150. Property rights in designated inventions
    ``(a) Exclusive Property Rights.--Notwithstanding section 3710a of 
title 15, chapter 18 of title 35, section 20135, or any other provision 
of law, a designated invention shall be the exclusive property of a 
user, and shall not be subject to a Government-purpose license, if--
            ``(1) the Administration is reimbursed under the terms of 
        the contract for the full cost of a contribution by the Federal 
        Government of the use of Federal facilities, equipment, 
        materials, proprietary information of the Federal Government, 
        or services of a Federal employee during working hours, 
        including the cost for the Administration to carry out its 
        responsibilities under paragraphs (1) and (4) of section 504(d) 
        of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration 
        Authorization Act of 2010 (42 U.S.C. 18354(d));
            ``(2) Federal funds are not transferred to the user under 
        the contract; and
            ``(3) the invention was made (as defined in section 
        20135(a))--
                    ``(A) solely by the user; or
                    ``(B)(i) by the user with the services of a Federal 
                employee under the terms of the contract; and
                    ``(ii) the Administration is reimbursed for such 
                services under paragraph (1).
    ``(b) Rule of Construction.--Nothing in this section may be 
construed to affect the rights of the Federal Government, including 
property rights in inventions, under any contract, except in the case 
of a written contract with the Administration or the ISS management 
entity for the performance of a designated activity.
    ``(c) Definitions.--In this section--
            ``(1) Contract.--The term `contract' has the meaning giving 
        the term in section 20135(a).
            ``(2) Designated activity.--The term `designated activity' 
        means any non-NASA scientific use of the ISS national 
        laboratory as described in section 504 of the National 
        Aeronautics and Space Administration Authorization Act of 2010 
        (42 U.S.C. 18354).
            ``(3) Designated invention.--The term `designated 
        invention' means any invention conceived or first reduced to 
        practice by any person in the performance of a designated 
        activity under a written contract with the Administration or 
        the ISS management entity.
            ``(4) Government-purpose license.--The term `Government-
        purpose license' means the reservation by the Federal 
        Government of an irrevocable, nonexclusive, nontransferable, 
        royalty-free license for the use of an invention throughout the 
        world by or on behalf of the United States or any foreign 
        government pursuant to a treaty or agreement with the United 
        States.
            ``(5) ISS management entity.--The term `ISS management 
        entity' means the organization with which the Administrator 
        enters into a cooperative agreement under section 504(a) of the 
        National Aeronautics and Space Administration Authorization Act 
        of 2010 (42 U.S.C. 18354(a)).
            ``(6) User.--The term `user' means a person, including a 
        nonprofit organization or small business firm (as such terms 
        are defined in section 201 of title 35), or class of persons 
        that enters into a written contract with the Administration or 
        the ISS management entity for the performance of designated 
        activities.''.
    (b) Conforming.--The table of sections for chapter 201 of title 51, 
United States Code, is amended by inserting after the item relating to 
section 20149 the following:

``20150. Property rights in designated inventions.''.

SEC. 214. DATA FIRST PRODUCED DURING NON-NASA SCIENTIFIC USE OF THE ISS 
              NATIONAL LABORATORY.

    (a) Data Rights.--Subchapter III of chapter 201 of title 51, United 
States Code, as amended by section 213, is further amended by adding at 
the end the following:
``Sec. 20151. Data rights
    ``(a) Non-NASA Scientific Use of the ISS National Laboratory.--The 
Federal Government may not use or reproduce, or disclose outside of the 
Government, any data first produced in the performance of a designated 
activity under a written contract with the Administration or the ISS 
management entity, unless--
            ``(1) otherwise agreed under the terms of the contract with 
        the Administration or the ISS management entity, as applicable;
            ``(2) the designated activity is carried out with Federal 
        funds;
            ``(3) disclosure is required by law;
            ``(4) the Federal Government has rights in the data under 
        another Federal contract, grant, cooperative agreement, or 
        other transaction; or
            ``(5) the data is--
                    ``(A) otherwise lawfully acquired or independently 
                developed by the Federal Government;
                    ``(B) related to the health and safety of personnel 
                on the ISS; or
                    ``(C) essential to the performance of work by the 
                ISS management entity or NASA personnel.
    ``(b) Definitions.--In this section:
            ``(1) Contract.--The term `contract' has the meaning given 
        the term under section 20135(a).
            ``(2) Data.--
                    ``(A) In general.--The term `data' means recorded 
                information, regardless of form or the media on which 
                it may be recorded.
                    ``(B) Inclusions.--The term `data' includes 
                technical data and computer software.
                    ``(C) Exclusions.--The term `data' does not include 
                information incidental to contract administration, such 
                as financial, administrative, cost or pricing, or 
                management information.
            ``(3) Designated activity.--The term `designated activity' 
        has the meaning given the term in section 20150.
            ``(4) ISS management entity.--The term `ISS management 
        entity' has the meaning given the term in section 20150.''.
    (b) Special Handling of Trade Secrets or Confidential 
Information.--Section 20131(b)(2) of title 51, United States Code, is 
amended to read as follows:
            ``(2) Information described.--
                    ``(A) Activities under agreement.--Information 
                referred to in paragraph (1) is information that--
                            ``(i) results from activities conducted 
                        under an agreement entered into under 
                        subsections (e) and (f) of section 20113; and
                            ``(ii) would be a trade secret or 
                        commercial or financial information that is 
                        privileged or confidential within the meaning 
                        of section 552(b)(4) of title 5 if the 
                        information had been obtained from a non-
                        Federal party participating in such an 
                        agreement.
                    ``(B) Certain data.--Information referred to in 
                paragraph (1) includes data (as defined in section 
                20151) that--
                            ``(i) was first produced by the 
                        Administration in the performance of any 
                        designated activity (as defined in section 
                        20150); and
                            ``(ii) would be a trade secret or 
                        commercial or financial information that is 
                        privileged or confidential within the meaning 
                        of section 552(b)(4) of title 5 if the data had 
                        been obtained from a non-Federal party.''.
    (c) Conforming Amendment.--The table of sections for chapter 201 of 
title 51, United States Code, as amended by section 213, is further 
amended by inserting after the item relating to section 20150 the 
following:

``20151. Data rights.''.

SEC. 215. ROYALTIES AND OTHER PAYMENTS RECEIVED FOR DESIGNATED 
              ACTIVITIES.

    (a) Sense of Congress.--It is the sense of Congress that the 
Administrator should determine a threshold for which it may be 
appropriate for NASA to recoup the costs of supporting the creation of 
invention aboard the ISS, through the negotiation of royalties, similar 
to agreements made by other Federal agencies that support private 
sector innovation.
    (b) In General.--Subchapter III of chapter 201 of title 51, United 
States Code, as amended by sections 213 and 214, is further amended by 
adding at the end the following:
``Sec. 20152. Royalties and other payments received for designated 
              activities
    ``(a) Designated Inventions Made With Federal Assistance.--
Notwithstanding any other provision of law, if the Administration, 
under the terms of a written contract for the performance of a 
designated activity, agrees to provide, unreimbursed, the total cost of 
a contribution by the Federal Government of the use of Federal 
facilities, equipment, materials, proprietary information of the 
Federal Government, or services of a Federal employee during working 
hours, including the cost for the Administration to carry out its 
responsibilities under paragraphs (1) and (4) of section 504(d) of the 
National Aeronautics and Space Administration Authorization Act of 2010 
(42 U.S.C. 18354(d)), the Administrator shall negotiate an agreement on 
the terms and rates of royalty payments with respect to an invention or 
class of inventions conceived or first reduced to practice by any 
person or class of persons in the performance of such designated 
activities.
    ``(b) Licensing and Assignment of Inventions.--Notwithstanding 
sections 3710a and 3710c of title 15 and any other provision of law, 
after payment in accordance with subsection (A)(i) of such section 
3710c(a)(1)(A)(i) to the inventors who have directly assigned to the 
Federal Government their interests in an invention under a written 
contract with the Administration or the ISS management entity for the 
performance of a designated activity, the balance of any royalty or 
other payment received by the Administrator or the ISS management 
entity from licensing and assignment of such invention shall be paid by 
the Administrator or the ISS management entity, as applicable, to the 
Space Exploration Fund.
    ``(c) Space Exploration Fund.--
            ``(1) Establishment.--There is established in the Treasury 
        of the United States a fund, to be known as the `Space 
        Exploration Fund' (referred to in this subsection as the 
        `Fund'), to be administered by the Administrator.
            ``(2) Use of fund.--The Fund shall be available without 
        fiscal year limitation and without further appropriation to 
        carry out space exploration activities under section 20302.
            ``(3) Deposits.--There shall be deposited in the Fund--
                    ``(A) amounts appropriated to the Fund;
                    ``(B) fees and royalties collected by the 
                Administrator or the ISS management entity under 
                subsections (a) and (b); and
                    ``(C) donations or contributions designated to 
                support authorized activities.
            ``(4) Rule of construction.--Amounts available to the 
        Administrator under this subsection shall be in addition to 
        amounts otherwise made available for the purpose described in 
        paragraph (2).
    ``(d) Definitions.--The terms used in this section have the 
meanings given the terms in section 20150.''.
    (c) Conforming Amendment.--The table of sections for chapter 201 of 
title 51, United States Code, as amended by sections 213 and 214, is 
further amended by inserting after the item relating to section 20151 
the following:

``20152. Royalties and other payments received for designated 
                            activities.''.

SEC. 216. STEPPINGSTONE APPROACH TO EXPLORATION.

    (a) In General.--Section 70504 of title 51, United States Code, is 
amended to read as follows:
``Sec. 70504. Steppingstone approach to exploration
    ``(a) In General.--The Administrator, in sustainable steps, may 
conduct missions to intermediate destinations, such as the Moon, in 
accordance with section 20302(b), and on a timetable determined by the 
availability of funding, in order to achieve the objective of human 
exploration of Mars specified in section 202(b)(5) of the National 
Aeronautics and Space Administration Authorization Act of 2010 (42 
U.S.C. 18312(b)(5)), if the Administrator--
            ``(1) determines that each such mission demonstrates or 
        advances a technology or operational concept that will enable 
        human missions to Mars; and
            ``(2) incorporates each such mission into the human 
        exploration roadmap under section 432 of the National 
        Aeronautics and Space Administration Transition Authorization 
        Act of 2017 (Public Law 115-10; 51 U.S.C. 20302 note).
    ``(b) Cislunar Space Exploration Activities.--In conducting a 
mission under subsection (a), the Administrator shall--
            ``(1) use a combination of launches of the Space Launch 
        System and space transportation services from United States 
        commercial providers, as appropriate, for the mission;
            ``(2) plan for not fewer than 1 Space Launch System launch 
        annually beginning after the first successful crewed launch of 
        Orion on the Space Launch System; and
            ``(3) establish an outpost in orbit around the Moon that--
                    ``(A) demonstrates technologies, systems, and 
                operational concepts directly applicable to the space 
                vehicle that will be used to transport humans to Mars;
                    ``(B) has the capability for periodic human 
                habitation; and
                    ``(C) can function as a point of departure, return, 
                or staging for Administration or nongovernmental or 
                international partner missions to multiple locations on 
                the lunar surface or other destinations.
    ``(c) Cost-Effectiveness.--To maximize the cost-effectiveness of 
the long-term space exploration and utilization activities of the 
United States, the Administrator shall take all necessary steps, 
including engaging nongovernmental and international partners, to 
ensure that activities in the Administration's human space exploration 
program are balanced in order to help meet the requirements of future 
exploration and utilization activities leading to human habitation on 
the surface of Mars.
    ``(d) Completion.--Within budgetary considerations, once an 
exploration-related project enters its development phase, the 
Administrator shall seek, to the maximum extent practicable, to 
complete that project without undue delay.
    ``(e) International Participation.--To achieve the goal of 
successfully conducting a crewed mission to the surface of Mars, the 
Administrator shall invite the partners in the ISS program and other 
nations, as appropriate, to participate in an international initiative 
under the leadership of the United States.''.
    (b) Definition of Cislunar Space.--Section 10101 of title 51, 
United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following:
            ``(3) Cislunar space.--The term `cislunar space' means the 
        region of space beyond low-Earth orbit out to and including the 
        region around the surface of the Moon.''.
    (c) Technical and Conforming Amendments.--Section 3 of the National 
Aeronautics and Space Administration Authorization Act of 2010 (42 
U.S.C. 18302) is amended by striking paragraphs (2) and (3) and 
inserting the following:
            ``(2) Appropriate committees of congress.--The term 
        `appropriate committees of Congress' means--
                    ``(A) the Committee on Commerce, Science, and 
                Transportation of the Senate; and
                    ``(B) the Committee on Science, Space, and 
                Technology of the House of Representatives.
            ``(3) Cislunar space.--The term `cislunar space' means the 
        region of space beyond low-Earth orbit out to and including the 
        region around the surface of the Moon.''.

SEC. 217. TECHNICAL AMENDMENTS RELATING TO ARTEMIS MISSIONS.

            (1) Section 421 of the National Aeronautics and Space 
        Administration Authorization Act of 2017 (Public Law 115-10; 51 
        U.S.C. 20301 note) is amended--
                    (A) in subsection (c)(3)--
                            (i) by striking ``EM-1'' and inserting 
                        ``Artemis 1'';
                            (ii) by striking ``EM-2'' and inserting 
                        ``Artemis 2''; and
                            (iii) by striking ``EM-3'' and inserting 
                        ``Artemis 3''; and
                    (B) in subsection (f)(3), by striking ``EM-3'' and 
                inserting ``Artemis 3''.
            (2) Section 432(b) of the National Aeronautics and Space 
        Administration Authorization Act of 2017 (Public Law 115-10; 51 
        U.S.C. 20302 note) is amended--
                    (A) in paragraph (3)(D)--
                            (i) by striking ``EM-1'' and inserting 
                        ``Artemis 1''; and
                            (ii) by striking ``EM-2'' and inserting 
                        ``Artemis 2''; and
                    (B) in paragraph (4)(C), by striking ``EM-3'' and 
                inserting ``Artemis 3''.

                           TITLE III--SCIENCE

SEC. 301. SCIENCE PRIORITIES.

    (a) Sense of Congress on Science Portfolio.--Congress reaffirms the 
sense of Congress that--
            (1) a balanced and adequately funded set of activities, 
        consisting of research and analysis grant programs, technology 
        development, suborbital research activities, and small, medium, 
        and large space missions, contributes to a robust and 
        productive science program and serves as a catalyst for 
        innovation and discovery; and
            (2) the Administrator should set science priorities by 
        following the guidance provided by the scientific community 
        through the decadal surveys of the National Academies of 
        Sciences, Engineering, and Medicine.
    (b) National Academies Decadal Surveys.--Section 20305(c) of title 
51, United States Code, is amended--
            (1) by striking ``The Administrator shall'' and inserting 
        the following:
            ``(1) Reexamination of priorities by national academies.--
        The Administrator shall''; and
            (2) by adding at the end the following:
            ``(2) Reexamination of priorities by administrator.--If the 
        Administrator decides to reexamine the applicability of the 
        priorities of the decadal surveys to the missions and 
        activities of the Administration due to scientific discoveries 
        or external factors, the Administrator shall, to the maximum 
        extent practicable, consult with the relevant committees of the 
        National Academies.''.

SEC. 302. LUNAR DISCOVERY PROGRAM.

    (a) In General.--The Administrator may carry out a program to 
conduct lunar science research, including missions to the surface of 
the Moon, that materially contributes to the objective described in 
section 20102(d)(1) of title 51, United States Code.
    (b) Commercial Landers.--In carrying out a program under subsection 
(a), the Administrator shall procure the services of commercial landers 
developed primarily by United States industry to land science payloads 
of all classes on the lunar surface.
    (c) Lunar Science Research.--The Administrator shall ensure that 
lunar science research carried out under subsection (a) is consistent 
with recommendations made by the National Academies of Sciences, 
Engineering, and Medicine.
    (d) Lunar Polar Volatiles.--In carrying out a program under 
subsection (a), the Administrator shall, at the earliest opportunity, 
consider mission proposals to evaluate the potential of lunar polar 
volatiles to contribute to sustainable lunar exploration.

SEC. 303. SEARCH FOR LIFE.

    (a) Sense of Congress.--It is the sense of Congress that--
            (1) the report entitled ``An Astrobiology Strategy for the 
        Search for Life in the Universe'' published by the National 
        Academies of Sciences, Engineering, and Medicine outlines the 
        key scientific questions and methods for fulfilling the 
        objective of NASA to search for the origin, evolution, 
        distribution, and future of life in the universe; and
            (2) the interaction of lifeforms with their environment, a 
        central focus of astrobiology research, is a topic of broad 
        significance to life sciences research in space and on Earth.
    (b) Program Continuation.--
            (1) In general.--The Administrator shall continue to 
        implement a collaborative, multidisciplinary science and 
        technology development program to search for proof of the 
        existence or historical existence of life beyond Earth in 
        support of the objective described in section 20102(d)(10) of 
        title 51, United States Code.
            (2) Element.--The program under paragraph (1) shall include 
        activities relating to astronomy, biology, geology, and 
        planetary science.
            (3) Coordination with life sciences program.--In carrying 
        out the program under paragraph (1), the Administrator shall 
        coordinate efforts with the life sciences program of the 
        Administration.
            (4) Technosignatures.--In carrying out the program under 
        paragraph (1), the Administrator shall support activities to 
        search for and analyze technosignatures.
            (5) Instrumentation and sensor technology.--In carrying out 
        the program under paragraph (1), the Administrator may 
        strategically invest in the development of new instrumentation 
        and sensor technology.

SEC. 304. JAMES WEBB SPACE TELESCOPE.

    (a) Sense of Congress.--It is the sense of Congress that--
            (1) the James Webb Space Telescope will be the next premier 
        observatory in space and has great potential to further 
        scientific study and assist scientists in making new 
        discoveries in the field of astronomy;
            (2) the James Webb Space Telescope was developed as an 
        ambitious project with a scope that was not fully defined at 
        inception and with risk that was not fully known or understood;
            (3) despite the major technology development and innovation 
        that was needed to construct the James Webb Space Telescope, 
        major negative impacts to the cost and schedule of the James 
        Webb Space Telescope resulted from poor program management and 
        poor contractor performance;
            (4) the Administrator should take into account the lessons 
        learned from the cost and schedule issues relating to the 
        development of the James Webb Space Telescope in making 
        decisions regarding the scope of and the technologies needed 
        for future scientific missions;
            (5) in selecting future scientific missions, the 
        Administrator should take into account the impact that large 
        programs that overrun cost and schedule estimates may have on 
        other NASA programs in earlier phases of development; and
            (6) the Administrator should continue to develop the James 
        Webb Space Telescope with a development cost of not more than 
        $9,000,000,000, as estimated by the James Webb Space Telescope 
        Independent Review Board Report released in May 2018.
    (b) Project Continuation.--
            (1) In general.--The Administrator shall continue--
                    (A) to closely track the cost and schedule 
                performance of the James Webb Space Telescope project; 
                and
                    (B) to improve the reliability of cost estimates 
                and contractor performance data throughout the 
                remaining development of the James Webb Space 
                Telescope.
            (2) Key program objective.--The Administrator shall 
        continue to develop the James Webb Space Telescope on a 
        schedule to meet the objective of safely launching the James 
        Webb Space Telescope not later than March 31, 2021.

SEC. 305. WIDE-FIELD INFRARED SURVEY TELESCOPE.

    (a) Sense of Congress.--It is the sense of Congress that--
            (1) major growth in the cost of astrophysics flagship-class 
        missions has impacted the overall portfolio balance of the 
        Science Mission Directorate; and
            (2) the Administrator should continue to develop the Wide-
        Field Infrared Survey Telescope with a development cost of not 
        more than $3,200,000,000.
    (b) Project Continuation.--The Administrator shall continue to 
develop the Wide-Field Infrared Survey Telescope to meet the objectives 
outlined in the 2010 decadal survey on astronomy and astrophysics of 
the National Academies of Sciences, Engineering, and Medicine in a 
manner that maximizes scientific productivity based on the resources 
invested.

SEC. 306. SATELLITE SERVICING FOR SCIENCE MISSIONS.

    (a) Study.--
            (1) In general.--The Administrator shall conduct a study on 
        the feasibility of using in-space robotic refueling, repair, or 
        refurbishment capabilities to extend the useful life of 
        telescopes and other science missions that are operational or 
        in development as of the date of the enactment of this Act.
            (2) Elements.--The study conducted under paragraph (1) 
        shall include the following:
                    (A) An identification of the technologies and in-
                space testing required to demonstrate the in-space 
                robotic refueling, repair, or refurbishment 
                capabilities described in paragraph (1).
                    (B) The projected cost of using such capabilities, 
                including the cost of extended operations for science 
                missions described in that paragraph.
    (b) Briefing.--Not later than 1 year after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Administrator shall provide to the 
appropriate committees of Congress and the Space Studies Board of the 
National Academies of Sciences, Engineering, and Medicine a briefing on 
the results of the study conducted under subsection (a)(1).

SEC. 307. EARTH SCIENCE MISSIONS AND PROGRAMS.

    (a) Sense of Congress.--It is the sense of Congress that the Earth 
Science Division of NASA plays an important role in national efforts--
            (1) to collect and use Earth observations in service to 
        society; and
            (2) to understand global change.
    (b) Earth Science Missions and Programs.--With respect to the 
missions and programs of the Earth Science Division, the Administrator 
shall, to the maximum extent practicable, follow the recommendations 
and guidance provided by the scientific community through the decadal 
survey for Earth science and applications from space of the National 
Academies of Sciences, Engineering, and Medicine, including--
            (1) the science priorities described in such survey;
            (2) the execution of the series of existing or previously 
        planned observations (commonly known as the ``program of 
        record''); and
            (3) the development of a range of missions of all classes, 
        including opportunities for principal investigator-led, 
        competitively selected missions.

SEC. 308. SCIENCE MISSIONS TO MARS.

    (a) In General.--The Administrator shall conduct 1 or more science 
missions to Mars to enable the selection of 1 or more sites for human 
landing.
    (b) Sample Program.--The Administrator may carry out a program--
            (1) to collect samples from the surface of Mars; and
            (2) to return such samples to Earth for scientific 
        analysis.
    (c) Use of Existing Capabilities and Assets.--In carrying out this 
section, the Administrator shall, to the maximum extent practicable, 
use existing capabilities and assets of NASA centers.

SEC. 309. PLANETARY DEFENSE COORDINATION OFFICE.

    (a) Findings.--Congress makes the following findings:
            (1) Near-Earth objects remain a threat to the United 
        States.
            (2) Section 321(d)(1) of the National Aeronautics and Space 
        Administration Authorization Act of 2005 (Public Law 109-155; 
        119 Stat. 2922; 51 U.S.C. 71101 note prec.) established a 
        requirement that the Administrator plan, develop, and implement 
        a Near-Earth Object Survey program to detect, track, catalogue, 
        and characterize the physical characteristics of near-Earth 
        objects equal to or greater than 140 meters in diameter in 
        order to assess the threat of such near-Earth objects to the 
        Earth, with the goal of 90-percent completion of the catalogue 
        of such near-Earth objects by December 30, 2020.
            (3) The current planetary defense strategy of NASA 
        acknowledges that such goal will not be met.
            (4) The report of the National Academies of Sciences, 
        Engineering, and Medicine entitled ``Finding Hazardous 
        Asteroids Using Infrared and Visible Wavelength Telescopes'' 
        issued in 2019 states that--
                    (A) NASA cannot accomplish such goal with currently 
                available assets;
                    (B) NASA should develop and launch a dedicated 
                space-based infrared survey telescope to meet the 
                requirements of section 321(d)(1) of the National 
                Aeronautics and Space Administration Authorization Act 
                of 2005 (Public Law 109-155; 119 Stat. 2922; 51 U.S.C. 
                71101 note prec.); and
                    (C) the early detection of potentially hazardous 
                near-Earth objects enabled by a space-based infrared 
                survey telescope is important to enable deflection of a 
                dangerous asteroid.
    (b) Establishment of Planetary Defense Coordination Office.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 90 days after the date of 
        the enactment of this Act, the Administrator shall establish an 
        office within the Planetary Science Division of the Science 
        Mission Directorate, to be known as the ``Planetary Defense 
        Coordination Office'', to plan, develop, and implement a 
        program to survey threats posed by near-Earth objects equal to 
        or greater than 140 meters in diameter, as required by section 
        321(d)(1) of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration 
        Authorization Act of 2005 (Public Law 109-155; 119 Stat. 2922; 
        51 U.S.C. 71101 note prec.).
            (2) Activities.--The Administrator shall--
                    (A) develop and, not later than September 30, 2025, 
                launch a space-based infrared survey telescope that is 
                capable of detecting near-Earth objects equal to or 
                greater than 140 meters in diameter, with preference 
                given to planetary missions selected by the 
                Administrator as of the date of the enactment of this 
                Act to pursue concept design studies relating to the 
                development of a space-based infrared survey telescope;
                    (B) identify, track, and characterize potentially 
                hazardous near-Earth objects and issue warnings of the 
                effects of potential impacts of such objects; and
                    (C) assist in coordinating Government planning for 
                response to a potential impact of a near-Earth object.
    (c) Annual Report.--Section 321(f) of the National Aeronautics and 
Space Administration Authorization Act of 2005 (Public Law 109-155; 119 
Stat. 2922; 51 U.S.C. 71101 note prec.) is amended to read as follows:
    ``(f) Annual Report.--Not later than September 30, 2020, and 
annually thereafter through 90-percent completion of the catalogue 
required by subsection (d)(1), the Administrator shall submit to the 
Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate and 
the Committee on Science, Space, and Technology of the House of 
Representatives a report that includes the following:
            ``(1) A summary of all activities carried out by the 
        Planetary Defense Coordination Office established under section 
        309(b)(1) of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration 
        Authorization Act of 2019 since the date of enactment of that 
        Act.
            ``(2) A description of the progress with respect to the 
        design, development, and launch of the space-based infrared 
        survey telescope required by section 309(b)(2)(A) of the 
        National Aeronautics and Space Administration Authorization Act 
        of 2019.
            ``(3) An assessment of the progress toward meeting the 
        requirements of subsection (d)(1).
            ``(4) A description of the status of efforts to coordinate 
        planetary defense activities in response to a threat posed by a 
        near-Earth object with other Federal agencies since the date of 
        enactment of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration 
        Authorization Act of 2019.
            ``(5) A description of the status of efforts to coordinate 
        and cooperate with other countries to discover hazardous 
        asteroids and comets, plan a mitigation strategy, and implement 
        that strategy in the event of the discovery of an object on a 
        likely collision course with Earth.
            ``(6) A summary of expenditures for all activities carried 
        out by the Planetary Defense Coordination Office since the date 
        of enactment of the National Aeronautics and Space 
        Administration Authorization Act of 2019.''.
    (d) Limitation on Use of Funds.--Of the amounts authorized to be 
appropriated by this Act, not more than 80 percent of amounts 
authorized to be appropriated for the Office of the Administrator for a 
fiscal year may be obligated or expended until the date on which the 
Administrator submits the report for such fiscal year required by 
section 321(f) of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration 
Authorization Act of 2005 (Public Law 109-155; 119 Stat. 2922; 51 
U.S.C. 71101 note prec.).
    (e) Near-Earth Object Defined.--In this section, the term ``near-
Earth object'' means an asteroid or comet with a perihelion distance of 
less than 1.3 Astronomical Units from the Sun.

SEC. 310. SUBORBITAL SCIENCE FLIGHTS.

    (a) Sense of Congress.--It is the sense of Congress that 
commercially available suborbital flight platforms enable low-cost 
access to a microgravity environment to advance science and train 
scientists and engineers under the Suborbital Research Program 
established under section 802(c) of the National Aeronautics and Space 
Administration Authorization Act of 2010 (42 U.S.C. 18382(c)).
    (b) Report.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 270 days after the date of 
        the enactment of this Act, the Administrator shall submit to 
        the appropriate committees of Congress a report evaluating the 
        manner in which suborbital flight platforms can contribute to 
        meeting the science objectives of NASA for the Science Mission 
        Directorate and the Human Exploration and Operations Mission 
        Directorate.
            (2) Contents.--The report required by paragraph (1) shall 
        include the following:
                    (A) An assessment of the advantages of suborbital 
                flight platforms to meet science objectives.
                    (B) An evaluation of the challenges to greater use 
                of commercial suborbital flight platforms for science 
                purposes.
                    (C) An analysis of whether commercial suborbital 
                flight platforms can provide low-cost flight 
                opportunities to test lunar and Mars science payloads.

SEC. 311. SENSE OF CONGRESS ON SMALL SATELLITE SCIENCE.

    It is the sense of Congress that--
            (1) small satellites--
                    (A) are increasingly robust, effective, and 
                affordable platforms for carrying out space science 
                missions;
                    (B) can work in tandem with or augment larger NASA 
                spacecraft to support high-priority science missions of 
                NASA; and
                    (C) are cost effective solutions that may allow 
                NASA to continue collecting legacy observations while 
                developing next generation science missions; and
            (2) NASA should continue to support small satellite 
        research, development, technologies, and programs, including 
        technologies for compact and lightweight instrumentation for 
        small satellites.

                         TITLE IV--AERONAUTICS

SEC. 401. SHORT TITLE.

    This title may be cited as the ``Aeronautics Innovation Act''.

SEC. 402. DEFINITIONS.

    In this title:
            (1) Aeronautics strategic implementation plan.--The term 
        ``Aeronautics Strategic Implementation Plan'' means the 
        Aeronautics Strategic Implementation Plan issued by the 
        Aeronautics Research Mission Directorate.
            (2) Unmanned aircraft; unmanned aircraft system.--The terms 
        ``unmanned aircraft'' and ``unmanned aircraft system'' have the 
        meanings given those terms in section 44801 of title 49, United 
        States Code.
            (3) X-Plane.--The term ``X-plane'' means an experimental 
        aircraft that is--
                    (A) used to test and evaluate a new technology or 
                aerodynamic concept; and
                    (B) operated by NASA or the Department of Defense.

SEC. 403. EXPERIMENTAL AIRCRAFT PROJECTS.

    (a) Sense of Congress.--It is the sense of Congress that--
            (1) developing high-risk, precompetitive aerospace 
        technologies for which there is not yet a profit rationale is a 
        fundamental role of NASA;
            (2) large-scale piloted flight test experimentation and 
        validation are necessary for--
                    (A) transitioning new technologies and materials, 
                including associated manufacturing processes, for 
                general aviation, commercial aviation, and military 
                aeronautics use; and
                    (B) capturing the full extent of benefits from 
                investments made by the Aeronautics Research Mission 
                Directorate in priority programs called for in--
                            (i) the National Aeronautics Research and 
                        Development Plan issued by the National Science 
                        and Technology Council in February 2010;
                            (ii) the NASA 2014 Strategic Plan;
                            (iii) the Aeronautics Strategic 
                        Implementation Plan; and
                            (iv) any updates to the programs called for 
                        in the plans described in clauses (i) through 
                        (iii); and
            (3) a level of funding that adequately supports large-scale 
        piloted flight test experimentation and validation, including 
        related infrastructure, should be ensured over a sustained 
        period of time to restore the capacity of NASA--
                    (A) to see legacy priority programs through to 
                completion; and
                    (B) to achieve national economic and security 
                objectives.
    (b) Statement of Policy.--It is the policy of the United States--
            (1) to maintain world leadership in--
                    (A) military and civilian aeronautical science and 
                technology;
                    (B) global air power projection; and
                    (C) industrialization; and
            (2) to maintain as a fundamental objective of NASA 
        aeronautics research the steady progression and expansion of 
        flight research and capabilities, including the science and 
        technology of critical underlying disciplines and competencies, 
        such as--
                    (A) computational-based analytical and predictive 
                tools and methodologies;
                    (B) aerothermodynamics;
                    (C) propulsion;
                    (D) advanced materials and manufacturing processes;
                    (E) high-temperature structures and materials; and
                    (F) guidance, navigation, and flight controls.
    (c) Establishment and Continuation of X-Plane Projects.--
            (1) In general.--The Administrator shall establish or 
        continue to implement, in a manner that is consistent with the 
        roadmap for supersonic aeronautics research and development 
        required by section 604(b) of the National Aeronautics and 
        Space Administration Transition Authorization Act of 2017 
        (Public Law 115-10; 131 Stat. 55), the following projects:
                    (A) A low-boom supersonic aircraft project to 
                demonstrate supersonic aircraft designs and 
                technologies that--
                            (i) reduce sonic boom noise; and
                            (ii) assist the Administrator of the 
                        Federal Aviation Administration in enabling--
                                    (I) the safe commercial deployment 
                                of civil supersonic aircraft 
                                technology; and
                                    (II) the safe and efficient 
                                operation of civil supersonic aircraft.
                    (B) A subsonic flight demonstrator aircraft project 
                to advance aircraft designs and technologies that 
                enable significant increases in energy efficiency and 
                reduced life-cycle emissions in the aviation system 
                while reducing noise and emissions.
                    (C) A series of large-scale X-plane demonstrators 
                that are--
                            (i) developed sequentially or in parallel; 
                        and
                            (ii) each based on a set of new 
                        configuration concepts or technologies 
                        determined by the Administrator to 
                        demonstrate--
                                    (I) aircraft and propulsion 
                                concepts and technologies and related 
                                advances in alternative propulsion and 
                                energy; and
                                    (II) flight propulsion concepts and 
                                technologies.
            (2) Elements.--For each project under paragraph (1), the 
        Administrator shall--
                    (A) include the development of X-planes and all 
                necessary supporting flight test assets;
                    (B) pursue a robust technology maturation and 
                flight test validation effort;
                    (C) improve necessary facilities, flight testing 
                capabilities, and computational tools to support the 
                project;
                    (D) award any primary contracts for design, 
                procurement, and manufacturing to United States 
                persons, consistent with international obligations and 
                commitments;
                    (E) coordinate research and flight test 
                demonstration activities with other Federal agencies 
                and the United States aviation community, as the 
                Administrator considers appropriate; and
                    (F) ensure that the project is aligned with the 
                Aeronautics Strategic Implementation Plan and any 
                updates to the Aeronautics Strategic Implementation 
                Plan.
            (3) United states person defined.--In this subsection, the 
        term ``United States person'' means--
                    (A) a United States citizen or an alien lawfully 
                admitted for permanent residence to the United States; 
                or
                    (B) an entity organized under the laws of the 
                United States or of any jurisdiction within the United 
                States, including a foreign branch of such an entity.
    (d) Advanced Materials and Manufacturing Technology Program.--
            (1) In general.--The Administrator may establish an 
        advanced materials and manufacturing technology program--
                    (A) to develop--
                            (i) new materials, including composite and 
                        high-temperature materials, from base material 
                        formulation through full-scale structural 
                        validation and manufacture;
                            (ii) advanced materials and manufacturing 
                        processes, including additive manufacturing, to 
                        reduce the cost of manufacturing scale-up and 
                        certification for use in general aviation, 
                        commercial aviation, and military aeronautics; 
                        and
                            (iii) noninvasive or nondestructive 
                        techniques for testing or evaluating aviation 
                        and aeronautics structures, including for 
                        materials and manufacturing processes;
                    (B) to reduce the time it takes to design, 
                industrialize, and certify advanced materials and 
                manufacturing processes;
                    (C) to provide education and training opportunities 
                for the aerospace workforce; and
                    (D) to address global cost and human capital 
                competitiveness for United States aeronautical 
                industries and technological leadership in advanced 
                materials and manufacturing technology.
            (2) Elements.--In carrying out a program under paragraph 
        (1), the Administrator shall--
                    (A) build on work that was carried out by the 
                Advanced Composites Project of NASA;
                    (B) partner with the private and academic sectors, 
                such as members of the Advanced Composites Consortium 
                of NASA, the Joint Advanced Materials and Structures 
                Center of Excellence of the Federal Aviation 
                Administration, and national laboratories, as the 
                Administrator considers appropriate;
                    (C) provide a structure for managing intellectual 
                property generated by the program based on or 
                consistent with the structure established for the 
                Advanced Composites Consortium of NASA;
                    (D) ensure adequate Federal cost share for 
                applicable research; and
                    (E) coordinate with advanced manufacturing and 
                composites initiatives in other mission directorates of 
                NASA, as the Administrator considers appropriate.
    (e) Research Partnerships.--In carrying out the projects under 
subsection (c) and a program under subsection (d), the Administrator 
may engage in cooperative research programs with--
            (1) academia; and
            (2) commercial aviation and aerospace manufacturers.

SEC. 404. UNMANNED AIRCRAFT SYSTEMS.

    (a) Unmanned Aircraft Systems Operation Program.--The Administrator 
shall--
            (1) research and test capabilities and concepts, including 
        unmanned aircraft systems communications and spectrum-related 
        resources, for integrating unmanned aircraft systems into the 
        national airspace system;
            (2) leverage the partnership NASA has with industry focused 
        on the advancement of technologies for future air traffic 
        management systems for unmanned aircraft systems; and
            (3) continue to align the research and testing portfolio of 
        NASA to inform the integration of unmanned aircraft systems 
        into the national airspace system, consistent with public 
        safety and national security objectives.
    (b) Sense of Congress on Coordination With Federal Aviation 
Administration.--It is the sense of Congress that--
            (1) NASA should continue--
                    (A) to coordinate with the Federal Aviation 
                Administration on research on air traffic management 
                systems for unmanned aircraft systems; and
                    (B) to assist the Federal Aviation Administration 
                in the integration of air traffic management systems 
                for unmanned aircraft systems into the national 
                airspace system; and
            (2) the test ranges (as defined in section 44801 of title 
        49, United States Code) should continue to be leveraged for 
        research on--
                    (A) air traffic management systems for unmanned 
                aircraft systems; and
                    (B) the integration of such systems into the 
                national airspace system.

SEC. 405. 21ST CENTURY AERONAUTICS CAPABILITIES INITIATIVE.

    (a) In General.--The Administrator may establish an initiative, to 
be known as the ``21st Century Aeronautics Capabilities Initiative'', 
within the Construction and Environmental Compliance and Restoration 
Account, to ensure that NASA possesses the infrastructure and 
capabilities necessary to conduct proposed flight demonstration 
projects across the range of NASA aeronautics interests.
    (b) Activities.--In carrying out the 21st Century Aeronautics 
Capabilities Initiative, the Administrator may carry out the following 
activities:
            (1) Any investments the Administrator considers necessary 
        to upgrade and create facilities for civil and national 
        security aeronautics research to support advancements in--
                    (A) long-term foundational science and technology;
                    (B) advanced aircraft systems;
                    (C) air traffic management systems;
                    (D) fuel efficiency;
                    (E) electric propulsion technologies;
                    (F) system-wide safety assurance;
                    (G) autonomous aviation; and
                    (H) supersonic and hypersonic aircraft design and 
                development.
            (2) Any measures the Administrator considers necessary to 
        support flight testing activities, including--
                    (A) continuous refinement and development of free-
                flight test techniques and methodologies;
                    (B) upgrades and improvements to real-time tracking 
                and data acquisition; and
                    (C) such other measures relating to aeronautics 
                research support and modernization as the Administrator 
                considers appropriate to carry out the scientific study 
                of the problems of flight, with a view to practical 
                solutions for such problems.

SEC. 406. SENSE OF CONGRESS ON ON-DEMAND AIR TRANSPORTATION.

    It is the sense of Congress that--
            (1) greater use of high-speed air transportation, small 
        airports, helipads, vertical flight infrastructure, and other 
        aviation-related infrastructure can alleviate surface 
        transportation congestion and support economic growth within 
        cities;
            (2) with respect to urban air mobility and related 
        concepts, NASA should continue--
                    (A) to conduct research focused on concepts, 
                technologies, and design tools; and
                    (B) to support the evaluation of advanced 
                technologies and operational concepts that can be 
                leveraged by--
                            (i) industry to develop future vehicles and 
                        systems; and
                            (ii) the Federal Aviation Administration to 
                        support vehicle safety and operational 
                        certification; and
            (3) NASA should leverage ongoing efforts to develop 
        advanced technologies to actively support the research needed 
        for on-demand air transportation.

SEC. 407. SENSE OF CONGRESS ON HYPERSONIC TECHNOLOGY RESEARCH.

    It is the sense of Congress that--
            (1) hypersonic technology is critical to the development of 
        advanced high-speed aerospace vehicles for both civilian and 
        national security purposes;
            (2) for hypersonic vehicles to be realized, research is 
        needed to overcome technical challenges, including in 
        propulsion, advanced materials, and flight performance in a 
        severe environment;
            (3) NASA plays a critical role in supporting fundamental 
        hypersonic research focused on system design, analysis and 
        validation, and propulsion technologies;
            (4) NASA research efforts in hypersonic technology should 
        complement research supported by the Department of Defense to 
        the maximum extent practicable, since contributions from both 
        agencies working in partnership with universities and industry 
        are necessary to overcome key technical challenges;
            (5) previous coordinated research programs between NASA and 
        the Department of Defense enabled important progress on 
        hypersonic technology;
            (6) the commercial sector could provide flight platforms 
        and other capabilities that are able to host and support NASA 
        hypersonic technology research projects; and
            (7) in carrying out hypersonic technology research 
        projects, the Administrator should--
                    (A) focus research and development efforts on high-
                speed propulsion systems, reusable vehicle 
                technologies, high-temperature materials, and systems 
                analysis;
                    (B) coordinate with the Department of Defense to 
                prevent duplication of efforts and of investments;
                    (C) include partnerships with universities and 
                industry to accomplish research goals; and
                    (D) maximize public-private use of commercially 
                available platforms for hosting research and 
                development flight projects.

                       TITLE V--SPACE TECHNOLOGY

SEC. 501. SPACE TECHNOLOGY MISSION DIRECTORATE.

    (a) Sense of Congress.--It is the sense of Congress that an 
independent Space Technology Mission Directorate is critical to 
ensuring continued investments in the development of technologies for 
missions across the portfolio of NASA, including science, aeronautics, 
and human exploration.
    (b) Space Technology Mission Directorate.--The Administrator shall 
maintain a Space Technology Mission Directorate consistent with section 
702 of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration Transition 
Authorization Act of 2017 (51 U.S.C. 20301 note).

SEC. 502. FLIGHT OPPORTUNITIES PROGRAM.

    (a) Sense of Congress.--It is the sense of Congress that the 
Administrator should provide flight opportunities for payloads to 
microgravity environments and suborbital altitudes as required by 
section 907(c) of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration 
Authorization Act of 2010 (42 U.S.C. 18405(c)), as amended by 
subsection (b).
    (b) Establishment.--Section 907(c) of the National Aeronautics and 
Space Administration Authorization Act of 2010 (42 U.S.C. 18405(c)) is 
amended to read as follows:
    ``(c) Establishment.--
            ``(1) In general.--The Administrator shall establish a 
        Commercial Reusable Suborbital Research Program within the 
        Space Technology Mission Directorate to fund--
                    ``(A) the development of payloads for scientific 
                research, technology development, and education;
                    ``(B) flight opportunities for those payloads to 
                microgravity environments and suborbital altitudes; and
                    ``(C) transition of those payloads to orbital 
                opportunities.
            ``(2) Commercial reusable vehicle flights.--In carrying out 
        the Commercial Reusable Suborbital Research Program, the 
        Administrator may fund engineering and integration 
        demonstrations, proofs of concept, and educational experiments 
        for flights of commercial reusable vehicles.
            ``(3) Commercial suborbital launch vehicles.--In carrying 
        out the Commercial Reusable Suborbital Research Program, the 
        Administrator may not fund the development of commercial 
        suborbital launch vehicles.
            ``(4) Working with mission directorates.--In carrying out 
        the Commercial Reusable Suborbital Research Program, the 
        Administrator shall work with the mission directorates of NASA 
        to achieve the research, technology, and education goals of 
        NASA.''.
    (c) Conforming Amendment.--Section 907(b) of the National 
Aeronautics and Space Administration Authorization Act of 2010 (42 
U.S.C. 18405(b)) is amended, in the first sentence, by striking 
``Commercial Reusable Suborbital Research Program in'' and inserting 
``Commercial Reusable Suborbital Research Program established under 
subsection (c)(1) within''.

SEC. 503. SMALL SPACECRAFT TECHNOLOGY PROGRAM.

    (a) Sense of Congress.--It is the sense of Congress that the Small 
Spacecraft Technology Program is important for conducting science and 
technology validation for--
            (1) short- and long-duration missions in low-Earth orbit; 
        and
            (2) deep space missions.
    (b) Accommodation of Certain Payloads.--In carrying out the Small 
Spacecraft Technology Program, the Administrator shall, as the mission 
risk posture and technology development objectives allow, accommodate 
science payloads that further the goal of long-term human exploration 
to the Moon and Mars.

SEC. 504. NUCLEAR PROPULSION TECHNOLOGY.

    (a) Sense of Congress.--It is the sense of Congress that nuclear 
propulsion is critical to the development of advanced spacecraft for 
civilian and national defense purposes.
    (b) Development; Studies.--The Administrator shall, in coordination 
with the Secretary of Energy and the Secretary of Defense--
            (1) continue to develop the fuel element design for NASA 
        nuclear propulsion technology;
            (2) finalize the systems feasibility studies for such 
        technology; and
            (3) partner with members of commercial industry to conduct 
        mission concept studies on such technology.
    (c) Nuclear Propulsion Technology Demonstration.--
            (1) Determination; report.--Not later than December 31, 
        2021, the Administrator shall--
                    (A) determine the correct approach for conducting a 
                flight demonstration of nuclear propulsion technology; 
                and
                    (B) submit to Congress a report on a plan for such 
                a demonstration.
            (2) Demonstration.--Not later than December 31, 2024, the 
        Administrator shall conduct the flight demonstration described 
        in paragraph (1).

SEC. 505. MARS-FORWARD TECHNOLOGIES.

    (a) Sense of Congress.--It is the sense of Congress that the 
Administrator should pursue multiple technical paths for entry, 
descent, and landing for Mars, including competitively selected 
technology demonstration missions.
    (b) Prioritization of Long-Lead Technologies and Systems.--The 
Administrator shall prioritize, within the Space Technology Mission 
Directorate, research, testing, and development of long-lead 
technologies and systems for Mars, including technologies and systems 
relating to--
            (1) entry, descent, and landing; and
            (2) in-space propulsion, including nuclear propulsion, 
        cryogenic fluid management, and electric propulsion options.

                       TITLE VI--STEM ENGAGEMENT

SEC. 601. SENSE OF CONGRESS.

    It is the sense of Congress that--
            (1) NASA serves as a source of inspiration to the people of 
        the United States; and
            (2) NASA is uniquely positioned to help increase student 
        interest in science, technology, engineering, and math;
            (3) engaging students, and providing hands-on experience at 
        an early age, in science, technology, engineering, and math are 
        important aspects of ensuring and promoting United States 
        leadership in innovation; and
            (4) NASA should strive to leverage its unique position--
                    (A) to increase kindergarten through grade 12 
                involvement in NASA projects;
                    (B) to enhance higher education in STEM fields in 
                the United States;
                    (C) to support individuals who are underrepresented 
                in science, technology, engineering, and math fields, 
                such as women, minorities, and individuals in rural 
                areas; and
                    (D) to provide flight opportunities for student 
                experiments and investigations.

SEC. 602. STEM EDUCATION ENGAGEMENT ACTIVITIES.

    (a) In General.--The Administrator shall continue to provide 
opportunities for formal and informal STEM education engagement 
activities within the Office of NASA STEM Engagement and other NASA 
directorates, including--
            (1) the Established Program to Stimulate Competitive 
        Research;
            (2) the Minority University Research and Education Project; 
        and
            (3) the National Space Grant College and Fellowship 
        Program.
    (b) Leveraging NASA National Programs To Promote STEM Education.--
The Administrator, in partnership with museums, nonprofit 
organizations, and commercial entities, shall, to the maximum extent 
practicable, leverage human spaceflight missions, Deep Space 
Exploration Systems (including the Space Launch System, Orion, and 
Exploration Ground Systems), and NASA science programs to engage 
students at the kindergarten through grade 12 and higher education 
levels to pursue learning and career opportunities in STEM fields.
    (c) Briefing.--Not later than 1 year after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Administrator shall brief the appropriate 
committees of Congress on--
            (1) the status of the programs described in subsection (a); 
        and
            (2) the manner by which each NASA STEM education engagement 
        activity is organized and funded.
    (d) STEM Education Defined.--In this section, the term ``STEM 
education'' has the meaning given the term in section 2 of the STEM 
Education Act of 2015 (Public Law 114-59; 42 U.S.C. 6621 note).

SEC. 603. SKILLED TECHNICAL EDUCATION OUTREACH PROGRAM.

    (a) Establishment.--The Administrator shall establish a program to 
conduct outreach to secondary school students--
            (1) to expose students to careers that require career and 
        technical education; and
            (2) to encourage students to pursue careers that require 
        career and technical education.
    (b) Outreach Plan.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Administrator shall submit to the 
appropriate committees of Congress a report on the outreach program 
under subsection (a) that includes--
            (1) an implementation plan;
            (2) a description of the resources needed to carry out the 
        program; and
            (3) any recommendations on expanding outreach to secondary 
        school students interested in skilled technical occupations.
    (c) Systems Observation.--
            (1) In general.--The Administrator shall develop a program 
        and associated policies to allow students from accredited 
        educational institutions to view the manufacturing, assembly, 
        and testing of NASA-funded space and aeronautical systems, as 
        the Administrator considers appropriate.
            (2) Considerations.--In developing the program and policies 
        under paragraph (1), the Administrator shall take into 
        consideration factors such as workplace safety, mission needs, 
        and the protection of sensitive and proprietary technologies.

                TITLE VII--WORKFORCE AND INDUSTRIAL BASE

SEC. 701. APPOINTMENT AND COMPENSATION PILOT PROGRAM.

    (a) Definition of Covered Provisions.--In this section the term 
``covered provisions'' means the provisions of title 5, United States 
Code, other than--
            (1) section 2301 of that title;
            (2) section 2302 of that title;
            (3) chapter 71 of that title;
            (4) section 7204 of that title; and
            (5) chapter 73 of that title.
    (b) Establishment.--There is established a 3-year pilot program 
under which, notwithstanding section 20113 of title 51, United States 
Code, the Administrator may, with respect to not more than 5,000 
designated personnel--
            (1) appoint and manage such designated personnel of the 
        Administration, without regard to the covered provisions; and
            (2) fix the compensation of such designated personnel of 
        the Administration, without regard to chapter 51 and subchapter 
        III of chapter 53 of title 5, United States Code, at a rate 
        that does not exceed the per annum rate of salary of the Vice 
        President of the United States under section 104 of title 3, 
        United States Code.
    (c) Administrator Responsibilities.--In carrying out the pilot 
program established under subsection (b), the Administrator shall 
ensure that the pilot program--
            (1) uses--
                    (A) state-of-the-art recruitment techniques;
                    (B) simplified classification methods with respect 
                to personnel of the Administration; and
                    (C) broad banding; and
            (2) offers--
                    (A) competitive compensation; and
                    (B) the opportunity for career mobility.

SEC. 702. ESTABLISHMENT OF MULTI-INSTITUTION CONSORTIA AND UNIVERSITY-
              AFFILIATED RESEARCH CENTERS.

    (a) In General.--The Administrator, pursuant to section 
2304(c)(3)(B) of title 10, United States Code, may--
            (1) establish one or more multi-institution consortia or 
        university-affiliated research centers to facilitate access to 
        essential engineering, research, and development capabilities 
        in support of NASA missions;
            (2) use such a consortium or research center to fund 
        technical analyses and other engineering support to address the 
        acquisition, technical, and operational needs of NASA centers; 
        and
            (3) ensure such a consortium or research center--
                    (A) is held accountable for the technical quality 
                of the work product developed under this section; and
                    (B) convenes disparate groups to facilitate public-
                private partnerships.
    (b) Policies and Procedures.--The Administrator shall develop and 
implement policies and procedures to govern, with respect to the 
establishment of a consortium or research center under subsection (a)--
            (1) the selection of participants;
            (2) the award of cooperative agreements or other contracts;
            (3) the appropriate use of competitive awards and sole 
        source awards; and
            (4) technical capabilities required.
    (c) Eligibility.--The following entities shall be eligible to 
participate in a consortium or research center established under 
subsection (a)--
            (1) an institution of higher education (as defined in 
        section 102 of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 
        1002));
            (2) an operator of a federally funded research and 
        development center;
            (3) a nonprofit or not-for-profit research institution; and
            (4) a consortium composed of--
                    (A) an entity described in paragraph (1), (2), or 
                (3); and
                    (B) one or more for-profit entities.

SEC. 703. EXPEDITED ACCESS TO TECHNICAL TALENT AND EXPERTISE.

    (a) In General.--The Administrator may--
            (1) establish one or more multi-institution task order 
        contracts, consortia, cooperative agreements, or other 
        arrangements to facilitate expedited access to eligible 
        entities in support of NASA missions; and
            (2) use such a multi-institution task order contract, 
        consortium, cooperative agreement, or other arrangement to fund 
        technical analyses and other engineering support to address the 
        acquisition, technical, and operational needs of NASA centers.
    (b) Consultation With Other NASA-Affiliated Entities.--To ensure 
access to technical expertise and reduce costs and duplicative efforts, 
a multi-institution task order contract, consortium, cooperative 
agreement, or any other arrangement established under subsection (a)(1) 
shall, to the maximum extent practicable, be carried out in 
consultation with other NASA-affiliated entities, including federally 
funded research and development centers, university-affiliated research 
centers, and NASA laboratories and test centers.
    (c) Policies and Procedures.--The Administrator shall develop and 
implement policies and procedures to govern, with respect to the 
establishment of a multi-institution task order contract, consortium, 
cooperative agreement, or any other arrangement under subsection 
(a)(1)--
            (1) the selection of participants;
            (2) the award of task orders;
            (3) the maximum award size for a task;
            (4) the appropriate use of competitive awards and sole 
        source awards; and
            (5) technical capabilities required.
    (d) Eligible Entity Defined.--In this section, the term ``eligible 
entity'' means--
            (1) an institution of higher education (as defined in 
        section 102 of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 
        1002));
            (2) an operator of a federally funded research and 
        development center;
            (3) a nonprofit or not-for-profit research institution; and
            (4) a consortium composed of--
                    (A) an entity described in paragraph (1), (2), or 
                (3); and
                    (B) one or more for-profit entities.

SEC. 704. REPORT ON INDUSTRIAL BASE FOR CIVIL SPACE MISSIONS AND 
              OPERATIONS.

    (a) In General.--Not later than 1 year after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Administrator shall submit to the 
appropriate committees of Congress a report on the United States 
industrial base for NASA civil space missions and operations.
    (b) Elements.--The report required by subsection (a) shall include 
the following:
            (1) A comprehensive description of the current status of 
        the United States industrial base for NASA civil space missions 
        and operations.
            (2) A description and assessment of the weaknesses in the 
        supply chain, skills, manufacturing capacity, raw materials, 
        key components, and other areas of the United States industrial 
        base for NASA civil space missions and operations that could 
        adversely impact such missions and operations if unavailable.
            (3) A description and assessment of various mechanisms to 
        address and mitigate the weaknesses described pursuant to 
        paragraph (2).
            (4) Such other matters relating to the United States 
        industrial base for NASA civil space missions and operations as 
        the Administrator considers appropriate.

SEC. 705. SEPARATIONS AND RETIREMENT INCENTIVES.

    Section 20113 of title 51, United States Code, is amended by adding 
at the end the following:
    ``(o) Provisions Related to Separation and Retirement Incentives.--
            ``(1) Definition.--In this subsection, the term 
        `employee'--
                    ``(A) means an employee of the Administration 
                serving under an appointment without time limitation; 
                and
                    ``(B) does not include--
                            ``(i) a reemployed annuitant under 
                        subchapter III of chapter 83 or chapter 84 of 
                        title 5 or any other retirement system for 
                        employees of the Federal Government;
                            ``(ii) an employee having a disability on 
                        the basis of which such employee is or would be 
                        eligible for disability retirement under any of 
                        the retirement systems referred to in clause 
                        (i); or
                            ``(iii) for purposes of eligibility for 
                        separation incentives under this subsection, an 
                        employee who is in receipt of a decision notice 
                        of involuntary separation for misconduct or 
                        unacceptable performance.
            ``(2) Authority.--The Administrator may establish a program 
        under which employees may be eligible for early retirement, 
        offered separation incentive pay to separate from service 
        voluntarily, or both. This authority may be used to reduce the 
        number of personnel employed or to restructure the workforce to 
        meet mission objectives without reducing the overall number of 
        personnel. This authority is in addition to, and 
        notwithstanding, any other authorities established by law or 
        regulation for such programs.
            ``(3) Early retirement.--An employee who is at least 50 
        years of age and has completed 20 years of service, or has at 
        least 25 years of service, may, pursuant to regulations 
        promulgated under this subsection, apply and be retired from 
        the Administration and receive benefits in accordance with 
        subchapter III of chapter 83 or 84 of title 5 if the employee 
        has been employed continuously within the Administration for 
        more than 30 days before the date on which the determination to 
        conduct a reduction or restructuring within 1 or more 
        Administration centers is approved.
            ``(4) Separation pay.--
                    ``(A) In general.--Separation pay shall be paid in 
                a lump sum or in installments and shall be equal to the 
                lesser of--
                            ``(i) an amount equal to the amount the 
                        employee would be entitled to receive under 
                        section 5595(c) of title 5, if the employee 
                        were entitled to payment under such section; or
                            ``(ii) $40,000.
                    ``(B) Limitations.--Separation pay shall not be a 
                basis for payment, and shall not be included in the 
                computation, of any other type of Government benefit. 
                Separation pay shall not be taken into account for the 
                purpose of determining the amount of any severance pay 
                to which an individual may be entitled under section 
                5595 of title 5, based on any other separation.
                    ``(C) Installments.--Separation pay, if paid in 
                installments, shall cease to be paid upon the 
                recipient's acceptance of employment by the Federal 
                Government, or commencement of work under a personal 
                services contract as described in paragraph (5).
            ``(5) Limitations on reemployment.--
                    ``(A) An employee who receives separation pay under 
                such program may not be reemployed by the 
                Administration for a 12-month period beginning on the 
                effective date of the employee's separation, unless 
                this prohibition is waived by the Administrator on a 
                case-by-case basis.
                    ``(B) An employee who receives separation pay under 
                this section on the basis of a separation and accepts 
                employment with the Government of the United States, or 
                who commences work through a personal services contract 
                with the United States within 5 years after the date of 
                the separation on which payment of the separation pay 
                is based, shall be required to repay the entire amount 
                of the separation pay to the Administration. If the 
                employment is with an Executive agency (as defined by 
                section 105 of title 5) other than the Administration, 
                the Administrator may, at the request of the head of 
                that agency, waive the repayment if the individual 
                involved possesses unique abilities and is the only 
                qualified applicant available for the position. If the 
                employment is within the Administration, the 
                Administrator may waive the repayment if the individual 
                involved is the only qualified applicant available for 
                the position. If the employment is with an entity in 
                the legislative branch, the head of the entity or the 
                appointing official may waive the repayment if the 
                individual involved possesses unique abilities and is 
                the only qualified applicant available for the 
                position. If the employment is with the judicial 
                branch, the Director of the Administrative Office of 
                the United States Courts may waive the repayment if the 
                individual involved possesses unique abilities and is 
                the only qualified applicant available for the 
                position.
            ``(6) Regulations.--Under the program established under 
        paragraph (2), early retirement and separation pay may be 
        offered only pursuant to regulations established by the 
        Administrator, subject to such limitations or conditions as the 
        Administrator may require.
            ``(7) Use of existing funds.--The Administrator shall carry 
        out this subsection using amounts otherwise made available to 
        the Administrator and no additional funds are authorized to be 
        appropriated to carry out this subsection.''.

SEC. 706. CONFIDENTIALITY OF MEDICAL QUALITY ASSURANCE RECORDS.

    (a) In General.--Chapter 313 of title 51, United States Code, is 
amended by adding at the end the following:
``Sec. 31303. Confidentiality of medical quality assurance records
    ``(a) In General.--Except as provided in subsection (b)(1)--
            ``(1) a medical quality assurance record, or any part of a 
        medical quality assurance record, may not be subject to 
        discovery or admitted into evidence in a judicial or 
        administrative proceeding; and
            ``(2) an individual who reviews or creates a medical 
        quality assurance record for the Administration, or 
        participates in any proceeding that reviews or creates a 
        medical quality assurance record, may not testify in a judicial 
        or administrative proceeding with respect to--
                    ``(A) the medical quality assurance record; or
                    ``(B) any finding, recommendation, evaluation, 
                opinion, or action taken by such individual or in 
                accordance with such proceeding with respect to the 
                medical quality assurance record.
    ``(b) Disclosure of Records.--
            ``(1) In general.--Notwithstanding subsection (a), a 
        medical quality assurance record may be disclosed to--
                    ``(A) a Federal agency or private entity, if the 
                medical quality assurance record is necessary for the 
                Federal agency or private entity to carry out--
                            ``(i) licensing or accreditation functions 
                        relating to Administration healthcare 
                        facilities; or
                            ``(ii) monitoring of Administration 
                        healthcare facilities required by law;
                    ``(B) a Federal agency or healthcare provider, if 
                the medical quality assurance record is required by the 
                Federal agency or healthcare provider to enable 
                Administration participation in a healthcare program of 
                the Federal agency or healthcare provider;
                    ``(C) a criminal or civil law enforcement agency, 
                or an instrumentality authorized by law to protect the 
                public health or safety, on written request by a 
                qualified representative of such agency or 
                instrumentality submitted to the Administrator that 
                includes a description of the lawful purpose for which 
                the medical quality assurance record is requested;
                    ``(D) an officer, an employee, or a contractor of 
                the Administration who requires the medical quality 
                assurance record to carry out an official duty 
                associated with healthcare;
                    ``(E) healthcare personnel, to the extent necessary 
                to address a medical emergency affecting the health or 
                safety of an individual; and
                    ``(F) any committee, panel, or board convened by 
                the Administration to review the healthcare-related 
                policies and practices of the Administration.
            ``(2) Subsequent disclosure prohibited.--An individual or 
        entity to whom a medical quality assurance record has been 
        disclosed under paragraph (1) may not make a subsequent 
        disclosure of the medical quality assurance record.
    ``(c) Personally Identifiable Information.--
            ``(1) In general.--Except as provided in paragraph (2), the 
        personally identifiable information contained in a medical 
        quality assurance record of a patient or an employee of the 
        Administration, or any other individual associated with the 
        Administration for purposes of a medical quality assurance 
        program, shall be removed before the disclosure of the medical 
        quality assurance record to an entity other than the 
        Administration.
            ``(2) Exception.--Personally identifiable information 
        described in paragraph (1) may be released to an entity other 
        than the Administration if the Administrator makes a 
        determination that the release of such personally identifiable 
        information--
                    ``(A) is in the best interests of the 
                Administration; and
                    ``(B) does not constitute an unwarranted invasion 
                of personal privacy.
    ``(d) Exclusion From FOIA.--A medical quality assurance record may 
not be made available to any person under section 552 of title 5, 
United States Code (commonly referred to as the `Freedom of Information 
Act'), and this section shall be considered a statute described in 
subsection (b)(3)(B) of such section 522.
    ``(e) Regulations.--Not later than one year after the date of the 
enactment of this section, the Administrator shall promulgate 
regulations to implement this section.
    ``(f) Rules of Construction.--Nothing in this section shall be 
construed--
            ``(1) to withhold a medical quality assurance record from a 
        committee of the Senate or House of Representatives or a joint 
        committee of Congress if the medical quality assurance record 
        relates to a matter within the jurisdiction of such committee 
        or joint committee; or
            ``(2) to limit the use of a medical quality assurance 
        record within the Administration, including the use by a 
        contractor or consultant of the Administration.
    ``(g) Definitions.--In this section:
            ``(1) Medical quality assurance record.--The term `medical 
        quality assurance record' means any proceeding, discussion, 
        record, finding, recommendation, evaluation, opinion, minutes, 
        report, or other document or action that results from a quality 
        assurance committee, quality assurance program, or quality 
        assurance program activity.
            ``(2) Quality assurance program.--
                    ``(A) In general.--The term `quality assurance 
                program' means a comprehensive program of the 
                Administration--
                            ``(i) to systematically review and improve 
                        the quality of medical and behavioral health 
                        services provided by the Administration to 
                        ensure the safety and security of individuals 
                        receiving such health services; and
                            ``(ii) to evaluate and improve the 
                        efficiency, effectiveness, and use of staff and 
                        resources in the delivery of such health 
                        services.
                    ``(B) Inclusion.--The term `quality assurance 
                program' includes any activity carried out by or for 
                the Administration to assess the quality of medical 
                care provided by the Administration.''.
    (b) Technical and Conforming Amendment.--The table of sections for 
chapter 313 of title 51, United States Code, is amended by adding at 
the end the following:

``31303. Confidentiality of medical quality assurance records.''.

                  TITLE VIII--MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS

SEC. 801. CONTRACTING AUTHORITY.

    Section 20113 of title 51, United States Code, is amended by adding 
at the end the following:
    ``(o) Contracting Authority.--The Administration--
            ``(1) may enter into an agreement with a private, 
        commercial, or State government entity to provide the entity 
        with supplies, support, and services related to private, 
        commercial, or State government space activities carried out at 
        a property owned or operated by the Administration; and
            ``(2) upon the request of such an entity, may include such 
        supplies, support, and services in the requirements of the 
        Administration if--
                    ``(A) the Administrator determines that the 
                inclusion of such supplies, support, or services in 
                such requirements--
                            ``(i) is in the best interest of the 
                        Federal Government;
                            ``(ii) does not interfere with the 
                        requirements of the Administration; and
                            ``(iii) does not compete with the 
                        commercial space activities of other such 
                        entities; and
                    ``(B) the Administration has full reimbursable 
                funding from the entity that requested supplies, 
                support, and services prior to making any obligation 
                for the delivery of such supplies, support, or services 
                under an Administration procurement contract or any 
                other agreement.''.

SEC. 802. AUTHORITY FOR TRANSACTION PROTOTYPE PROJECTS AND FOLLOW-ON 
              PRODUCTION CONTRACTS.

    Section 20113 of title 51, United States Code, as amended by 
section 801, is further amended by adding at the end the following:
    ``(p) Transaction Prototype Projects and Follow-On Production 
Contracts.--
            ``(1) In general.--The Administration may enter into a 
        transaction (other than a contract, cooperative agreement, or 
        grant) to carry out a prototype project that is directly 
        relevant to enhancing the mission effectiveness of the 
        Administration.
            ``(2) Subsequent award of follow-on production contract.--A 
        transaction entered into under this subsection for a prototype 
        project may provide for the subsequent award of a follow-on 
        production contract to participants in the transaction.
            ``(3) Inclusion.--A transaction under this subsection 
        includes a project awarded to an individual participant and to 
        all individual projects awarded to a consortium of United 
        States industry and academic institutions.
            ``(4) Determination.--The authority of this section may be 
        exercised for a transaction for a prototype project and any 
        follow-on production contract, upon a determination by the head 
        of the contracting activity, in accordance with Administration 
        policies, that--
                    ``(A) circumstances justify use of a transaction to 
                provide an innovative business arrangement that would 
                not be feasible or appropriate under a contract; and
                    ``(B) the use of the authority of this section is 
                essential to promoting the success of the prototype 
                project.
            ``(5) Competitive procedure.--
                    ``(A) In general.--To the maximum extent 
                practicable, the Administrator shall use competitive 
                procedures with respect to entering into a transaction 
                to carry out a prototype project.
                    ``(B) Exception.--Notwithstanding section 2304 of 
                title 10, United States Code, a follow-on production 
                contract may be awarded to the participants in the 
                prototype transaction without the use of competitive 
                procedures, if--
                            ``(i) competitive procedures were used for 
                        the selection of parties for participation in 
                        the prototype transaction; and
                            ``(ii) the participants in the transaction 
                        successfully completed the prototype project 
                        provided for in the transaction.
            ``(6) Cost share.--A transaction to carry out a prototype 
        project and a follow-on production contract may require that 
        part of the total cost of the transaction or contract be paid 
        by the participant or contractor from a source other than the 
        Federal Government.
            ``(7) Procurement ethics.--A transaction under this 
        authority shall be considered an agency procurement for 
        purposes of chapter 21 of title 41, United States Code, with 
        regard to procurement ethics.''.

SEC. 803. PROTECTION OF DATA AND INFORMATION FROM PUBLIC DISCLOSURE.

    (a) Certain Technical Data.--Section 20131 of title 51, United 
States Code, is amended--
            (1) by redesignating subsection (c) as subsection (d);
            (2) in subsection (a)(3), by striking ``subsection (b)'' 
        and inserting ``subsection (b) or (c)'';
            (3) by inserting after subsection (b) the following:
    ``(c) Special Handling of Certain Technical Data.--
            ``(1) In general.--The Administrator may provide 
        appropriate protections against the public dissemination of 
        certain technical data, including exemption from subchapter II 
        of chapter 5 of title 5.
            ``(2) Definitions.--In this subsection:
                    ``(A) Certain technical data.--The term `certain 
                technical data' means technical data that may not be 
                exported lawfully outside the United States without 
                approval, authorization, or license under--
                            ``(i) the Export Control Reform Act of 2018 
                        (Public Law 115-232; 132 Stat. 2208); or
                            ``(ii) the International Security 
                        Assistance and Arms Export Control Act of 1976 
                        (Public Law 94-329; 90 Stat. 729).
                    ``(B) Technical data.--The term `technical data' 
                means any blueprint, drawing, photograph, plan, 
                instruction, computer software, or documentation, or 
                any other technical information.'';
            (4) in subsection (d), as so redesignated, by inserting ``, 
        including any data,'' after ``information''; and
            (5) by adding at the end the following:
    ``(e) Exclusion From FOIA.--This section shall be considered a 
statute described in subsection (b)(3)(B) of section 552 of title 5 
(commonly referred to as the `Freedom of Information Act').''.
    (b) Certain Voluntarily Provided Safety-Related Information.--
            (1) In general.--The Administrator shall provide 
        appropriate safeguards against the public dissemination of 
        safety-related information collected as part of a mishap 
        investigation carried out under the NASA safety reporting 
        system or in conjunction with an organizational safety 
        assessment, if the Administrator makes a written determination, 
        including a justification of the determination, that--
                    (A)(i) disclosure of the information would inhibit 
                individuals from voluntarily providing safety-related 
                information; and
                    (ii) the ability of NASA to collect such 
                information improves the safety of NASA programs and 
                research relating to aeronautics and space; or
                    (B) withholding such information from public 
                disclosure improves the safety of such NASA programs 
                and research.
            (2) Other federal agencies.--Notwithstanding any other 
        provision of law, if the Administrator provides to the head of 
        another Federal agency safety-related information with respect 
        to which the Administrator has made a determination under 
        paragraph (1), the head of the Federal agency shall withhold 
        the information from public disclosure.
            (3) Public availability.--A determination under paragraph 
        (1) shall be made available to the public on request, as 
        required under section 552 of title 5, United States Code 
        (commonly referred to as the ``Freedom of Information Act'').
            (4) Exclusion from foia.--This subsection shall be 
        considered a statute described in subsection (b)(3)(B) of 
        section 552 of title 5, United States Code.

SEC. 804. PHYSICAL SECURITY MODERNIZATION.

    Chapter 201 of title 51, United States Code, is amended--
            (1) in section 20133(2), by striking ``property'' and all 
        that follows through ``to the United States,'' and inserting 
        ``Administration personnel or of property owned or leased by, 
        or under the control of, the United States''; and
            (2) in section 20134, in the second sentence--
                    (A) by inserting ``Administration personnel or 
                any'' after ``protecting''; and
                    (B) by striking ``, at facilities owned or 
                contracted to the Administration''.

SEC. 805. LEASE OF NON-EXCESS PROPERTY.

    Section 20145 of title 51, United States Code, is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (b)(1)(B), by striking ``entered into for 
        the purpose of developing renewable energy production 
        facilities''; and
            (2) by striking subsection (g).

SEC. 806. CYBERSECURITY.

    (a) In General.--Section 20301 of title 51, United States Code, is 
amended by adding at the end the following:
    ``(c) Cybersecurity.--The Administrator shall update and improve 
the cybersecurity of NASA space assets and supporting 
infrastructure.''.
    (b) Security Operations Center.--
            (1) Establishment.--The Administrator shall maintain a 
        Security Operations Center, to identify and respond to 
        cybersecurity threats to NASA information technology systems, 
        including institutional systems and mission systems.
            (2) Inspector general recommendations.--The Administrator 
        shall implement, to the maximum extent practicable, each of the 
        recommendations contained in the report of the Inspector 
        General of NASA entitled ``Audit of NASA's Security Operations 
        Center'', issued on May 23, 2018.
    (c) Cyber Threat Hunt.--
            (1) In general.--The Administrator, in coordination with 
        the Secretary of Homeland Security and the heads of other 
        relevant Federal agencies, may implement a cyber threat hunt 
        capability to proactively search NASA information systems for 
        advanced cyber threats that otherwise evade existing security 
        tools.
            (2) Threat-hunting process.--In carrying out paragraph (1), 
        the Administrator shall develop and document a threat-hunting 
        process, including the roles and responsibilities of 
        individuals conducting a cyber threat hunt.
    (d) GAO Priority Recommendations.--The Administrator shall 
implement, to the maximum extent practicable, the recommendations for 
NASA contained in the report of the Comptroller General of the United 
States entitled ``Information Security: Agencies Need to Improve 
Controls over Selected High-Impact Systems'', issued May 18, 2016, 
including--
            (1) re-evaluating security control assessments; and
            (2) specifying metrics for the continuous monitoring 
        strategy of the Administration.

SEC. 807. LIMITATION ON COOPERATION WITH THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF 
              CHINA.

    (a) In General.--Except as provided by subsection (b), the 
Administrator, the Director of the Office of Science and Technology 
Policy, and the Chair of the National Space Council, shall not--
            (1) develop, design, plan, promulgate, implement, or 
        execute a bilateral policy, program, order, or contract of any 
        kind to participate, collaborate, or coordinate bilaterally in 
        any manner with--
                    (A) the Government of the People's Republic of 
                China; or
                    (B) any company--
                            (i) owned by the Government of the People's 
                        Republic of China; or
                            (ii) incorporated under the laws of the 
                        People's Republic of China; and
            (2) host official visitors from the People's Republic of 
        China at a facility belonging to or used by NASA.
    (b) Waiver.--
            (1) In general.--The Administrator, the Director, or the 
        Chair may waive the limitation under subsection (a) with 
        respect to an activity described in that subsection only if the 
        Administrator, the Director, or the Chair, as applicable, makes 
        a determination that the activity--
                    (A) does not pose a risk of a transfer of 
                technology, data, or other information with national 
                security or economic security implications to an entity 
                described in paragraph (1) of such subsection; and
                    (B) does not involve knowing interactions with 
                officials who have been determined by the United States 
                to have direct involvement with violations of human 
                rights.
            (2) Certification to congress.--Not later than 30 days 
        after the date on which a waiver is granted under paragraph 
        (1), the Administrator, the Director, or the Chair, as 
        applicable, shall submit to the Committee on Commerce, Science, 
        and Transportation and the Committee on Appropriations of the 
        Senate and the Committee on Science, Space, and Technology and 
        the Committee on Appropriations of the House of Representatives 
        a written certification that the activity complies with the 
        requirements in subparagraphs (A) and (B) of that paragraph.

SEC. 808. SMALL SATELLITE LAUNCH SERVICES PROGRAM.

    (a) In General.--The Administrator shall continue to procure 
dedicated launch services for small satellites, including CubeSats, for 
the purpose of conducting science and technology missions that further 
the goals of NASA.
    (b) Requirements.--In carrying out the program under subsection 
(a), the Administrator shall--
            (1) engage with the academic community to maximize 
        awareness and use of dedicated small satellite launch 
        opportunities; and
            (2) to the maximum extent practicable, use a secondary 
        payload of procured launch services for CubeSats.

SEC. 809. 21ST CENTURY SPACE LAUNCH INFRASTRUCTURE.

    (a) In General.--The Administrator shall carry out a program to 
modernize launch infrastructure at NASA facilities--
            (1) to enhance safety; and
            (2) to advance Government and commercial space 
        transportation and exploration.
    (b) Projects.--Projects funded under the program under subsection 
(a) may include--
            (1) infrastructure relating to commodities;
            (2) standard interfaces to meet customer needs for multiple 
        payload processing and launch vehicle processing;
            (3) enhancements to range capacity and flexibility; and
            (4) such other projects as the Administrator considers 
        appropriate to meet the goals described in subsection (a).
    (c) Requirements.--In carrying out the program under subsection 
(a), the Administrator shall--
            (1) prioritize investments in projects that can be used by 
        multiple users and launch vehicles, including non-NASA users 
        and launch vehicles; and
            (2) limit investments to projects that would not otherwise 
        be funded by a NASA program, such as an institutional or 
        programmatic infrastructure program.
    (d) Savings Clause.--Nothing in this section shall preclude a NASA 
program, including the Space Launch System and Orion, from using the 
launch infrastructure modernized under this section.

SEC. 810. MISSIONS OF NATIONAL NEED.

    (a) Sense of Congress.--It is the Sense of Congress that--
            (1) while certain space missions, such as asteroid 
        detection or space debris mitigation missions, may not provide 
        the highest-value science, as determined by the National 
        Academies of Science, Engineering, and Medicine decadal 
        surveys, such missions provide tremendous value to the United 
        States and the world; and
            (2) the current organizational and funding structure of 
        NASA has not prioritized the funding of missions of national 
        need.
    (b) Study.--
            (1) In general.--The Director of the Office of Science and 
        Technology Policy shall conduct a study on the manner in which 
        NASA funds missions of national need.
            (2) Matters to be included.--The study conducted under 
        paragraph (1) shall include the following:
                    (A) An identification and assessment of the types 
                of missions or technology development programs that 
                constitute missions of national need.
                    (B) An assessment of the manner in which such 
                missions are currently funded and managed by NASA.
                    (C) An analysis of the options for funding missions 
                of national need, including--
                            (i) structural changes required to allow 
                        NASA to fund such missions; and
                            (ii) an assessment of the capacity of other 
                        Federal agencies to make funds available for 
                        such missions.
    (c) Report to Congress.--Not later than 1 year after the date of 
the enactment of this Act, the Director of the Office of Science and 
Technology Policy shall submit to the appropriate committees of 
Congress a report on the results of the study conducted under 
subsection (b), including recommendations for funding missions of 
national need.

SEC. 811. EXEMPTION FROM THE IRAN, NORTH KOREA, AND SYRIA 
              NONPROLIFERATION ACT.

    Section 7(1) of the Iran, North Korea, and Syria Nonproliferation 
Act (Public Law 106-178; 50 U.S.C. 1701 note) is amended, in the 
undesignated matter following subparagraph (B), by striking ``December 
31, 2020'' and inserting ``December 31, 2030''.

SEC. 812. DRINKING WATER WELL REPLACEMENT FOR CHINCOTEAGUE, VIRGINIA.

    Notwithstanding any other provision of law, during the 5-year 
period beginning on the date of the enactment of this Act, the 
Administrator may enter into 1 or more agreements with the town of 
Chincoteague, Virginia, to reimburse the town for costs that are 
directly associated with--
            (1) the removal of drinking water wells located on property 
        administered by the Administration; and
            (2) the relocation of such wells to property under the 
        administrative control, through lease, ownership, or easement, 
        of the town.

SEC. 813. PASSENGER CARRIER USE.

    Section 1344(a)(2) of title 31, United States Code, is amended--
            (1) in subparagraph (A), by striking ``or'' at the end;
            (2) in subparagraph (B), by inserting ``or'' after the 
        comma at the end; and
            (3) by inserting after subparagraph (B) the following:
            ``(C) necessary for post-flight transportation of United 
        States Government astronauts subject to reimbursable 
        arrangements returning from space for the performance of 
        medical research, monitoring, diagnosis, or treatment, or other 
        official duties, prior to receiving post-flight medical 
        clearance to operate a motor vehicle,''.

SEC. 814. SBIR PHASE FLEXIBILITY FOR THE NATIONAL AERONAUTICS AND SPACE 
              ADMINISTRATION.

    Section 9(cc) of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 638(cc)) is 
amended by inserting ``the National Aeronautics and Space 
Administration,'' after ``through 2022,''.
                                 &lt;all&gt;
</pre></body></html>
