<html><body><pre>
[Congressional Bills 115th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[S. 3704 Introduced in Senate (IS)]

&lt;DOC&gt;






115th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                S. 3704

To establish the San Gabriel National Recreation Area as a unit of the 
    National Park System in the State of California, to modify the 
boundaries of the San Gabriel Mountains National Monument in the State 
  of California to include additional National Forest System land, to 
designate certain Federal land in the State of California as wilderness 
areas and as components of the National Wilderness Preservation System, 
to designate portions of the San Gabriel River and Little Rock Creek in 
that State as components of the National Wild and Scenic Rivers System, 
                        and for other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                   IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

                            December 5, 2018

  Ms. Harris introduced the following bill; which was read twice and 
       referred to the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
To establish the San Gabriel National Recreation Area as a unit of the 
    National Park System in the State of California, to modify the 
boundaries of the San Gabriel Mountains National Monument in the State 
  of California to include additional National Forest System land, to 
designate certain Federal land in the State of California as wilderness 
areas and as components of the National Wilderness Preservation System, 
to designate portions of the San Gabriel River and Little Rock Creek in 
that State as components of the National Wild and Scenic Rivers System, 
                        and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE; TABLE OF CONTENTS.

    (a) Short Title.--This Act may be cited as the ``San Gabriel 
Mountains Foothills and Rivers Protection Act''.
    (b) Table of Contents.--The table of contents for this Act is as 
follows:

Sec. 1. Short title; table of contents.
             TITLE I--SAN GABRIEL NATIONAL RECREATION AREA

Sec. 101. Definitions.
Sec. 102. Establishment of San Gabriel National Recreation Area.
Sec. 103. Management.
Sec. 104. Acquisition of non-Federal lands within the recreation area.
Sec. 105. Water rights; water resource facilities; public roads; 
                            utility facilities.
Sec. 106. San Gabriel National Recreation Area Public Advisory Council.
Sec. 107. San Gabriel National Recreation Area Partnership.
Sec. 108. Visitor services and facilities.
           TITLE II--SAN GABRIEL MOUNTAINS NATIONAL MONUMENT

Sec. 201. Boundary modification, San Gabriel Mountains National 
                            Monument.
   TITLE III--WILDERNESS AREA AND WILD AND SCENIC RIVER DESIGNATIONS

Sec. 301. Definitions.
Sec. 302. Designation of wilderness, Angeles National Forest, 
                            California.
Sec. 303. Designation of wild and scenic rivers.
Sec. 304. Water rights.

             TITLE I--SAN GABRIEL NATIONAL RECREATION AREA

SEC. 101. DEFINITIONS.

    In this title:
            (1) Adjudication.--The term ``adjudication'' means any 
        final judgment, order, ruling, or decree entered in any 
        judicial proceeding adjudicating or affecting water rights, 
        surface water management, or groundwater management.
            (2) Advisory council.--The term ``advisory council'' means 
        the San Gabriel National Recreation Area Public Advisory 
        Council established by section 106(a).
            (3) Federal lands.--The term ``Federal lands'' means--
                    (A) public lands under the jurisdiction of the 
                Secretary of the Interior; and
                    (B) lands under the jurisdiction of the Secretary 
                of Defense, acting through the Army Corps of Engineers.
            (4) Management plan.--The term ``management plan'' means 
        the management plan for the recreation area required by section 
        103(d).
            (5) Public lands.--The term ``public lands'' has the 
        meaning given that term in section 103(e) of the Federal Land 
        Policy and Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1702(e)).
            (6) Partnership.--The term ``partnership'' means the San 
        Gabriel National Recreation Partnership established by section 
        107(a).
            (7) Recreation area.--The term ``recreation area'' means 
        the San Gabriel National Recreation Area established by section 
        102(b).
            (8) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary 
        of the Interior.
            (9) State.--The term ``State'' means the State of 
        California.
            (10) Utility facility.--The term ``utility facility'' means 
        electric substations, communication facilities, towers, poles, 
        and lines, ground wires, communication circuits, and other 
        structures, and related infrastructure.
            (11) Water resource facility.--The term ``water resource 
        facility'' means irrigation and pumping facilities, dams and 
        reservoirs, flood control facilities, water conservation works, 
        including debris protection facilities, sediment placement 
        sites, rain gauges, and stream gauges, water quality 
        facilities, recycled water facilities and water pumping, 
        conveyance distribution systems, and water treatment 
        facilities, aqueducts, canals, ditches, pipelines, wells, 
        hydropower projects, and transmission and other ancillary 
        facilities, groundwater recharge facilities, water 
        conservation, water filtration plants, and other water 
        diversion, conservation, groundwater recharge, storage, and 
        carriage structures.

SEC. 102. ESTABLISHMENT OF SAN GABRIEL NATIONAL RECREATION AREA.

    (a) Purposes.--The purposes of this title are--
            (1) to conserve, protect, and enhance for the benefit and 
        enjoyment of present and future generations the ecological, 
        scenic, wildlife, recreational, cultural, historical, natural, 
        educational, and scientific resources of the recreation area;
            (2) to provide environmentally responsible, well-managed 
        recreational opportunities within the recreation area, and 
        improve access to and from the recreation area;
            (3) to provide expanded educational and interpretive 
        services that will increase public understanding of and 
        appreciation for the natural and cultural resources of the 
        recreation area;
            (4) to facilitate the cooperative management of the lands 
        and resources within the recreation area, in collaboration with 
        the State and political subdivisions of the State, historical, 
        business, cultural, civic, recreational, tourism and other 
        nongovernmental organizations, and the public; and
            (5) to allow the continued use of the recreation area by 
        all persons, entities, and local government agencies in 
        activities relating to integrated water management, flood 
        protection, water conservation, water quality, water rights, 
        water supply, groundwater recharge and monitoring, wastewater 
        treatment, public roads and bridges, and utilities within or 
        adjacent to the recreation area.
    (b) Establishment and Boundaries.--Subject to valid existing 
rights, there is hereby established the San Gabriel National Recreation 
Area as a unit of the National Park System in the State of California, 
which shall consist of approximately 51,107 acres of Federal lands and 
interests in land in the State depicted as the ``Proposed San Gabriel 
Mountains National Recreation Area'' on the map titled ``San Gabriel 
Mountains National Recreation Area and National Monument Expansion 
Proposal'' and dated October 5, 2015.
    (c) Map and Legal Description.--
            (1) In general.--As soon as practicable after the date of 
        the enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall file a map and a 
        legal description of the recreation area with--
                    (A) the Committee on Natural Resources of the House 
                of Representatives; and
                    (B) the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources 
                of the Senate.
            (2) Force of law.--The map and legal description filed 
        under paragraph (1) shall have the same force and effect as if 
        included in this title, except that the Secretary may correct 
        any clerical and typographical errors in the map and legal 
        description.
            (3) Public availability.--The map and legal description 
        filed under paragraph (1) shall be on file and available for 
        public inspection in the appropriate offices of the National 
        Park Service.
    (d) Administration and Jurisdiction.--
            (1) Public lands.--The public lands included in the 
        recreation area shall be administered by the Secretary, acting 
        through the National Park Service.
            (2) Department of defense lands.--Although certain Federal 
        lands under the jurisdiction of the Secretary of Defense are 
        included in the recreation area, nothing in this title 
        transfers administrative jurisdiction of such Federal lands 
        from the Secretary of Defense or otherwise affects Federal 
        lands under the jurisdiction of the Secretary of Defense.
            (3) State and local jurisdiction.--Nothing in this title 
        alters, modifies, or diminishes any right, responsibility, 
        power, authority, jurisdiction, or entitlement of the State, 
        any political subdivision of the State, or any State or local 
        agency under existing Federal, State, and local law (including 
        regulations).

SEC. 103. MANAGEMENT.

    (a) National Park System.--Subject to valid existing rights, the 
Secretary shall manage the public lands included in the recreation area 
in a manner that protects, and enhances the natural resources and 
values of the lands, in accordance with--
            (1) this title;
            (2) the laws generally applicable to units of the National 
        Park System; and
            (3) other applicable law (including Federal, State, or 
        local law, and regulations).
    (b) Cooperation With Secretary of Defense.--The Secretary shall 
cooperate with the Secretary of Defense to develop opportunities for 
the management, to the maximum extent practicable, of the Federal lands 
under the jurisdiction of the Secretary of Defense included in the 
recreation area in accordance with the purposes described in section 
102(a).
    (c) Treatment of Non-Federal Lands and Related Provisions.--
            (1) In general.--Nothing in this title--
                    (A) authorizes the Secretary to take any action 
                that would affect the use of any land not owned by the 
                United States;
                    (B) affects the use of, or access to, any non-
                Federal land within the recreation area;
                    (C) modifies any provision of Federal, State, or 
                local law with respect to public access to or use of 
                non-Federal land;
                    (D) requires any owner of non-Federal land to allow 
                public access (including Federal, State, or local 
                government access) to private property or any other 
                non-Federal land;
                    (E) alters any duly adopted land use regulation, 
                approved land use plan, or any other regulatory 
                authority of any State, or local agency, or tribal 
                government;
                    (F) creates any liability, or affects any liability 
                under any other law, of any private property owner or 
                other owner of non-Federal land with respect to any 
                person injured on private property or other non-Federal 
                land;
                    (G) conveys any land use or other regulatory 
                authority to the partnership;
                    (H) shall be construed to cause any Federal, State, 
                or local regulations or permit requirements, which are 
                intended to apply to units of the National Park System, 
                to affect the Federal lands under the jurisdiction of 
                the Secretary of Defense or non-Federal lands within 
                the boundaries of the recreation area; or
                    (I) requires any local government to participate in 
                any program administered by the Secretary.
            (2) Cooperation.--The Secretary is encouraged to work with 
        owners of non-Federal land who have agreed to cooperate with 
        the Secretary to further the purposes of this title.
            (3) Buffer zones.--
                    (A) In general.--Congress does not intend the 
                establishment of the recreation area to lead to the 
                creation of protective perimeters or buffer zones 
                around the recreation area.
                    (B) Activities or uses up to boundaries.--The fact 
                that certain activities or land can be seen or heard 
                from within the recreation area shall not, of itself, 
                preclude the activities or land uses up to the boundary 
                of the recreation area.
            (4) Facilities.--Nothing in this title shall affect the 
        operation, maintenance, modification, construction, or 
        expansion of any water resource facility or any solid waste, 
        sanitary sewer, water or wastewater treatment, groundwater 
        recharge or conservation, hydroelectric, conveyance 
        distribution system, recycled water facility, or utility 
        facility located within or adjacent to the recreation area.
            (5) Exemption.--Section 100903 of title 54, United States 
        Code, shall not apply to the Puente Hills landfill, materials 
        recovery facility, or intermodal facility.
    (d) Management Plan.--
            (1) Deadline.--Not later than 3 years after the date of the 
        enactment of this Act, the Secretary and the advisory council 
        shall create a comprehensive management plan for the recreation 
        area that fulfills the purposes described in section 102(a).
            (2) Use of existing plans.--In developing the management 
        plan, and to the extent consistent with this section, the 
        Secretary may incorporate any provision from a land use plan or 
        any other plan applicable to the public lands included in the 
        recreation area.
            (3) Incorporation of visitor services plan.--To the maximum 
        extent practicable, the Secretary shall incorporate the visitor 
        services plan required by section 108 into the management plan.
            (4) Partnership.--In developing the management plan, the 
        Secretary shall consider recommendations of the partnership. To 
        the maximum extent practicable, the Secretary shall incorporate 
        recommendations of the partnership into the management plan if 
        the Secretary determines that the recommendations are feasible 
        and consistent with the purposes in section 102(a), this title, 
        and applicable laws (including regulations).
    (e) Fish and Wildlife.--Nothing in this title affects the 
jurisdiction of the State with respect to fish and wildlife located on 
public lands in the State.

SEC. 104. ACQUISITION OF NON-FEDERAL LANDS WITHIN THE RECREATION AREA.

    (a) Limited Acquisition Authority.--The Secretary may acquire non-
Federal land within the boundaries of the recreation area only through 
exchange, donation, or purchase from a willing seller.
    (b) Prohibition on Use of Eminent Domain.--Nothing in this title 
authorizes the use of eminent domain to acquire land or interests in 
land.
    (c) Treatment of Acquired Lands.--Any land or interest in land 
acquired by the United States and located within the boundaries of the 
recreation area shall be--
            (1) included in the recreation area; and
            (2) administered by the Secretary in accordance with--
                    (A) this title; and
                    (B) any other applicable law (including 
                regulations).
    (d) Additional Requirement.--As a further condition on the 
acquisition of land or interests in land under this section, the 
Secretary shall make a determination that the land contains important 
biological, cultural, historic, or recreational values.

SEC. 105. WATER RIGHTS; WATER RESOURCE FACILITIES; PUBLIC ROADS; 
              UTILITY FACILITIES.

    (a) No Effect on Water Rights.--Nothing in this title--
            (1) shall affect the use or allocation, in existence on the 
        date of the enactment of this Act, of any water, water right, 
        or interest in water (including potable, recycled, reclaimed, 
        waste, imported, exported, banked, stored water, surface water, 
        groundwater, and public trust interests);
            (2) shall affect any public or private contract in 
        existence on the date of the enactment of this Act for the 
        sale, lease, or loan of any water (including potable, recycled, 
        reclaimed, waste, imported, exported, banked, stored water, 
        surface water, and groundwater);
            (3) shall be considered to be a relinquishment or reduction 
        of any water rights reserved or appropriated by the United 
        States in the State on or before the date of the enactment of 
        this Act;
            (4) authorizes or imposes any new reserved Federal water 
        rights or expands water usage pursuant to any existing Federal 
        reserved riparian or appropriative rights;
            (5) shall be considered to be a relinquishment or reduction 
        of any water rights (including potable, recycled, reclaimed, 
        waste, imported, exported, banked, stored water, surface water 
        and groundwater) held, reserved or appropriated by any public 
        entity, or other person or entities, on or before the date of 
        the enactment of this Act;
            (6) shall be construed to, or shall interfere or conflict 
        with the exercise of the powers or duties of any watermaster, 
        public agency, or other body or entity responsible for 
        groundwater or surface water management or groundwater 
        replenishment as designated or established pursuant to any 
        adjudication, or Federal or State statute including, without 
        limitation, the management of the San Gabriel River watershed 
        and basin, to provide water supply and other environmental 
        benefits;
            (7) shall be construed to impede or adversely impact any 
        previously adopted Los Angeles County Drainage Area project, as 
        described in the report of the Chief of Engineers dated June 
        30, 1992, including any supplement or addendum to that report, 
        or any maintenance agreement to operate the project;
            (8) shall interfere or conflict with any action by a 
        watermaster or public agency that is authorized pursuant to 
        Federal or State statute, water right or adjudication, 
        including actions relating to water conservation, water 
        quality, surface water diversion or impoundment, groundwater 
        recharge, water treatment, conservation or storage of water, 
        pollution, waste discharge, the pumping of groundwater; the 
        spreading, injection, pumping, storage, or the use of water 
        from local sources, storm water flows, and runoff, or from 
        imported or recycled water, that is undertaken in connection 
        with the management or regulation of the San Gabriel River;
            (9) shall interfere with, obstruct, hinder, or delay the 
        exercise of, or access to, any water right by the owner of a 
        public water system, or other person or entity, including, but 
        not limited to, the construction, operation, maintenance, 
        replacement, repair, location, or relocation of any well; 
        pipeline; or water pumping, treatment, diversion, impoundment, 
        or storage facility; or other facility or property necessary or 
        useful to access any water right or operate any public water 
        system;
            (10) shall require initiation or reinitiation of 
        consultation with the United States Fish and Wildlife Service 
        under, or the application of provisions of, the Endangered 
        Species Act of 1973 (16 U.S.C. 1531 et seq.) concerning any 
        action or activity affecting water, water rights or water 
        management or water resource facilities in the San Gabriel 
        River watershed and basin; or
            (11) authorizes any agency or employee of the United 
        States, or any other person, to take any action inconsistent 
        with a preceding paragraph.
    (b) Water Resource Facilities.--
            (1) No effect on existing water resource facilities.--
        Nothing in this title shall affect--
                    (A) the use, operation, maintenance, repair, 
                construction, reconfiguration, expansion, or 
                replacement of a water resource facility within or 
                adjacent to the recreation area; or
                    (B) access to a water resource facility within or 
                adjacent to the recreation area.
            (2) No effect on new water resource facilities.--Nothing in 
        this title shall preclude the establishment of new water 
        resource facilities (including instream sites, routes, and 
        areas) within the recreation area if such facilities are 
        necessary to preserve or enhance the health, safety, water 
        supply, or utility services to residents of Los Angeles or San 
        Bernardino Counties.
            (3) Flood control.--Nothing in this title shall be 
        construed to--
                    (A) impose new restrictions or requirements on 
                flood protection, water conservation, water supply, 
                groundwater recharge, water transfers, or water quality 
                operations; or
                    (B) increase the liability of agencies carrying out 
                flood protection, water conservation, water supply, 
                groundwater recharge, water transfers, or water quality 
                operations.
            (4) Diversion or use of water.--Nothing in this title shall 
        authorize or require the use of water in or the diversion of 
        water to the recreation area.
    (c) Utility Facilities and Rights of Way.--Nothing in this title 
shall--
            (1) affect the use, operation, maintenance, repair, 
        construction, reconfiguration, expansion, inspection, renewal, 
        reconstruction, alteration, addition, relocation, improvement, 
        removal, or replacement of utility facilities or appurtenant 
        rights of way within or adjacent to the recreation area;
            (2) affect access to utility facilities or rights of way 
        within or adjacent to the recreation area; or
            (3) preclude the establishment of new utility facilities or 
        rights of way (including instream sites, routes, and areas) 
        within the recreation area if such facilities are necessary for 
        public health and safety, electricity supply, or other utility 
        services.
    (d) Roads; Public Transit.--
            (1) Definitions.--In this subsection:
                    (A) Public roads.--The term ``public roads'' means 
                any paved road or bridge (including any appurtenant 
                structures and rights of way) that is operated or 
                maintained by a non-Federal entity and is--
                            (i) open to vehicular use by the public; or
                            (ii) used by public agencies or utilities 
                        for the operation, maintenance, repair, 
                        construction, and rehabilitation of 
                        infrastructure, utility facility, or right-of-
                        way.
                    (B) Public transit.--The term ``public transit'' 
                means transit services (including operations and rights 
                of way) that are operated or maintained by a non-
                Federal entity and are--
                            (i) open to the public; or
                            (ii) used by public agencies or contractors 
                        for the operation, maintenance, repair, 
                        construction, and rehabilitation of 
                        infrastructure, utility facility, or right-of-
                        way.
            (2) No effect on public roads or public transit.--Nothing 
        in this title--
                    (A) authorizes the Secretary to take any action 
                that would affect the operation, maintenance, repair, 
                and rehabilitation of public roads or public transit 
                (including activities necessary to comply with Federal 
                and State safety standards or public transit); or
                    (B) creates any new liability, or increases any 
                existing liability, of any owner or operator of public 
                roads.

SEC. 106. SAN GABRIEL NATIONAL RECREATION AREA PUBLIC ADVISORY COUNCIL.

    (a) Establishment.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall establish the San Gabriel 
National Recreation Area Public Advisory Council.
    (b) Duties.--The advisory council shall advise the Secretary on the 
development and implementation of the management plan and the visitor 
services plan.
    (c) Applicable Law.--The advisory council shall be subject to--
            (1) the Federal Advisory Committee Act (5 U.S.C. App.); and
            (2) all other applicable law (including regulations).
    (d) Members.--
            (1) Size of advisory council.--The advisory council shall 
        include 21 members.
            (2) Makeup of advisory council.--After considering the 
        recommendations of the partnership, the Secretary shall appoint 
        members of the advisory council to represent the following 
        interests:
                    (A) Two members to represent local, regional, or 
                national environmental organizations.
                    (B) Two members to represent the interests of 
                outdoor recreation, including off-highway vehicle 
                recreation, within the recreation area.
                    (C) Two members to represent the interests of 
                community-based organizations whose mission includes 
                expanding access to the outdoors.
                    (D) Two members to represent business interests.
                    (E) One member to represent Native American tribes 
                within or adjacent to the recreation area.
                    (F) One member to represent the interests of 
                homeowners' associations within the recreation area.
                    (G) Three members to represent the interests of 
                holders of adjudicated water rights, water agencies, 
                wastewater and sewer agencies, recycled water 
                facilities, and water replenishment entities.
                    (H) One member to represent energy and mineral 
                development interests.
                    (I) One member to represent owners of Federal 
                grazing permits, or other land use permits within the 
                recreation area.
                    (J) One member to represent archaeological and 
                historical interests.
                    (K) One member to represent the interests of 
                environmental educators.
                    (L) One member to represent cultural history 
                interests.
                    (M) One member to represent environmental justice 
                interests.
                    (N) One member to represent electrical utility 
                interests.
                    (O) Two members to represent the affected public at 
                large.
    (e) Terms.--
            (1) Staggered terms.--Members of the advisory council shall 
        be appointed for terms of 3 years, except that, of the members 
        first appointed, 6 of the members shall be appointed for a term 
        of 1 year and 6 of the members shall be appointed for a term of 
        2 years.
            (2) Reappointment.--A member may be reappointed to serve on 
        the advisory council upon the expiration of the member's 
        current term.
            (3) Vacancy.--A vacancy on the advisory council shall be 
        filled in the same manner as the original appointment.
    (f) Quorum.--A quorum shall be ten members of the advisory council. 
The operations of the advisory council shall not be impaired by the 
fact that a member has not yet been appointed as long as a quorum has 
been attained.
    (g) Chairperson and Procedures.--The advisory council shall elect a 
chairperson and establish such rules and procedures as the advisory 
council considers necessary or desirable.
    (h) Service Without Compensation.--Members of the advisory council 
shall serve without pay.
    (i) Termination.--The advisory council shall cease to exist--
            (1) on the date that is five years after the date on which 
        the management plans are officially adopted by the Secretary; 
        or
            (2) on such later date as the Secretary considers 
        appropriate.

SEC. 107. SAN GABRIEL NATIONAL RECREATION AREA PARTNERSHIP.

    (a) In General.--There is hereby established the San Gabriel 
National Recreation Area Partnership.
    (b) Purposes.--The purposes of the partnership are to--
            (1) coordinate the activities of Federal, State, tribal, 
        and local authorities, and the private sector, in fulfilling 
        the purposes of this title; and
            (2) use the resources and expertise of each agency in 
        improving the management and recreational opportunities within 
        the recreation area.
    (c) Membership.--The members of the partnership shall include the 
following:
            (1) The Secretary, or a designee of the Secretary, to 
        represent the National Park Service and Bureau of Land 
        Management.
            (2) The Secretary of Defense, or a designee of the 
        Secretary, to represent the Army Corps of Engineers.
            (3) The Secretary of Agriculture, or a designee of the 
        Secretary, to represent the Forest Service.
            (4) The Secretary of the State Natural Resources Agency, or 
        a designee of the Secretary, to represent the California 
        Department of Parks and Recreation and the Rivers and Mountains 
        Conservancy.
            (5) A designee of the Los Angeles County Board of 
        Supervisors.
            (6) A designee of the Puente Hills Habitat Preservation 
        Authority.
            (7) Four designees of the San Gabriel Council of 
        Governments, one of whom is to be elected from a local land 
        conservancy.
            (8) One designee of the San Bernardino Associated 
        Governments.
            (9) A designee of the San Gabriel Valley Economic 
        Partnership.
            (10) A designee of the Los Angeles County Flood Control 
        District.
            (11) A designee of the San Gabriel Valley Water 
        Association.
            (12) A designee of the Central Basin Water Association.
            (13) A designee of the Six Basins Watermaster.
            (14) A designee of a public utility company, to be 
        appointed by the Secretary.
            (15) A designee of the Watershed Conservation Authority.
            (16) A designee of the public advisory council so long as 
        the public advisory council remains in effect.
            (17) One designee of San Gabriel Mountains National 
        Monument Community.
    (d) Duties.--To further the purposes described in section 102(a), 
and in a manner consistent with such purposes, the partnership shall--
            (1) make recommendations to the Secretary on the 
        development and implementation of the management plan;
            (2) review and comment on the visitor services plan 
        required by section 108;
            (3) seek opportunities to facilitate the implementation of 
        the visitor services plan;
            (4) assist units of local government, regional planning 
        organizations, and nonprofit organizations in fulfilling the 
        purposes of the recreation area by--
                    (A) carrying out programs and projects that 
                recognize, protect, and enhance important resource 
                values within the recreation area;
                    (B) establishing and maintaining interpretive 
                exhibits and programs within the recreation area;
                    (C) developing recreational and educational 
                opportunities in the recreation area, consistent with 
                the purposes of this title;
                    (D) increasing public awareness of, and 
                appreciation for, natural, historic, scenic, and 
                cultural resources of the recreation area;
                    (E) ensuring that signs identifying points of 
                public access and sites of interest are posted 
                throughout the recreation area;
                    (F) promoting a wide range of partnerships among 
                governments, organizations, and individuals to further 
                the purposes of the recreation area; and
                    (G) ensuring that management of the recreation area 
                takes into account local ordinances and land-use plans, 
                as well as adjacent residents and property owners;
            (5) make recommendations to the Secretary regarding the 
        appointment of members to the advisory council; and
            (6) undertake any other action necessary to fulfill the 
        purposes of this title.
    (e) Authorities.--Subject to the prior approval of the Secretary, 
for the purposes of preparing and implementing the management plan, the 
partnership may use Federal funds made available under this section--
            (1) to make grants to the State, political subdivisions of 
        the State, nonprofit organizations, and other persons;
            (2) to enter into cooperative agreements with, or provide 
        grants or technical assistance to, the State, political 
        subdivisions of the State, nonprofit organizations, Federal 
        agencies, and other interested parties;
            (3) to hire and compensate staff;
            (4) to obtain funds or services from any source, including 
        funds and services provided under any other Federal law or 
        program;
            (5) to contract for goods or services; and
            (6) to support activities of partners and any other 
        activities that further the purposes of the recreation area and 
        are consistent with the management plan.
    (f) Terms of Office; Reappointment; Vacancies.--
            (1) Terms.--Members of the partnership shall be appointed 
        for terms of 3 years.
            (2) Reappointment.--A member may be reappointed to serve on 
        the partnership upon the expiration of the member's current 
        term.
            (3) Vacancy.--A vacancy on the partnership shall be filled 
        in the same manner as the original appointment.
    (g) Quorum.--A quorum shall be eleven members of the partnership. 
The operations of the partnership shall not be impaired by the fact 
that a member has not yet been appointed as long as a quorum has been 
attained.
    (h) Chairperson and Procedures.--The partnership shall elect a 
chairperson and establish such rules and procedures as it deems 
necessary or desirable.
    (i) Service Without Compensation.--Members of the partnership shall 
serve without pay.
    (j) Duties and Authorities of the Secretary.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary shall convene the 
        partnership on a regular basis to carry out this title.
            (2) Visitor services plan.--The Secretary may carry out the 
        visitor services plan required by section 108.
            (3) Technical and financial assistance.--The Secretary may 
        provide technical and financial assistance, on a reimbursable 
        or non-reimbursable basis, as determined by the Secretary, to 
        the partnership or any members of the partnership to carry out 
        this title.
            (4) Cooperative agreements.--The Secretary may enter into 
        cooperative agreements with the partnership, any members of the 
        partnership, or other public or private entities to provide 
        technical, financial or other assistance to carry out this 
        title.
            (5) Construction of facilities on non-federal lands.--
                    (A) In general.--In order to facilitate the 
                administration of the recreation area, the Secretary is 
                authorized, subject to valid existing rights, to 
                construct administrative or visitor use facilities on 
                non-Federal public lands within the recreation area.
                    (B) Additional requirement.--Such facilities may 
                only be developed--
                            (i) with the consent of the owner of the 
                        non-Federal public land; and
                            (ii) in accordance with applicable Federal, 
                        State, and local laws, regulations, and plans.
            (6) Priority.--The Secretary shall give priority to actions 
        that--
                    (A) conserve the significant natural, historic, 
                cultural, and scenic resources of the recreation area; 
                and
                    (B) provide educational, interpretive, and 
                recreational opportunities consistent with the purposes 
                of the recreation area.
    (k) Committees.--The partnership shall establish--
            (1) a Water Technical Advisory Committee to advise the 
        Secretary on water-related issues relating to the recreation 
        area; and
            (2) a Public Safety Advisory Committee to advise the 
        Secretary on public safety issues relating to the recreation 
        area.

SEC. 108. VISITOR SERVICES AND FACILITIES.

    (a) Visitor Services.--
            (1) Purpose.--The purpose of this subsection is to 
        facilitate the development of an integrated visitor services 
        plan that will improve visitor experiences in the recreation 
        area through expanded recreational opportunities, and increased 
        interpretation, education, resource protection, and 
        enforcement.
            (2) Plan required.--Not later than three years after the 
        date of the enactment of this Act, and in accordance with this 
        subsection, the Secretary shall develop an integrated visitor 
        services plan for the recreation area.
            (3) Contents.--The visitor services plan shall--
                    (A) assess current and anticipated future 
                visitation to the recreation area, including recreation 
                destinations;
                    (B) consider the demand for various types of 
                recreation (including hiking, picnicking, horseback 
                riding, and the use of motorized and mechanized 
                vehicles) where permissible and appropriate;
                    (C) evaluate the impacts of recreation on natural 
                and cultural resources, water resource facilities, 
                public roads, adjacent residents and property owners, 
                and utilities within the recreation area, as well as 
                the effectiveness of current enforcement efforts;
                    (D) assess the current level of interpretive and 
                educational services and facilities;
                    (E) include recommendations to--
                            (i) expand opportunities for high-demand 
                        recreational activities, consistent with the 
                        purposes described in section 102(a);
                            (ii) better manage recreation area 
                        resources and improve the experience of 
                        recreation area visitors through expanded 
                        interpretive and educational services and 
                        facilities, and improved enforcement; and
                            (iii) better manage recreation area 
                        resources to reduce negative impacts on the 
                        environment, ecology, and integrated water 
                        management activities in the area;
                    (F) in coordination and consultation with owners of 
                non-Federal land, assess options to incorporate 
                recreational opportunities on non-Federal land into the 
                recreation area--
                            (i) in a manner consistent with the 
                        purposes and uses of the non-Federal land; and
                            (ii) with the consent of the non-Federal 
                        land owner;
                    (G) assess opportunities to provide recreational 
                opportunities that connect with adjacent National 
                Forest System lands; and
                    (H) be developed and carried out in accordance with 
                applicable Federal, State, and local laws and 
                ordinances.
            (4) Consultation.--In developing the visitor services plan, 
        the Secretary shall--
                    (A) consult with--
                            (i) the partnership;
                            (ii) the advisory council;
                            (iii) appropriate State and local agencies; 
                        and
                            (iv) interested nongovernmental 
                        organizations; and
                    (B) involve members of the public.
    (b) Visitor Facilities.--The Secretary may construct visitor use 
facilities in the recreation area. Such facilities shall be developed 
in conformance with all existing Federal, State, and local laws 
(including regulations) and applicable Federal, State, and local plans.
    (c) Donations.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary may accept and use donated 
        funds, property, in-kind contributions, and services to carry 
        out this title.
            (2) Prohibition.--The Secretary may not use the authority 
        provided by paragraph (1) to accept non-Federal land that has 
        been acquired, after the date of the enactment of this Act, 
        through use of eminent domain.
    (d) Cooperative Agreements.--In carrying out this title, the 
Secretary may make grants to, or enter into cooperative agreements 
with, State, tribal, and local governmental entities and private 
entities to conduct research, develop scientific analyses, and carry 
out any other initiative relating to the management of and visitation 
to the recreation area.

           TITLE II--SAN GABRIEL MOUNTAINS NATIONAL MONUMENT

SEC. 201. BOUNDARY MODIFICATION, SAN GABRIEL MOUNTAINS NATIONAL 
              MONUMENT.

    (a) Modification.--The Secretary of Agriculture shall modify the 
boundaries of the San Gabriel Mountains National Monument in the State 
of California to include the approximately 109,143 acres of additional 
National Forest System land depicted as the ``Proposed National 
Monument Expansion'' on the map titled ``San Gabriel Mountains National 
Recreation Area and National Monument Expansion Proposal'' and dated 
October 5, 2015.
    (b) Administration.--Upon inclusion of the National Forest System 
land identified in subsection (a), the Secretary of Agriculture shall 
administer those lands as part of the San Gabriel Mountains National 
Monument in accordance with the laws generally applicable to the 
monument.

   TITLE III--WILDERNESS AREA AND WILD AND SCENIC RIVER DESIGNATIONS

SEC. 301. DEFINITIONS.

    In this title:
            (1) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary 
        of Agriculture.
            (2) State.--The term ``State'' means the State of 
        California.

SEC. 302. DESIGNATION OF WILDERNESS, ANGELES NATIONAL FOREST, 
              CALIFORNIA.

    (a) Designation.--In accordance with the Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 
1131 et seq.), the following National Forest System lands in the State 
are designated as wilderness and as components of the National 
Wilderness Preservation System:
            (1) Condor peak wilderness.--Certain Federal land in the 
        Angeles National Forest, comprising approximately 8,417 acres, 
        as generally depicted on the map entitled ``Condor Peak 
        Wilderness--Proposed'' and dated _____, which shall be known as 
        the ``Condor Peak Wilderness''.
            (2) San gabriel wilderness additions.--Certain Federal land 
        in the Angeles National Forest, comprising approximately 2,027 
        acres, as generally depicted on the map entitled ``San Gabriel 
        Wilderness Additions'' and dated _____, which is incorporated 
        in, and considered to be a part of, the San Gabriel Wilderness 
        designated by Public Law 90-318 (16 U.S.C. 1132 note; 82 Stat. 
        131).
            (3) Sheep mountain wilderness additions.--Certain Federal 
        land in the Angeles National Forest, comprising approximately 
        13,851 acres, as generally depicted on the map entitled ``Sheep 
        Mountain Wilderness Additions'' and dated _____, which is 
        incorporated in, and considered to be a part of, the Sheep 
        Mountain Wilderness designated by section 101(a)(29) of the 
        California Wilderness Act of 1984 (16 U.S.C. 1132 note; Public 
        Law 98-425; 98 Stat. 1623).
            (4) Yerba buena wilderness.--Certain Federal land in the 
        Angeles National Forest, comprising approximately 6,774 acres, 
        as generally depicted on the map entitled ``Yerba Buena 
        Wilderness--Proposed'' and dated _____, which shall be known as 
        the ``Yerba Buena Wilderness''.
    (b) Map and Legal Description.--
            (1) In general.--As soon as practicable after the date of 
        enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall file a map and a 
        legal description of the wilderness areas and wilderness 
        additions designated by subsection (a) with--
                    (A) the Committee on Natural Resources of the House 
                of Representatives; and
                    (B) the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources 
                of the Senate.
            (2) Force of law.--The map and legal description filed 
        under paragraph (1) shall have the same force and effect as if 
        included in this title, except that the Secretary may correct 
        any clerical and typographical errors in the map and legal 
        description.
            (3) Public availability.--The map and legal description 
        filed under paragraph (1) shall be on file and available for 
        public inspection in the appropriate offices of the Forest 
        Service.
    (c) Administration of Wilderness.--
            (1) In general.--Subject to valid existing rights, the 
        wilderness areas and wilderness additions designated by 
        subsection (a) shall be administered by the Secretary in 
        accordance with this subsection and the Wilderness Act (16 
        U.S.C. 1131 et seq.), except that any reference in the 
        Wilderness Act to the effective date of that Act shall be 
        considered to be a reference to the date of enactment of this 
        Act.
            (2) Fire management and related activities.--
                    (A) In general.--The Secretary may take such 
                measures in a wilderness area or wilderness addition 
                designated by subsection (a) as are necessary for the 
                control of fire, insects, and diseases in accordance 
                with section 4(d)(1) of the Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 
                1133(d)(1)) and House Report 98-40 of the 98th 
                Congress.
                    (B) Funding priorities.--Nothing in this title 
                limits funding for fire and fuels management in the 
                wilderness areas or wilderness additions designated by 
                subsection (a).
                    (C) Revision and development of local fire 
                management plans.--As soon as practicable after the 
                date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall 
                amend the local fire management plans that apply to the 
                land designated as a wilderness area or wilderness 
                addition by subsection (a).
                    (D) Administration.--Consistent with subparagraph 
                (A) and other applicable Federal law, to ensure a 
                timely and efficient response to fire emergencies in 
                the wilderness areas and wilderness additions 
                designated by subsection (a), the Secretary shall--
                            (i) not later than 1 year after the date of 
                        enactment of this Act, establish agency 
                        approval procedures (including appropriate 
                        delegations of authority to the Forest 
                        Supervisor, District Manager, or other agency 
                        officials) for responding to fire emergencies; 
                        and
                            (ii) enter into agreements with appropriate 
                        State or local firefighting agencies.
            (3) Grazing.--The grazing of livestock in the wilderness 
        areas or wilderness additions designated by subsection (a), if 
        established before the date of enactment of this Act, shall be 
        administered in accordance with--
                    (A) section 4(d)(4) of the Wilderness Act (16 
                U.S.C. 1133(d)(4)); and
                    (B) the guidelines set forth in Appendix A of the 
                report of the Committee on Interior and Insular Affairs 
                of the House of Representatives accompanying H.R. 2570 
                of the 101st Congress (H. Rept. 101-405).
            (4) Fish and wildlife.--
                    (A) In general.--In accordance with section 4(d)(7) 
                of the Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1133(d)(7)), nothing 
                in this title affects the jurisdiction or 
                responsibilities of the State with respect to fish and 
                wildlife on public land in the State.
                    (B) Management activities.--
                            (i) In general.--In furtherance of the 
                        purposes and principles of the Wilderness Act 
                        (16 U.S.C. 1131 et seq.), the Secretary may 
                        conduct any management activities that are 
                        necessary to maintain or restore fish and 
                        wildlife populations and habitats in the 
                        wilderness areas and wilderness additions 
                        designated by subsection (a), if the management 
                        activities are--
                                    (I) consistent with relevant 
                                wilderness management plans; and
                                    (II) conducted in accordance with 
                                appropriate policies, such as the 
                                policies established in Appendix B of 
                                House Report 101-405.
                            (ii) Inclusions.--Management activities 
                        under clause (i) may include the occasional and 
                        temporary use of motorized vehicles, if the 
                        use, as determined by the Secretary, would 
                        promote healthy, viable, and more naturally 
                        distributed wildlife populations that would 
                        enhance wilderness values while causing the 
                        minimum impact necessary to accomplish those 
                        tasks.
                            (iii) Existing activities.--Consistent with 
                        section 4(d)(1) of the Wilderness Act (16 
                        U.S.C. 1133(d)(1)) and in accordance with 
                        appropriate policies, such as those established 
                        in Appendix B of House Report 101-405, the 
                        State may use aircraft (including helicopters) 
                        in the wilderness areas and wilderness 
                        additions designated by subsection (a) to 
                        survey, capture, transplant, monitor, and 
                        provide water for wildlife populations, 
                        including bighorn sheep.
            (5) Buffer zones.--
                    (A) In general.--Congress does not intend for the 
                designation of wilderness areas or wilderness additions 
                by subsection (a) to lead to the creation of protective 
                perimeters or buffer zones around each wilderness area 
                or wilderness addition.
                    (B) Activities or uses up to boundaries.--The fact 
                that nonwilderness activities or uses can be seen or 
                heard from within a wilderness area or wilderness 
                addition designated by subsection (a) shall not, of 
                itself, preclude the activities or uses up to the 
                boundary of the wilderness area or addition.
            (6) Military activities.--Nothing in this title precludes--
                    (A) low-level overflights of military aircraft over 
                the wilderness areas or wilderness additions designated 
                by subsection (a);
                    (B) the designation of new units of special 
                airspace over the wilderness areas or wilderness 
                additions designated by subsection (a); or
                    (C) the use or establishment of military flight 
                training routes over wilderness areas or wilderness 
                additions designated by subsection (a).
            (7) Horses.--Nothing in this title precludes horseback 
        riding in, or the entry of recreational or commercial saddle or 
        pack stock into, an area designated as a wilderness area or 
        wilderness addition by subsection (a)--
                    (A) in accordance with section 4(d)(5) of the 
                Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1133(d)(5)); and
                    (B) subject to any terms and conditions determined 
                to be necessary by the Secretary.
            (8) Law enforcement.--Nothing in this title precludes law 
        enforcement and drug interdiction efforts within the wilderness 
        areas and wilderness additions designated by subsection (a) in 
        accordance with the Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1131 et seq.).
            (9) Withdrawal.--Subject to valid existing rights, the 
        wilderness areas and wilderness additions designated by 
        subsection (a) are withdrawn from--
                    (A) all forms of entry, appropriation, and disposal 
                under the public land laws;
                    (B) location, entry, and patent under the mining 
                laws; and
                    (C) operation of the mineral materials and 
                geothermal leasing laws.
            (10) Incorporation of acquired land and interests.--Any 
        land within the boundary of a wilderness area or wilderness 
        addition designated by subsection (a) that is acquired by the 
        United States shall--
                    (A) become part of the wilderness area in which the 
                land is located; and
                    (B) be managed in accordance with this subsection, 
                the Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1131 et seq.), and any 
                other applicable law.
            (11) Climatological data collection.--In accordance with 
        the Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1131 et seq.) and subject to such 
        terms and conditions as the Secretary may prescribe, the 
        Secretary may authorize the installation and maintenance of 
        hydrologic, meteorologic, or climatological collection devices 
        in the wilderness areas or wilderness additions designated by 
        subsection (a) if the Secretary determines that the facilities 
        and access to the facilities are essential to flood warning, 
        flood control, or water reservoir operation activities.

SEC. 303. DESIGNATION OF WILD AND SCENIC RIVERS.

    (a) Designation.--Section 3(a) of the Wild and Scenic Rivers Act 
(16 U.S.C. 1274(a)) is amended by adding at the end the following:
            ``(214) East fork san gabriel river, california.--The 
        following segments of the East Fork San Gabriel River, to be 
        administered by the Secretary of Agriculture in the following 
        classes:
                    ``(A) The 10-mile segment from the confluence of 
                the Prairie Fork and Vincent Gulch to 100 yards 
                upstream of the Heaton Flats trailhead and day use 
                area, as a wild river.
                    ``(B) The 2.7-mile segment from 100 yards upstream 
                of the Heaton Flats trailhead and day use area to 100 
                yards upstream of the confluence with Williams Canyon, 
                as a recreational river.
            ``(215) North fork san gabriel river, california.--The 4.3-
        mile segment of the North Fork San Gabriel River from the 
        confluence with Cloudburst Canyon to .25 miles upstream of the 
        confluence with the West Fork San Gabriel River, to be 
        administered by the Secretary of Agriculture as a recreational 
        river.
            ``(216) West fork san gabriel river, california.--The 
        following segments of the West Fork San Gabriel River, to be 
        administered by the Secretary of Agriculture in the following 
        classes:
                    ``(A) The 6.7-mile segment from 0.25 miles 
                downstream of its source near Red Box Gap in section 
                14, T2N, R12W, to the confluence with the unnamed 
                tributary .25 miles downstream of the power lines in 
                section 22, T2N, R11W, as a recreational river.
                    ``(B) The 1.6-mile segment of the West Fork from 
                0.25 miles downstream of the powerlines in section 22, 
                T2N, R11W, to the confluence with Bobcat Canyon, as a 
                wild river.
            ``(217) Little rock creek, california.--The following 
        segments of Little Rock Creek and tributaries, to be 
        administered by the Secretary of Agriculture in the following 
        classes:
                    ``(A) The 10.3-mile segment from its source on Mt. 
                Williamson in section 6, T3N, R9W, to 100 yards 
                upstream of the confluence with the South Fork Little 
                Rock Creek, as a wild river.
                    ``(B) The 6.6-mile segment from 100 yards upstream 
                of the confluence with the South Fork Little Rock Creek 
                to the confluence with Santiago Canyon, as a 
                recreational river.
                    ``(C) The 1-mile segment of Cooper Canyon Creek 
                from .25 miles downstream of Highway 2 to 100 yards 
                downstream of Cooper Canyon Campground, as a scenic 
                river.
                    ``(D) The 1.3-mile segment of Cooper Canyon Creek 
                from 100 yards downstream of Cooper Canyon Campground 
                to the confluence with Little Rock Creek, as a wild 
                river.
                    ``(E) The 1-mile segment of Buckhorn Creek from 100 
                yards downstream of the Buckhorn Campground to its 
                confluence with Cooper Canyon Creek, as a wild 
                river.''.
    (b) Water Resource Facilities and Water Use.--
            (1) Water resource facilities.--
                    (A) Definition.--In this subsection, the term 
                ``water resource facility'' means--
                            (i) irrigation and pumping facilities, dams 
                        and reservoirs, flood control facilities, water 
                        conservation works, including debris protection 
                        facilities, sediment placement sites, rain 
                        gauges and stream gauges, water quality 
                        facilities, recycled water pumping, conveyance 
                        distribution systems, and treatment facilities, 
                        aqueducts, canals, ditches, pipelines, wells, 
                        hydropower projects, and transmission and other 
                        ancillary facilities; and
                            (ii) other water diversion, storage, and 
                        carriage structures.
                    (B) No effect on existing water resource 
                facilities.--Nothing in this section shall alter, 
                modify, or affect--
                            (i) the use, operation, maintenance, 
                        repair, construction, reconfiguration, 
                        expansion, or replacement of a water resource 
                        facility downstream of a wild and scenic river 
                        segment designated by this section, provided 
                        that the physical structures of such facilities 
                        or reservoirs shall not be located within the 
                        river areas designated in this section; or
                            (ii) access to a water resource facility 
                        downstream of a wild and scenic river segment 
                        designated by this section.
                    (C) No effect on new water resource facilities.--
                Nothing in this section shall preclude the 
                establishment of new water resource facilities 
                (including instream sites, routes, and areas) 
                downstream of a wild and scenic river segment 
                designated by this section.
            (2) Limitation.--Any new reservation of water or new use of 
        water pursuant to existing water rights held by the United 
        States to fulfill the purposes of the Wild and Scenic Rivers 
        Act (16 U.S.C. 1271 et seq.) shall be for non-consumptive 
        instream use only within the segments designated by this 
        section.
            (3) Existing law.--Nothing in this section affects the 
        implementation of the Endangered Species Act of 1973 (16 U.S.C. 
        1531 et seq.).

SEC. 304. WATER RIGHTS.

    (a) Statutory Construction.--Nothing in this title and no action to 
implement this title--
            (1) shall constitute or be construed to constitute either 
        an express or implied reservation of any water or water rights 
        or authorizing an expansion of water use pursuant to existing 
        water rights held by the United States with respect to the land 
        designated as a wilderness area or wilderness addition by 
        section 302(a) or land adjacent to the wild and scenic river 
        segments designated by the amendment made by section 303(a);
            (2) shall affect, alter, modify or condition any water 
        rights in the State existing on the date of enactment of this 
        Act, including any water rights held by the United States;
            (3) shall be construed as establishing a precedent with 
        regard to any future wilderness or wild and scenic river 
        designations;
            (4) shall affect, alter, or modify the interpretation of, 
        or any designation, decision or action made pursuant to, any 
        other Act; or
            (5) shall be construed as limiting, altering, modifying, or 
        amending any of the interstate compacts or equitable 
        apportionment decrees that apportion water among and between 
        the State and other States.
    (b) State Water Law.--The Secretary shall comply with and follow 
the procedural and substantive requirements of the law of the State in 
order to obtain and hold any water rights not in existence on the date 
of enactment of this Act with respect to the wilderness areas and 
wilderness additions designated by section 302(a), and the wild and 
scenic rivers designated by the amendment made by section 303(a).
                                 &lt;all&gt;
</pre></body></html>
