<html><body><pre>
[Congressional Bills 116th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H.R. 7516 Introduced in House (IH)]

&lt;DOC&gt;






116th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                H. R. 7516

 To advance innovation in and deployment of zero-emission electricity 
                  technology, and for other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                              July 9, 2020

 Ms. DeGette (for herself, Mr. Huffman, and Mr. Peters) introduced the 
   following bill; which was referred to the Committee on Energy and 
  Commerce, and in addition to the Committees on Science, Space, and 
  Technology, Ways and Means, Transportation and Infrastructure, and 
Education and Labor, for a period to be subsequently determined by the 
  Speaker, in each case for consideration of such provisions as fall 
           within the jurisdiction of the committee concerned

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
 To advance innovation in and deployment of zero-emission electricity 
                  technology, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE; TABLE OF CONTENTS.

    (a) Short Title.--This Act may be cited as the ``Clean Energy 
Innovation and Deployment Act of 2020''.
    (b) Table of Contents.--The table of contents for this Act is as 
follows:

Sec. 1. Short title; table of contents.
       TITLE I--INVESTMENT IN CLEAN ENERGY TECHNOLOGY INNOVATION

Sec. 100. Purpose.
           Subtitle A--Clean Energy Deployment Administration

Sec. 101. Definitions.
Sec. 102. Energy technology deployment goals.
Sec. 103. Clean Energy Deployment Administration.
Sec. 104. Administration functions.
Sec. 105. Improvements to existing clean energy investment programs.
Sec. 106. Federal credit authority.
Sec. 107. General provisions.
                 Subtitle B--Beneficial Electrification

Sec. 111. Innovation in electric vehicles through the advanced 
                            technology manufacturing incentive program.
Sec. 112. Deployment of electric vehicles through tax credits.
Sec. 113. Deployment of electric vehicle charging infrastructure 
                            through supply equipment programs.
Sec. 114. Deployment of energy efficient buildings through tax credits.
Sec. 115. Deployment of energy efficient buildings through grants.
      Subtitle C--Zero-Emission Electricity Generation Technology

Sec. 121. Deployment of solar and wind technology through tax credits.
Sec. 122. Energy tax credit monetization.
Sec. 123. Innovation in energy storage through research, development, 
                            and demonstration.
Sec. 124. Deployment of energy storage through tax credits.
Sec. 125. Normalization opt-out for utilities.
Sec. 126. Deployment of carbon capture utilization and storage through 
                            tax credits.
Sec. 127. Innovation in advanced nuclear technology through 
                            demonstration.
Sec. 128. Innovation in carbon removal, utilization, and storage 
                            through research, development, and 
                            demonstration.
Sec. 129. Deployment of electric grid modernization through grants.
Sec. 130. Prize competition for electricity-related technologies for 
                            remote communities.
Sec. 131. Report to Congress.
                   Subtitle D--Davis-Bacon Compliance

Sec. 141. Davis-Bacon compliance.
              TITLE II--ZERO-EMISSION ELECTRICITY STANDARD

Sec. 200. Purpose.
             Subtitle A--Zero-Emission Electricity Standard

Sec. 201. Definitions.
Sec. 202. Zero-emission electricity requirement.
Sec. 203. Zero-emission electricity credit trading program.
Sec. 204. Determination and issuance of quantity of zero-emission 
                            electricity credits.
Sec. 205. Carbon Mitigation Fund.
Sec. 206. State programs.
Sec. 207. Report to Congress.
Sec. 208. Information collection.
Sec. 209. Civil penalties.
Sec. 210. Regulations.
                     Subtitle B--Methane Regulation

Sec. 211. Methane regulation.
  TITLE III--INCENTIVES FOR THE ACCELERATED DEPLOYMENT OF 100-PERCENT 
                    ZERO-EMISSION ELECTRICITY SYSTEM

Sec. 300. Purpose.
Sec. 301. Zero-emission electricity acceleration investment tax credit.
Sec. 302. Zero-emission electricity acceleration grants.
               TITLE IV--LOW-INCOME RATE-PAYER PROTECTION

Sec. 400. Purpose.
Sec. 401. Weatherization assistance program.
Sec. 402. LIHEAP authorization.
           TITLE V--ENERGY WORKFORCE TRANSITION AND TRAINING

Sec. 500. Purposes.
                     Subtitle A--State Energy Plans

Sec. 501. State energy plans.
Sec. 502. Authorization of appropriations.
                Subtitle B--Energy Workforce Transition

Sec. 511. Definitions.
Sec. 512. Energy Workforce Transition Office and Advisory Committee.
Sec. 513. Energy workforce transition plans and reemployment of 
                            affected workers.
            Subtitle C--Modern Energy Workforce Development

Sec. 521. Definitions.
Sec. 522. Modern energy workforce development.
Sec. 523. Zero-emission economy workforce pilot program.
Sec. 524. University Zero-Emission Energy Leadership Program.
Sec. 525. Climate Resiliency Corps.
Sec. 526. Authorization of appropriations.

       TITLE I--INVESTMENT IN CLEAN ENERGY TECHNOLOGY INNOVATION

SEC. 100. PURPOSE.

    The purpose of this title is to employ a wide range of measures to 
bring promising clean energy technologies to the point of commercial-
availability, including through the activities of a Clean Energy 
Deployment Administration.

           Subtitle A--Clean Energy Deployment Administration

SEC. 101. DEFINITIONS.

    In this subtitle:
            (1) Administration.--The term ``Administration'' means the 
        Clean Energy Deployment Administration established by section 
        103.
            (2) Administrator.--The term ``Administrator'' means the 
        Administrator of the Administration.
            (3) Advisory council.--The term ``Advisory Council'' means 
        the Energy Technology Advisory Council of the Administration.
            (4) Breakthrough technology.--The term ``breakthrough 
        technology'' means a clean energy technology that--
                    (A) presents a significant opportunity to advance 
                the goals developed by the Secretary under section 102, 
                as assessed under the methodology established by the 
                Advisory Council; and
                    (B) has not been determined by the Secretary to be 
                commercially ready.
            (5) Clean energy technology.--The term ``clean energy 
        technology'' means a technology related to the production, use, 
        transmission, storage, control, or conservation of energy that 
        will contribute to the stabilization of the climate by reducing 
        greenhouse gas emissions or sequestering or utilizing carbon 
        dioxide and--
                    (A) reduce the need for additional energy supplies 
                by using existing energy supplies with greater 
                efficiency;
                    (B) transmit, distribute, or transport energy with 
                greater effectiveness through the infrastructure of the 
                United States; or
                    (C) increase and diversify the sources of energy in 
                the United States in a way that will reduce risk to 
                human health, safety, and welfare and the environment 
                and create energy security.
            (6) Cost.--The term ``cost'' has the meaning given the term 
        in section 502 of the Federal Credit Reform Act of 1990 (2 
        U.S.C. 661a).
            (7) Direct loan.--The term ``direct loan'' has the meaning 
        given the term in section 502 of the Federal Credit Reform Act 
        of 1990 (2 U.S.C. 661a).
            (8) Energy transition community.--The term ``energy 
        transition community'' has the meaning given such term in 
        section 511 of this Act.
            (9) Financial institution.--The term ``financial 
        institution'' means--
                    (A) an insured bank (as defined in section 3(h) of 
                the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1813(h)));
                    (B) a commercial bank or trust company;
                    (C) a private banker;
                    (D) an agency or branch of a foreign bank in the 
                United States;
                    (E) any credit union;
                    (F) a thrift institution;
                    (G) a broker or dealer registered with the 
                Securities and Exchange Commission under the Securities 
                Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78a et seq.);
                    (H) a broker or dealer in securities or 
                commodities;
                    (I) an investment banker or investment company;
                    (J) an insurance company; and
                    (K) a loan or finance company.
            (10) Fund.--The term ``Fund'' means the Clean Energy 
        Investment Fund established by section 105(a).
            (11) Loan guarantee.--The term ``loan guarantee'' has the 
        meaning given the term in section 502 of the Federal Credit 
        Reform Act of 1990 (2 U.S.C. 661a).
            (12) National laboratory.--The term ``National Laboratory'' 
        has the meaning given the term in section 2 of the Energy 
        Policy Act of 2005 (42 U.S.C. 15801).
            (13) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary 
        of Energy.
            (14) Security.--The term ``security'' has the meaning given 
        the term in section 2 of the Securities Act of 1933 (15 U.S.C. 
        77b).
            (15) Small business.--The term ``small business'' means a 
        business which is independently owned and operated and which is 
        not dominant in its field of operation. The term ``small 
        business'' may be further defined by the Administrator by the 
        number of employees, dollar volume of business, net worth, net 
        income, or other factors.
            (16) State.--The term ``State'' means--
                    (A) a State;
                    (B) the District of Columbia;
                    (C) the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico; and
                    (D) any other territory or possession of the United 
                States.

SEC. 102. ENERGY TECHNOLOGY DEPLOYMENT GOALS.

    (a) Goals.--Not later than 1 year after the date of enactment of 
this Act, the Secretary, in consultation with the Advisory Council, 
shall develop and publish for review and comment in the Federal 
Register near-, medium-, and long-term goals (including numerical 
performance targets at appropriate intervals to measure progress toward 
those goals) for the deployment of clean energy technologies through 
the credit support programs established by this subtitle to promote--
            (1) the deployment, by not later than 2050, of electric 
        generating capacity with net-zero greenhouse gas emissions, 
        that is sufficient to reliably meet the projected energy demand 
        of the United States in 2050;
            (2) clean energy technologies in vehicles and fuels that 
        will substantially reduce the reliance of the United States on 
        foreign sources of energy and insulate consumers from the 
        volatility of global energy markets;
            (3) a domestic commercialization and manufacturing capacity 
        that will establish the United States as a world leader in 
        clean energy technologies across multiple sectors;
            (4) the installation of electricity transmission 
        infrastructure with the capacity to provide the cost-effective 
        deployment of zero-emission electricity technologies 
        appropriate to each region of the United States;
            (5) the transformation of the building stock of the United 
        States to net zero energy consumption;
            (6) the recovery, use, and prevention of waste energy;
            (7) domestic manufacturing of clean energy technologies on 
        a scale that is sufficient to achieve price parity with 
        conventional energy sources;
            (8) domestic production of commodities and materials, 
        including steel, chemicals, polymers, and cement, through the 
        use of clean energy technologies that will establish the United 
        States as a world leader in the environmentally-sustainable 
        production of such commodities and materials;
            (9) a robust, efficient, and interactive electricity 
        transmission grid that will allow for the incorporation of 
        clean energy technologies, distributed generation, smart grid 
        functions, and demand-response in each regional electric grid;
            (10) a variety of financial products intended to allow 
        owners and users of residential, retail, commercial, and 
        industrial buildings to make energy efficiency and distributed 
        generation technology investments with reasonable payback 
        periods; and
            (11) such other goals as the Secretary, in consultation 
        with the Advisory Council, determines to be consistent with 
        this subtitle.
    (b) Revisions.--The Secretary shall revise the goals established 
under subsection (a), from time to time as appropriate, to account for 
advances in technology and infrastructure.

SEC. 103. CLEAN ENERGY DEPLOYMENT ADMINISTRATION.

    (a) Establishment.--
            (1) In general.--There is established in the Department of 
        Energy an administration, to be known as the Clean Energy 
        Deployment Administration. There shall be at the head of the 
        Administration an Administrator and a Board of Directors, who 
        shall be appointed by the President with the advice and consent 
        of the Senate.
            (2) Status.--
                    (A) In general.--The Administration (including 
                officers, employees, and agents of the Administration) 
                shall not be responsible to, or subject to the 
                authority, direction, or control of, any other officer, 
                employee, or agent of the Department of Energy other 
                than the Secretary, acting through the Administrator.
                    (B) Exemption from reorganization.--The 
                Administration shall be exempt from the reorganization 
                authority provided under section 643 of the Department 
                of Energy Organization Act (42 U.S.C. 7253).
                    (C) Inspector general.--Section 12 of the Inspector 
                General Act of 1978 (5 U.S.C. App.) is amended--
                            (i) in paragraph (1), by inserting ``the 
                        Administrator of the Clean Energy Deployment 
                        Administration;'' after ``Export-Import 
                        Bank;''; and
                            (ii) in paragraph (2), by inserting ``the 
                        Clean Energy Deployment Administration,'' after 
                        ``Export-Import Bank,''.
            (3) Offices.--
                    (A) Principal office.--The Administration shall--
                            (i) maintain the principal office of the 
                        Administration in the District of Columbia; and
                            (ii) for purposes of venue in civil 
                        actions, be considered to be a resident of the 
                        District of Columbia.
                    (B) Other offices.--The Administration may 
                establish other offices in such other places as the 
                Administration considers necessary or appropriate for 
                the conduct of the business of the Administration.
    (b) Administrator.--
            (1) In general.--The Administrator shall be--
                    (A) appointed by the President, with the advice and 
                consent of the Senate, for a 5-year term; and
                    (B) compensated at the annual rate of basic pay 
                prescribed for level II of the Executive Schedule under 
                section 5313 of title 5, United States Code.
            (2) Duties.--The Administrator shall--
                    (A) serve as--
                            (i) the Chief Executive Officer of the 
                        Administration; and
                            (ii) the Chairman of the Board of 
                        Directors;
                    (B) consult with the Secretary of Agriculture, the 
                Secretary of the Interior, the Administrator of the 
                Environmental Protection Agency, and the heads of other 
                agencies as appropriate, in carrying out the duties 
                described in this paragraph;
                    (C) ensure that--
                            (i) the Administration operates in a safe 
                        and sound manner, including maintenance of 
                        adequate capital and internal controls 
                        (consistent with section 404 of the Sarbanes-
                        Oxley Act of 2002 (15 U.S.C. 7262));
                            (ii) the operations and activities of the 
                        Administration foster liquid, efficient, 
                        competitive, and resilient energy and energy 
                        efficiency finance markets;
                            (iii) the Administration carries out this 
                        subtitle only through activities that are 
                        authorized under and consistent with this 
                        subtitle; and
                            (iv) the activities of the Administration 
                        and the manner in which the Administration is 
                        operated are consistent with the public 
                        interest;
                    (D) develop policies and procedures for the 
                Administration that will--
                            (i) promote a self-sustaining portfolio of 
                        investments that will maximize the value of 
                        investments to effectively promote clean energy 
                        technologies;
                            (ii) promote transparency and openness in 
                        Administration operations;
                            (iii) afford the Administration with 
                        sufficient flexibility to carry out this 
                        subtitle;
                            (iv) provide for the efficient processing 
                        of applications;
                            (v) promote the participation of private 
                        financial institutions and other sources of 
                        private capital in investments, on commercially 
                        reasonable terms, if and to the extent the 
                        capital is available; and
                            (vi) promote the availability of financial 
                        products to small business by working with 
                        entities that have appropriate expertise in 
                        extending credit or other relevant financial 
                        services to small businesses that are 
                        developing clean energy technologies;
                    (E) ensure, to the maximum extent practicable and 
                to the extent of available resources, that on the 
                request of any energy transition community or Indian 
                Tribe, such energy transition community or Indian Tribe 
                shall have available scientific and technical 
                information and expertise for use in the regulation, 
                development, and management of clean energy 
                technologies, either--
                            (i) directly, acting through Federal 
                        officials within the Administration; or
                            (ii) indirectly, by providing financial 
                        assistance to an energy transition community or 
                        an Indian Tribe to secure independent 
                        assistance in the regulation, development, and 
                        management of clean energy technologies; and
                    (F) with the concurrence of the Board of Directors, 
                establish expected loss reserves for the support 
                provided by the Administration consistent with section 
                104(a).
    (c) Board of Directors.--
            (1) In general.--The Board of Directors of the 
        Administration shall consist of--
                    (A) the Secretary or the designee of the Secretary, 
                who shall serve as an ex-officio voting member of the 
                Board of Directors;
                    (B) the Administrator, who shall serve as the 
                Chairman of the Board of Directors; and
                    (C) 7 additional members who shall--
                            (i) be appointed by the President, with the 
                        advice and consent of the Senate, for staggered 
                        5-year terms; and
                            (ii) have experience in banking or 
                        financial services relevant to the operations 
                        of the Administration, including individuals 
                        with substantial experience in the development 
                        of energy projects, the electricity generation 
                        sector, the transportation sector, the 
                        manufacturing sector, and the energy efficiency 
                        sector.
            (2) Duties.--The Board of Directors shall--
                    (A) oversee the operations of the Administration 
                and ensure industry best practices are followed in all 
                financial transactions involving the Administration;
                    (B) consult with the Administrator on the general 
                policies and procedures of the Administration to ensure 
                that the interests of the taxpayers are protected;
                    (C) ensure that the portfolio of investments of the 
                Administration are consistent with this subtitle and 
                with the long-term financial stability of the 
                Administration;
                    (D) ensure that the operations and activities of 
                the Administration are consistent with the development 
                of a robust private sector that can provide commercial 
                loans or financing products for clean energy 
                technologies; and
                    (E) not serve on a full-time basis, except that the 
                Board of Directors shall meet at least quarterly to 
                review, as appropriate, applications for credit support 
                and set policies and procedures as necessary.
            (3) Removal.--An appointed member of the Board of Directors 
        may be removed from office by the President for good cause.
            (4) Vacancies.--An appointed seat on the Board of Directors 
        that becomes vacant shall be filled by appointment by the 
        President, but only for the unexpired portion of the term of 
        the vacating member.
            (5) Compensation of members.--An appointed member of the 
        Board of Directors shall be compensated at a rate equal to the 
        daily equivalent of the annual rate of basic pay prescribed for 
        level III of the Executive Schedule under section 5314 of title 
        5, United States Code, for each day (including travel time) 
        during which the member is engaged in the performance of the 
        duties of the Board of Directors.
    (d) Energy Technology Advisory Council.--
            (1) In general.--The Administration shall have an Energy 
        Technology Advisory Council consisting of--
                    (A) 6 members selected by the Secretary; and
                    (B) 3 members selected by the Board of Directors of 
                the Administration.
            (2) Qualifications.--The members of the Advisory Council 
        shall--
                    (A) have relevant scientific expertise; and
                    (B) in the case of the members selected by the 
                Secretary under paragraph (1)(A), include 
                representatives of--
                            (i) the academic community;
                            (ii) the private research community;
                            (iii) National Laboratories;
                            (iv) the technology or project development 
                        community;
                            (v) the commercial energy financing and 
                        operations sector; and
                            (vi) the electric generation sector, 
                        including at least one person who is 
                        knowledgeable of the electric cooperative 
                        sector.
            (3) Duties.--
                    (A) Advice.--The Advisory Council shall provide 
                advice to the Administration regarding the 
                technological approaches that should be supported by 
                the Administration to meet the goals developed by the 
                Secretary under section 102.
                    (B) Methodology for assessment.--The Advisory 
                Council shall develop and publish for comment in the 
                Federal Register a methodology for the assessment of 
                clean energy technologies. Such methodology shall--
                            (i) allow the Administration to evaluate 
                        projects based on the progress likely to be 
                        achieved per-dollar invested in clean energy 
                        technology; and
                            (ii) take into account the extent to which 
                        support for a clean energy technology is likely 
                        to accrue benefits that are attributable to 
                        commercial-scale deployment taking place 
                        earlier than that which otherwise would have 
                        occurred without the support.
            (4) Term.--
                    (A) In general.--Members of the Advisory Council 
                shall have 5-year staggered terms, as determined by the 
                Secretary and the Administrator.
                    (B) Reappointment.--A member of the Advisory 
                Council may be reappointed.
            (5) Compensation.--A member of the Advisory Council, who is 
        not otherwise compensated as a Federal employee, shall be 
        compensated at a rate equal to the daily equivalent of the 
        annual rate of basic pay prescribed for level IV of the 
        Executive Schedule under section 5315 of title 5, United States 
        Code, for each day (including travel time) during which the 
        member is engaged in the performance of the duties of the 
        Advisory Council.
    (e) Staff.--
            (1) In general.--The Administrator, in consultation with 
        the Board of Directors, may--
                    (A) appoint and terminate such officers, attorneys, 
                employees, and agents as are necessary to carry out 
                this subtitle; and
                    (B) vest those personnel with such powers and 
                duties as the Administrator determines to be necessary.
            (2) Direct hire authority.--
                    (A) In general.--Notwithstanding section 3304 and 
                sections 3309 through 3318 of title 5, United States 
                Code, the Administrator may, on a determination that 
                there is a severe shortage of candidates or a critical 
                hiring need for particular positions, recruit and 
                directly appoint highly qualified critical personnel 
                with specialized knowledge important to the function of 
                the Administration into the competitive service.
                    (B) Exception.--The authority granted under 
                subparagraph (A) shall not apply to positions in the 
                excepted service or the Senior Executive Service.
                    (C) Requirements.--In exercising the authority 
                granted under subparagraph (A), the Administrator shall 
                ensure that any action taken by the Administrator--
                            (i) is consistent with the merit principles 
                        of section 2301 of title 5, United States Code; 
                        and
                            (ii) complies with the public notice 
                        requirements of section 3327 of title 5, United 
                        States Code.
                    (D) Termination of effectiveness.--The authority 
                provided by this paragraph terminates effective on the 
                date that is 3 years after the date of enactment of 
                this Act.
            (3) Critical pay authority.--
                    (A) In general.--Notwithstanding section 5377 of 
                title 5, United States Code, and without regard to the 
                provisions of that title governing appointments in the 
                competitive service or the Senior Executive Service and 
                chapters 51 and 53 of that title (relating to 
                classification and pay rates), the Administrator may 
                establish, fix the compensation of, and appoint 
                individuals to critical positions needed to carry out 
                the functions of the Administration, if the 
                Administrator certifies that--
                            (i) the positions require expertise of an 
                        extremely high level in a financial, technical, 
                        or scientific field;
                            (ii) the Administration would not 
                        successfully accomplish an important mission 
                        without such an individual; and
                            (iii) exercise of the authority is 
                        necessary to recruit an individual who is 
                        exceptionally well qualified for the position.
                    (B) Limitations.--The authority granted under 
                subparagraph (A) shall be subject to the following 
                conditions:
                            (i) The number of critical positions 
                        authorized by subparagraph (A) may not exceed 
                        20 at any given time in the Administration.
                            (ii) The term of an appointment under 
                        subparagraph (A) may not exceed 4 years.
                            (iii) An individual appointed under 
                        subparagraph (A) may not have been an 
                        Administration employee at any time during the 
                        2-year period preceding the date of 
                        appointment.
                            (iv) Total annual compensation for any 
                        individual appointed under subparagraph (A) may 
                        not exceed the highest total annual 
                        compensation payable at the rate determined 
                        under section 104 of title 3, United States 
                        Code.
                            (v) An individual appointed under 
                        subparagraph (A) may not be considered to be an 
                        employee for purposes of subchapter II of 
                        chapter 75 of title 5, United States Code.
                    (C) Notification.--Each year, the Administrator 
                shall submit to Congress a notification that lists each 
                individual appointed under this paragraph.

SEC. 104. ADMINISTRATION FUNCTIONS.

    (a) Direct Support.--
            (1) In general.--The Administration may issue direct loans, 
        letters of credit, loan guarantees, insurance products, or such 
        other credit support (including through participation as a co-
        lender or a lending member of a syndication) as the 
        Administrator considers appropriate to deploy clean energy 
        technologies if the Administrator has determined that 
        deployment of the technologies would benefit or be accelerated 
        by the support.
            (2) Eligibility criteria.--In carrying out this subsection 
        and awarding credit support to projects, the Administrator 
        shall account for--
                    (A) how the technology rates based on an evaluation 
                methodology established by the Advisory Council;
                    (B) how the project fits with the goals developed 
                by the Secretary under section 102; and
                    (C) the potential for the applicant to successfully 
                complete the project.
            (3) Risk.--
                    (A) Technology risk.--In this paragraph, the term 
                ``technology risk''--
                            (i) means risk during construction or 
                        operation associated with the design, 
                        development, or deployment of a clean energy 
                        technology from the perspective of commercial 
                        lenders, that may be increased as a result of 
                        the absence of adequate historical 
                        construction, operating, or performance data 
                        from commercial applications of the technology; 
                        and
                            (ii) includes risk associated with the 
                        cost, schedule, performance, reliability, 
                        maintenance, and the perception of risk.
                    (B) Expected loan loss reserve.--The Administrator 
                shall establish an expected loan loss reserve to 
                account for estimated losses attributable to activities 
                under this section that is consistent with the purposes 
                of--
                            (i) developing breakthrough technologies to 
                        the point at which the associated technology 
                        risk is largely mitigated;
                            (ii) achieving widespread deployment and 
                        advancing the commercial viability of clean 
                        energy technologies; and
                            (iii) advancing the goals developed by the 
                        Secretary under section 102.
                    (C) Initial expected loan loss reserve.--Until such 
                time as the Administrator determines sufficient data 
                exist to establish an expected loan loss reserve that 
                is appropriate, the Administrator shall consider 
                establishing an initial rate of 10 percent for the 
                portfolio of investments under this subtitle.
                    (D) Portfolio investment approach.--The 
                Administration shall--
                            (i) use a portfolio investment approach to 
                        mitigate risk and diversify investments across 
                        technologies;
                            (ii) to the maximum extent practicable and 
                        consistent with long-term self-sufficiency, 
                        weigh the portfolio of investments in projects 
                        to advance goals developed by the Secretary 
                        under section 102; and
                            (iii) consistent with the expected loan 
                        loss reserve established under this paragraph, 
                        provide the maximum practicable percentage of 
                        support to promote breakthrough technologies.
                    (E) Loss rate review.--
                            (i) In general.--The Board of Directors 
                        shall review on an annual basis the loss rates 
                        of the portfolio to determine the adequacy of 
                        the reserves.
                            (ii) Report.--Not later than 90 days after 
                        the date of the initiation of each review under 
                        clause (i), the Administrator shall submit to 
                        the Committee on Energy and Commerce of the 
                        House of Representatives and the Committee on 
                        Energy and Natural Resources of the Senate a 
                        report describing the results of the review and 
                        any recommended policy changes.
            (4) Application review.--
                    (A) In general.--To the maximum extent practicable 
                and consistent with sound business practices, the 
                Administration shall seek to consolidate reviews of 
                applications for credit support under this subtitle 
                such that final decisions on applications can be issued 
                not later than 180 days after the date of submission of 
                a completed application.
                    (B) Environmental review.--In carrying out this 
                subtitle, the Administration shall, to the maximum 
                extent practicable--
                            (i) avoid duplicating efforts that have 
                        already been undertaken by other agencies, 
                        including State agencies acting under Federal 
                        programs; and
                            (ii) with the advice of the Council on 
                        Environmental Quality and any other applicable 
                        agencies, use the administrative records of 
                        similar reviews conducted throughout the 
                        executive branch to develop the most 
                        expeditious review process practicable.
            (5) Wage rate requirements.--With respect to the labor 
        standards specified in this section, the Secretary of Labor 
        shall have the authority and functions set forth in 
        Reorganization Plan Numbered 14 of 1950 (64 Stat. 1267; 5 
        U.S.C. App.) and section 3145 of title 40, United States Code.
    (b) Indirect Support.--
            (1) In general.--The Administration shall work to develop 
        financial products and arrangements to promote widespread 
        deployment of, and private sector support of, clean energy 
        technologies by facilitating aggregation of small projects and 
        by providing indirect credit support, including credit 
        enhancement.
            (2) Financial products.--The Administration--
                    (A) in cooperation with Federal, State, local, and 
                private sector entities, shall develop debt instruments 
                that directly aggregate, or provide for the aggregation 
                of, projects for the deployment of clean energy 
                technology on a scale appropriate for residential or 
                commercial applications; and
                    (B) may insure, purchase, and make commitments to 
                purchase, any debt instrument associated with the 
                deployment of a clean energy technology (including 
                instruments secured by liens or other collateral 
                related to the funding of clean energy technology) for 
                the purposes of enhancing the availability of private 
                financing for deployment of clean energy technology.
            (3) Disposition of debt or interest.--The Administration 
        may acquire, hold, and sell or otherwise dispose of, pursuant 
        to commitments or otherwise, any debt associated with the 
        deployment of clean energy technologies or interest in the 
        debt.
            (4) Pricing.--
                    (A) In general.--The Administrator may establish 
                requirements, and impose charges or fees, which may be 
                regarded as elements of pricing, for different classes 
                of sellers, servicers, or services.
                    (B) Classification of sellers and servicers.--For 
                the purpose of subparagraph (A), the Administrator may 
                classify sellers and servicers as necessary to promote 
                transparency and liquidity and to properly characterize 
                the risk of default.
            (5) Eligibility.--The Administrator shall establish--
                    (A) eligibility criteria for loan originators, 
                sellers, and servicers seeking support for portfolios 
                of financial obligations relating to clean energy 
                technologies to ensure the capability of the loan 
                originators, sellers, and servicers to perform the 
                functions required to maintain the expected performance 
                of the portfolios; and
                    (B) such criteria, standards, guidelines, and 
                mechanisms such that, to the maximum extent 
                practicable, loan originators and sellers will be able 
                to determine the eligibility of loans for resale at the 
                time of initial lending.
            (6) Secondary market support.--
                    (A) In general.--The Administration may lend on the 
                security of, and make commitments to lend on the 
                security of, any debt that the Administration has 
                issued or is authorized to purchase under this section.
                    (B) Authorized actions.--On such terms and 
                conditions as the Administrator may prescribe, the 
                Administration may, based on the debt and with the 
                concurrence of the Board of Directors--
                            (i) give security or guarantee;
                            (ii) pay interest or other return; and
                            (iii) issue notes, debentures, bonds, or 
                        other obligations or securities.
            (7) Lending activities.--
                    (A) In general.--The Administrator shall 
                determine--
                            (i) the volume of the lending activities of 
                        the Administration; and
                            (ii) the types of loan ratios, risk 
                        profiles, interest rates, maturities, and 
                        charges or fees in the secondary market 
                        operations of the Administration.
                    (B) Objectives.--Determinations under subparagraph 
                (A) shall be consistent with the objectives of--
                            (i) providing an attractive investment 
                        environment for clean energy technologies;
                            (ii) making the operations of the 
                        Administration self-supporting over the long 
                        term; and
                            (iii) advancing the goals developed by the 
                        Secretary under section 102.

SEC. 105. IMPROVEMENTS TO EXISTING CLEAN ENERGY INVESTMENT PROGRAMS.

    (a) Clean Energy Investment Fund.--
            (1) Establishment.--There is established in the Treasury of 
        the United States a revolving fund, to be known as the Clean 
        Energy Investment Fund, consisting of--
                    (A) such amounts as are deposited in the Fund under 
                this subtitle and amendments made by this subtitle; and
                    (B) such sums as may be appropriated to the Fund.
            (2) Expenditures from fund.--
                    (A) In general.--Amounts in the Fund shall be 
                available to the Secretary for obligation without 
                fiscal year limitation, to remain available until 
                expended.
                    (B) Administrative expenses.--
                            (i) Fees.--Fees collected by the Secretary 
                        of the Treasury for expenses related to the 
                        administrative needs of the Fund shall be 
                        available without limitation to cover 
                        applicable expenses.
                            (ii) Fund.--To the extent that 
                        administrative expenses are not reimbursed 
                        through fees, an amount not to exceed 1.5 
                        percent of the amounts in the Fund as of the 
                        beginning of each fiscal year shall be 
                        available to pay the administrative expenses 
                        for the fiscal year necessary to carry out 
                        title XVII of the Energy Policy Act of 2005 (42 
                        U.S.C. 16511 et seq.).
            (3) Transfers of amounts.--
                    (A) In general.--The amounts required to be 
                transferred to the Fund under this subsection shall be 
                transferred at least monthly from the general fund of 
                the Treasury to the Fund on the basis of estimates made 
                by the Secretary of the Treasury.
                    (B) Cash flows.--Cash flows associated with costs 
                of the Fund described in section 502(5)(B) of the 
                Federal Credit Reform Act of 1990 (2 U.S.C. 661a(5)(B)) 
                shall be transferred to appropriate credit accounts.
                    (C) Adjustments.--Proper adjustment shall be made 
                in amounts subsequently transferred to the extent prior 
                estimates were in excess of or less than the amounts 
                required to be transferred.
    (b) Revisions to Loan Guarantee Program Authority.--
            (1) Definition of commercial technology.--Section 1701(1) 
        of the Energy Policy Act of 2005 (42 U.S.C. 16511(1)) is 
        amended by striking subparagraph (B) and inserting the 
        following:
                    ``(B) Exclusion.--The term `commercial technology' 
                does not include a technology if the sole use of the 
                technology is in connection with--
                            ``(i) any demonstration project; or
                            ``(ii) a project for which the Secretary 
                        approved a guarantee.''.
            (2) Specific appropriation or contribution.--Section 1702 
        of the Energy Policy Act of 2005 (42 U.S.C. 16512) is amended 
        by striking subsection (b) and inserting the following:
    ``(b) Specific Appropriation or Contribution.--
            ``(1) In general.--No guarantee shall be made unless 
        sufficient amounts to account for the cost are available--
                    ``(A) in unobligated balances within the Clean 
                Energy Investment Fund established under section 105(a) 
                of the Clean Energy Innovation and Deployment Act of 
                2020;
                    ``(B) as a payment from the borrower and the 
                payment is deposited in the Clean Energy Investment 
                Fund; or
                    ``(C) in any combination of balances and payments 
                described in subparagraphs (A) and (B), respectively.
            ``(2) Limitation.--The source of payments received from a 
        borrower under paragraph (1)(B) shall not be a loan or other 
        debt obligation that is made or guaranteed by the Federal 
        Government.
            ``(3) Relation to other laws.--Section 504(b) of the 
        Federal Credit Reform Act of 1990 (2 U.S.C. 661c(b)) shall not 
        apply to a guarantee under this section.''.
            (3) Subrogation.--Section 1702(g)(2) of the Energy Policy 
        Act of 2005 (42 U.S.C. 16512(g)(2)) is amended by striking 
        subparagraphs (B) and (C) and inserting the following:
                    ``(B) Superiority of rights.--Except as provided in 
                subparagraph (C), the rights of the Secretary, with 
                respect to any property acquired pursuant to a 
                guarantee or related agreements, shall be superior to 
                the rights of any other person with respect to the 
                property.
                    ``(C) Terms and conditions.--A guarantee agreement 
                shall include such detailed terms and conditions as the 
                Secretary determines appropriate to--
                            ``(i) protect the interests of the United 
                        States in the case of default;
                            ``(ii) have available all the patents and 
                        technology necessary for any person selected, 
                        including the Secretary, to complete and 
                        operate the project;
                            ``(iii) provide for sharing the proceeds 
                        received from the sale of project assets with 
                        other creditors or control the disposition of 
                        project assets if necessary to protect the 
                        interests of the United States in the case of 
                        default; and
                            ``(iv) provide such lien priority in 
                        project assets as necessary to protect the 
                        interests of the United States in the case of a 
                        default.''.
            (4) Fees.--Section 1702(h) of the Energy Policy Act of 2005 
        (42 U.S.C. 16512(h)) is amended by striking paragraph (2) and 
        inserting the following:
            ``(2) Availability.--Fees collected under this subsection 
        shall--
                    ``(A) be deposited by the Secretary in the Clean 
                Energy Investment Fund established under section 105(a) 
                of Clean Energy Innovation and Deployment Act of 2020; 
                and
                    ``(B) remain available to the Secretary for 
                expenditure, without further appropriation or fiscal 
                year limitation, for administrative expenses incurred 
                in carrying out this title.
            ``(3) Adjustment.--The Secretary may adjust the amount or 
        manner of collection of fees under this subsection as the 
        Secretary determines is necessary to deploy, to the maximum 
        extent practicable, eligible projects under this title.
            ``(4) Excess fees.--Of the amount of a fee imposed on an 
        applicant at the conditional commitment stage, 75 percent of 
        the amount shall be refundable to the applicant if there is no 
        financial close on the application, unless the Secretary 
        determines that the administrative costs of the Department have 
        exceeded the amount retained.
            ``(5) Credit report.--If, in the opinion of the Secretary, 
        the credit rating of an applicant is not relevant to the 
        determination of whether or not support will be provided and 
        the applicant agrees to accept the credit rating assigned to 
        the applicant by the Secretary, the Secretary may waive any 
        requirement to provide a third-party credit report.''.
            (5) Processing.--Section 1702 of the Energy Policy Act of 
        2005 (42 U.S.C. 16512) is amended by adding at the end the 
        following:
    ``(l) Accelerated Reviews.--To the maximum extent practicable and 
consistent with sound business practices, the Secretary shall seek to 
conduct necessary reviews concurrently of an application for a 
guarantee under this title such that decisions as to whether to enter 
into a commitment on the application can be issued not later than 180 
days after the date of submission of a completed application.''.

SEC. 106. FEDERAL CREDIT AUTHORITY.

    (a) Transfer of Functions and Authority.--
            (1) In general.--
                    (A) Deadline.--Subject to paragraph (2), on a 
                finding by the Secretary and the Administrator that the 
                Administration is sufficiently ready to assume the 
                functions, and that applicants to those programs will 
                not be unduly adversely affected, but in no case later 
                than 18 months after the date of enactment of this Act, 
                the functions and authority of the Secretary described 
                in subparagraph (B) shall be transferred to the 
                Administration.
                    (B) Functions and authority.--The functions and 
                authority of the Secretary described in this 
                subparagraph are functions and authority under--
                            (i) subsection title XVII of the Energy 
                        Policy Act of 2005 (42 U.S.C. 16511 et seq.);
                            (ii) section 2602(c) of the Energy Policy 
                        Act of 1992 (25 U.S.C. 3502(c)); and
                            (iii) financial services and program 
                        management for grant, loan, and other credit 
                        enhancement programs authorized to be 
                        administered by the Secretary under any other 
                        provision of law, as the Secretary determines 
                        appropriate.
            (2) Failure to transfer functions.--If the functions and 
        authorities are not transferred to the Administration in 
        accordance with paragraph (1), the Secretary and the 
        Administrator shall submit to Congress a report on the reasons 
        for delay and an expected timetable for transfer of the 
        functions and authorities to the Administration not later than 
        2 years after the enactment of this title and every year 
        thereafter until the functions and authorities are transferred 
        to the Administration.
            (3) Effect on existing rights and obligations.--The 
        transfer of functions and authority under this subsection shall 
        not affect the rights and obligations of any party that arise 
        under a predecessor program or authority prior to the transfer 
        under this subsection.
            (4) Transfer of fund authority.--
                    (A) In general.--On transfer of functions pursuant 
                to paragraph (1), the Administration shall have all 
                authorities to make use of the Fund reserved for the 
                Secretary before the transfer.
                    (B) Administrative expenses.--Effective beginning 
                on the date of enactment of this Act, the Administrator 
                may make use of up to 1.5 percent of the amounts in the 
                Fund as of the beginning of each fiscal year to pay 
                administrative expenses for that fiscal year to carry 
                out this subtitle.
            (5) Use.--
                    (A) In general.--Amounts in the Fund shall be 
                available for discharge of liabilities and all other 
                expenses of the Administration, including subsequent 
                transfer to the respective credit accounts.
                    (B) Liability.--All activities of the 
                Administration that could result in a liability for the 
                United States shall be transparently accounted for and 
                no obligation or liability may be incurred unless--
                            (i) the appropriate amounts are transferred 
                        to credit accounts for activities pursuant to 
                        the Federal Credit Reform Act of 1990 (2 U.S.C. 
                        661a); or
                            (ii) sufficient amounts are reserved within 
                        the Fund to account for such liabilities.
            (6) Initial investment.--
                    (A) In general.--On transfer of functions pursuant 
                to paragraph (1), out of any funds in the Treasury not 
                otherwise appropriated, the Secretary of the Treasury 
                shall transfer to the Fund to carry out this subtitle 
                $10,000,000,000, to remain available until expended.
                    (B) Receipt and acceptance.--The Fund shall be 
                entitled to receive and shall accept, and shall be used 
                to carry out this subtitle, the funds transferred to 
                the Fund under subparagraph (A), without further 
                appropriation.
            (7) Authorization of appropriations.--In addition to funds 
        made available by paragraphs (1) through (6), there are 
        authorized to be appropriated to the Fund such sums as are 
        necessary to carry out this subtitle.
    (b) Payments of Liabilities.--Any payment to discharge liabilities 
arising from agreements under this subtitle shall be made exclusively 
out of the Fund or the associated credit account, as appropriate.
    (c) Fees.--
            (1) In general.--Consistent with carrying out this 
        subtitle, the Administrator shall charge fees or collect 
        compensation generally in accordance with commercial rates.
            (2) Availability of fees.--All fees collected by the 
        Administration may be retained by the Administration and placed 
        in the Fund and may remain available to the Administration, 
        without further appropriation or fiscal year limitation, for 
        use in carrying out this subtitle.
            (3) Breakthrough technologies.--The Administration shall 
        charge the minimum amount in fees or compensation practicable 
        for breakthrough technologies, consistent with the long-term 
        viability of the Administration, unless the Administration 
        first determines that a higher charge will not impede the 
        development of the technology.
            (4) Alternative fee arrangements.--The Administration may 
        use such alternative arrangements (such as profit 
        participation, contingent fees, and other valuable contingent 
        interests) as the Administration considers appropriate to 
        compensate the Administration for the expenses of the 
        Administration and the risk inherent in the support of the 
        Administration.
    (d) Cost Transfer Authority.--Amounts collected by the 
Administration for the cost of a loan or loan guarantee shall be 
transferred by the Administration to the respective credit program 
accounts.
    (e) Supplemental Borrowing Authority.--In order to maintain 
sufficient liquidity for activities authorized under section 104(b), 
the Administration may issue notes, debentures, bonds, or other 
obligations for purchase by the Secretary of the Treasury.
    (f) Public Debt Transactions.--For the purpose of subsection (e)--
            (1) the Secretary of the Treasury may use as a public debt 
        transaction the proceeds of the sale of any securities issued 
        under chapter 31 of title 31, United States Code; and
            (2) the purposes for which securities may be issued under 
        that chapter are extended to include any purchase under this 
        subsection.
    (g) Maximum Outstanding Holding.--The Secretary of the Treasury 
shall purchase instruments issued under subsection (e) to the extent 
that the purchase would not increase the aggregate principal amount of 
the outstanding holdings of obligations under subsection (e) by the 
Secretary of the Treasury to an amount that is greater than 
$2,000,000,000.
    (h) Rate of Return.--Each purchase of obligations by the Secretary 
of the Treasury under this section shall be on terms and conditions 
established to yield a rate of return determined by the Secretary of 
the Treasury to be appropriate, taking into account the current average 
rate on outstanding marketable obligations of the United States as of 
the last day of the month preceding the purchase.
    (i) Sale of Obligations.--The Secretary of the Treasury may at any 
time sell, on terms and conditions and at prices determined by the 
Secretary of the Treasury, any of the obligations acquired by the 
Secretary of the Treasury under this section.
    (j) Public Debt Transactions.--All redemptions, purchases, and 
sales by the Secretary of the Treasury of obligations under this 
section shall be treated as public debt transactions of the United 
States.

SEC. 107. GENERAL PROVISIONS.

    (a) Immunity From Impairment, Limitation, or Restriction.--
            (1) In general.--All rights and remedies of the 
        Administration (including any rights and remedies of the 
        Administration on, under, or with respect to any mortgage or 
        any obligation secured by a mortgage) shall be immune from 
        impairment, limitation, or restriction by or under--
                    (A) any law (other than a law enacted by Congress 
                expressly in limitation of this paragraph) that becomes 
                effective after the acquisition by the Administration 
                of the subject or property on, under, or with respect 
                to which the right or remedy arises or exists or would 
                so arise or exist in the absence of the law; or
                    (B) any administrative or other action that becomes 
                effective after the acquisition.
            (2) State law.--The Administrator may conduct the business 
        of the Administration without regard to any qualification or 
        law of any State relating to incorporation.
    (b) Use of Other Agencies.--With the consent of a department, 
establishment, or instrumentality (including any field office), the 
Administration may--
            (1) use and act through any department, establishment, or 
        instrumentality; or
            (2) use, and pay compensation for, information, services, 
        facilities, and personnel of the department, establishment, or 
        instrumentality.
    (c) Procurement.--The Administrator shall be the senior procurement 
officer for the Administration for purposes of section 1702 of title 
41, United States Code.
    (d) Financial Matters.--
            (1) Investments.--Funds of the Administration may be 
        invested in such investments as the Board of Directors may 
        prescribe.
            (2) Fiscal agents.--Any Federal reserve bank or any bank 
        for which, at the time of designation by the Administrator 
        there is outstanding a designation by the Secretary of the 
        Treasury as a general or other depository of public money, may 
        be designated by the Administrator as a depositary or custodian 
        or as a fiscal or other agent of the Administration.
    (e) Jurisdiction.--Notwithstanding section 1349 of title 28, United 
States Code, or any other provision of law--
            (1) the Administration shall be considered a corporation 
        covered by sections 1345 and 1442 of title 28, United States 
        Code;
            (2) all civil actions to which the Administration is a 
        party shall be considered to arise under the laws of the United 
        States, and the district courts of the United States shall have 
        original jurisdiction of all such actions, without regard to 
        amount or value, except that the courts of appeals shall have 
        jurisdiction over civil actions pertaining to section 
        103(a)(3); and
            (3) any civil or other action, case or controversy in a 
        court of a State, or in any court other than a district court 
        of the United States, to which the Administration is a party 
        may at any time before trial be removed by the Administration, 
        without the giving of any bond or security and by following any 
        procedure for removal of causes in effect at the time of the 
        removal--
                    (A) to the district court of the United States for 
                the district and division embracing the place in which 
                the same is pending; or
                    (B) if there is no such district court, to the 
                district court of the United States for the district in 
                which the principal office of the Administration is 
                located.
    (f) Periodic Reports.--Not later than 1 year after commencement of 
operation of the Administration and at least biannually thereafter, the 
Administrator shall submit to the Committee on Energy and Commerce of 
the House of Representatives and the Committee on Energy and Natural 
Resources of the Senate a report that includes a description of--
            (1) the technologies supported by activities of the 
        Administration; and
            (2) the performance of the Administration on meeting the 
        goals developed by the Secretary under section 102.
    (g) Audits by the Comptroller General.--
            (1) In general.--The programs, activities, receipts, 
        expenditures, and financial transactions of the Administration 
        shall be subject to audit by the Comptroller General of the 
        United States under such rules and regulations as may be 
        prescribed by the Comptroller General.
            (2) Access.--The representatives of the Government 
        Accountability Office shall--
                    (A) have access to the personnel and to all books, 
                accounts, documents, records (including electronic 
                records), reports, files, and all other papers, 
                automated data, things, or property belonging to, under 
                the control of, or in use by the Administration, or any 
                agent, representative, attorney, advisor, or consultant 
                retained by the Administration, and necessary to 
                facilitate the audit;
                    (B) be afforded full facilities for verifying 
                transactions with the balances or securities held by 
                depositories, fiscal agents, and custodians;
                    (C) be authorized to obtain and duplicate any such 
                books, accounts, documents, records, working papers, 
                automated data and files, or other information relevant 
                to the audit without cost to the Comptroller General; 
                and
                    (D) have the right of access of the Comptroller 
                General to such information under section 716(c) of 
                title 31, United States Code.
            (3) Assistance and cost.--
                    (A) In general.--For the purpose of conducting an 
                audit under this subsection, the Comptroller General 
                may, in the discretion of the Comptroller General, 
                employ by contract, without regard to section 6101 of 
                title 41, United States Code, professional services of 
                firms and organizations of certified public accountants 
                for temporary periods or for special purposes.
                    (B) Reimbursement.--
                            (i) In general.--On the request of the 
                        Comptroller General, the Administration shall 
                        reimburse the General Accountability Office for 
                        the full cost of any audit conducted by the 
                        Comptroller General under this subsection.
                            (ii) Crediting.--Such reimbursements 
                        shall--
                                    (I) be credited to the 
                                appropriation account entitled 
                                ``Salaries and Expenses, Government 
                                Accountability Office'' at the time at 
                                which the payment is received; and
                                    (II) remain available until 
                                expended.
    (h) Annual Independent Audits.--
            (1) In general.--The Administrator shall--
                    (A) have an annual independent audit made of the 
                financial statements of the Administration by an 
                independent public accountant in accordance with 
                generally accepted auditing standards; and
                    (B) submit to the Secretary the results of the 
                audit.
            (2) Content.--In conducting an audit under this subsection, 
        the independent public accountant shall determine and report on 
        whether the financial statements of the Administration--
                    (A) are presented fairly in accordance with 
                generally accepted accounting principles; and
                    (B) comply with any disclosure requirements imposed 
                under this subtitle.
    (i) Financial Reports.--
            (1) In general.--The Administrator shall submit to the 
        Secretary annual and quarterly reports of the financial 
        condition and operations of the Administration, which shall be 
        in such form, contain such information, and be submitted on 
        such dates as the Secretary shall require.
            (2) Contents of annual reports.--Each annual report shall 
        include--
                    (A) financial statements prepared in accordance 
                with generally accepted accounting principles;
                    (B) any supplemental information or alternative 
                presentation that the Secretary may require; and
                    (C) an assessment (as of the end of the most recent 
                fiscal year of the Administration), signed by the chief 
                executive officer and chief accounting or financial 
                officer of the Administration, of--
                            (i) the effectiveness of the internal 
                        control structure and procedures of the 
                        Administration; and
                            (ii) the compliance of the Administration 
                        with applicable safety and soundness laws.
            (3) Special reports.--The Secretary may require the 
        Administrator to submit other reports on the condition 
        (including financial condition), management, activities, or 
        operations of the Administration, as the Secretary considers 
        appropriate.
            (4) Accuracy.--Each report of financial condition shall 
        contain a declaration by the Administrator or any other officer 
        designated by the Board of Directors of the Administration to 
        make the declaration, that the report is true and correct to 
        the best of the knowledge and belief of the officer.
            (5) Availability of reports.--Reports required under this 
        section shall be published and made publicly available as soon 
        as is practicable after receipt by the Secretary.
    (j) Scope and Termination of Authority.--
            (1) New obligations.--The Administrator shall not initiate 
        any new obligations under this subtitle on or after January 1, 
        2039.
            (2) Reversion to secretary.--The authorities and 
        obligations of the Administration shall revert to the Secretary 
        on January 1, 2039.

                 Subtitle B--Beneficial Electrification

SEC. 111. INNOVATION IN ELECTRIC VEHICLES THROUGH THE ADVANCED 
              TECHNOLOGY MANUFACTURING INCENTIVE PROGRAM.

    (a) In General.--
            (1) In general.--Section 136(c) of the Energy Independence 
        and Security Act of 2007 (42 U.S.C. 17013(c)) is amended by 
        striking ``December 30, 2020'' each place it appears and 
        inserting ``December 31, 2030''.
            (2) Effective date.--The amendment made by paragraph (1) 
        shall take effect on December 31, 2020.
    (b) Authorization of Appropriations.--Section 136(i) of the Energy 
Independence and Security Act of 2007 (42 U.S.C. 17013(i)) is amended 
by striking ``2008 through 2012'' and inserting ``2021 through 2030''.

SEC. 112. DEPLOYMENT OF ELECTRIC VEHICLES THROUGH TAX CREDITS.

    (a) New Phaseout Rules Added to Qualified Plug-In Electric Vehicle 
Tax Credit.--Subsection (e) of section 30D of the Internal Revenue Code 
of 1986 is amended to read as follows:
    ``(e) Limitation on Number of New Qualified Plug-In Electric Drive 
Motor Vehicles Eligible for Credit.--
            ``(1) In general.--In the case of any new qualified plug-in 
        electric drive motor vehicle sold after the date of the 
        enactment of the Clean Energy Innovation and Deployment Act of 
        2020--
                    ``(A) if such vehicle is sold during the transition 
                period, the amount determined under subsection (b)(2) 
                shall be reduced by $500, and
                    ``(B) if such vehicle is sold during the phaseout 
                period, only the applicable percentage of the credit 
                otherwise allowable under subsection (a) shall be 
                allowed.
            ``(2) Transition period.--For purposes of this subsection, 
        the transition period subsequent to the first date on which the 
        number of new qualified plug-in electric drive motor vehicles 
        manufactured by the manufacturer of the vehicle referred to in 
        paragraph (1) sold for use in the United States after December 
        31, 2009, is at least 200,000.
            ``(3) Phaseout period.--
                    ``(A) In general.--For purposes of this subsection, 
                the phaseout period is the period beginning with the 
                second calendar quarter following the calendar quarter 
                which includes the first date on which the number of 
                new qualified plug-in electric drive motor vehicles 
                manufactured by the manufacturer of the vehicle 
                referred to in paragraph (1) sold for use in the United 
                States after December 31, 2009, is at least 600,000.
                    ``(B) Applicable percentage.--For purposes of 
                paragraph (1)(B), the applicable percentage is--
                            ``(i) 50 percent for the first calendar 
                        quarter of the phaseout period, and
                            ``(ii) 0 percent for each calendar quarter 
                        thereafter.
                    ``(C) Exclusion of sale of certain vehicles.--
                            ``(i) In general.--For purposes of 
                        subparagraph (A), any new qualified plug-in 
                        electric drive motor vehicle manufactured by 
                        the manufacturer of the vehicle referred to in 
                        paragraph (1) which was sold during the 
                        exclusion period shall not be included for 
                        purposes of determining the number of such 
                        vehicles sold.
                            ``(ii) Exclusion period.--For purposes of 
                        this subparagraph, the exclusion period is the 
                        period--
                                    ``(I) beginning on the first date 
                                on which the number of new qualified 
                                plug-in electric drive motor vehicles 
                                manufactured by the manufacturer of the 
                                vehicle referred to in paragraph (1) 
                                sold for use in the United States after 
                                December 31, 2009, is at least 200,000, 
                                and
                                    ``(II) ending on the date of the 
                                enactment of the Clean Energy 
                                Innovation and Deployment Act of 2020.
            ``(4) Controlled groups.--Rules similar to the rules of 
        section 30B(f)(4) shall apply for purposes of this 
        subsection.''.
    (b) Extension of Credit for New Qualified Fuel Cell Motor 
Vehicles.--Section 30B(k)(1) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 is 
amended by striking ``December 31, 2020'' and inserting ``December 31, 
2028''.
    (c) Effective Date.--The amendments made by this section shall 
apply to property purchased after the date of the enactment of this 
Act.

SEC. 113. DEPLOYMENT OF ELECTRIC VEHICLE CHARGING INFRASTRUCTURE 
              THROUGH SUPPLY EQUIPMENT PROGRAMS.

    (a) Electric Vehicle Supply Equipment Coordination.--Not later than 
90 days after the date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary of 
Energy, acting through the Assistant Secretary of the Office of 
Electricity, shall convene a group to assess progress in the 
development of standards necessary to--
            (1) support the expanded deployment of electric vehicle 
        supply equipment;
            (2) develop an electric vehicle charging network to provide 
        reliable charging for electric vehicles nationwide; and
            (3) ensure the development of such network will not 
        compromise the stability and reliability of the electric grid.
    (b) Utility Electric Vehicle Charging Programs.--
            (1) Consideration and determination respecting certain 
        ratemaking standards.--Section 111(d) of the Public Utility 
        Regulatory Policies Act of 1978 (16 U.S.C. 2621(d)) is amended 
        by adding at the end the following:
            ``(20) Utility electric vehicle charging programs.--
                    ``(A) In general.--Each State shall consider 
                authorizing each electric utility of the State to 
                establish rates sufficient to recover from ratepayers 
                any capital, operating expenditure, or other costs of 
                the electric utility relating to the deployment of 
                electric vehicle supply equipment designed to provide 
                vehicle charging or load management.
                    ``(B) Definition.--For purposes of this paragraph, 
                the term `electric vehicle supply equipment' means the 
                conductors, including the ungrounded, grounded, and 
                equipment grounding conductors, the electric vehicle 
                connectors, attachment plugs, and all other fittings, 
                devices, power outlets, or apparatuses installed 
                specifically for the purpose of delivering energy to an 
                electric vehicle.''.
            (2) Obligations to consider and determine.--
                    (A) Time limitations.--Section 112(b) of the Public 
                Utility Regulatory Policies Act of 1978 (16 U.S.C. 
                2622(b)) is amended by adding at the end the following:
            ``(7)(A) Not later than 1 year after the date of enactment 
        of this paragraph, each State regulatory authority (with 
        respect to each electric utility for which it has ratemaking 
        authority) and each nonregulated electric utility shall 
        commence the consideration referred to in section 111, or set a 
        hearing date for consideration, with respect to the standard 
        established by paragraph (20) of section 111(d).
            ``(B) Not later than 2 years after the date of the 
        enactment of this paragraph, each State regulatory authority 
        (with respect to each electric utility for which it has 
        ratemaking authority) and each nonregulated electric utility 
        shall complete the consideration, and shall make the 
        determination, referred to in section 111 with respect to the 
        standard established by paragraph (20) of section 111(d).''.
                    (B) Failure to comply.--Section 112(c) of the 
                Public Utility Regulatory Policies Act of 1978 (16 
                U.S.C. 2622(c)) is amended--
                            (i) by striking ``subsection (b)(2)'' and 
                        inserting ``subsection (b)''; and
                            (ii) by striking ``(19)'' and inserting 
                        ``(20)''.
                    (C) Prior state actions.--Section 112 of the Public 
                Utility Regulatory Policies Act of 1978 (16 U.S.C. 
                2622) is amended by adding at the end the following:
    ``(g) Prior State Actions.--Subsections (b) and (c) of this section 
shall not apply to the standard established by paragraph (20) of 
section 111(d) in the case of any electric utility in a State if, 
before the enactment of this subsection--
            ``(1) the State has implemented for such utility the 
        standard concerned (or a comparable standard);
            ``(2) the State regulatory authority for such State or 
        relevant nonregulated electric utility has conducted a 
        proceeding to consider implementation of the standard concerned 
        (or a comparable standard) for such utility; or
            ``(3) the State legislature has voted on the implementation 
        of such standard (or a comparable standard) for such 
        utility.''.
    (c) Model Building Code for Electric Vehicle Supply Equipment.--
            (1) Development.--The Secretary of Energy shall develop a 
        proposal to establish or update, as appropriate, model building 
        codes for--
                    (A) integrating electric vehicle supply equipment 
                into residential and commercial buildings that include 
                space for individual vehicle or fleet vehicle parking; 
                and
                    (B) integrating onsite renewable power equipment 
                and electric storage equipment (including electric 
                vehicle batteries to be used for electric storage) in 
                residential and commercial buildings.
            (2) Consultation.--In developing the proposal under 
        paragraph (1), the Secretary shall consult with stakeholders 
        representing the building construction industry, manufacturers 
        of electric vehicles and electric vehicle supply equipment, 
        State and local governments, and any other persons with 
        relevant expertise or interests.
            (3) Deadline.--Not later than 1 year after the date of 
        enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall submit the proposal 
        developed under paragraph (1) to the American Society of 
        Heating, Refrigerating, and Air Conditioning Engineers and the 
        International Code Council for consideration.

SEC. 114. DEPLOYMENT OF ENERGY EFFICIENT BUILDINGS THROUGH TAX CREDITS.

    (a) Credit Dates Extended.--Subsection (g) of section 25D of the 
Internal Revenue Code of 1986 is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (1), by striking ``January 1, 2020'' and 
        inserting ``January 1, 2025'';
            (2) in paragraph (2), by striking ``after December 31, 
        2019, and before January 1, 2021'' and inserting ``after 
        December 31, 2024, and before January 1, 2026''; and
            (3) in paragraph (3), by striking ``after December 31, 
        2020, and before January 1, 2022'' and inserting ``after 
        December 31, 2025, and before January 1, 2027''.
    (b) Termination Date Extended.--Subsection (h) of section 25D of 
such Code is amended by striking ``December 31, 2021'' and inserting 
``December 31, 2026''.
    (c) Effective Date.--The amendments made by this section shall 
apply to property placed in service after December 31, 2019.

SEC. 115. DEPLOYMENT OF ENERGY EFFICIENT BUILDINGS THROUGH GRANTS.

    (a) Energy Efficient Public Buildings.--Section 125(c) of the 
Energy Policy Act of 2005 (42 U.S.C. 15822(c)) is amended by striking 
``$30,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2006 through 2010'' and 
inserting ``$100,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2022 through 2026''.
    (b) Energy Efficiency and Conservation Block Grant Program.--
            (1) Purpose.--Section 542(b)(1) of the Energy Independence 
        and Security Act of 2007 (42 U.S.C. 17152(b)(1)) is amended--
                    (A) in subparagraph (A), by striking ``; and'' and 
                inserting a semicolon;
                    (B) in subparagraph (B), by striking the semicolon 
                and inserting ``; and''; and
                    (C) by adding at the end the following:
                    ``(C) diversifies energy supplies, including by 
                facilitating and promoting the use of alternative 
                fuels;''.
            (2) Use of funds.--Section 544(9) of the Energy 
        Independence and Security Act of 2007 (42 U.S.C. 17154(9)) is 
        amended to read as follows:
            ``(9) deployment of energy distribution technologies that 
        significantly increase energy efficiency or expand access to 
        alternative fuels, including--
                    ``(A) distributed resources;
                    ``(B) district heating and cooling systems; and
                    ``(C) infrastructure for delivering alternative 
                fuels;''.
            (3) Competitive grants.--Section 546(c)(2) of the Energy 
        Independence and Security Act of 2007 (42 U.S.C. 17156(c)(2)) 
        is amended by inserting ``, including projects to expand the 
        use of alternative fuels'' before the period at the end.
            (4) Funding.--Section 548(a) of the Energy Independence and 
        Security Act of 2007 (42 U.S.C. 17158(a)) is amended to read as 
        follows:
    ``(a) Authorization of Appropriations.--
            ``(1) Grants.--There is authorized to be appropriated to 
        the Secretary for the provision of grants under the program 
        $3,500,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2022 through 2026.
            ``(2) Administrative costs.--There is authorized to be 
        appropriated to the Secretary for administrative expenses of 
        the program $35,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2022 through 
        2026.''.
            (5) Technical amendments.--Section 543 of the Energy 
        Independence and Security Act of 2007 (42 U.S.C. 17153) is 
        amended--
                    (A) in subsection (c), by striking ``subsection 
                (a)(2)'' and inserting ``subsection (a)(3)''; and
                    (B) in subsection (d), by striking ``subsection 
                (a)(3)'' and inserting ``subsection (a)(4)''.
    (c) Smart Federal Building Program.--
            (1) Definitions.--In this subsection:
                    (A) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the 
                Secretary of Energy.
                    (B) Smart building.--The term ``smart building'' 
                means a building, or collection of buildings, with an 
                energy system that--
                            (i) is flexible and automated;
                            (ii) has extensive operational monitoring 
                        and communication connectivity, allowing remote 
                        monitoring and analysis of all building 
                        functions;
                            (iii) takes a systems-based approach in 
                        integrating the overall building operations for 
                        control of energy generation, consumption, and 
                        storage;
                            (iv) communicates with utilities and other 
                        third-party commercial entities, if 
                        appropriate;
                            (v) protects the health and safety of 
                        occupants and workers; and
                            (vi) is cybersecure.
            (2) Establishment.--Not later than 1 year after the date of 
        enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall, in consultation 
        with the Administrator of General Services, establish a 
        program, to be known as the Federal Smart Building Program--
                    (A) to implement smart building technology; and
                    (B) to demonstrate the costs and benefits of smart 
                buildings.
            (3) Selection.--
                    (A) In general.--The Secretary shall coordinate the 
                selection of not fewer than 1 building from among each 
                of several key Federal agencies, as described in 
                paragraph (5), to compose an appropriately diverse set 
                of smart buildings based on size, type, and geographic 
                location.
                    (B) Inclusion of commercially operated buildings.--
                In making selections under subparagraph (A), the 
                Secretary may include buildings that are owned by the 
                Federal Government but are commercially operated.
            (4) Targets.--Not later than 18 months after the date of 
        enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall establish targets 
        for the number of smart buildings to be commissioned and 
        evaluated by key Federal agencies described in paragraph (5) by 
        3 years and 6 years after the date of enactment of this Act.
            (5) Federal agency described.--The key Federal agencies 
        described in this subsection shall include buildings operated 
        by--
                    (A) the Department of the Army;
                    (B) the Department of the Navy;
                    (C) the Department of the Air Force;
                    (D) the Department of Energy;
                    (E) the Department of the Interior;
                    (F) the Department of Veterans Affairs; and
                    (G) the General Services Administration.
            (6) Requirement.--In implementing the program established 
        under paragraph (2), the Secretary shall leverage existing 
        financing mechanisms including energy savings performance 
        contracts, utility energy service contracts, and annual 
        appropriations.
            (7) Evaluation.--Using the guidelines of the Federal Energy 
        Management Program relating to whole-building evaluation, 
        measurement, and verification, the Secretary shall evaluate the 
        costs and benefits of the buildings selected under paragraph 
        (3), including an identification of--
                    (A) which advanced building technologies--
                            (i) are most cost-effective; and
                            (ii) show the most promise for--
                                    (I) increasing energy savings;
                                    (II) increasing service performance 
                                to building occupants;
                                    (III) reducing environmental 
                                impacts; and
                                    (IV) establishing cybersecurity; 
                                and
                    (B) any other information the Secretary determines 
                to be appropriate.
            (8) Awards.--The Secretary may expand awards made under the 
        Federal Energy Management Program and the Better Building 
        Challenge to recognize specific agency achievements in 
        accelerating the adoption of smart building technologies.

      Subtitle C--Zero-Emission Electricity Generation Technology

SEC. 121. DEPLOYMENT OF SOLAR AND WIND TECHNOLOGY THROUGH TAX CREDITS.

    (a) Energy Credit for Qualified Offshore Wind Facilities.--
            (1) In general.--Subsection (a) of section 48 of the 
        Internal Revenue Code is amended--
                    (A) in paragraph (2)(A)(i)--
                            (i) in subclause (III), by striking ``and'' 
                        at the end; and
                            (ii) by adding at the end the following new 
                        subclause:
                    ``(V) qualified offshore wind property, and''; and
                    (B) in paragraph (3)(A)--
                            (i) in clause (vi), by striking ``or'' at 
                        the end;
                            (ii) in clause (vii), by adding ``or'' at 
                        the end; and
                            (iii) by adding at the end the following 
                        new clause:
                            ``(viii) qualified offshore wind property, 
                        but only with respect to property the 
                        construction of which begins before January 1, 
                        2028,''.
            (2) Qualified offshore wind property.--Subsection (c) of 
        section 48 of such Code is amended by adding at the end the 
        following new paragraph:
            ``(5) Qualified offshore wind property.--
                    ``(A) In general.--The term `qualified offshore 
                wind property' means an offshore facility using wind to 
                produce electricity.
                    ``(B) Offshore facility.--The term `offshore 
                facility' means any facility located in the inland 
                navigable waters of the United States, including the 
                Great Lakes, or in the coastal waters of the United 
                States, including the territorial seas of the United 
                States, the exclusive economic zone of the United 
                States, and the outer Continental Shelf of the United 
                States.
                    ``(C) Exception for qualified small wind energy 
                property.--The term `qualified offshore wind property' 
                shall not include any property described in paragraph 
                (4).
                    ``(D) Special rule.--In the case of any property 
                described in subparagraph (A) which was placed in 
                service after December 31, 2016, and for which a credit 
                under this section was allowed by reason of subsection 
                (a)(5) in any taxable year which ends before or 
                includes the date of the enactment of the Clean Energy 
                Innovation and Deployment Act of 2020, notwithstanding 
                any election under such subsection (a)(5), such 
                property may be treated at the election of the taxpayer 
                as qualified offshore wind property (and not as 
                qualified property which is part of a qualified 
                investment credit facility) for--
                            ``(i) taxable years beginning on or after 
                        such date of enactment, and
                            ``(ii) any taxable years ending before such 
                        date of enactment, including by filing an 
                        amended return.
                Notwithstanding section 6501, an amended return may be 
                filed for purposes of clause (ii) for any taxable year 
                described in such clause.''.
            (3) Effective date.--The amendments made by this section 
        shall take effect on the date of the enactment of this Act.
    (b) Extension and Phaseout of Investment Tax Credit.--
            (1) Extension of investment tax credit.--Section 48 of the 
        Internal Revenue Code of 1986 is amended--
                    (A) in subsection (a)--
                            (i) in paragraph (2)(A)(i)(II), by striking 
                        ``January 1, 2022'' and inserting ``January 1, 
                        2028'';
                            (ii) in paragraph (3)(A)--
                                    (I) in clause (ii), by striking 
                                ``January 1, 2022'' and inserting 
                                ``January 1, 2028''; and
                                    (II) in clause (vii), by striking 
                                ``January 1, 2022'' and inserting 
                                ``January 1, 2028''; and
                            (iii) in paragraph (5)(C)--
                                    (I) in clause (i)--
                                            (aa) by striking ``(2), 
                                        (3), (4), (6), (7),''; and
                                            (bb) by inserting ``and 
                                        which is placed in service 
                                        after 2008 and the construction 
                                        of which begins before January 
                                        1, 2028'' after ``section 
                                        45(d)''; and
                                    (II) in clause (ii), by inserting 
                                at the beginning of the clause ``which 
                                is a qualified facility (within the 
                                meaning of section 45) described in 
                                paragraph (2), (3), (4), (6), and (7) 
                                and''; and
                    (B) in subsection (c)--
                            (i) in paragraph (1)(D), by striking 
                        ``January 1, 2022'' and inserting ``January 1, 
                        2028'';
                            (ii) in paragraph (2)(D), by striking 
                        ``January 1, 2022'' and inserting ``January 1, 
                        2028'';
                            (iii) in paragraph (3)(A)(iv), by striking 
                        ``January 1, 2022'' and inserting ``January 1, 
                        2028''; and
                            (iv) in paragraph (4)(C), by striking 
                        ``January 1, 2022'' and inserting ``January 1, 
                        2028''.
            (2) Credit transferability for solar investment tax 
        credit.--Section 48 of such Code is further amended by adding 
        at the end the following new subsections:
    ``(e) Transferability.--If a taxpayer elects to transfer all (or 
any portion specified in the election) of the credit determined under 
this section for an energy property described in subsection (a)(5) or 
(a)(6) for any taxable year to an eligible project partner for a 
specified period, then the eligible project partner specified in such 
election (and not the taxpayer) shall be treated for purposes of this 
title with respect to such credit (or such portion thereof) as the 
person entitled to such credit (or portion thereof).
    ``(f) Eligible Project Partner.--
            ``(1) In general.--For purposes of this paragraph, the term 
        `eligible project partner' means, with respect to any energy 
        property described in subsection (a)(5) or (a)(6), any person 
        who--
                    ``(A) has an ownership interest in such energy 
                property,
                    ``(B) provided equipment for or services in the 
                construction of such energy property,
                    ``(C) provides electric transmission or 
                distribution services for such energy property,
                    ``(D) purchases electricity from such energy 
                property pursuant to a contract, or
                    ``(E) provides financing for such energy property.
            ``(2) Special rule.--For purposes of paragraph (1)(E), any 
        amount paid as consideration for a transfer described in 
        subsection (e) shall not be treated as financing of a qualified 
        facility.
    ``(g) Taxable Year in Which Credit Taken Into Account.--In the case 
of any credit (or portion thereof) with respect to which an election is 
made under subsection (e), such credit shall be taken into account in 
the first taxable year of the eligible project partner ending with, or 
after, the electing taxpayer's taxable year with respect to which the 
credit was determined.
    ``(h) Limitations on Election.--
            ``(1) Time for election.--An election under subsection (e) 
        to transfer any portion of the credit allowed under this 
        section shall be made not later than the due date for the 
        return of tax for the electing taxpayer's taxable year with 
        respect to which the credit was determined.
            ``(2) No further transfers.--No election may be made under 
        subsection (e) by a taxpayer with respect to any portion of the 
        credit allowed under this section which has been previously 
        transferred to such taxpayer.
            ``(3) Treatment of transfer under private use rules.--For 
        purposes of section 141(b)(1), any benefit derived by an 
        eligible project partner in connection with an election under 
        subsection (e) shall not be taken into account as a private 
        business use.
            ``(4) Additional election requirements.--The Secretary may 
        prescribe such regulations as may be appropriate to carry out 
        the purposes of this section, including--
                    ``(A) rules for determining which persons are 
                eligible project partners with respect to any energy 
                property, and
                    ``(B) requiring information to be included in an 
                election under subparagraph (A) or imposing additional 
                reporting requirements.
    ``(i) Special Rules.--
            ``(1) In the case of a taxpayer making an election under 
        this section, the credit subject to such an election shall be 
        determined notwithstanding--
                    ``(A) section 50(b)(3); and
                    ``(B) section 50(b)(4) for an entity described in 
                50(b)(4)(A)(i).
            ``(2) In the case of a mutual or cooperative electric 
        company described in this paragraph or an organization 
        described in section 1381(a)(2), income received or accrued in 
        connection with the transfer of credit under this section shall 
        be treated as an amount collected from members for the sole 
        purpose of meeting losses and expenses.
    ``(j) Termination.--This section shall apply to taxable years 
ending before January 1, 2050.''.
            (3) Phaseouts.--
                    (A) Solar energy property.--Section 48(a)(6) of 
                such Code is amended--
                            (i) in subparagraph (A)--
                                    (I) by striking ``January 1, 2022, 
                                the energy percentage'' and inserting 
                                ``January 1, 2028, the energy 
                                percentage'';
                                    (II) in clause (i), by striking 
                                ``after December 31, 2019, and before 
                                January 1, 2021'' and inserting ``after 
                                December 31, 2020, and before January 
                                1, 2027''; and
                                    (III) in clause (ii), by striking 
                                ``after December 31, 2020, and before 
                                January 1, 2022'' and inserting ``after 
                                December 31, 2021, and before January 
                                1, 2027''; and
                            (ii) in subparagraph (B), by striking 
                        ``begins before January 1, 2022, and which is 
                        not placed in service before January 1, 2024'' 
                        and inserting ``begins before January 1, 2028, 
                        and which is not placed in service before 
                        January 1, 2030''.
                    (B) Fiber-optic solar, qualified fuel cell, and 
                qualified small wind energy property.--Section 48(a)(7) 
                of such Code is amended--
                            (i) in subparagraph (A)--
                                    (I) in clause (i), by striking 
                                ``after December 31, 2019, and before 
                                January 1, 2021'' and inserting ``after 
                                December 31, 2020, and before January 
                                1, 2027''; and
                                    (II) in clause (ii), by striking 
                                ``after December 31, 2020, and before 
                                January 1, 2022'' and inserting ``after 
                                December 31, 2021, and before January 
                                1, 2027''; and
                            (ii) in subparagraph (B), by striking 
                        ``January 1, 2024'' and inserting ``January 1, 
                        2030''.
    (c) Extension of Production Tax Credit.--
            (1) Wind.--Section 45(d)(1) of the Internal Revenue Code of 
        1986 is amended by striking ``January 1, 2021'' and inserting 
        ``January 1, 2028''.
            (2) Hydropower, marine and hydrokinetic.--Section 
        45(d)(9)(a)(i) and (ii) and Section 45(d)(11)(B) of the 
        Internal Revenue Code of 1986 is amended by striking ``January 
        1, 2021'' and inserting ``January 1, 2028''.
            (3) Application of phaseout percentage.--Section 
        45(b)(5)(D) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 is amended by 
        striking ``January 1, 2021'' and inserting ``January 1, 2028''.
            (4) Treatment as energy property.--Section 48(a)(5)(E) of 
        the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 is amended by striking 
        ``January 1, 2021'' and inserting ``January 1, 2028''.
            (5) Credit transferability for wind production tax 
        credit.--Section 45 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 is 
        amended by adding at the end the following:
    ``(f) Transferability.--If the taxpayer elects to transfer all (or 
any portion specified in the election) of the credit determined under 
this section for any taxable year with respect to any qualified 
facility as defined in subsection (d)(1) to an eligible project partner 
for a specified period, then, the eligible project partner specified in 
such election (and not the taxpayer) shall be treated for purposes of 
this title with respect to such credit (or such portion thereof) as the 
person producing and selling the electricity to which such credit (or 
portion thereof) relates.
    ``(g) Eligible Project Partner.--
            ``(1) In general.--For purposes of this section, the term 
        `eligible project partner' means, with respect to any qualified 
        facility as defined in subsection (d)(1), any person who--
                    ``(A) has an ownership interest in such qualified 
                facility,
                    ``(B) provided equipment for or services in the 
                construction of such qualified facility,
                    ``(C) provides electric transmission or 
                distribution services for such qualified facility,
                    ``(D) purchases electricity from such qualified 
                facility pursuant to a contract, or
                    ``(E) provides financing for such qualified 
                facility.
            ``(2) Special rule.--For purposes of paragraph (1)(E), any 
        amount paid as consideration for a transfer described in 
        subsection (f) shall not be treated as financing of a qualified 
        facility.
    ``(h) Taxable Year in Which Credit Taken Into Account.--In the case 
of any credit (or portion thereof) with respect to which an election is 
made under subsection (f), such credit shall be taken into account in 
the first taxable year of the eligible project partner ending with, or 
after, the electing taxpayer's taxable year with respect to which the 
credit was determined.
    ``(i) Limitations on Election.--
            ``(1) Time for election.--An election under subsection (f) 
        to transfer any portion of the credit allowed under this 
        section shall be made not later than the due date for the 
        return of tax for the electing taxpayer's taxable year with 
        respect to which the credit was determined.
            ``(2) No further transfers.--No election may be made under 
        subsection (f) by a taxpayer with respect to any portion of the 
        credit allowed under this section which has been previously 
        transferred to such taxpayer under this paragraph.
            ``(3) Treatment of transfer under private use rules.--For 
        purposes of section 141(b)(1), any benefit derived by an 
        eligible project partner in connection with an election under 
        this section shall not be taken into account as a private 
        business use.
            ``(4) Additional election requirements.--The Secretary may 
        prescribe such regulations as may be appropriate to carry out 
        the purposes of this section, including--
                    ``(A) rules for determining which persons are 
                eligible project partners with respect to any energy 
                property, and
                    ``(B) requiring information to be included in an 
                election under subsection (f) or imposing additional 
                reporting requirements.
    ``(j) Termination.--This section shall apply to taxable years 
ending before January 1, 2050.''.
    (d) Effective Date.--The amendments made by this section shall 
apply to taxable years beginning after December 31, 2020.

SEC. 122. ENERGY TAX CREDIT MONETIZATION.

    (a) In General.--Subchapter B of chapter 65 of the Internal Revenue 
Code of 1986 is amended by adding at the end the following new section:

``SEC. 6431. ELECTIVE PAYMENT FOR ENERGY PROPERTY AND ELECTRICITY 
              PRODUCED FROM CERTAIN RENEWABLE RESOURCES, ETC.

    ``(a) Energy Property.--In the case of a taxpayer making an 
election (at such time and in such manner as the Secretary may provide) 
under this section with respect to--
            ``(1) any portion of an energy credit which would (without 
        regard to this section) be determined under section 48 with 
        respect to property originally placed in service after December 
        31, 2019 and before January 1, 2025,
            ``(2) any portion of a renewable electricity production 
        credit which would (without regard to this section) be 
        determined under section 45 with respect to property originally 
        placed in service after December 31, 2019 and before January 1, 
        2025, or
            ``(3) any portion of a credit carryforward to the extent 
        attributable to section 48 or section 45 that is allowed under 
        section 38(a)(1) (determined without regard to section 38(c)) 
        for taxable years ending after December 31, 2019 and before 
        January 1, 2025,
such taxpayer shall be treated as making a payment against the tax 
imposed by subtitle A for the taxable year equal to 85 percent of such 
amount.
    ``(b) Timing.--The payment described in subsection (a) shall be 
treated as made on the later of the due date of the return of tax 
(determined without extensions) for such taxable year or the date on 
which such return is filed.
    ``(c) Exclusion From Gross Income.--Gross income of the taxpayer 
shall be determined without regard to this section.
    ``(d) Denial of Double Benefit.--Solely for purposes of section 38, 
in the case of a taxpayer making an election under this section, the 
energy credit determined under section 48 or the renewable electricity 
production credit determined under section 45 shall be reduced by the 
amount of the portion of such credit with respect to which the taxpayer 
makes such election.
    ``(e) Special Rules.--
            ``(1) In the case of a taxpayer making an election under 
        this section, the credit subject to such an election shall be 
        determined notwithstanding--
                    ``(A) section 50(b)(3); and
                    ``(B) section 50(b)(4) for an entity described in 
                50(b)(4)(A)(i).
            ``(2) In the case of a mutual or cooperative electric 
        company described in this paragraph or an organization 
        described in section 1381(a)(2), income received or accrued in 
        connection with the refunding or direct payment of credit under 
        this section shall be treated as an amount collected from 
        members for the sole purpose of meeting losses and expenses.''.
    (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of sections for subchapter B of 
chapter 65 of such Code is amended by adding at the end the following 
new item:

``Sec. 6431. Elective payment for energy property and electricity 
                            produced from certain renewable resources, 
                            etc.''.
    (c) Effective Date.--The amendments made by this section shall 
apply to taxable years ending after the date of the enactment of this 
Act.

SEC. 123. INNOVATION IN ENERGY STORAGE THROUGH RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT, 
              AND DEMONSTRATION.

    (a) In General.--The United States Energy Storage Competitiveness 
Act of 2007 (42 U.S.C. 17231) is amended--
            (1) by redesignating subsections (l) through (p) as 
        subsections (m) through (q), respectively; and
            (2) by inserting after subsection (k) the following:
    ``(l) Grid-Scale Energy Storage System Research, Development, and 
Demonstration Program.--
            ``(1) Definitions.--In this subsection:
                    ``(A) Energy storage system.--The term `energy 
                storage system' means a system, equipment, facility, or 
                technology that--
                            ``(i) is capable of absorbing energy, 
                        storing that energy for a period of time, and 
                        dispatching the stored energy; and
                            ``(ii)(I) uses a mechanical, electrical, 
                        chemical, electrochemical, or thermal process 
                        to store energy that--
                                    ``(aa) was generated at an earlier 
                                time for use at a later time; or
                                    ``(bb) was generated from a 
                                mechanical process, and would otherwise 
                                be wasted, for delivery at a later 
                                time; or
                            ``(II) stores thermal energy for direct use 
                        for heating or cooling at a later time in a 
                        manner that avoids the need to use electricity 
                        at that later time, in the same manner as the 
                        storage and use offered by a grid-enabled water 
                        heater.
                    ``(B) Program.--The term `program' means the 
                research, development, and demonstration program 
                established under paragraph (2)(A).
            ``(2) Establishment.--
                    ``(A) In general.--Not later than 180 days after 
                the date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall 
                establish within the Office of Electricity of the 
                Department of Energy a research, development, and 
                demonstration program of grid-scale energy storage 
                systems, in accordance with this subsection.
                    ``(B) Goals, priorities, cost targets.--Not later 
                than 180 days after the date of enactment of this Act, 
                The Secretary shall develop goals, priorities, and cost 
                targets for the program.
            ``(3) Strategic plan.--
                    ``(A) In general.--Not later than 180 days after 
                the date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall 
                submit to the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources 
                of the Senate and the Committee on Science, Space, and 
                Technology of the House of Representatives a 10-year 
                strategic plan for the program.
                    ``(B) Contents.--The strategic plan submitted under 
                subparagraph (A) shall--
                            ``(i) identify Department of Energy 
                        programs that support--
                                    ``(I) the research and development 
                                activities described in paragraph (4) 
                                and the demonstration projects under 
                                paragraph (6); and
                                    ``(II) activities or projects not 
                                described in subclause (I) that are 
                                important to the development of grid-
                                scale energy storage systems and the 
                                mission of the Office of Electricity of 
                                the Department of Energy, as determined 
                                by the Secretary; and
                            ``(ii) include expected timelines for--
                                    ``(I) the accomplishment of 
                                relevant objectives under current 
                                programs of the Department of Energy 
                                relating to grid-scale energy storage 
                                systems; and
                                    ``(II) the commencement of any new 
                                initiatives within the Department of 
                                Energy relating to grid-scale energy 
                                storage systems to accomplish those 
                                objectives.
                    ``(C) Updates to plan.--Not less frequently than 
                once every 2 years, the Secretary shall submit to the 
                Committee on Energy and Natural Resources of the Senate 
                and the Committee on Science, Space, and Technology of 
                the House of Representatives an updated strategic plan 
                for the same 10-year period as the plan under 
                subparagraph (A), which shall identify, and provide a 
                justification for, any major deviation from a previous 
                strategic plan submitted under this paragraph.
            ``(4) Research and development.--In carrying out the 
        program, the Secretary shall focus research and development 
        activities on developing cost-effective energy storage systems 
        that--
                    ``(A)(i) to balance day-scale needs, are capable of 
                highly flexible power output for not less than 6 hours; 
                and
                    ``(ii) have a lifetime of--
                            ``(I) not less than 8,000 cycles of 
                        discharge at full output; and
                            ``(II) 20 years of useful-life operation;
                    ``(B)(i) can provide power to the electric grid for 
                durations of approximately 6 to 100 hours; and
                    ``(ii) have a lifetime of--
                            ``(I) not less than 1,500 cycles of 
                        discharge at full output; and
                            ``(II) 20 years of operation; and
                    ``(C) can store energy over several months and 
                address seasonal scale variations in supply and demand.
            ``(5) Cost targets.--
                    ``(A) In general.--Cost targets developed by the 
                Secretary under paragraph (2)(B) shall--
                            ``(i) be for energy storage costs across 
                        all types of energy storage technology; and
                            ``(ii) include technology costs, 
                        installation costs, balance of services costs, 
                        and soft costs.
                    ``(B) Target updates; subtargets.--Not less 
                frequently than once every 5 years during the 10-year 
                period beginning on the date of enactment of the Act, 
                the Secretary shall--
                            ``(i) revise the cost targets developed 
                        under paragraph (2)(B) based on--
                                    ``(I) a technology-neutral approach 
                                that considers all types of energy 
                                storage deployment scenarios, including 
                                individual technologies, technology 
                                combination use profiles, and 
                                integrated control system applications;
                                    ``(II) input from a variety of 
                                stakeholders;
                                    ``(III) the inclusion and use of 
                                existing infrastructure; and
                                    ``(IV) the ability to optimize the 
                                integration of intermittent renewable 
                                energy generation technology and 
                                distributed energy resources; and
                            ``(ii) establish cost subtargets for 
                        technologies and applications relating to the 
                        energy storage systems described in paragraph 
                        (4), taking into consideration--
                                    ``(I) electricity market prices; 
                                and
                                    ``(II) the goal of being cost-
                                competitive in specific markets for 
                                electric grid products and services.
            ``(6) Demonstration projects.--
                    ``(A) In general.--Not later than September 30, 
                2023, under the program, the Secretary shall, to the 
                maximum extent practicable, enter into agreements to 
                carry out not more than 5 grid-scale energy storage 
                system demonstration projects, including at least one 
                in which an electric cooperative is a participant and 
                at least one in which a retail electricity supplier 
                that is a State, or any political subdivision of a 
                State is a participant.
                    ``(B) Objective.--Each demonstration project 
                carried out under subparagraph (A) shall be designed to 
                further the development of the energy storage systems 
                described in paragraph (4).
                    ``(C) No ownership interest.--The Federal 
                Government shall not hold any equity or other ownership 
                interest in any grid-scale energy storage system that 
                is part of a demonstration project under this 
                paragraph.
            ``(7) Testing and validation.--The Secretary shall 
        accelerate the standardized testing and validation of grid-
        scale energy storage systems under the program through 
        collaboration with one or more National Laboratories (as 
        defined in section 2 of the Energy Policy Act of 2005 (42 
        U.S.C. 15801)), including by developing testing and evaluation 
        methodologies for--
                    ``(A) standardized grid performance testing for 
                energy storage systems, materials, and technologies 
                during each stage of development, beginning with the 
                research stage and ending with the deployment stage, 
                including performance testing with charge and discharge 
                protocols to evaluate power capability, energy output, 
                and degradation during cycling and calendar aging on 
                earliest stage commercially viable prototypes (commonly 
                less than 100 kilowatts); and
                    ``(B) accelerated life testing protocols to predict 
                estimated lifetime metrics with accuracy.
            ``(8) Coordination.--To accelerate the development of grid-
        scale energy storage systems under the program the Secretary 
        shall coordinate with--
                    ``(A) offices within the Department of Energy 
                conducting energy storage research, such as the 
                Advanced Research Projects Agency-Energy, the Office of 
                Science, and the Office of Energy Efficiency and 
                Renewable Energy;
                    ``(B) Federal agencies that are carrying out 
                initiatives to increase energy security or reliability, 
                such as the Department of Defense, the National Science 
                Foundation, the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, 
                and the Department of Homeland Security;
                    ``(C) program offices that aim to increase domestic 
                manufacturing and production, such as the Office of 
                Advanced Manufacturing in the Department of Energy and 
                the National Institute of Standards and Technology in 
                the Department of Commerce; and
                    ``(D) members of private industry to advance the 
                development of commercially viable grid-scale energy 
                storage systems.''.
    (b) Authorization of Appropriations.--The United States Energy 
Storage Competitiveness Act of 2007 (42 U.S.C. 17231) is amended, in 
subsection (q) (as redesignated by subsection (a)(1))--
            (1) in paragraph (5), by striking ``and'' at the end;
            (2) in paragraph (6), by striking the period at the end and 
        inserting ``; and''; and
            (3) by adding at the end the following:
            ``(7) the research, development, and demonstration program 
        of grid-scale energy storage systems under subsection (l) 
        $60,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2021 through 2024.''.

SEC. 124. DEPLOYMENT OF ENERGY STORAGE THROUGH TAX CREDITS.

    (a) Energy Credit for Energy Storage Technologies.--
            (1) In general.--Subclause (II) of section 48(a)(2)(A)(i) 
        of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 is amended by striking 
        ``paragraph (3)(A)(i)'' and inserting ``clause (i) or (ix) of 
        paragraph (3)(A)''.
            (2) Energy storage technologies.--Subparagraph (A) of 
        section 48(a)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as 
        amended by section 121, is amended by striking ``or'' at the 
        end of clause (vii), by adding ``or'' at the end of clause 
        (viii), and by adding at the end the following new clause:
                            ``(ix) equipment which receives, stores, 
                        and delivers energy using batteries, compressed 
                        air, pumped hydropower, hydrogen storage 
                        (including hydrolysis), thermal energy storage, 
                        regenerative fuel cells, flywheels, capacitors, 
                        superconducting magnets, or other technologies 
                        identified by the Secretary in consultation 
                        with the Secretary of Energy, and which has a 
                        capacity of not less than 5 kilowatt hours,''.
            (3) Phaseout of credit.--Paragraph (6) of section 48(a) of 
        the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 is amended--
                    (A) by striking ``energy'' in the heading and 
                inserting ``and energy storage''; and
                    (B) by striking ``paragraph (3)(A)(i)'' both places 
                it appears and inserting ``clause (i) or (ix) of 
                paragraph (3)(A)''.
            (4) Effective date.--The amendments made by this subsection 
        shall apply to property placed in service after December 31, 
        2019.
    (b) Residential Energy Efficient Property Credit for Battery 
Storage Technology.--
            (1) In general.--Subsection (a) of section 25D of the 
        Internal Revenue Code of 1986 is amended by striking ``and'' at 
        the end of paragraph (4), by inserting ``and'' after the comma 
        at the end of paragraph (5), and by inserting after paragraph 
        (5) the following new paragraph:
            ``(6) the qualified battery storage technology 
        expenditures,''.
            (2) Qualified battery storage technology expenditure.--
        Subsection (d) of section 25D of the Internal Revenue Code of 
        1986 is amended by adding at the end the following new 
        paragraph:
            ``(6) Qualified battery storage technology expenditure.--
        The term `qualified battery storage technology expenditure' 
        means an expenditure for battery storage technology which--
                    ``(A) is installed on or in connection with a 
                dwelling unit located in the United States and used as 
                a residence by the taxpayer, and
                    ``(B) has a capacity of not less than 3 kilowatt 
                hours.''.
            (3) Effective date.--The amendments made by this subsection 
        shall apply to expenditures paid or incurred in taxable years 
        beginning after December 31, 2018.

SEC. 125. NORMALIZATION OPT-OUT FOR UTILITIES.

    Paragraph (2) of section 50(d) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 
is amended by adding after the first sentence the following: ``At the 
election of a taxpayer, this paragraph shall not apply to energy 
property described in clause (i) or (ix) of section 48(a)(3)(A) that is 
placed in service by the taxpayer after December 31, 2019, provided--
                    ``(A) no election under this paragraph shall be 
                permitted if the making of such election is prohibited 
                by, or required by, a State or political subdivision 
                thereof, by any agency or instrumentality of the United 
                States, or by a public service or public utility 
                commission or other similar body of any State or 
                political subdivision that regulates public utilities 
                as described in section 7701(a)(33)(A), and
                    ``(B) an election under this paragraph shall be 
                made separately with respect to each energy property by 
                the due date (including extensions) of the Federal tax 
                return for the taxable year in which such property is 
                placed in service by the taxpayer, and once made, may 
                be revoked only with the consent of the Secretary.''.

SEC. 126. DEPLOYMENT OF CARBON CAPTURE UTILIZATION AND STORAGE THROUGH 
              TAX CREDITS.

    Section 45Q(d)(1) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 is amended 
by striking ``January 1, 2024'' and inserting ``December 31, 2029''.

SEC. 127. INNOVATION IN ADVANCED NUCLEAR TECHNOLOGY THROUGH 
              DEMONSTRATION.

    (a) Findings.--Congress finds that--
            (1) the national security nuclear enterprise, which 
        supports the nuclear weapons stockpile stewardship and naval 
        reactors functions of the National Nuclear Security 
        Administration, requires a domestic source of low- and high-
        enriched uranium due to legal restrictions regarding foreign 
        obligations relating to the beginning stage of the nuclear fuel 
        cycle;
            (2) many domestic advanced nuclear power industry 
        participants require access to high-assay, low-enriched uranium 
        fuel for--
                    (A) operation of demonstration reactors; and
                    (B) initial fuel testing;
                    (C) commercial operation of advanced nuclear 
                reactors;
            (3) as of the date of enactment of this Act, no domestic 
        uranium enrichment or fuel fabrication capability exists for 
        uranium fuel enriched to greater than 5 weight percent of the 
        uranium-235 isotope;
            (4) a healthy commercial nuclear fuel cycle capable of 
        providing higher levels of enriched uranium would benefit--
                    (A) the relevant national security functions of the 
                National Nuclear Security Administration; and
                    (B) the domestic advanced nuclear industry of the 
                United States; and
            (5) making limited quantities of high-assay, low-enriched 
        uranium available from Department of Energy stockpiles of 
        uranium would allow for initial fuel testing and demonstration 
        of advanced nuclear reactor concepts, accelerating--
                    (A) the path to market of those concepts; and
                    (B) the development of--
                            (i) a market for advanced nuclear reactors; 
                        and
                            (ii) a resulting growing commercial nuclear 
                        fuel cycle capability.
    (b) Nuclear Reactor Demonstration Project.--
            (1) In general.--Subtitle E of title IX of the Energy 
        Policy Act of 2005 (42 U.S.C. 16271 et seq.) is amended by 
        adding at the end the following:

``SEC. 959A. ADVANCED NUCLEAR REACTOR RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT GOALS.

    ``(a) Definitions.--In this section:
            ``(1) Advanced nuclear reactor.--The term `advanced nuclear 
        reactor' means--
                    ``(A) a nuclear fission reactor, including a 
                prototype plant (as defined in sections 50.2 and 52.1 
                of title 10, Code of Federal Regulations (or successor 
                regulations)), with significant improvements compared 
                to the most recent generation of fission reactors, 
                including improvements such as--
                            ``(i) additional inherent safety features;
                            ``(ii) lower waste yields;
                            ``(iii) improved fuel performance;
                            ``(iv) increased tolerance to loss of fuel 
                        cooling;
                            ``(v) enhanced reliability;
                            ``(vi) increased proliferation resistance;
                            ``(vii) increased thermal efficiency;
                            ``(viii) reduced consumption of cooling 
                        water;
                            ``(ix) the ability to integrate into 
                        electric applications and nonelectric 
                        applications;
                            ``(x) modular sizes to allow for deployment 
                        that corresponds with the demand for 
                        electricity; and
                            ``(xi) operational flexibility to respond 
                        to changes in demand for electricity and to 
                        complement integration with intermittent 
                        renewable energy; or
                    ``(B) a nuclear fusion reactor.
            ``(2) Demonstration project.--The term `demonstration 
        project' means an advanced nuclear reactor operated--
                    ``(A) as part of the power generation facilities of 
                an electric utility system; or
                    ``(B) in any other manner for the purpose of 
                demonstrating the suitability for commercial 
                application of the advanced nuclear reactor for the 
                generation of electricity or other useful energy 
                output.
    ``(b) Purpose.--The purpose of this section is to direct the 
Secretary, as soon as practicable after the date of enactment of this 
section, to advance the research and development of domestic advanced, 
affordable, and clean nuclear energy by--
            ``(1) demonstrating different advanced nuclear reactor 
        technologies that could be used by the electric power sector to 
        produce--
                    ``(A) emission-free power at a levelized cost of 
                electricity of $60 per megawatt-hour or less;
                    ``(B) heat for community heating, industrial 
                purposes, or synthetic fuel production;
                    ``(C) remote or off-grid energy supply; or
                    ``(D) backup or mission-critical power supplies;
            ``(2) developing subgoals for nuclear energy research 
        programs that would accomplish the goals of the demonstration 
        projects carried out under subsection (c);
            ``(3) identifying research areas that the electric power 
        sector is unable or unwilling to undertake due to the cost of, 
        or risks associated with, the research; and
            ``(4) facilitating the access of the electric power 
        sector--
                    ``(A) to Federal research facilities and personnel; 
                and
                    ``(B) to the results of research relating to civil 
                nuclear technology funded by the Federal Government.
    ``(c) Demonstration Projects.--
            ``(1) In general.--The Secretary shall, to the maximum 
        extent practicable--
                    ``(A) complete not fewer than two advanced nuclear 
                reactor demonstration projects by not later than 
                December 31, 2030; and
                    ``(B) establish a program to demonstrate not fewer 
                than two, and not more than five, additional 
                operational advanced reactor designs by not later than 
                December 31, 2035.
            ``(2) Requirements.--In carrying out demonstration projects 
        under paragraph (1), the Secretary shall--
                    ``(A) include diversity in designs for the advanced 
                nuclear reactors demonstrated under this section, 
                including designs using various--
                            ``(i) primary coolants;
                            ``(ii) fuel types and compositions; and
                            ``(iii) neutron spectra;
                    ``(B) seek to ensure that--
                            ``(i) the long-term cost of electricity or 
                        heat for each design to be demonstrated under 
                        this subsection has the capability of being 
                        cost-competitive in the applicable market; and
                            ``(ii) the selected projects can meet the 
                        deadline established in paragraph (1) to 
                        demonstrate first-of-a-kind advanced nuclear 
                        reactor technologies, for which additional 
                        information shall be considered, including--
                                    ``(I) the readiness level of a 
                                proposed advanced nuclear reactor 
                                technology;
                                    ``(II) the technical abilities and 
                                qualifications of teams desiring to 
                                partner with the Department to 
                                demonstrate a proposed advanced nuclear 
                                reactor technology; and
                                    ``(III) the capacity to meet cost-
                                share requirements of the Department;
                    ``(C) ensure that each evaluation of candidate 
                technologies for the demonstration projects is 
                completed through an external review of proposed 
                designs, which review shall--
                            ``(i) be conducted by a panel that includes 
                        not fewer than 1 representative of each of--
                                    ``(I) an electric utility; and
                                    ``(II) an entity that uses high-
                                temperature process heat for 
                                manufacturing or industrial processing, 
                                such as a petrochemical company, a 
                                manufacturer of metals, or a 
                                manufacturer of concrete; and
                            ``(ii) include a review of cost-
                        competitiveness and other value streams, 
                        together with the technology readiness level, 
                        of each design to be demonstrated under this 
                        subsection;
                    ``(D) enter into cost-sharing agreements with 
                partners in accordance with section 988 for the conduct 
                of activities relating to the research, development, 
                and demonstration of private-sector advanced nuclear 
                reactor designs under the program;
                    ``(E) work with electric power sector partners to 
                identify potential sites, including Department-owned 
                sites, for demonstrations, as appropriate; and
                    ``(F) align specific activities carried out under 
                demonstration projects carried out under this 
                subsection with priorities identified through direct 
                consultations between--
                            ``(i) the Department;
                            ``(ii) National Laboratories;
                            ``(iii) institutions of higher education;
                            ``(iv) traditional end-users (such as 
                        electric utilities);
                            ``(v) potential end-users of new 
                        technologies (such as users of high-temperature 
                        process heat for manufacturing processing, 
                        including petrochemical companies, 
                        manufacturers of metals, or manufacturers of 
                        concrete); and
                            ``(vi) developers of advanced nuclear 
                        reactor technology.
            ``(3) Additional requirements.--In carrying out 
        demonstration projects under paragraph (1), the Secretary 
        shall--
                    ``(A) identify candidate technologies that--
                            ``(i) are not developed sufficiently for 
                        demonstration within the initial required 
                        timeframe described in paragraph (1)(A); but
                            ``(ii) could be demonstrated within the 
                        timeframe described in paragraph (1)(B);
                    ``(B) identify technical challenges to the 
                candidate technologies identified in subparagraph (A);
                    ``(C) support near-term research and development to 
                address the highest-risk technical challenges to the 
                successful demonstration of a selected advanced reactor 
                technology, in accordance with--
                            ``(i) subparagraph (B); and
                            ``(ii) the research and development 
                        activities under section 958; and
                    ``(D) establish such technology advisory working 
                groups as the Secretary determines to be appropriate to 
                advise the Secretary regarding the technical challenges 
                identified under subparagraph (B) and the scope of 
                research and development programs to address the 
                challenges, in accordance with subparagraph (C), to be 
                comprised of--
                            ``(i) private-sector advanced nuclear 
                        reactor technology developers;
                            ``(ii) technical experts with respect to 
                        the relevant technologies at institutions of 
                        higher education; and
                            ``(iii) technical experts at the National 
                        Laboratories.
    ``(d) Goals.--
            ``(1) In general.--The Secretary shall establish goals for 
        research relating to advanced nuclear reactors facilitated by 
        the Department that support the objectives of the program for 
        demonstration projects established under subsection (c).
            ``(2) Coordination.--In developing the goals under 
        paragraph (1), the Secretary shall coordinate, on an ongoing 
        basis, with members of private industry to advance the 
        demonstration of various designs of advanced nuclear reactors.
            ``(3) Requirements.--In developing the goals under 
        paragraph (1), the Secretary shall ensure that--
                    ``(A) research activities facilitated by the 
                Department to meet the goals developed under this 
                subsection are focused on key areas of nuclear research 
                and deployment ranging from basic science to full-
                design development, safety evaluation, and licensing;
                    ``(B) research programs designed to meet the goals 
                emphasize--
                            ``(i) resolving materials challenges 
                        relating to extreme environments, including 
                        extremely high levels of--
                                    ``(I) radiation fluence;
                                    ``(II) temperature;
                                    ``(III) pressure; and
                                    ``(IV) corrosion; and
                            ``(ii) qualification of advanced fuels;
                    ``(C) activities are carried out that address near-
                term challenges in modeling and simulation to enable 
                accelerated design and licensing;
                    ``(D) related technologies, such as technologies to 
                manage, reduce, or reuse nuclear waste, are developed;
                    ``(E) nuclear research infrastructure is maintained 
                or constructed, such as--
                            ``(i) currently operational research 
                        reactors at the National Laboratories and 
                        institutions of higher education;
                            ``(ii) hot cell research facilities;
                            ``(iii) a versatile fast neutron source; 
                        and
                            ``(iv) a molten salt testing facility;
                    ``(F) basic knowledge of non-light water coolant 
                physics and chemistry is improved;
                    ``(G) advanced sensors and control systems are 
                developed; and
                    ``(H) advanced manufacturing and advanced 
                construction techniques and materials are investigated 
                to reduce the cost of advanced nuclear reactors.
    ``(e) Authorization of Appropriations.--There is authorized to be 
appropriated to carry out this section $300,000,000 for each of fiscal 
years 2021 through 2035.''.
            (2) Table of contents.--The table of contents for the 
        Energy Policy Act of 2005 (Public Law 109-58; 119 Stat. 594) is 
        further amended by inserting after the item relating to section 
        959 the following:

``Sec. 959A. Advanced nuclear reactor research and development 
                            goals.''.
            (3) Conforming amendment.--Section 951(b)(1) of the Energy 
        Policy Act of 2005 (42 U.S.C. 16271(b)(1)) is amended by 
        striking ``The term'' and inserting ``Except as provided in 
        section 959A, the term''.
    (c) Long-Term Nuclear Power Purchase Agreement Pilot Program.--
            (1) In general.--Subtitle B of title VI of the Energy 
        Policy Act of 2005 (Public Law 109-58) is amended by adding at 
        the end the following:

``SEC. 640. LONG-TERM NUCLEAR POWER PURCHASE AGREEMENT PILOT PROGRAM.

    ``(a) Establishment.--The Secretary shall establish a pilot program 
for a long-term nuclear power purchase agreement.
    ``(b) Requirements.--In developing the pilot program under this 
section, the Secretary shall--
            ``(1) consult and coordinate with the heads of other 
        Federal departments and agencies that may benefit from 
        purchasing nuclear power for a period of longer than 10 years, 
        including--
                    ``(A) the Secretary of Defense; and
                    ``(B) the Secretary of Homeland Security; and
            ``(2) not later than December 31, 2023, enter into at least 
        1 agreement to purchase power from a commercial nuclear reactor 
        that receives the first license for that reactor from the 
        Nuclear Regulatory Commission after January 1, 2021.
    ``(c) Factors for Consideration.--
            ``(1) In general.--In carrying out this section, the 
        Secretary shall give special consideration to power purchase 
        agreements for first-of-a-kind or early deployment nuclear 
        technologies that can provide reliable and resilient power to 
        high-value assets for national security purposes or other 
        purposes as the Secretary determines to be in the national 
        interest, especially in remote off-grid scenarios or grid-
        connected scenarios that can provide capabilities commonly 
        known as `islanding power capabilities' during an emergency 
        scenario.
            ``(2) Effect on rates.--An agreement to purchase power 
        under this section may be at a rate that is higher than the 
        average market rate, if the agreement fulfills an applicable 
        consideration described in paragraph (1).''.
            (2) Table of contents.--The table of contents for the 
        Energy Policy Act of 2005 (Public Law 109-58; 119 Stat. 594) is 
        further amended by inserting after the item relating to section 
        639 the following:

``Sec. 640. Long-term nuclear power purchase agreement pilot 
                            program.''.
    (d) Nuclear Strategic Plan.--
            (1) In general.--Subtitle E of title IX of the Energy 
        Policy Act of 2005 (42 U.S.C. 16271 et seq.) is further amended 
        by adding at the end the following:

``SEC. 959B. NUCLEAR ENERGY STRATEGIC PLAN.

    ``(a) In General.--Not later than 180 days after the date of 
enactment of this section, the Secretary shall submit to the Committees 
on Energy and Commerce and Science, Space, and Technology of the House 
of Representatives and the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources of 
the Senate a 10-year strategic plan for the Office of Nuclear Energy of 
the Department, in accordance with this section.
    ``(b) Requirements.--
            ``(1) Components.--The strategic plan under this section 
        shall designate--
                    ``(A) programs that support the planned 
                accomplishment of--
                            ``(i) the goals established under section 
                        959A; and
                            ``(ii) the demonstration programs 
                        identified under subsection (c) of that 
                        section; and
                    ``(B) programs that--
                            ``(i) do not support the planned 
                        accomplishment of demonstration programs, or 
                        the goals, referred to in subparagraph (A); but
                            ``(ii) are important to the mission of the 
                        Office of Nuclear Energy, as determined by the 
                        Secretary.
            ``(2) Program planning.--In developing the strategic plan 
        under this section, the Secretary shall specify expected 
        timelines for, as applicable--
                    ``(A) the accomplishment of relevant objectives 
                under current programs of the Department; or
                    ``(B) the commencement of new programs to 
                accomplish those objectives.
    ``(c) Updates.--Not less frequently than once every 2 years, the 
Secretary shall submit to the Committees on Energy and Commerce and 
Science, Space, and Technology of the House of Representatives and the 
Committee on Energy and Natural Resources of the Senate an updated 
strategic plan in accordance with subsection (b), which shall identify, 
and provide a justification for, any major deviation from a previous 
strategic plan submitted under this section.''.
            (2) Table of contents.--The table of contents for the 
        Energy Policy Act of 2005 (Public Law 109-58; 119 Stat. 594) is 
        further amended by inserting after the item relating to section 
        959A the following:

``Sec. 959B. Nuclear energy strategic plan.''.

SEC. 128. INNOVATION IN CARBON REMOVAL, UTILIZATION, AND STORAGE 
              THROUGH RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT, AND DEMONSTRATION.

    (a) Carbon Removal.--
            (1) In general.--Subtitle F of title IX of the Energy 
        Policy Act of 2005 (42 U.S.C. 16291 et seq.) is amended by 
        adding at the end the following:

``SEC. 969. CARBON REMOVAL.

    ``(a) Establishment.--The Secretary, in coordination with the 
Secretary of Agriculture, and in consultation with the Secretary of the 
Interior and the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency, 
shall establish a research, development, and demonstration program 
(referred to in this section as the `program') to test, validate, or 
improve technologies and strategies to remove carbon dioxide from the 
atmosphere on a large scale.
    ``(b) Cross-Cutting Direction.--The Secretary shall ensure that the 
program--
            ``(1) is cross-cutting in nature; and
            ``(2) includes the coordinated participation of the Office 
        of Fossil Energy, the Office of Science, and the Office of 
        Energy Efficiency and Renewable Energy.
    ``(c) Program Activities.--The program may include research, 
development, and demonstration activities relating to--
            ``(1) direct air capture and storage technologies;
            ``(2) bioenergy with carbon capture and sequestration;
            ``(3) enhanced geological weathering;
            ``(4) agricultural and grazing practices;
            ``(5) forest management and afforestation;
            ``(6) conservation and restoration of tidal marshes, 
        mangroves, and seagrasses; and
            ``(7) planning and management of other types of natural and 
        artificial carbon sinks.
    ``(d) Requirements.--In developing and identifying carbon removal 
technologies and strategies under the program, the Secretary shall 
consider--
            ``(1) the potential for carbon removal or reduction on a 
        gigaton scale;
            ``(2) the extent to which the carbon storage can be made 
        permanent;
            ``(3) net greenhouse gas emissions;
            ``(4) ocean acidification;
            ``(5) land use changes, including impacts on natural and 
        managed ecosystems;
            ``(6) other potential impacts to human health and safety 
        and the environment;
            ``(7) commercial viability;
            ``(8) economic co-benefits; and
            ``(9) the impacts described in paragraphs (1) through (8) 
        in both the near-term and the long-term.''.
            (2) Technical amendment.--The table of contents for the 
        Energy Policy Act of 2005 (Public Law 109-58; 119 Stat. 600) is 
        amended by adding at the end of the items relating to subtitle 
        F of title IX the following:

``Sec. 969. Carbon removal.''.
    (b) Fossil Energy.--Section 961(a) of the Energy Policy Act of 2005 
(42 U.S.C. 16291(a)) is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (6), by inserting ``, including technology 
        development to reduce emissions of carbon dioxide and 
        associated emissions of heavy metals and other toxic substances 
        within coal combustion residues and gas streams resulting from 
        fossil fuel use and production'' before the period at the end; 
        and
            (2) by striking paragraph (7) and inserting the following:
            ``(7) Increasing the export of fossil energy-related 
        equipment, technology, including carbon removal and utilization 
        technologies, and services from the United States.
            ``(8) Developing carbon removal and utilization 
        technologies, products, and methods that result in net 
        reductions in greenhouse gas emissions, including direct air 
        capture and storage, and carbon use and reuse for commercial 
        application.
            ``(9) Improving the conversion, use, and storage of carbon 
        dioxide produced from fossil fuels.''.
    (c) Carbon Removal Technology Prize Competition.--
            (1) Definitions.--In this subsection:
                    (A) Dilute media.--The term ``dilute media'' means 
                media in which the concentration of carbon dioxide is 
                less than 1 percent by volume.
                    (B) Prize competition.--The term ``prize 
                competition'' means the competitive technology prize 
                competition established under paragraph (2).
                    (C) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the 
                Secretary of Energy.
            (2) Establishment.--Not later than 1 year after the date of 
        enactment of this Act, the Secretary, in consultation with the 
        Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency, shall 
        establish a competitive technology prize competition to award 
        prizes for carbon dioxide capture from dilute media.
            (3) Requirements.--In carrying out this subsection, the 
        Secretary, in accordance with section 24 of the Stevenson-
        Wydler Technology Innovation Act of 1980 (15 U.S.C. 3719), 
        shall develop requirements for--
                    (A) the prize competition process; and
                    (B) monitoring and verification procedures for 
                projects selected to receive a prize under the prize 
                competition.
            (4) Eligible projects.--To be eligible for a prize awarded 
        through the prize competition, a project shall--
                    (A) meet minimum performance standards set by the 
                Secretary;
                    (B) meet minimum levels set by the Secretary for 
                the capture of carbon dioxide from dilute media; and
                    (C) demonstrate in the application of the project 
                for a prize--
                            (i) a design for a promising carbon capture 
                        technology that will--
                                    (I) be operated on a demonstration 
                                scale; and
                                    (II) have the potential to achieve 
                                significant reduction in the 
                                concentration of carbon dioxide in the 
                                atmosphere;
                            (ii) a successful bench-scale demonstration 
                        of a carbon capture technology; or
                            (iii) an operational carbon capture 
                        technology on a commercial scale.
    (d) Carbon Utilization.--
            (1) In general.--Subtitle F of title IX of the Energy 
        Policy Act of 2005 (42 U.S.C. 16291 et seq.) is amended by 
        adding at the end the following:

``SEC. 969A. CARBON UTILIZATION PROGRAM.

    ``The Secretary shall establish a program of research, development, 
and demonstration for carbon utilization--
            ``(1) to assess and monitor--
                    ``(A) potential changes in lifecycle carbon dioxide 
                and other greenhouse gas emissions; and
                    ``(B) other environmental safety indicators of new 
                technologies, practices, processes, or methods used in 
                enhanced hydrocarbon recovery as part of the activities 
                authorized under section 963;
            ``(2) to identify and assess novel uses for carbon, 
        including the conversion of carbon oxides for commercial and 
        industrial products, such as--
                    ``(A) chemicals;
                    ``(B) plastics;
                    ``(C) building materials;
                    ``(D) fuels;
                    ``(E) cement;
                    ``(F) products of coal use in power systems or 
                other applications; or
                    ``(G) other products with demonstrated market 
                value;
            ``(3) to identify and assess carbon capture technologies 
        for industrial systems; and
            ``(4) to identify and assess alternative uses for coal that 
        do not result in the release of carbon dioxide into the 
        atmosphere, including as inputs for products derived from 
        carbon engineering, carbon fiber, and coal conversion 
        methods.''.
            (2) Technical amendment.--The table of contents for the 
        Energy Policy Act of 2005 (Public Law 109-58; 119 Stat. 600) is 
        amended by adding at the end of the items relating to subtitle 
        F of title IX the following:

``Sec. 969A. Carbon utilization program.''.
    (e) Demonstrating Carbon Capture and Sequestration Technologies for 
Electric Generating Facilities.--
            (1) In general.--Subtitle F of title IX of the Energy 
        Policy Act of 2005 (42 U.S.C. 16291 et seq.) is amended by 
        adding at the end the following new section:

``SEC. 969B. DEMONSTRATING CARBON CAPTURE AND SEQUESTRATION 
              TECHNOLOGIES FOR ELECTRIC GENERATING FACILITIES.

    ``(a) In General.--The Secretary shall establish a program for 
developing and demonstrating carbon capture and sequestration 
technologies for reducing the carbon dioxide emissions from new and 
existing facilities that burn coal or natural gas to generate 
electricity. The primary objective of this demonstration program shall 
be to deploy large scale pilot projects and demonstration projects that 
will accelerate the development, deployment, and commercialization of 
advanced new technologies for the capture and sequestration of carbon 
dioxide emissions from coal fired and natural gas-fired electric 
generating facilities.
    ``(b) Deployment of Pilot and Demonstration Projects.--The 
Secretary shall provide Federal financial assistance to eligible 
project developers to support the deployment of the following:
            ``(1) Pilot projects.--Large scale pilot projects that test 
        the effectiveness and performance of carbon capture and 
        sequestration technologies under representative operating 
        conditions at coal- and natural gas-fired electric power 
        systems with a generating capacity of up to 200 megawatts.
            ``(2) Demonstration projects.--Demonstration projects that 
        deploy carbon capture and sequestration technologies that have 
        completed pilot scale testing or the equivalent, as determined 
        by the Secretary, for demonstrating such technologies on coal 
        and natural gas fired electric generating facilities that are 
        greater than 200 megawatts.
    ``(c) Project Criteria.--To be eligible to receive Federal 
financial assistance under this section, each large-scale pilot project 
and demonstration project shall meet specific criteria that the 
Secretary may establish by rule or guidance for--
            ``(1) evaluating the performance, reliability, efficiency, 
        and cost competitiveness of the technology for reducing carbon 
        dioxide emissions and limiting other environmental impacts from 
        the coal fired or natural gas fired electric generating 
        facilities; and
            ``(2) gaining the operating data needed to understand the 
        technical and performance risks of the technology under a wide 
        range of representative operating conditions before the 
        application of the technology at full commercial scale.
    ``(d) Cost-Sharing.--Each project shall be funded--
            ``(1) through a cost-share arrangement that the Secretary 
        may establish between the Department of Energy and the 
        developer of the project, as authorized under section 988(b) 
        for large-scale pilot projects and section 988(c) for 
        demonstration projects; or
            ``(2) under subtitle A of title I of the Clean Energy 
        Innovation and Deployment Act of 2020.
    ``(e) Authorization of Appropriations.--There are authorized to be 
appropriated to carry out this section such sums as are necessary for 
each of the fiscal years 2021 through 2050.''.
            (2) Clerical amendment.--The table of contents for the 
        Energy Policy Act of 2005 (Public Law 109-58; 119 Stat. 600) is 
        amended by adding at the end of the items relating to subtitle 
        F of title IX the following:

``Sec. 969B. Demonstrating carbon capture and sequestration 
                            technologies for electric generating 
                            facilities.''.

SEC. 129. DEPLOYMENT OF ELECTRIC GRID MODERNIZATION THROUGH GRANTS.

    (a) Deployment of Grid Modernization Projects Through Grants.--The 
Secretary of Energy shall establish a program to provide financial 
assistance to eligible partnerships to carry out projects related to 
the modernization of the electric grid, including--
            (1) projects for the deployment of technologies to improve 
        monitoring of, advanced controls for, and prediction of 
        performance of, the electricity distribution system; and
            (2) projects related to transmission system 
        interconnections, and other transmission system issues.
    (b) Eligible Projects.--Projects for which an eligible partnership 
may receive financial assistance under subsection (a) shall--
            (1) be designed to--
                    (A) improve the siting, construction, resiliency, 
                performance, or efficiency of the electric grid, while 
                ensuring the continued provision of safe, secure, 
                reliable, and affordable power; or
                    (B) deploy a new product or technology that could 
                be used by or for the benefit of customers of an 
                electric utility; and
            (2) demonstrate--
                    (A) secure integration and management of energy 
                resources, including through distributed energy 
                generation, combined heat and power, microgrids, energy 
                storage, electric vehicles, smart buildings, energy 
                efficiency, or demand response; or
                    (B) secure integration and interoperability of 
                communications and information technologies related to 
                the electric grid.
    (c) Cybersecurity Plan.--Each project carried out with financial 
assistance provided under subsection (a) shall include the development 
of a cybersecurity plan written in accordance with guidelines developed 
by the Secretary of Energy.
    (d) Privacy Effects Analysis.--Each project carried out with 
financial assistance provided under subsection (a) shall include a 
privacy effects analysis that evaluates the project in accordance with 
the Voluntary Code of Conduct of the Department of Energy, commonly 
known as the ``DataGuard Energy Data Privacy Program'', or the most 
recent revisions to the privacy program of the Department.
    (e) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Eligible partnership.--The term ``eligible 
        partnership'' means a partnership consisting of two or more 
        entities, which--
                    (A) may include--
                            (i) any institution of higher education;
                            (ii) a National Laboratory;
                            (iii) a State or a local government or 
                        other public body created by or pursuant to 
                        State law;
                            (iv) an Indian Tribe;
                            (v) a Federal power marketing 
                        administration; or
                            (vi) a private entity that develops and 
                        provides grid modernization technology; and
                    (B) shall include at least one of any of--
                            (i) an electric utility;
                            (ii) a Regional Transmission Organization; 
                        or
                            (iii) an Independent System Operator.
            (2) Electric utility.--The term ``electric utility'' has 
        the meaning given that term in section 3(22) of the Federal 
        Power Act (16 U.S.C. 796(22)), except that such term does not 
        include an entity described in subparagraph (B) of such 
        section.
            (3) Federal power marketing administration.--The term 
        ``Federal power marketing administration'' means the Bonneville 
        Power Administration, the Southeastern Power Administration, 
        the Southwestern Power Administration, or the Western Area 
        Power Administration.
            (4) Independent system operator; regional transmission 
        organization.--The terms ``Independent System Operator'' and 
        ``Regional Transmission Organization'' have the meanings given 
        those terms in section 3 of the Federal Power Act (16 U.S.C. 
        796).
            (5) Institution of higher education.--The term 
        ``institution of higher education'' has the meaning given that 
        term in section 101(a) of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (20 
        U.S.C. 1001(a)).
    (f) Authorization of Appropriations.--There is authorized to be 
appropriated to carry out this section $200,000,000 for each of fiscal 
years 2021 through 2025, to remain available until expended.

SEC. 130. PRIZE COMPETITION FOR ELECTRICITY-RELATED TECHNOLOGIES FOR 
              REMOTE COMMUNITIES.

    (a) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Prize.--The term ``prize'' means a prize awarded under 
        the prize competition.
            (2) Prize competition.--The term ``prize competition'' 
        means the competition established under subsection (b).
            (3) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary 
        of Energy.
    (b) Establishment.--Not later than 1 year after the date of 
enactment of this section, the Secretary, in consultation with the 
Secretary of Defense, shall establish a competition to award prizes for 
technologies that efficiently generate or utilize electricity for use 
by homes, businesses, communities, or military installations that are 
in remote locations or are not connected to a regional or national 
electric grid.
    (c) Requirements.--In carrying out this subsection, the Secretary, 
in accordance with section 24 of the Stevenson-Wydler Technology 
Innovation Act of 1980 (15 U.S.C. 3719), shall develop requirements 
for--
            (1) the prize competition process; and
            (2) monitoring and verification procedures for projects 
        selected to receive a prize.
    (d) Eligible Technologies.--The technologies eligible to awarded a 
prize shall include--
            (1) technologies that generate electricity and can be used 
        without connection to the electric grid;
            (2) technologies that store energy; and
            (3) appliances that are highly-efficient in their use of 
        electricity, including--
                    (A) lights;
                    (B) mobile telephone chargers;
                    (C) computers;
                    (D) fans;
                    (E) refrigerators; and
                    (F) stoves and ovens.
    (e) Criteria.--The Secretary shall only award a prize to a 
technology determined by the Secretary to--
            (1) function properly;
            (2) generate no net emissions, or a minimal amount of net 
        emissions, of greenhouse gases throughout its life cycle;
            (3) be affordable, reliable, durable, safe, and protective 
        of human health and the environment;
            (4) be compatible with other technologies relevant to its 
        functioning, including those which have been or are being 
        awarded prizes under this section; and
            (5) be available for deployment at commercial-scale in 
        every State, district, commonwealth, territory, and possession 
        of the United States.
    (f) Marketing.--Entities that have been awarded a prize may publish 
this fact in marketing the technology that has been awarded the prize.
    (g) Annual Competition.--The Secretary shall award 1 or more prizes 
within 2 years of the date of enactment of this section and every year 
thereafter.

SEC. 131. REPORT TO CONGRESS.

    (a) Definition.--In this section, the term ``critical 
technologies'' means the technologies identified in sections 111 
through 128 of subtitles B and C of this title, including technologies 
related to--
            (1) electric vehicles;
            (2) energy efficient buildings;
            (3) solar and wind energy;
            (4) energy storage;
            (5) nuclear power;
            (6) carbon removal, utilization, and storage;
            (7) electric grid modernization; and
            (8) any other technologies whose deployment the Secretary 
        may advance through the implementation of this title and the 
        amendments made by this title.
    (b) Report.--Not later than 2 years after the date of enactment of 
this Act, and every 5 years thereafter, the Secretary of Energy, in 
consultation with, as appropriate, the heads of other relevant Federal 
agencies, State agencies, and relevant stakeholders, shall prepare, 
submit to Congress, and make publicly available a report that--
            (1) identifies the major risks and benefits associated with 
        the deployment of critical technologies;
            (2) recommends measures for managing the risks identified 
        in paragraph (1);
            (3) analyzes barriers to deployment of critical 
        technologies, including--
                    (A) the state of existing research, development, 
                demonstration, and deployment;
                    (B) a detailed identification of the foreseeable 
                technical milestones of the research, development, 
                demonstration, and deployment described in paragraph 
                (A);
                    (C) the projected likelihood of viability at 
                commercial scale;
                    (D) access to capital;
                    (E) adverse environmental impacts;
                    (F) materials challenges relating to extreme 
                environments, including--
                            (i) temperature;
                            (ii) pressure;
                            (iii) corrosion;
                            (iv) seasonality; and
                            (v) weather events;
                    (G) geographic barriers; and
                    (H) economic and other challenges particular to 
                different regions of the United States;
            (4) estimates the amount and form of any financial 
        assistance, compensation, or incentives needed for wide-scale 
        deployment of critical technologies;
            (5) recommends additional nonregulatory strategies that 
        could increase the deployment of critical technologies;
            (6) identifies appropriate Federal agencies with 
        capabilities to support State and local efforts towards 
        deployment of the critical technologies;
            (7) identifies all Federal financial assistance programs 
        relevant to the deployment of the critical technologies and 
        analyzes the extent to which such programs overlap or are 
        duplicative; and
            (8) evaluates the current architecture of regional electric 
        grids (including international transmission connections of such 
        grids) that together comprise the Nation's electric grid, with 
        respect to--
                    (A) potential growth in renewable energy 
                generation, including energy generation from offshore 
                wind;
                    (B) potential growth in electricity demand;
                    (C) retirement of existing electricity generation 
                assets; and
                    (D) the range of benefits that interregional 
                transmission provides.

                   Subtitle D--Davis-Bacon Compliance

SEC. 141. DAVIS-BACON COMPLIANCE.

    (a) In General.--All laborers and mechanics employed on projects 
funded directly, or assisted in whole or in part, by this Act shall be 
paid wages at rates not less than those prevailing on projects of a 
character similar in the locality as determined by the Secretary of 
Labor in accordance with subchapter IV of chapter 31 of part A of 
subtitle II of title 40, United States Code (commonly referred to as 
the ``Davis-Bacon Act'').
    (b) Authority.--With respect to the labor standards specified in 
this section, the Secretary of Labor shall have the authority and 
functions set forth in Reorganization Plan Numbered 14 of 1950 (64 
Stat. 1267; 5 U.S.C. App.) and section 3145 of title 40, United States 
Code.

              TITLE II--ZERO-EMISSION ELECTRICITY STANDARD

SEC. 200. PURPOSE.

    The purpose of this title is to accelerate the deployment of zero-
emission electricity technology sufficient to allow the United States 
to achieve an affordable, reliable, net-zero-emission electricity 
sector by no later than 2050.

             Subtitle A--Zero-Emission Electricity Standard

SEC. 201. DEFINITIONS.

    In this subtitle:
            (1) Affiliate.--The term ``affiliate'' has the meaning 
        given such term in section 1262 of the Energy Policy Act of 
        2005 (42 U.S.C. 16451).
            (2) Associate company.--The term ``associate company'' has 
        the meaning given such term in section 1262 of the Energy 
        Policy Act of 2005 (42 U.S.C. 16451).
            (3) Behind-the-meter generation system.--The term ``behind-
        the-meter generation system'' means a system of generation of 
        electric energy that operates on the electric consumer side of 
        the applicable utility meter.
            (4) Beneficial electrification-related reduction.--The term 
        ``beneficial electrification-related reduction'' means the net 
        reduction of the aggregate greenhouse gas emissions of a retail 
        electricity supplier and an electric consumer as the result of 
        the replacement of a power source of the electric consumer that 
        is not electric energy with electric energy provided by the 
        retail electricity supplier, including for the purpose of 
        transportation, space heating, water heating, or industrial 
        processes.
            (5) Carbon dioxide equivalent.--The term ``carbon dioxide 
        equivalent'' means the number of metric tons of carbon dioxide 
        emissions with the same global warming potential over a 20-year 
        period as 1 metric ton of another greenhouse gas, including the 
        effects of climate-carbon feedbacks for both carbon dioxide and 
        the other greenhouse gas, as determined in accordance with the 
        Fifth Assessment Report of the Intergovernmental Panel on 
        Climate Change. For methane, the global warming potential shall 
        include the effect of carbon dioxide from methane oxidation in 
        the atmosphere.
            (6) Carbon intensity.--The term ``carbon intensity'' means 
        the carbon dioxide equivalent emissions associated with the 
        generation of 1 megawatt-hour of electric energy, as determined 
        by the Secretary under section 204.
            (7) Electric consumer.--The term ``electric consumer'' has 
        the meaning given such term in section 3 of the Public Utility 
        Regulatory Policies Act of 1978 (16 U.S.C. 2602).
            (8) Federal power marketing administration.--The term 
        ``Federal Power Marketing Administration'' means the Bonneville 
        Power Administration, the Southeastern Power Administration, 
        the Southwestern Power Administration, or the Western Area 
        Power Administration.
            (9) Generating unit.--The term ``generating unit'' means a 
        unit or system of units that--
                    (A) generates electric energy that is consumed in 
                the United States;
                    (B) generates not fewer than 20 megawatt-hours of 
                electric energy per calendar year; and
                    (C)(i) delivers electric energy to the electric 
                grid; or
                    (ii) in the case of a behind-the-meter generation 
                system--
                            (I) delivers electric energy to the 
                        electric grid; or
                            (II) generates electric energy that is 
                        consumed onsite for a useful purpose other than 
                        for generating electric energy.
            (10) Generator.--The term ``generator'' means the owner or 
        operator of a generating unit.
            (11) Greenhouse gas.--The term ``greenhouse gas'' includes 
        each of the following:
                    (A) Carbon dioxide.
                    (B) Methane.
                    (C) Nitrous oxide.
                    (D) Sulfur hexafluoride.
                    (E) Any hydrofluorocarbon.
                    (F) Any perfluorocarbon.
                    (G) Nitrogen trifluoride.
                    (H) Any fully fluorinated linear, branched, or 
                cyclic--
                            (i) alkane;
                            (ii) ether;
                            (iii) tertiary amine; or
                            (iv) aminoether.
                    (I) Any perfluoropolyether.
                    (J) Any hydrofluoropolyether.
                    (K) Any other fluorocarbon, except for a 
                fluorocarbon with a vapor pressure of less than 1 mm of 
                Hg absolute at 25 degrees Celsius.
            (12) Qualified combined heat and power system.--The term 
        ``qualified combined heat and power system'' means a system 
        that--
                    (A) uses the same energy source for the 
                simultaneous or sequential generation of electric 
                energy and thermal energy;
                    (B) produces at least--
                            (i) 20 percent of the useful energy of the 
                        system in the form of electric energy; and
                            (ii) 20 percent of the useful energy of the 
                        system in the form of useful thermal energy;
                    (C) to the extent that the system uses biomass, 
                uses only qualified renewable biomass; and
                    (D) operates with an energy efficiency percentage, 
                as determined in accordance with section 48(c)(3)(C)(i) 
                of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, of greater than 
                60 percent on a year-round basis.
            (13) Qualified electricity generation.--
                    (A) In general.--The term ``qualified electricity 
                generation'' means the number of megawatt-hours of 
                electric energy that a generator generates using a 
                generating unit and--
                            (i) sells directly or indirectly for use by 
                        electric consumers for purposes other than 
                        resale; or
                            (ii) that is consumed onsite for a useful 
                        purpose other than for generating electric 
                        energy.
                    (B) Affiliate sales.--For purposes of calculating 
                the quantity of electric energy sold by a retail 
                electricity supplier under this paragraph, the quantity 
                of electric energy sold--
                            (i) by an affiliate of the retail 
                        electricity supplier, or an associate company 
                        of the retail electricity supplier, to an 
                        electric consumer (other than to a lessee or 
                        tenant of the affiliate or associate company) 
                        shall be treated as sold by the retail 
                        electricity supplier; and
                            (ii) by such retail electricity supplier to 
                        an affiliate, lessee, or tenant of the retail 
                        electricity supplier shall not be considered to 
                        be a sale to an electric consumer.
            (14) Qualified low-carbon fuel.--
                    (A) In general.--The term ``qualified low-carbon 
                fuel'' means a fuel that--
                            (i) is produced through any process that 
                        significantly limits or avoids greenhouse gas 
                        emissions; and
                            (ii) does not release greenhouse gas 
                        emissions during combustion.
                    (B) Inclusion.--The term ``qualified low-carbon 
                fuel'' includes, subject to subparagraph (A)--
                            (i) ammonia; and
                            (ii) hydrogen.
            (15) Qualified renewable biomass.--
                    (A) In general.--The term ``qualified renewable 
                biomass'' means--
                            (i) any crop byproduct, or crop residue, 
                        harvested from actively managed, or fallow, 
                        agricultural land that was cleared before 
                        January 1, 2020, if the harvesting of the 
                        byproduct or residue does not lead to a net 
                        decline in soil organic matter for the 
                        applicable land;
                            (ii) any cellulose, hemicellulose, or 
                        lignin that is derived from a plant that is 
                        planted for the purpose of being used to 
                        produce energy on land that was, as of January 
                        1, 2020--
                                    (I) cropland, including fallow land 
                                or other land with a cropping history;
                                    (II) a brownfield site (as defined 
                                in section 101(39) of the Comprehensive 
                                Environmental Response, Compensation, 
                                and Liability Act of 1980 (42 U.S.C. 
                                9601(39))); or
                                    (III) an abandoned mine site;
                            (iii) nonhazardous algal or other micro-
                        crop matter; and
                            (iv) waste--
                                    (I) that is burned in a qualified 
                                combined heat and power system; and
                                    (II) that is--
                                            (aa) methane captured from 
                                        a landfill, an animal 
                                        production facility, or a 
                                        sewage treatment operation;
                                            (bb) nonhazardous landscape 
                                        or right-of-way trimmings;
                                            (cc) vegetative matter 
                                        removed from an area located 
                                        not more than 200 yards from a 
                                        building, residence, or 
                                        campground for the purpose of 
                                        protecting structures from 
                                        wildfire;
                                            (dd) any byproduct of a 
                                        wood mill or paper mill 
                                        operation, including lignin in 
                                        spent pulping liquors, that is 
                                        demonstrated to otherwise be 
                                        burned for energy onsite;
                                            (ee) plant material removed 
                                        for the purposes of invasive or 
                                        noxious plant species control; 
                                        or
                                            (ff) downed wood from 
                                        extreme weather events.
                    (B) Limit of inclusion of invasive species.--Except 
                as provided in subparagraph (A)(iv)(II)(ee), the term 
                ``qualified renewable biomass'' does not include any 
                matter that the Secretary of Agriculture, in 
                consultation with other Federal or State departments 
                and agencies the Secretary determines appropriate, 
                determines is derived from--
                            (i) a plant that is invasive or noxious; or
                            (ii) a species or varieties of plants that 
                        are potentially invasive.
            (16) Qualified waste-to-energy.--The term ``qualified 
        waste-to-energy'' means electric energy generated--
                    (A) from the combustion of--
                            (i) post-recycled municipal solid waste, 
                        provided such combustion does not result in 
                        emissions of--
                                    (I) an air pollutant for which air 
                                quality criteria has been issued under 
                                section 108 of the Clean Air Act; or
                                    (II) a hazardous air pollutant 
                                listed pursuant to section 112(b) of 
                                the Clean Air Act;
                            (ii) gas produced from the gasification or 
                        pyrolization of post-recycled municipal solid 
                        waste;
                            (iii) biogas;
                            (iv) landfill methane;
                            (v) animal waste or animal byproducts;
                            (vi) food waste;
                            (vii) if diverted from or separated from 
                        other waste out of a municipal waste stream--
                                    (I) paper products that are not 
                                commonly recyclable;
                                    (II) vegetation;
                                    (III) tree trimmings;
                                    (IV) solid-wood yard waste, 
                                pallets, or crates; or
                                    (V) manufacturing and construction 
                                debris; or
                            (viii) any byproduct of a wood or paper 
                        mill operation, including lignin in spent 
                        pulping liquors; and
                    (B) at a facility that the Secretary has certified, 
                within the past 3 years, is in compliance with all 
                applicable Federal and State environmental permits.
            (17) Retail electricity supplier.--The term ``retail 
        electricity supplier'', as determined for each calendar year, 
        means an entity in the United States that sold not fewer than 
        20 megawatt-hours of electric energy to electric consumers for 
        purposes other than resale during the preceding calendar year.
            (18) Sale.--The term ``sale'', when used with respect to 
        electric energy, has the meaning given such term in section 
        3(13) of the Public Utility Regulatory Policies Act of 1978 (16 
        U.S.C. 2602(13)).
            (19) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary 
        of Energy.
            (20) State.--Except as otherwise provided in this title, 
        the term ``State'' means a State of the United States and any 
        district, commonwealth, territory, or possession of the United 
        States.
            (21) Zero-emission electricity.--The term ``zero-emission 
        electricity'' means the fraction of the electric energy 
        generated by a given generating unit whose generation is not 
        associated with the release of greenhouse gases to the 
        atmosphere. The number of megawatt-hours of zero-emission 
        electricity of a given generating unit is equal to the product 
        obtained by multiplying--
                    (A) the qualified electricity generation of the 
                generating unit; by
                    (B) the extent to which the operation of the 
                generating unit results in fewer greenhouse gas 
                emissions than an efficient coal-burning power plant, 
                which is the number that equals--
                            (i) 1.0; less
                            (ii) the quotient obtained by dividing--
                                    (I) the carbon intensity of the 
                                generating unit; by
                                    (II) the carbon intensity of an 
                                efficient coal-burning power plant 
                                (which is 0.82 metric tons of carbon 
                                dioxide per megawatt-hour).
            (22) Zero-emission electricity credit.--The term ``zero-
        emission electricity credit'' means a credit issued pursuant to 
        section 204.

SEC. 202. ZERO-EMISSION ELECTRICITY REQUIREMENT.

    (a) Zero-Emission Electricity Requirement.--
            (1) Credit submission requirement.--Except as otherwise 
        provided in this section, effective beginning with calendar 
        year 2022, for each calendar year, not later than June 1 of the 
        following calendar year, each retail electricity supplier shall 
        submit to the Secretary a quantity of zero-emission electricity 
        credits that is equal to--
                    (A) for each of calendar years 2022 and 2023, the 
                quantity of zero-emission electricity credits 
                determined under paragraph (3) for the retail 
                electricity supplier for such calendar year; and
                    (B) for calendar year 2024 and each calendar year 
                thereafter, the average of the quantity of zero-
                emission electricity credits determined under paragraph 
                (3) for the retail electricity supplier for such 
                calendar year and the two prior calendar years.
            (2) Voluntary assignment of compliance obligation by public 
        power utilities and electric cooperatives.--Any retail 
        electricity supplier that is an electric cooperative, a State, 
        or any political subdivision of a State, may elect to enter 
        into an agreement with another political subdivision of a 
        State, an electric cooperative that has an obligation to serve 
        such retail electricity supplier, or a generator to assign any 
        reporting or compliance obligation under this title to such 
        other political subdivision of a State, electric cooperative, 
        or generator. An assignment made under this paragraph shall be 
        established through a binding agreement executed among the 
        relevant parties.
            (3) Quantity of zero-emission electricity credits.--
                    (A) In general.--For each calendar year, the 
                Secretary shall determine a quantity of zero-emission 
                electricity credits for a retail electricity supplier 
                that is equal to the product obtained by multiplying--
                            (i) the total quantity of electric energy, 
                        in megawatt-hours, consumed by electric 
                        consumers of the retail electricity supplier 
                        during the calendar year, that is provided by 
                        the retail electricity supplier or by a behind-
                        the-meter generation system, as reported under 
                        subsection (b); by
                            (ii) the minimum percentage of zero-
                        emission electricity for the calendar year.
                    (B) Deduction for beneficial electrification.--
                            (i) Reduction.--In calculating the total 
                        quantity of electric energy consumed by 
                        electric consumers of a retail electricity 
                        supplier under subparagraph (A)(i), the 
                        Secretary shall deduct a quantity, in megawatt-
                        hours, determined in accordance with clause 
                        (ii) to account for beneficial electrification-
                        related reductions.
                            (ii) Determination.--The Secretary shall 
                        make a determination of the quantity of 
                        electric energy, in megawatt-hours, associated 
                        with beneficial electrification-related 
                        reductions for a retail electricity supplier 
                        for a calendar year. Such determination shall 
                        be made on the basis of--
                                    (I) the carbon intensity of the 
                                electric energy sold by the retail 
                                electricity supplier that results in 
                                such beneficial electrification-related 
                                reductions; and
                                    (II) the greenhouse gas emissions 
                                of power sources that are not electric 
                                energy that were replaced with electric 
                                energy provided by the retail 
                                electricity supplier which results in 
                                such beneficial electrification-related 
                                reductions.
                    (C) System support resource.--For any calendar year 
                in which a generating unit that is owned by a retail 
                electricity supplier has been designated a System 
                Support Resource by the Federal Energy Regulatory 
                Commission and is thereby required, by an Independent 
                System Operator or Regional Transmission Organization, 
                or under a State-regulated resource planning process, 
                to remain in operation because retirement of the 
                generating unit would harm the reliability of the 
                electric energy transmission system, in calculating the 
                total quantity of electric energy consumed by electric 
                consumers of the retail electricity supplier under 
                subparagraph (A)(i), the Secretary shall deduct the 
                quantity of megawatt-hours of electricity generated by 
                such generating unit during such calendar year.
            (4) Average credit prices.--For each calendar year, the 
        Secretary shall--
                    (A) analyze the market for zero-emission 
                electricity credits in order to determine the average 
                annual price of zero-emission electricity credits for 
                the calendar year;
                    (B) determine whether the average annual price of a 
                zero-emission electricity credit determined under 
                subparagraph (A) is less than half of the alternative 
                compliance payment under subsection (c) for the 
                calendar year; and
                    (C) publish the determinations made under 
                subparagraphs (A) and (B) by not later than January 31 
                of the year following the calendar year.
            (5) Definitions.--In this subsection:
                    (A) Annual percentage increase.--
                            (i) Except as provided in clause (ii), the 
                        term ``annual percentage increase'' means, with 
                        respect to a retail electricity supplier, the 
                        product obtained by multiplying--
                                    (I) the difference between 100 
                                percent and the baseline zero-emission 
                                electricity percentage; by--
                                    (II) \1/27\.
                            (ii) Notwithstanding clause (i), beginning 
                        with calendar year 2025, if the Secretary 
                        determines under paragraph (4) that the average 
                        annual price of a zero-emission electricity 
                        credit for each of the 3 calendar years prior 
                        to a calendar year (in this clause referred to 
                        as ``the applicable calendar year'') is less 
                        than one half of the respective alternative 
                        compliance payment for each of the 3 such prior 
                        calendar years, the annual percentage increase 
                        for the 1 calendar year that begins 4 years 
                        after the end of the applicable calendar year 
                        shall be twice the percentage described in 
                        clause (i).
                    (B) Baseline zero-emission electricity 
                percentage.--
                            (i) In general.--The term ``baseline zero-
                        emission electricity percentage'' means, with 
                        respect to a retail electricity supplier, the 
                        average percentage of the electric energy 
                        consumed by all electric consumers of the 
                        retail electricity supplier that is zero-
                        emission electricity during calendar years 
                        2017, 2018, and 2019.
                            (ii) Election.--For any retail electricity 
                        supplier served by an Independent System 
                        Operator or a Regional Transmission 
                        Organization, or participating in a joint unit 
                        commitment and centralized economic dispatch 
                        system regulated by the Federal Energy 
                        Regulatory Commission, the retail electricity 
                        supplier may elect to set its baseline zero-
                        emission electricity percentage under clause 
                        (i) on the basis of the zero-emission 
                        electricity and electric energy consumed by 
                        either--
                                    (I) all electric consumers of the 
                                retail electricity supplier; or
                                    (II) all electric consumers served 
                                by the Independent System Operator, 
                                Regional Transmission Organization, or 
                                the applicable joint unit commitment 
                                and centralized economic dispatch 
                                system that serves the retail 
                                electricity supplier.
                            (iii) Notification of election.--A retail 
                        electricity supplier shall inform the Secretary 
                        of its election under clause (ii) not later 
                        than 180 days after the date of enactment of 
                        this Act.
                    (C) Minimum percentage of zero-emission 
                electricity.--The term ``minimum percentage of zero-
                emission electricity'' means, with respect to a retail 
                electricity supplier--
                            (i) for each of calendar years 2022 and 
                        2023, the baseline zero-emission electricity 
                        percentage;
                            (ii) for each of calendar years 2024 
                        through 2050, the amount, not to exceed 100 
                        percent, obtained by adding--
                                    (I) the minimum percentage of zero-
                                emission electricity for the previous 
                                calendar year; and
                                    (II) the annual percentage 
                                increase; and
                            (iii) for each calendar year after 2050, 
                        100 percent.
    (b) Reporting on Behind-the-Meter Generation Systems.--Effective 
beginning in calendar year 2022, each retail electricity supplier 
serving one or more behind-the-meter generation systems may, not later 
than January 1 of each calendar year, submit to the Secretary--
            (1) verification of the carbon intensity of behind-the-
        meter generation systems connected to the retail electricity 
        supplier; and
            (2) the quantity of electric energy generated by each such 
        behind-the-meter generation system that is consumed for a 
        useful purpose by electric consumers served by the retail 
        electricity supplier.
    (c) Alternative Compliance Payments.--A retail electricity supplier 
may satisfy the requirements of subsection (a) with respect to a 
calendar year, in whole or in part, by submitting to the Secretary, in 
lieu of each zero-emission electricity credit that would otherwise be 
due, an alternative compliance payment equal to the amount determined 
for such calendar year in accordance with the following table, adjusted 
for inflation:


------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                             Alternative
                       Calendar year                          compliance
                                                               payment
------------------------------------------------------------------------
2022.......................................................       $20.00
2023.......................................................       $21.50
2024.......................................................       $23.00
2025.......................................................       $24.50
2026.......................................................       $26.00
2027.......................................................       $27.50
2028.......................................................       $29.00
2029.......................................................       $30.50
2030.......................................................       $32.00
2031.......................................................       $33.50
2032.......................................................       $35.00
2033.......................................................       $36.50
2034.......................................................       $38.00
2035.......................................................       $39.50
2036.......................................................       $41.00
2037.......................................................       $42.50
2038.......................................................       $44.00
2039.......................................................       $45.50
2040.......................................................       $47.00
2041.......................................................       $48.50
2042.......................................................       $50.00
2043.......................................................       $51.50
2044.......................................................       $53.00
2045.......................................................       $54.50
2046.......................................................       $56.00
2047.......................................................       $57.50
2048.......................................................       $59.00
2049.......................................................       $60.50
2050 and each calendar year thereafter.....................      $62.00.
------------------------------------------------------------------------

    (d) Determination of Inadequate Availability of Zero-Emission 
Electricity Technology.--
            (1) Petition for determination.--A retail electricity 
        supplier (referred to in this subsection as the ``petitioner'') 
        may submit to the Secretary a petition for the Secretary to 
        make a determination of inadequate availability of technology 
        relating to zero-emission electricity with respect to a 
        calendar year.
            (2) Conditions.--The Secretary shall make an affirmative 
        determination under paragraph (1) (referred to in this title as 
        a ``determination of inadequate availability of technology'') 
        for a calendar year only if--
                    (A) a petition is submitted to the Secretary by 
                January 31 of the following calendar year;
                    (B) the average annual price of zero-emission 
                electricity credits is equal to or greater than the 
                alternative compliance payment under subsection (c) for 
                such calendar year;
                    (C) the Secretary determines the number of 
                megawatt-hours of zero-emission electricity that could 
                have been generated or purchased by the petitioner 
                using technology that was available during such 
                calendar year--
                            (i) at or below the cost per megawatt-hour 
                        of the technology used to generate the 
                        electricity sold by the petitioner in the 
                        previous calendar year; and
                            (ii) while enabling the petitioner to 
                        operate its system at an adequate level of 
                        reliability; and
                    (D) the number of megawatt-hours determined under 
                subparagraph (C) is less than the number of zero-
                emission electricity credits the petitioner would be 
                required to submit under subsection (a).
            (3) Credit submission.--Notwithstanding subsection (a)(1), 
        if the Secretary makes a determination of inadequate 
        availability of technology for a petitioner for a calendar 
        year, as described under this subsection, the petitioner shall 
        not be required to submit for such calendar year more than the 
        number of zero-emission electricity credits equal to the number 
        of megawatt-hours determined under paragraph (2)(C).
            (4) Carbon mitigation awards.--For the calendar year 
        identified under paragraph (3), if the Secretary makes one or 
        more determinations of inadequate availability of technology 
        under this subsection, the Secretary shall award under section 
        205(b) an amount of money equal to the sum of--
                    (A) the total amount paid by retail electricity 
                suppliers as alternative compliance payments; and
                    (B) the total amount of the alternative compliance 
                payments that would have been made by the petitioner or 
                petitioners but for the determination of inadequate 
                availability of technology made under paragraph (2).
    (e) Exemptions.--(1) A qualified zero-emission electricity taxpayer 
that receives a zero-emission electricity acceleration investment 
credit for a calendar year under section 45U of the Internal Revenue 
Code of 1986, as added by section 301 of this Act, shall not be subject 
to the requirements to submit zero-emission electricity credits under 
this section for such calendar year and every calendar year thereafter.
    (2) An eligible electricity provider that is awarded a grant under 
section 302 of this Act for a calendar year shall not be subject to the 
requirements to submit zero-emission electricity credits under this 
section for such calendar year and every calendar year thereafter, as 
long as the condition described under section 302(a)(1) continues to be 
met.

SEC. 203. ZERO-EMISSION ELECTRICITY CREDIT TRADING PROGRAM.

    (a) Establishment.--Not later than 1 year after the date of 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall establish a zero-emission 
electricity credit trading program under which--
            (1) the Secretary shall record, track, auction, and 
        transfer zero-emission electricity credits; and
            (2) a generator to whom such zero-emission electricity 
        credits are issued may sell or otherwise transfer those 
        credits, as provided or allowed by applicable contracts, 
        through--
                    (A) any auction established under the zero-emission 
                electricity credit trading program;
                    (B) direct sales; or
                    (C) other transactional arrangements that sell 
                electric energy or generating capacity either 
                separately or combined with the transfer of zero-
                emission electricity credits, including transactions 
                that pair zero-emission electricity credits with the 
                demand of the retail electricity supplier.
    (b) Administration.--In carrying out the program under this 
section, the Secretary shall ensure that a zero-emission electricity 
credit may be--
            (1) submitted only once under section 202(a); and
            (2) only purchased by, transferred to, or otherwise secured 
        by a retail electricity supplier.
    (c) Delegation of Market Function.--
            (1) In general.--In carrying out the program under this 
        section, the Secretary may delegate, to one or more appropriate 
        entities--
                    (A) the administration of a transparent national 
                market for the sale or trade of zero-emission 
                electricity credits; and
                    (B) the tracking of dispatch of zero-emission 
                electricity generation.
            (2) Administration.--In making a delegation under paragraph 
        (1), the Secretary shall ensure that the tracking and reporting 
        of information concerning the dispatch of zero-emission 
        electricity generation is transparent, verifiable, and 
        independent of any interests subject to an obligation under 
        this title.
    (d) Banking of Zero-Emission Electricity Credits.--A zero-emission 
electricity credit may be used for compliance with the requirements of 
section 202 for--
            (1) the calendar year for which the zero-emission 
        electricity credit is issued (in this subsection referred to as 
        ``the applicable calendar year''); and
            (2)(A) any of the 5 calendar years following the applicable 
        calendar year, if the Secretary determines under section 
        202(a)(4) that the average annual price of a zero-emission 
        electricity credit is equal to or less than one half of the 
        alternative compliance payment for each of the 3 calendar years 
        prior to the applicable calendar year; or
            (B) if the Secretary has not made the determination 
        described under subparagraph (A)--
                    (i) any of the 5 calendar years following the 
                applicable calendar year, if the applicable calendar 
                year is any of calendar years 2022 through 2029;
                    (ii) any of the 4 calendar years following the 
                applicable calendar year, if the applicable calendar 
                year is any of calendar years 2030 through 2034;
                    (iii) any of the 3 calendar years following the 
                applicable calendar year, if the applicable calendar 
                year is any of calendar years 2035 through 2039; and
                    (iv) any of the 2 calendar years following the 
                applicable calendar year, if the applicable calendar 
                year is 2040 or any calendar year thereafter.

SEC. 204. DETERMINATION AND ISSUANCE OF QUANTITY OF ZERO-EMISSION 
              ELECTRICITY CREDITS.

    (a) Issuance of Zero-Emission Electricity Credits.--The Secretary 
shall issue to each generator a quantity of zero-emission electricity 
credits determined in accordance with this section, not later than 
March 1 of the calendar year after the calendar year for which the 
zero-emission electricity credits are issued.
    (b) General Rules on Credit Issuance.--Except as otherwise provided 
in this section, the Secretary shall issue to a generator generating 
zero-emission electricity during a calendar year a quantity of zero-
emission electricity credits for such generation that is equal to the 
product obtained by multiplying--
            (1) the qualified electricity generation of the generator 
        during such calendar year; by
            (2) the number that equals--
                    (A) 1.0; less
                    (B) the quotient obtained by dividing--
                            (i) the average carbon intensity of the 
                        generating units of such generator for such 
                        calendar year, as determined in accordance with 
                        subsection (c); by
                            (ii) 0.82.
    (c) General Rules on Determining Carbon Intensity.--Notwithstanding 
any other provision of this section, the Secretary shall determine the 
carbon intensity of each generating unit of a generator. Such 
determination shall be made--
            (1) using data and methods from the Air Emission 
        Measurement Center of the Environmental Protection Agency for 
        emission testing and monitoring, including--
                    (A) continuous emission monitoring systems; and
                    (B) predictive emission monitoring systems; and
            (2) with respect to a determination of the carbon intensity 
        of any generating unit using qualified renewable biomass or 
        qualified low-carbon fuel, or generating qualified waste-to-
        energy, in consultation with--
                    (A) the Secretary of Agriculture; and
                    (B) the Secretary of the Interior.
    (d) Carbon Intensity for Certain Categories of Generating Units.--
            (1) Generating units utilizing technologies without direct 
        emissions.--The Secretary shall assign a carbon intensity of 
        zero for any generating unit of a generator that does not 
        produce direct emissions of any greenhouse gas in generating 
        electric energy, including any generating unit that generates 
        electric energy only through the use of solar, wind, ocean, 
        current, wave, tidal, geothermal, nuclear energy, or hydropower 
        technology (except as described under paragraph (3)).
            (2) Generating units utilizing technologies utilizing 
        fossil fuels.--
                    (A) Accounting for upstream greenhouse gas 
                emissions.--In determining the carbon intensity of each 
                generating unit using fossil fuel, the Secretary shall 
                utilize the best available science, including with 
                respect to the measurement of low-frequency high-
                emission events, including data from the detection of 
                natural gas flaring from the satellite observations of 
                the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, to 
                account for--
                            (i) the carbon dioxide emissions of the 
                        generating unit; and
                            (ii)(I) the average amounts of carbon 
                        dioxide and methane emissions, in terms of 
                        carbon dioxide equivalent, that occur during 
                        extraction, flaring, processing, and 
                        transportation in the United States of the 
                        fossil fuel consumed by the generator; or
                            (II) with respect to a generator that the 
                        Secretary determines under subparagraph (B) has 
                        demonstrated that the fossil fuel consumed by 
                        such generator is associated with the release 
                        of smaller amounts of carbon dioxide and 
                        methane emissions than the amounts described in 
                        subclause (I), such smaller amounts.
                    (B) Determination.--
                            (i) In general.--The Secretary may 
                        determine that a generator has demonstrated 
                        that the fossil fuel consumed by such generator 
                        is associated with the release of smaller 
                        amounts of carbon dioxide and methane emissions 
                        than the amounts described in subparagraph 
                        (A)(ii)(I) if the generator--
                                    (I) accounts for low-frequency, 
                                high-emission events; and
                                    (II) uses direct measurements of 
                                the applicable facilities, which may 
                                include measurements made in the course 
                                of participation in a voluntary program 
                                or public disclosure of the quantified 
                                methane emission intensity of the 
                                applicable facilities.
                            (ii) Public availability.--The information 
                        provided to the Secretary by a generator to 
                        make a determination under this subparagraph 
                        shall be available to the public upon such 
                        determination.
                    (C) Standards.--The Secretary shall promulgate the 
                standards for measurement necessary to implement 
                subparagraph (A) not less than 2 years after the date 
                of enactment of this title and shall update such 
                standards every 5 years thereafter, based on the best 
                available science.
            (3) Hydropower utilizing a new reservoir.--In determining 
        the carbon intensity of each generating unit using hydropower 
        associated with a reservoir constructed after the date of 
        enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall account for the 
        greenhouse gas emissions that can be attributed to the 
        hydropower facility, including the applicable new reservoir.
    (e) Quantity of Credits Issued for Certain Categories of Generating 
Units.--
            (1) Qualified combined heat and power systems.--
                    (A) In general.--The Secretary shall issue to a 
                generator generating zero-emission electricity during a 
                calendar year using a generating unit that is a 
                qualified combined heat and power system a quantity of 
                zero-emission electricity credits for such generation 
                that is equal to--
                            (i) the product obtained by multiplying--
                                    (I) the number of megawatt-hours of 
                                electric energy generated by the 
                                qualified combined heat and power 
                                system during such calendar year; by
                                    (II) the number that equals--
                                            (aa) 1.0; less
                                            (bb) the quotient obtained 
                                        by dividing--

                                                    (AA) the carbon 
                                                intensity of the 
                                                qualified combined heat 
                                                and power system; by

                                                    (BB) 0.82; less

                            (ii) the product obtained by multiplying--
                                    (I) the number of megawatt-hours of 
                                electric energy generated by the 
                                qualified combined heat and power 
                                system that are consumed onsite during 
                                such calendar year; by
                                    (II) the average of the minimum 
                                percentage of zero-emission electricity 
                                (as defined in section 202(a)(5)) for 
                                the calendar year for retail 
                                electricity suppliers in the region of 
                                the generator, as determined by the 
                                Secretary.
                    (B) Additional credits.--In addition to zero-
                emission electricity credits issued under subparagraph 
                (A), the Secretary shall issue to a generator described 
                in subparagraph (A) zero-emission electricity credits 
                for greenhouse gas emissions avoided as a result of the 
                use of the applicable qualified combined heat and power 
                system, rather than a separate thermal source, to meet 
                the thermal needs of the generator or one or more 
                additional entities.
                    (C) Applicability.--This paragraph shall not apply 
                with respect to a qualified combined heat and power 
                system using qualified renewable biomass.
            (2) Qualified renewable biomass.--The Secretary shall issue 
        to a generator generating zero-emission electricity during a 
        calendar year using qualified renewable biomass a quantity of 
        zero-emission electricity credits for such generation that is 
        equal to the product obtained by multiplying--
                    (A) the qualified electricity generation of the 
                generator using qualified renewable biomass during such 
                calendar year; by
                    (B) the average carbon intensity of the generating 
                units of the generator that use qualified renewable 
                biomass.
            (3) Qualified waste-to-energy.--The Secretary shall issue 
        to a generator generating zero-emission electricity during a 
        calendar year that is qualified waste-to-energy a quantity of 
        zero-emission electricity credits for such generation that is 
        equal to the product obtained by multiplying--
                    (A) the qualified waste-to-energy of the generator 
                that is qualified electricity generation during such 
                calendar year; by
                    (B) the average carbon intensity of the generating 
                units of the generator used to generate qualified 
                waste-to-energy.
            (4) Qualified low-carbon fuels.--
                    (A) In general.--Except as provided in subparagraph 
                (C), the Secretary shall issue to a generator 
                generating zero-emission electricity during a calendar 
                year using qualified low-carbon fuels a quantity of 
                zero-emission electricity credits for such generation 
                that is equal to the product obtained by multiplying--
                            (i) the qualified electricity generation of 
                        the generator using qualified low-carbon-fuels 
                        during such calendar year; by
                            (ii) the average carbon intensity of the 
                        generating units of the generator that use 
                        qualified low-carbon fuels.
                    (B) Adjustment for production.--In determining the 
                carbon intensity of each generating unit using a 
                qualified low-carbon fuel, the Secretary shall account 
                for the greenhouse gas emissions associated with the 
                production of such qualified low-carbon fuel.
                    (C) No double-counting.--The Secretary shall not 
                issue zero-emission electricity credits for electric 
                energy generated using a qualified low-carbon fuel that 
                is generated from electric energy for which a generator 
                is issued a zero-emission electricity credit under this 
                title.
            (5) Carbon capture, storage, and utilization.--
                    (A) Definitions.--In this paragraph, the term 
                ``qualified carbon oxide'' has the meaning given the 
                term in section 45Q of the Internal Revenue Code of 
                1986.
                    (B) Quantity of credits.--Except as otherwise 
                provided in this section, the Secretary shall, with 
                respect to a given calendar year, issue to a generator 
                a quantity of zero-emission electricity credits for the 
                capture and storage or utilization of qualified carbon 
                oxide from a waste stream of the generator that is 
                equal to the product obtained by multiplying--
                            (i) the qualified electricity generation of 
                        the generator during such calendar year; by
                            (ii) the difference between--
                                    (I) 1.0; and
                                    (II) the quotient obtained by 
                                dividing--
                                            (aa) the carbon intensity 
                                        of the generator; by
                                            (bb) 0.82.
            (6) Direct air capture of carbon dioxide.--
                    (A) Quantity of credits.--The Secretary shall issue 
                to an entity that captures carbon dioxide from the 
                atmosphere and stores or utilizes such carbon dioxide 1 
                zero-emission electricity credit for every 0.82 metric 
                tons of carbon dioxide equivalent that is captured and 
                stored or utilized.
                    (B) Special rules.--
                            (i) Regulations.--Subject to clause (ii), 
                        not later than 1 year after the date of 
                        enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall 
                        promulgate regulations establishing--
                                    (I) the conditions under which 
                                carbon dioxide may be safely and 
                                permanently stored for purposes of 
                                issuing zero-emission electricity 
                                credits under this paragraph;
                                    (II) the methods and processes by 
                                which carbon dioxide may be utilized in 
                                a manner that ensures the removal of 
                                the carbon dioxide safely and 
                                permanently from the atmosphere, 
                                including utilization in the production 
                                of substances, such as plastics and 
                                chemicals; and
                                    (III) requirements to account, in 
                                issuing zero-emission electricity 
                                credits under this section, for the 
                                risk that some fraction of the carbon 
                                dioxide intended for permanent storage 
                                or utilization may nevertheless be 
                                emitted into the atmosphere.
                            (ii) Existing requirements.--In 
                        promulgating regulations pursuant to this 
                        subparagraph, the Secretary shall incorporate 
                        any existing requirements for the permanent 
                        geologic storage of carbon dioxide, including 
                        any requirements promulgated under section 45Q 
                        of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986.
    (f) Maximum Quantity of Credits.--Except as provided under 
subsection (e)(1), the total quantity of zero-emission electricity 
credits issued under this section to a generator for a calendar year 
shall not exceed the number of megawatt-hours of the qualified 
electricity generation of the generator for the calendar year.
    (g) No Negative Credits.--Notwithstanding any other provision of 
this title, the Secretary shall not issue a negative quantity of zero-
emission electricity credits to any generator.
    (h) Facilities Outside the United States.--With respect to 
electricity generated by a facility or generating unit that is located 
outside of the United States, a zero-emission electricity credit may be 
issued only with respect to electricity that is sold for resale in the 
United States.
    (i) Contracts.--A zero-emission electricity credit issued for 
electricity that is--
            (1) sold for resale under a contract in effect on the date 
        of enactment of this title shall be issued to the purchasing 
        retail electricity supplier in proportion to the zero-emission 
        electricity purchased by such retail electricity supplier under 
        the contract, unless otherwise provided by the contract; and
            (2) sold for resale under a contract in which a generating 
        unit is not specified, shall be issued to the purchasing retail 
        electricity supplier in proportion to the ratio of zero-
        emission electricity generation from the generator making such 
        sale for resale.
    (j) Federal Power Marketing Administration.--A zero-emission 
electricity credit issued for electricity that is generated by a 
Federal Power Marketing Administration shall be conveyed to the retail 
electricity supplier that is purchasing the electricity.
    (k) Recipients of Acceleration Investment Credits.--A qualified 
zero-emission electricity taxpayer that receives a zero-emission 
electricity acceleration investment credit for a calendar year under 
section 45U of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as added by section 
301 of this Act, shall not be issued any zero-emission electricity 
credits under this section after such calendar year.
    (l) Recipients of Acceleration Grants.--An eligible electricity 
provider that receives a grant during a calendar year under section 302 
of this Act shall not be issued any zero-emission electricity credits 
under this section after such calendar year.

SEC. 205. CARBON MITIGATION FUND.

    (a) Carbon Mitigation Fund.--
            (1) Creation of fund.--There is hereby established a trust 
        fund, to be known as the ``Carbon Mitigation Fund'', consisting 
        of such amounts as may be appropriated to such fund as provided 
        in this section.
            (2) Administration.--The Carbon Mitigation Fund shall be 
        administered by the Secretary.
            (3) Transfers to trust fund.--There are hereby appropriated 
        to the Carbon Mitigation Fund each year amounts equal to the 
        sum of the amounts that are--
                    (A) attributable to alternative compliance payments 
                made pursuant to section 202(c);
                    (B) the alternative compliance payments that would 
                have been made by any petitioners under section 202(d) 
                but for a determination of inadequate availability of 
                technology made by the Secretary under section 202(d); 
                and
                    (C) collected as a civil penalty under section 209.
            (4) Expenditures.--Amounts in the Carbon Mitigation Fund 
        shall be available without further appropriation or fiscal year 
        limitation to carry out the program under subsection (b).
    (b) Program.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary shall carry out a program to 
        award funds to entities to carry out activities in States that 
        avoid emissions of greenhouse gases or remove carbon dioxide 
        from the atmosphere.
            (2) Activities.--Activities for which the Secretary may 
        award funds under the program carried out pursuant to this 
        subsection include--
                    (A) improvement to the energy efficiency of 
                existing facilities and devices;
                    (B) the replacement of natural gas space heaters, 
                natural gas water heaters, and natural gas stoves, with 
                electric appliances;
                    (C) the replacement of fossil fuel-powered vehicles 
                owned by State and local agencies with electric 
                vehicles or other low-carbon fuel vehicles;
                    (D) the replacement of fossil fuel-powered ground 
                airport and seaport vehicles with electric vehicles or 
                other low-carbon fuel vehicles;
                    (E) installation of fast charging stations for 
                electric vehicles along highways and other public roads 
                in urban areas and rural areas;
                    (F) beneficial electrification-related reductions 
                not otherwise identified in this paragraph;
                    (G) direct air capture and permanent sequestration 
                or utilization of carbon dioxide; and
                    (H) any activity that is endorsed by a generator or 
                a retail electricity supplier that avoids emissions of 
                greenhouse gases or removes carbon dioxide from the 
                atmosphere.
            (3) Exclusions.--The Secretary may not award funds to an 
        entity under the program carried out pursuant to this 
        subsection for any activity for which the entity has been 
        issued a zero-emission electricity credit or received a 
        deduction of megawatt-hours in the calculation under 202(a)(3) 
        to account for beneficial electrification-related reductions.
            (4) Criteria.--The Secretary may only award funds under the 
        program carried out pursuant to this subsection for an activity 
        for which the Secretary determines that--
                    (A) the amount of carbon dioxide emissions avoided 
                or removed from the atmosphere by the activity will be 
                adequately confirmed through monitoring, reporting and 
                verification;
                    (B) the risk that some amount of the carbon dioxide 
                that is removed from the atmosphere by the activity may 
                reenter the atmosphere at a later date is adequately 
                reflected through a discounting of the amount described 
                in paragraph (5)(C)(ii);
                    (C) the risk that some amount of the greenhouse 
                gases, the emission of which is avoided by the 
                activity, may enter the atmosphere at a later date is 
                adequately reflected through a discounting of the 
                amount described in paragraph (5)(C)(i);
                    (D) the risk that the activity may directly or 
                indirectly increase the release of greenhouse gases 
                from another location has been adequately addressed;
                    (E) the activity is not required, or being fully 
                supported financially by, a Federal, State, or local 
                law, program, or activity; and
                    (F) if the activity involves land use, the activity 
                aligns with the Sustainable Development Goals of the 
                United Nations, including being consistent with the 
                conservation of biological diversity and natural 
                ecosystems (including forests and grasslands), and 
                shall maintain ecosystem services and enhance other 
                social and environmental benefits.
            (5) Proposals.--In order to qualify for an award of funds 
        under this subsection, an entity shall submit to the Secretary 
        a proposal that--
                    (A) describes the activity to be carried out with 
                the award of funds in a manner specified by the 
                Secretary;
                    (B) identifies the amount of money for which the 
                entity is applying;
                    (C) identifies the amount, to be measured in one-
                year increments, of--
                            (i) greenhouse gas emissions to be avoided 
                        by the activity, measured in terms of carbon 
                        dioxide equivalent; or
                            (ii) carbon dioxide to be removed from the 
                        atmosphere by the activity, measured in metric 
                        tons;
                    (D) identifies the bid amount, expressed as dollars 
                per metric ton, which shall be the quotient obtained by 
                dividing the amount identified under subparagraph (B) 
                by the amount identified under subparagraph (C);
                    (E) provides any information required by the 
                Secretary in order to make a determination described in 
                paragraph (4); and
                    (F) provides any other certifications the Secretary 
                determines appropriate.
            (6) Deadlines.--
                    (A) Solicitation.--Not later than February 1, 2024, 
                and each February 1 thereafter, the Secretary shall 
                solicit proposals for activities described in paragraph 
                (1) for which the Secretary may award funds under the 
                program carried out pursuant to this subsection.
                    (B) Identification.--Not later than June 1, 2024, 
                and each June 1 thereafter, the Secretary shall 
                identify proposals that have been submitted by March 1 
                of such calendar year for activities described in 
                paragraph (1) that qualify for an award of funds under 
                the program carried out pursuant to this subsection.
                    (C) Award of funds.--Not later than August 1, 2024, 
                and each August 1 thereafter, the Secretary shall award 
                to entities funds available in the Carbon Mitigation 
                Fund established under section 9512 of the Internal 
                Revenue Code of 1986 for activities described in 
                proposals identified under subparagraph (B).
            (7) Awards to most cost-effective activities.--The 
        Secretary shall award funds to entities for activities 
        described in proposals identified under paragraph (6)(B)--
                    (A) beginning by awarding funds to the entity 
                submitting such a proposal with the lowest bid amount 
                identified pursuant to paragraph (5)(D); and
                    (B) then awarding funds to entities sequentially by 
                entity submitting such a proposal with the next lowest 
                bid amount so identified until all funds are awarded.
    (c) Consultation.--The Secretary shall consult with the Secretary 
of the Interior, the Secretary of Agriculture, and the Administrator of 
the Environment Protection Agency in promulgating regulations to 
measure, monitor, and verify any natural sequestration activities 
awarded under this section.

SEC. 206. STATE PROGRAMS.

    (a) Savings Provision.--
            (1) In general.--Except as provided in paragraph (2) and 
        subject to subsection (b), nothing in this title affects the 
        authority of a State or a political subdivision of a State to 
        adopt or enforce any law or regulation relating to--
                    (A) clean energy or renewable energy; or
                    (B) the regulation of a retail electricity 
                supplier.
            (2) Federal law.--Except as otherwise provided in this 
        section, no law or regulation of a State or a political 
        subdivision of a State may relieve a retail electricity 
        supplier from compliance with an applicable requirement of this 
        title.
    (b) Coordination.--The Secretary, in consultation with States that 
have clean energy programs or renewable energy programs in effect, 
shall facilitate, to the maximum extent practicable, coordination 
between the implementation of this Act and the relevant State clean 
energy program or renewable energy program.
    (c) More Stringent State Clean Energy Programs.--
            (1) Determination.--
                    (A) In general.--The Secretary, in consultation 
                with States that have State clean energy programs or 
                renewable energy programs in effect, shall determine 
                whether each such State is implementing a more 
                stringent State clean energy program.
                    (B) Deadlines.--The Secretary shall make a 
                determination under subparagraph (A)--
                            (i) not later than January 1, 2021, with 
                        respect to a State clean energy or renewable 
                        energy program in effect on the date of 
                        enactment of this Act, and every 5 years 
                        thereafter; and
                            (ii) not later than 6 months after the date 
                        of the enactment by a State, after the date of 
                        enactment of this Act, of a new or modified 
                        existing clean energy or renewable energy 
                        program, and every 5 years thereafter.
                    (C) Period.--A determination under this paragraph 
                shall be effective until the earlier of--
                            (i) the date that is 5 years after the date 
                        of the determination; or
                            (ii) the date on which the Secretary makes 
                        a subsequent determination under this paragraph 
                        with respect to the applicable State program.
            (2) Compliance.--If the Secretary determines, under 
        paragraph (1), that a State has a more stringent State clean 
        energy program, a retail electricity supplier that is subject 
        to and in compliance with such more stringent State clean 
        energy program shall be deemed to be in compliance with the 
        requirements of this title for the period during which the 
        determination is effective.
            (3) Prohibition against double-counting.--The Secretary, in 
        consultation with States, shall develop a protocol to ensure 
        that a zero-emission electricity credit may not be issued under 
        this title with respect to an amount of electric energy for 
        which one or more State clean energy credits are issued under, 
        and used for compliance with, a more stringent State clean 
        energy program.
    (d) Qualified Electricity Generation Eligible in Both State and 
Federal Programs.--
            (1) Issuance of credit.--In a State that does not have a 
        more stringent State clean energy program, 1 megawatt-hour of 
        zero-emission electricity is eligible to be issued both a State 
        clean energy credit and a zero-emission electricity credit 
        pursuant to this title.
            (2) Retirement of state credits.--Retirement of a State 
        clean energy credit for a compliance with a State law in a 
        State that does not have a more stringent State clean energy 
        program shall not prevent a retail electricity supplier from 
        submitting a zero-emission electricity credit issued for the 
        same megawatt-hour of zero-emission electricity for compliance 
        with this title.
            (3) Submission of federal credits.--Submission of a zero-
        emission electricity credit for compliance with this title 
        shall not prevent a retail electricity supplier from retiring a 
        State clean energy credit issued for the same megawatt-hour of 
        qualified electricity generation for compliance with a State 
        law.
    (e) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) State clean energy credit.--The term ``State clean 
        energy credit'' means a certificate corresponding to the 
        electricity generated from renewable or other zero-emission 
        electricity sources that is issued under a law enacted by a 
        State.
            (2) More stringent state clean energy program.--The term 
        ``more stringent State clean energy program'' means a law of a 
        State that--
                    (A) is determined by the Secretary to require each 
                retail electricity supplier in the State, during the 
                period described under subsection (c)(1)(C), to--
                            (i) obtain State clean energy credits 
                        representing an aggregate number of megawatt-
                        hours of zero-emission electricity that is 
                        larger than the number of zero-emission 
                        electricity credits the retail electricity 
                        supplier would otherwise be required to submit 
                        under section 202; or
                            (ii) generate a percentage of zero-emission 
                        electricity that is greater than the percentage 
                        that would be required of the retail 
                        electricity supplier under section 202; and
                    (B) includes compliance mechanisms, including the 
                imposition of penalties, that are at least as effective 
                in enforcing compliance as the system of enforcement 
                under this title.

SEC. 207. REPORT TO CONGRESS.

    Not later than January 1, 2040, the Secretary shall submit a report 
to Congress with an evaluation and a forecast of the remaining barriers 
to achieving generation of electric energy with no emissions of carbon 
dioxide by calendar year 2050.

SEC. 208. INFORMATION COLLECTION.

    The Secretary may require any retail electricity supplier, 
generator, or other entity that the Secretary determines appropriate, 
to submit to the Secretary any information the Secretary determines to 
be appropriate to carry out this title.

SEC. 209. CIVIL PENALTIES.

    (a) In General.--Subject to subsection (b)--
            (1) a retail electricity supplier that fails to meet the 
        requirements of section 202 shall be subject to a civil penalty 
        in an amount equal to the product obtained by multiplying--
                    (A) the aggregate quantity of zero-emission 
                electricity credits that the retail electricity 
                supplier failed to submit for the calendar year to 
                comply with section 202; by
                    (B) 300 percent of the amount of alternative 
                compliance payment for the calendar year, as determined 
                under section 202(c); and
            (2) an entity required to submit information pursuant to 
        section 208 that violates such section by failing to submit the 
        information, or submitting false or misleading information, 
        shall be subject to a civil penalty of $25,000 for each day 
        during which such violation continues.
    (b) Waivers and Mitigation.--
            (1) Force majeure.--The Secretary may mitigate or waive a 
        civil penalty under subsection (a) if the applicable retail 
        electricity supplier or other entity was unable to comply with 
        an applicable requirement for reasons outside of the reasonable 
        control of the retail electricity supplier or other entity.
            (2) Reduction for state penalties.--The Secretary shall 
        reduce the amount of a penalty determined under subsection (a) 
        by the amount paid by the applicable retail electricity 
        supplier to a State for failure to comply with the requirement 
        of a State renewable energy program, if the State requirement 
        is more stringent than the applicable requirement of this 
        title.
    (c) Procedure for Assessing Penalty.--The Secretary shall assess a 
civil penalty under this section in accordance with section 333(d) of 
the Energy Policy and Conservation Act (42 U.S.C. 6303(d)).

SEC. 210. REGULATIONS.

    (a) In General.--Except as otherwise provided in this title, not 
later than 2 years after the date of enactment of this title, the 
Secretary shall promulgate regulations to implement this title.
    (b) Consultation.--The Secretary shall consult with the 
Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency in promulgating 
the regulations to implement this title.

                     Subtitle B--Methane Regulation

SEC. 211. METHANE REGULATION.

    (a) National Goal.--The goal of this section is to reduce steadily 
the quantity of methane emissions from the oil and natural gas sector 
such that the quantity of methane emissions in calendar year 2030 from 
the oil and natural gas sector is at least 90 percent below the 
quantity of methane emissions in calendar year 2012 from such sector.
    (b) Maintaining Final NSPS Rule.--The Administrator may not repeal, 
replace, or amend the final rule entitled ``Oil and Natural Gas Sector: 
Emission Standards for New, Reconstructed, and Modified Sources'' as 
published by the Environmental Protection Agency in the Federal 
Register on June 3, 2016 (81 Fed. Reg. 35,824 et seq.), until 
regulations are promulgated pursuant to subsection (c).
    (c) Regulations To Meet the National Goal.--
            (1) Meeting the national goal.--
                    (A) Deadline.--Not later than December 31, 2022, 
                the Administrator shall promulgate final regulations 
                under section 111 of the Clean Air Act (42 U.S.C. 7411) 
                to limit methane emissions from the oil and natural gas 
                sector to achieve the national goal specified in 
                subsection (a).
                    (B) Contents.--The regulations required by 
                subparagraph (A) shall provide for the establishment, 
                implementation, and enforcement of standards of 
                performance for limiting emissions of methane from new 
                sources under section 111(b) of the Clean Air Act (42 
                U.S.C. 7411(b)), and guidelines for States to 
                establish, implement, and enforce standards of 
                performance for existing sources under section 111(d) 
                of the Clean Air Act (42 U.S.C. 7411(d)). Such 
                standards of performance shall--
                            (i) require the application of the best 
                        system of emission reduction to include 
                        application of the best system of venting and 
                        leakage reduction for new and existing natural 
                        gas transmission and distribution pipelines; 
                        and
                            (ii) apply to new sources, and existing 
                        sources, including--
                                    (I) new sources, and existing 
                                sources, with equipment that handles 
                                liquefied natural gas;
                                    (II) new and existing offshore 
                                petroleum and natural gas production 
                                facilities; and
                                    (III) other petroleum and natural 
                                gas facilities, as determined by the 
                                Administrator.
            (2) Covered sources.--The regulations promulgated pursuant 
        to this subsection shall apply to new sources and existing 
        sources of methane within every segment of the oil and natural 
        gas sector.
    (d) Public Health and Welfare.--For purposes of section 111 of the 
Clean Air Act (42 U.S.C. 7411), methane emissions from the oil and gas 
sector are deemed to reasonably be anticipated to endanger public 
health or welfare.
    (e) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Administrator.--The term ``Administrator'' means the 
        Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency.
            (2) Existing source; new source; standard of performance.--
        The terms ``existing source'', ``new source'', and ``standard 
        of performance'', have the meaning given such terms in section 
        111(a) of the Clean Air Act (42 U.S.C. 7411(a)).

  TITLE III--INCENTIVES FOR THE ACCELERATED DEPLOYMENT OF 100-PERCENT 
                    ZERO-EMISSION ELECTRICITY SYSTEM

SEC. 300. PURPOSE.

    The purpose of this title is to provide support for any given power 
company to accelerate the deployment of a 100-percent zero-emission 
electricity generation system as early as possible before 2050.

SEC. 301. ZERO-EMISSION ELECTRICITY ACCELERATION INVESTMENT TAX CREDIT.

    (a) In General.--Subpart D of part IV of subchapter A of chapter 1 
of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 is amended by adding at the end 
the following new section:

``SEC. 45U. ZERO-EMISSION ELECTRICITY ACCELERATION INVESTMENT CREDIT.

    ``(a) In General.--For purposes of section 38, in the case of a 
taxpayer who is a qualified zero-emission electricity taxpayer, the 
zero-emission electricity acceleration investment credit shall be the 
applicable percentage of the cost of a qualified zero-emission 
electricity generating unit.
    ``(b) Definitions.--In this section;
            ``(1) Applicable percentage.--The term `applicable 
        percentage' means--
                    ``(A) 50 percent in the case of a qualified zero-
                emission electricity generating unit that begins to 
                generate electricity before December 31, 2025,
                    ``(B) 40 percent in the case of a qualified zero-
                emission electricity generating unit that begins to 
                generate electricity before December 31, 2030, and
                    ``(C) 30 percent in the case of a qualified zero-
                emission electricity generating unit that begins to 
                generate electricity before December 31, 2037.
            ``(2) Generating unit.--The term `generating unit' has the 
        meaning given such term in section 201 of the Clean Energy 
        Innovation and Deployment Act of 2020.
            ``(3) Qualified zero-emission electricity generating 
        unit.--The term `qualified zero-emission electricity generating 
        unit' means a generating unit--
                    ``(A) that is placed into service after the date of 
                enactment of this section, and
                    ``(B) the operation of which does not result in the 
                release of carbon dioxide into the atmosphere.
            ``(4) Qualified zero-emission electricity taxpayer.--The 
        term `qualified zero-emission electricity taxpayer' means, for 
        a taxable year, a taxpayer who--
                    ``(A) does not own a generating unit that emits 
                carbon dioxide at any point during such taxable year, 
                and
                    ``(B) for such taxable year, owns non-emitting 
                electricity generating units with a generating capacity 
                that is equal to or greater than the annual average 
                generating capacity of generating units owned by such 
                taxpayer during the 5-year period ending on the date of 
                the enactment of this section.
    ``(c) Transferability.--
            ``(1) In general.--If the qualified zero-emission 
        electricity taxpayer elects to transfer all (or any portion 
        specified in the election) of the credit determined under this 
        section for any taxable year with respect to any qualified 
        facility to an eligible project partner for a specified period, 
        then, the eligible project partner specified in such election 
        (and not the taxpayer) shall be treated for purposes of this 
        title with respect to such credit (or such portion thereof) as 
        the person producing and selling the electricity to which such 
        credit (or portion thereof) relates.
            ``(2) Deduction for payments in connection with transfer.--
        There shall be allowed as a deduction under part VI of 
        subchapter B an amount equal to the amount paid by a taxpayer 
        as consideration for a transfer described in paragraph (1).
            ``(3) Eligible project partner.--
                    ``(A) For purposes of this subsection, the term 
                `eligible project partner' means, with respect to any 
                qualified facility, any person who--
                            ``(i) has an ownership interest in such 
                        qualified facility,
                            ``(ii) provided equipment for or services 
                        in the construction of such qualified facility,
                            ``(iii) provides electric transmission or 
                        distribution services for such qualified 
                        facility,
                            ``(iv) purchases electricity from such 
                        qualified facility pursuant to a contract, or
                            ``(v) provides financing for such qualified 
                        facility.
                    ``(B) For purposes of subparagraph (A)(v), any 
                amount paid as consideration for a transfer described 
                in paragraph (1) shall not be treated as financing of a 
                qualified facility.
            ``(4) Taxable year in which credit taken into account.--In 
        the case of any credit (or portion thereof) with respect to 
        which an election is made under paragraph (1), such credit 
        shall be taken into account in the first taxable year of the 
        eligible project partner ending with, or after, the electing 
        taxpayer's taxable year with respect to which the credit was 
        determined.
            ``(5) Limitations on election.--
                    ``(A) Time for election.--An election under this 
                subsection to transfer any portion of the credit 
                allowed under this section shall be made not later than 
                the due date for the return of tax for the electing 
                taxpayer's taxable year with respect to which the 
                credit was determined.
                    ``(B) No further transfers.--No election may be 
                made under this subsection by a taxpayer with respect 
                to any portion of the credit allowed under this section 
                which has been previously transferred to such taxpayer 
                under this paragraph.
                    ``(C) Treatment of transfer under private use 
                rules.--For purposes of section 141(b)(1), any benefit 
                derived by an eligible project partner in connection 
                with an election under this subsection shall not be 
                taken into account as a private business use.
                    ``(D) Additional election requirements.--The 
                Secretary may prescribe such regulations as may be 
                appropriate to carry out the purposes of this 
                subsection, including--
                            ``(i) rules for determining which persons 
                        are eligible project partners with respect to 
                        any energy property, and
                            ``(ii) requiring information to be included 
                        in an election under paragraph (1) or imposing 
                        additional reporting requirements.
                    ``(E) Qualified facility.--For purposes of this 
                section, the term `qualified facility' has the meaning 
                given in section 45(d).
    ``(d) Credit Recapture.--If a taxpayer who has been allowed a 
credit under this section for any taxable year ceases, in any 
subsequent taxable year, to be a qualified zero-emission electricity 
taxpayer, such taxpayer's tax under this chapter for such subsequent 
taxable year shall be increased by the amount of any credit or credits 
previously allocated to such taxpayer under this section (and not 
previously recaptured under this subsection).
    ``(e) Termination.--This section shall apply to taxable years 
ending before January 1, 2050.''.
    (b) Credit Made Part of General Business Credit.--Subsection (b) of 
section 38 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 is amended by striking 
``plus'' at the end of paragraph (32), by striking the period at the 
end of paragraph (33) and inserting ``, plus'', and by adding at the 
end the following new paragraph:
            ``(34) the zero-emission electricity acceleration 
        investment credit determined under section 45U.''.
    (c) Clerical Amendment.--The table of sections for subpart D of 
part IV of subchapter A of chapter 1 of such Code is amended by adding 
at the end the following new item:

``Sec. 45U. Zero-emission electricity acceleration investment 
                            credit.''.
    (d) Effective Date.--The amendments made by this section shall 
apply to taxable years beginning after the date of the enactment of 
this Act.

SEC. 302. ZERO-EMISSION ELECTRICITY ACCELERATION GRANTS.

    (a) In General.--Upon application, the Secretary of Energy shall, 
subject to the requirements of this section and the availability of 
appropriations for such purpose, provide a grant in an amount specified 
under subsection (b) to an eligible electricity provider that--
            (1) permanently retires every existing carbon-emitting 
        generating unit owned by the eligible electricity provider as 
        of the date that the applicable percentage for the grant begins 
        to apply under subsection (b)(2); and
            (2) places into service one or more qualified zero-emission 
        electricity generating units that replace the generation 
        capacity of the carbon-emitting generating units described in 
        paragraph (1) in sufficient amounts to satisfy the condition 
        specified in subsection (c).
    (b) Grant Amount.--
            (1) In general.--The amount of the grant under subsection 
        (a) with respect to any qualified zero-emission electricity 
        generating unit shall be the applicable percentage of the cost 
        of such qualified zero-emission electricity generating unit.
            (2) Applicable percentage.--For purposes of paragraph (1), 
        the term ``applicable percentage'' means--
                    (A) 50 percent in the case of a qualified zero-
                emission electricity generating unit that begins to 
                generate electricity before December 31, 2025;
                    (B) 40 percent in the case of a qualified zero-
                emission electricity generating unit that begins to 
                generate electricity before December 31, 2030; and
                    (C) 30 percent in the case of a qualified zero-
                emission electricity generating unit that begins to 
                generate electricity before December 31, 2037.
    (c) Conditions for the Grant.--No grant shall be made under this 
section unless the Secretary of Energy determines that the eligible 
electricity provider, as of the date that the applicable percentage for 
the grant begins to apply under subsection (b)(2), owns generating 
units that have an aggregate generation capacity that is not less than 
the annualized amount of generation capacity that is owned by such 
eligible electricity provider during the 5-year period ending on the 
date of the enactment of this section.
    (d) Time for Payment of Grant.--The Secretary of Energy shall make 
payment of any grant under subsection (a) during the 60-day period 
beginning on the later of--
            (1) the date of the application for such grant; or
            (2) the date the qualified zero-emission electricity 
        generating units described in subsection (a)(2) for which the 
        grant is being made are placed into service.
    (e) Application of Certain Rules.--In making grants under this 
section, the Secretary of Energy shall apply rules similar to the rules 
of section 50 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 with the exception 
of section 50(b)(3) and section 50(b)(4) for an entity described in 
section 50(b)(4)(A)(i). In applying such rules, if an eligible 
electricity provider acquires a carbon-emitting generating unit after a 
grant is made to the eligible electricity provider, the Secretary shall 
provide for the recapture of the appropriate percentage of the grant 
amount in such manner as the Secretary determines appropriate.
    (f) Definitions.--For purposes of this section:
            (1) Carbon-emitting generating unit.--The term ``carbon-
        emitting generating unit'' means a generating unit the 
        operation of which results in the release of carbon dioxide to 
        the atmosphere.
            (2) Eligible electricity provider.--The term ``eligible 
        electricity provider'' means an entity in the United States 
        that--
                    (A) owns one or more generating units; and
                    (B) sells the electricity generated by such 
                generating units.
            (3) Generating unit.--The term ``generating unit'' has the 
        meaning given such term in section 201 of the Clean Energy 
        Innovation and Deployment Act of 2020.
            (4) Qualified zero-emission electricity generating unit.--
        The term ``qualified zero-emission electricity generating 
        unit'' means a generating unit--
                    (A) that is placed into service after the date of 
                enactment of this section; and
                    (B) the operation of which does not result in the 
                release of carbon dioxide into the atmosphere.

               TITLE IV--LOW-INCOME RATE-PAYER PROTECTION

SEC. 400. PURPOSE.

    The purpose of this title is to provide low-income residents 
technical and financial assistance to help reduce energy bills, 
including by making homes more energy efficient.

SEC. 401. WEATHERIZATION ASSISTANCE PROGRAM.

    (a) Reauthorization of Weatherization Assistance Program.--Section 
422 of the Energy Conservation and Production Act (42 U.S.C. 6872) is 
amended by striking paragraphs (1) through (5) and inserting the 
following:
            ``(1) $350,000,000 for fiscal year 2021;
            ``(2) $500,000,000 for fiscal year 2022;
            ``(3) $650,000,000 for fiscal year 2023;
            ``(4) $800,000,000 for fiscal year 2024; and
            ``(5) $1,000,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2025 through 
        2030.''.
    (b) Modernizing the Definition of Weatherization Materials.--
Section 412(9)(J) of the Energy Conservation and Production Act (42 
U.S.C. 6862(9)(J)) is amended--
            (1) by inserting ``, including renewable energy 
        technologies and other advanced technologies,'' after ``devices 
        or technologies''; and
            (2) by striking ``, after consulting with the Secretary of 
        Housing and Urban Development, the Secretary of Agriculture, 
        and the Director of the Community Services Administration''.
    (c) Consideration of Health Benefits.--Section 413(b) of the Energy 
Conservation and Production Act (42 U.S.C. 6863(b)) is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (1), by striking ``Health, Education, and 
        Welfare'' and inserting ``Health and Human Services'';
            (2) in paragraph (2)(A), by striking ``Health, Education, 
        and Welfare'' and inserting ``Health and Human Services'';
            (3) in paragraph (3)--
                    (A) by striking ``and with the Director of the 
                Community Services Administration'';
                    (B) by inserting ``and by'' after ``in carrying out 
                this part,''; and
                    (C) by striking ``, and the Director of the 
                Community Services Administration in carrying out 
                weatherization programs under section 222(a)(12) of the 
                Economic Opportunity Act of 1964'';
            (4) by redesignating paragraphs (4) through (6) as 
        paragraphs (5) through (7), respectively; and
            (5) by inserting after paragraph (3), the following:
    ``(4) The Secretary may amend the regulations prescribed under 
paragraph (1) to provide that the standards described in paragraph 
(2)(A) take into consideration improvements in the health and safety of 
occupants of dwelling units, and other nonenergy benefits, from 
weatherization.''.
    (d) Contractor Optimization.--
            (1) In general.--The Energy Conservation and Production Act 
        is amended by inserting after section 414B (42 U.S.C. 6864b) 
        the following:

``SEC. 414C. CONTRACTOR OPTIMIZATION.

    ``(a) In General.--The Secretary may request that entities 
receiving funding from the Federal Government or from a State through a 
weatherization assistance program under section 413 or section 414 
perform periodic reviews of the use of private contractors in the 
provision of weatherization assistance, and encourage expanded use of 
contractors as appropriate.
    ``(b) Use of Training Funds.--Entities described in subsection (a) 
may use funding described in such subsection to train private, non-
Federal entities that are contracted to provide weatherization 
assistance under a weatherization program, in accordance with rules 
determined by the Secretary.''.
            (2) Table of contents amendment.--The table of contents for 
        the Energy Conservation and Production Act is amended by 
        inserting after the item relating to section 414B the 
        following:

``Sec. 414C. Contractor optimization.''.
    (e) Financial Assistance for WAP Enhancement and Innovation.--
            (1) In general.--The Energy Conservation and Production Act 
        is amended by inserting after section 414C (as added by 
        subsection (d) of this section) the following:

``SEC. 414D. FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE FOR WAP ENHANCEMENT AND INNOVATION.

    ``(a) Purposes.--The purposes of this section are--
            ``(1) to expand the number of dwelling units that are 
        occupied by low-income persons that receive weatherization 
        assistance by making such dwelling units weatherization-ready;
            ``(2) to promote the deployment of zero-emission electric 
        energy in dwelling units that are occupied by low-income 
        persons;
            ``(3) to ensure healthy indoor environments by enhancing or 
        expanding health and safety measures and resources available to 
        dwellings that are occupied by low-income persons;
            ``(4) to disseminate new methods and best practices among 
        entities providing weatherization assistance; and
            ``(5) to encourage entities providing weatherization 
        assistance to hire and retain employees who are individuals--
                    ``(A) from the community in which the assistance is 
                provided; and
                    ``(B) from communities or groups that are 
                underrepresented in the home energy performance 
                workforce, including religious and ethnic minorities, 
                women, veterans, individuals with disabilities, 
                individuals who are socioeconomically disadvantaged, 
                and energy transition workers (as defined in section 
                511 of the Clean Energy Innovation and Deployment Act 
                of 2020).
    ``(b) Financial Assistance.--The Secretary shall, to the extent 
funds are made available, award financial assistance, on an annual 
basis, through a competitive process to entities receiving funding from 
the Federal Government or from a State, tribal organization, or unit of 
general purpose local government through a weatherization program under 
section 413 or section 414, or to nonprofit entities, to be used by 
such an entity--
            ``(1) with respect to dwelling units that are occupied by 
        low-income persons, to--
                    ``(A) implement measures to make such dwelling 
                units weatherization-ready by addressing structural, 
                plumbing, roofing, and electrical issues, environmental 
                hazards, or other measures that the Secretary 
                determines to be appropriate;
                    ``(B) install energy efficiency technologies, 
                including home energy management systems, smart 
                devices, technologies that have been awarded a prize 
                under section 128 of the Clean Energy Innovation and 
                Deployment Act of 2020, and other technologies the 
                Secretary determines to be appropriate;
                    ``(C) install renewable energy systems (as defined 
                in section 415(c)(6)(A)); and
                    ``(D) implement measures to ensure healthy indoor 
                environments by improving indoor air quality, 
                accessibility, and other healthy homes measures as 
                determined by the Secretary;
            ``(2) to improve the capability of the entity--
                    ``(A) to significantly increase the number of 
                energy retrofits performed by such entity;
                    ``(B) to replicate best practices for work 
                performed pursuant to this section on a larger scale;
                    ``(C) to leverage additional funds to sustain the 
                provision of weatherization assistance and other work 
                performed pursuant to this section after financial 
                assistance awarded under this section is expended; and
                    ``(D) to hire and retain employees who are 
                individuals described subsection (a)(5);
            ``(3) for innovative outreach and education regarding the 
        benefits and availability of weatherization assistance and 
        other assistance available pursuant to this section;
            ``(4) for quality control of work performed pursuant to 
        this section;
            ``(5) for data collection, measurement, and verification 
        with respect to such work;
            ``(6) for program monitoring, oversight, evaluation, and 
        reporting regarding such work;
            ``(7) for labor, training, and technical assistance 
        relating to such work;
            ``(8) for planning, management, and administration (up to a 
        maximum of 15 percent of the assistance provided); and
            ``(9) for such other activities as the Secretary determines 
        to be appropriate.
    ``(c) Award Factors.--In awarding financial assistance under this 
section, the Secretary shall consider--
            ``(1) the applicant's record of constructing, renovating, 
        repairing, or making energy efficient single-family, 
        multifamily, or manufactured homes that are occupied by low-
        income persons, either directly or through affiliates, 
        chapters, or other partners (using the most recent year for 
        which data are available);
            ``(2) the number of dwelling units occupied by low-income 
        persons that the applicant has built, renovated, repaired, 
        weatherized, or made more energy efficient in the 5 years 
        preceding the date of the application;
            ``(3) the qualifications, experience, and past performance 
        of the applicant, including experience successfully managing 
        and administering Federal funds;
            ``(4) the strength of an applicant's proposal to achieve 
        one or more of the purposes under subsection (a);
            ``(5) the extent to which such applicant will utilize 
        partnerships and regional coordination to achieve one or more 
        of the purposes under subsection (a);
            ``(6) regional and climate zone diversity;
            ``(7) urban, suburban, and rural localities; and
            ``(8) such other factors as the Secretary determines to be 
        appropriate.
    ``(d) Applications.--
            ``(1) Administration.--To be eligible for an award of 
        financial assistance under this section, an applicant shall 
        submit to the Secretary an application in such manner and 
        containing such information as the Secretary may require.
            ``(2) Awards.--Subject to the availability of 
        appropriations, not later than 270 days after the date of 
        enactment of this section, the Secretary shall make a first 
        award of financial assistance under this section.
    ``(e) Maximum Amount and Term.--
            ``(1) In general.--The total amount of financial assistance 
        awarded to an entity under this section shall not exceed 
        $2,000,000.
            ``(2) Technical and training assistance.--The total amount 
        of financial assistance awarded to an entity under this section 
        shall be reduced by the cost of any technical and training 
        assistance provided by the Secretary that relates to such 
        financial assistance.
            ``(3) Term.--The term of an award of financial assistance 
        under this section shall not exceed 3 years.
            ``(4) Relationship to formula grants.--An entity may use 
        financial assistance awarded to such entity under this section 
        in conjunction with other financial assistance provided to such 
        entity under this part.
    ``(f) Requirements.--Not later than 90 days after the date of 
enactment of this section, the Secretary shall issue requirements to 
implement this section, including, for entities receiving financial 
assistance under this section--
            ``(1) standards for allowable expenditures;
            ``(2) a minimum saving-to-investment ratio; and
            ``(3) standards for--
                    ``(A) training programs;
                    ``(B) energy audits;
                    ``(C) the provision of technical assistance;
                    ``(D) monitoring activities carried out using such 
                financial assistance;
                    ``(E) verification of energy and cost savings;
                    ``(F) liability insurance requirements; and
                    ``(G) recordkeeping and reporting requirements, 
                which shall include reporting to the Office of 
                Weatherization and Intergovernmental Programs of the 
                Department of Energy applicable data on each dwelling 
                unit retrofitted or otherwise assisted pursuant to this 
                section.
    ``(g) Compliance With State and Local Law.--Nothing in this section 
supersedes or otherwise affects any State or local law, to the extent 
that the State or local law contains a requirement that is more 
stringent than the applicable requirement of this section.
    ``(h) Review and Evaluation.--The Secretary shall review and 
evaluate the performance of each entity that receives an award of 
financial assistance under this section (which may include an audit).
    ``(i) Annual Report.--The Secretary shall submit to Congress an 
annual report that provides a description of--
            ``(1) actions taken under this section to achieve the 
        purposes of this section; and
            ``(2) accomplishments as a result of such actions, 
        including energy and cost savings achieved.
    ``(j) Funding.--
            ``(1) Amounts.--
                    ``(A) In general.--For each of fiscal years 2021 
                through 2030, of the amount made available under 
                section 422 for such fiscal year to carry out the 
                weatherization program under this part (not including 
                any of such amount made available for Department of 
                Energy headquarters training or technical assistance), 
                not more than--
                            ``(i) 2 percent of such amount (if such 
                        amount is $225,000,000 or more but less than 
                        $260,000,000) may be used to carry out this 
                        section;
                            ``(ii) 4 percent of such amount (if such 
                        amount is $260,000,000 or more but less than 
                        $300,000,000) may be used to carry out this 
                        section; and
                            ``(iii) 6 percent of such amount (if such 
                        amount is $300,000,000 or more) may be used to 
                        carry out this section.
                    ``(B) Minimum.--For each of fiscal years 2021 
                through 2030, if the amount made available under 
                section 422 (not including any of such amount made 
                available for Department of Energy headquarters 
                training or technical assistance) for such fiscal year 
                is less than $225,000,000, no funds shall be made 
                available to carry out this section.
            ``(2) Limitation.--For any fiscal year, the Secretary may 
        not use more than $25,000,000 of the amount made available 
        under section 422 to carry out this section.''.
            (2) Table of contents.--The table of contents for the 
        Energy Conservation and Production Act is amended by inserting 
        after the item relating to section 414C the following:

``Sec. 414D. Financial assistance for WAP enhancement and 
                            innovation.''.
    (f) Hiring.--
            (1) In general.--The Energy Conservation and Production Act 
        is amended by inserting after section 414D (as added by 
        subsection (e) of this section) the following:

``SEC. 414E. HIRING.

    ``The Secretary may, as the Secretary determines appropriate, 
encourage entities receiving funding from the Federal Government or 
from a State through a weatherization program under section 413 or 
section 414, to prioritize the hiring and retention of employees who 
are individuals described in section 414D(a)(5).''.
            (2) Table of contents.--The table of contents for the 
        Energy Conservation and Production Act is amended by inserting 
        after the item relating to section 414D the following:

``Sec. 414E. Hiring.''.
    (g) Increase in Administrative Funds.--Section 415(a)(1) of the 
Energy Conservation and Production Act (42 U.S.C. 6865(a)(1)) is 
amended by striking ``10 percent'' and inserting ``15 percent''.
    (h) Amending Reweatherization Date.--Paragraph (2) of section 
415(c) of the Energy Conservation and Production Act (42 U.S.C. 
6865(c)) is amended to read as follows:
    ``(2) Dwelling units weatherized (including dwelling units 
partially weatherized) under this part, or under other Federal programs 
(in this paragraph referred to as `previous weatherization'), may not 
receive further financial assistance for weatherization under this part 
until the date that is 15 years after the date such previous 
weatherization was completed. This paragraph does not preclude dwelling 
units that have received previous weatherization from receiving 
assistance and services (including the provision of information and 
education to assist with energy management and evaluation of the 
effectiveness of installed weatherization materials) other than 
weatherization under this part or under other Federal programs, or from 
receiving non-Federal assistance for weatherization.''.
    (i) Annual Report.--Section 421 of the Energy Conservation and 
Production Act (42 U.S.C. 6871) is amended by inserting ``the number of 
multifamily buildings in which individual dwelling units were 
weatherized during the previous year, the number of individual dwelling 
units in multifamily buildings weatherized during the previous year,'' 
after ``the average size of the dwellings being weatherized,''.
    (j) Report on Waivers.--Not later than 180 days after the date of 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Energy shall submit to Congress 
a report on the status of any request made after September 30, 2010, 
for a waiver of any requirement under section 200.313 of title 2, Code 
of Federal Regulations, as such requirement applies with respect to the 
weatherization assistance program under part A of title IV of the 
Energy Conservation and Production Act (42 U.S.C. 6861 et seq.), 
including a description of any such waiver that has been granted and 
any such request for a waiver that has been considered but not granted.

SEC. 402. LIHEAP AUTHORIZATION.

    Section 2602 of the Low-Income Home Energy Assistance Act of 1981 
(42 U.S.C. 8621) is amended--
            (1) in subsection (b), by striking ``through 2007'' and 
        inserting ``through 2030''; and
            (2) in subsection (d)--
                    (A) in paragraph (1), by striking ``through 2004'' 
                and inserting ``through 2030''; and
                    (B) in paragraph (2), by striking ``through 2004'' 
                and inserting ``through 2030''.

           TITLE V--ENERGY WORKFORCE TRANSITION AND TRAINING

SEC. 500. PURPOSES.

    The purposes of this title are to provide for a transition to a 
modern energy system, including by ensuring that--
            (1) the United States has a workforce prepared to address 
        the needs of the modern energy system;
            (2) workers in declining energy sectors and in 
        disenfranchised communities acquire well-paying jobs in growing 
        energy sectors; and
            (3) communities, especially those that are 
        disproportionately vulnerable to the impacts of climate change 
        and other pollution, can be made resilient to the impacts of 
        climate change.

                     Subtitle A--State Energy Plans

SEC. 501. STATE ENERGY PLANS.

    (a) In General.--Section 362(d) of the Energy Policy and 
Conservation Act (42 U.S.C. 6322(d)) is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (16), by striking ``; and'' and inserting 
        a semicolon;
            (2) by redesignating paragraph (17) as paragraph (18); and
            (3) by inserting after paragraph (16) the following:
            ``(17) a State energy plan developed in accordance with 
        section 367; and''.
    (b) State Energy Plans.--Part D of title III of the Energy Policy 
and Conservation Act (42 U.S.C. 6321 et seq.) is amended by adding at 
the end the following:

``SEC. 367. STATE ENERGY PLANS.

    ``(a) In General.--The Secretary may provide financial assistance 
to a State to develop a State energy plan, for inclusion in a State 
energy conservation plan under section 362(d), to provide for--
            ``(1) the elimination of net greenhouse gas emissions;
            ``(2) improved air and water quality; and
            ``(3) conservation of natural resources.
    ``(b) Contents.--A State developing a State energy plan under this 
section shall include in such plan, measures to--
            ``(1) ensure that the full social cost of carbon pollution 
        is factored into decision-making associated with electricity 
        generation and utility investments in energy efficiency and 
        electric vehicle infrastructure;
            ``(2) promote investments in a distribution system that 
        takes advantage of technology advancement and supports reduced 
        pollution, consumer choice, and a resilient and reliable 
        system;
            ``(3) address the need to site transmission lines and new 
        electricity generating units efficiently;
            ``(4) evaluate the role of existing resources as part of 
        utility planning to accelerate the transition to low-cost 
        carbon emissions reductions;
            ``(5) engage with regional partners to explore the 
        potential benefits of regional markets;
            ``(6) support utility leadership in its efforts to 
        transition to sources of electricity that result in net zero 
        greenhouse gas emissions;
            ``(7) support infrastructure upgrades and smart grid 
        investments to improve system-wide efficiency;
            ``(8) support building codes for new and retrofitted 
        buildings that promote the energy efficiency of buildings and 
        the electric grid;
            ``(9) support improved appliance efficiency standards;
            ``(10) support investments in electric vehicle 
        infrastructure in ways that will ensure a more efficient grid 
        and greater adoption of electric vehicles, including in rural 
        areas;
            ``(11) support workforce and economic transition planning 
        for communities impacted by a changing energy landscape, as 
        informed by the Energy Workforce Transition Plan developed 
        under section 512 of the Clean Energy Innovation and Deployment 
        Act of 2020, and the pilot program developed under section 523 
        of such Act;
            ``(12) consider the human health and environmental impacts 
        of energy development and climate change on low-income and 
        underserved populations, including rural communities, 
        communities of color, children, the elderly, and sick; and
            ``(13) develop strategies to support local clean energy 
        goals facilitating utility-community cooperation and private 
        sector partnerships.
    ``(c) Coordination.--In developing a State energy plan under this 
section, a State shall coordinate, as appropriate, with--
            ``(1) State regulatory authorities (as defined in section 3 
        of the Public Utility Regulatory Policies Act of 1978);
            ``(2) electric utilities;
            ``(3) Regional Transmission Organizations (as defined in 
        section 3 of the Federal Power Act) and Independent System 
        Operators (as defined in section 3 of the Federal Power Act);
            ``(4) private entities;
            ``(5) State agencies, metropolitan planning organizations, 
        and local governments;
            ``(6) the Energy Workforce Transition Office established by 
        section 512 of the Clean Energy Innovation and Deployment Act 
        of 2020;
            ``(7) relevant public and private entities; and
            ``(8) labor organizations, such as those representing 
        workers in the construction, manufacturing, or energy sectors.
    ``(d) Technical Assistance.--Upon request of the Governor of a 
State, the Secretary shall provide information and technical assistance 
in the development, implementation, or revision of a State energy 
plan.''.

SEC. 502. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.

    (a) State Energy Conservation Plans.--Section 365(f) of the Energy 
Policy and Conservation Act (42 U.S.C. 6325(f)) is amended to read as 
follows:
    ``(f) Authorization of Appropriations.--
            ``(1) State energy conservation plans.--For the purpose of 
        carrying out this part, there is authorized to be appropriated 
        $100,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2022 through 2026.
            ``(2) State energy plans.--In addition to the amounts 
        authorized under paragraph (1), for the purpose of carrying out 
        section 367, there is authorized to be appropriated $25,000,000 
        for each of fiscal years 2022 through 2026.''.
    (b) Transportation Electrification.--Section 131 of the Energy 
Independence and Security Act of 2007 (42 U.S.C. 17011) is amended--
            (1) in subsection (b)(6), by striking ``2008 through 2012'' 
        and inserting ``2022 through 2026''; and
            (2) in subsection (c)(4), by striking ``2008 through 2013'' 
        and inserting ``2022 through 2026''.

                Subtitle B--Energy Workforce Transition

SEC. 511. DEFINITIONS.

    In this subtitle:
            (1) Advisory committee.--The term ``Advisory Committee'' 
        means the Energy Workforce Transition Advisory Committee 
        established by section 512(d).
            (2) Coal-related facility.--The term ``coal-related 
        facility'' includes a coal mine or a coal-fueled electric 
        generating facility.
            (3) Coal-related industrial facility.--The term ``coal-
        related industrial facility'' includes a facility in the 
        manufacturing and transportation supply chains of a coal-
        related facility.
            (4) Director.--The term ``Director'' means the Director of 
        the Office.
            (5) Disproportionately impacted community.--The term 
        ``disproportionately impacted community'' means any community 
        of color, low-to-middle income community, or indigenous 
        community that is or has been disproportionately impacted by 
        energy-related pollution.
            (6) Energy transition community.--The term ``energy 
        transition community'' means a municipality, county, region, or 
        Indian Tribe that has been affected since calendar year 2008 or 
        later, or that demonstrates it will be impacted in the next 36 
        months, by the loss of 50 or more jobs in total as a result of 
        the closure of a coal-related facility, a coal-related 
        industrial facility, or another type of energy-related entity, 
        as determined by the Office.
            (7) Energy transition worker.--The term ``energy transition 
        worker'' means a worker, including workers employed by 
        contractors or subcontractors, terminated, laid off from 
        employment, or whose work hours have been reduced, on or after 
        the date of enactment of this Act, from a coal-related 
        facility, coal-related industrial facility, or other energy-
        related entity.
            (8) Energy workforce transition plan.--The term ``Energy 
        Workforce Transition Plan'' means the plan developed under 
        section 512(d).
            (9) Labor organization.--The term ``labor organization'' 
        has the meaning given such term in section 2 of the National 
        Labor Relations Act (29 U.S.C. 152).
            (10) Office.--The term ``Office'' means the Energy 
        Workforce Transition Office established by section 512.
            (11) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary 
        of Energy.
            (12) Wage differential benefit.--The term ``wage 
        differential benefit'' means the difference between the wages 
        and other benefits provided by--
                    (A) a worker's wages and benefits earned in a coal-
                related facility, coal-related industrial-facility, or 
                other energy-related entity on the day before the 
                worker is terminated, laid off, or given a reduction in 
                work-hours; and
                    (B) the worker's current wages and benefits, if 
                any, after such a termination, lay-off, or reduction in 
                work-hours.

SEC. 512. ENERGY WORKFORCE TRANSITION OFFICE AND ADVISORY COMMITTEE.

    (a) Establishment.--There is hereby established within the 
Department of Energy an office to be known as the Energy Workforce 
Transition Office.
    (b) Exemption From Reorganization.--The Office shall be exempt from 
the reorganization authority provided under section 643 of the 
Department of Energy Organization Act (42 U.S.C. 7253).
    (c) Director.--The Secretary shall appoint as the head of the 
Office a Director, who shall manage the operations of the Office.
    (d) Duties of the Office.--The duties of the Office shall be to--
            (1) identify or estimate, to the extent practicable, with 
        respect to the period that begins on the date of enactment of 
        this Act and ends on January 1, 2030--
                    (A) the timing and location of facility closures 
                and job terminations or layoffs in coal-related 
                facilities, coal-related industrial-facilities, and 
                other energy-related entities; and
                    (B) the impact of such terminations, layoffs, or 
                reduced work-hours on affected workers (including those 
                employed by a contractor or subcontractor), businesses, 
                and energy transition communities; and
            (2) provide administrative, logistical, research, and 
        policy support and recommendations to the Advisory Committee.
    (e) Energy Workforce Transition Advisory Committee.--
            (1) Establishment.--There is hereby established an advisory 
        committee, to be known as the Energy Workforce Transition 
        Advisory Committee.
            (2) Energy workforce transition plan.--
                    (A) In general.--The Advisory Committee shall 
                develop and finalize a plan, to be known as the Energy 
                Workforce Transition Plan.
                    (B) Purpose.--The purpose of the Energy Workforce 
                Transition Plan is to identify, align, and streamline 
                resources to assist workers and communities impacted by 
                the transition to a clean energy economy.
                    (C) Public meetings.--In developing the Energy 
                Workforce Transition Plan, the Advisory Committee shall 
                hold no less than 4 public meetings in energy-
                transition communities, with opportunities for members 
                of the public to provide input.
                    (D) Contents.--The Energy Workforce Transition Plan 
                shall include--
                            (i) a description of the challenges that 
                        energy transition communities encounter, 
                        including challenges associated with economic 
                        and employment transition, and challenges 
                        particular to certain regions;
                            (ii) a description of benefits, grants, and 
                        other sources of funding to address the 
                        challenges described under clause (i) that may 
                        be accessed from Federal, State, local, and 
                        other sources without additional legislative 
                        authority or approval;
                            (iii) a description of sources of funding 
                        to address the challenges described under 
                        clause (i) that require additional legislative 
                        authority or approval;
                            (iv) recommendations for aligning local, 
                        State, Federal, and other resources to invest 
                        in energy transition communities and energy 
                        transition workers;
                            (v) recommendations for establishing 
                        benefits for energy transition workers, 
                        including consideration of--
                                    (I) benefits similar in type, 
                                amount, and duration to Federal 
                                benefits that are not otherwise 
                                available to all energy transition 
                                workers;
                                    (II) wage differential benefits for 
                                energy transition workers, including 
                                consideration of eligibility and the 
                                duration of the benefits; and
                                    (III) collaboration with existing 
                                or future employers of energy 
                                transition workers and relevant labor 
                                organizations, to inform energy 
                                transition workers how to apply for 
                                wage differential and other eligible 
                                benefits;
                            (vi) recommendations for grants and other 
                        programmatic support for energy transition 
                        communities and entities that support energy 
                        transition communities, including--
                                    (I) counties, municipalities, 
                                cities, or other political subdivisions 
                                of a State;
                                    (II) Indian Tribes;
                                    (III) apprenticeships registered 
                                under the Act of August 16, 1937 
                                (commonly known as the ``National 
                                Apprenticeship Act''; 50 Stat. 664, 
                                chapter 663; 29 U.S.C. 50 et seq.), 
                                that meet the requirements of parts 29 
                                and 30 of title 29, Code of Federal 
                                Regulations, as in effect on December 
                                30, 2019;
                                    (IV) institutions of higher 
                                education; and
                                    (V) public or private nonprofit 
                                organizations or associations;
                            (vii) recommendations for establishing 
                        community transition resource centers in energy 
                        transition communities, in order to provide 
                        such communities a source of current 
                        information regarding the resources described 
                        in this subparagraph;
                            (viii) identification of the projected 
                        short-term and long-term costs of each activity 
                        recommended in the Energy Workforce Transition 
                        Plan, including worker benefits, grant 
                        programs, and other activities;
                            (ix) identification of the potential 
                        sources for sustainable short-term and long-
                        term funding for implementing the activities 
                        recommended in the Energy Workforce Transition 
                        Plan;
                            (x) the potential advantages or 
                        disadvantages of extending activities 
                        recommended in the Energy Workforce Transition 
                        Plan to other sectors and industries affected 
                        by similar economic disruptions; and
                            (xi) recommendations, made in consultation 
                        with relevant Federal agencies, including the 
                        Department of Labor, and relevant State 
                        authorities, for efficient implementation of 
                        the activities recommended in the Energy 
                        Workforce Transition Plan.
                    (E) Report to congress.--Not later than January 1, 
                2023, the Advisory Committee shall submit to Congress 
                the Energy Workforce Transition Plan, as well as any 
                recommendations to be considered in order to better 
                achieve the plan.
            (3) Membership.--The Advisory Committee shall consist of 
        the following members:
                    (A) Ex officio members as follows:
                            (i) A representative of the Department of 
                        Labor.
                            (ii) A representative of the Economic 
                        Development Administration of the Department of 
                        Commerce.
                            (iii) A representative of the Executive 
                        Office of the President.
                    (B) The following members appointed by the 
                Director:
                            (i) 4 representatives of energy transition 
                        workers, including at least one from a union 
                        representing coal workers, one from a building 
                        trades union, and one from a union representing 
                        other energy transition workers.
                            (ii) 3 representatives from energy 
                        transition communities.
                            (iii) 2 representatives with professional 
                        economic development or workforce retraining 
                        experience.
                            (iv) 2 representatives of 
                        disproportionately impacted communities.
                            (v) 2 representatives of electric utilities 
                        that, on the date of enactment of this Act, 
                        operate a coal-related facility.
            (4) Term.--Except as otherwise provided in this section, 
        the term of appointment or designation of a member of the 
        Advisory Committee shall end on January 1, 2027.
            (5) Expenses.--In accordance with section 5703 of title 5, 
        United States Code, each member of the Advisory Committee may 
        receive payment of a per diem and reimbursement for actual and 
        necessary expenses.
            (6) Chair.--The Advisory Committee shall elect a chair from 
        among its members to serve for a term not to exceed 2 years, as 
        determined appropriate by the Advisory Committee.
            (7) Meetings.--The Advisory Committee shall meet at least 
        once every quarter. The chair of the Advisory Committee may 
        call such additional meetings as are necessary for the Advisory 
        Committee, with the Secretary, to develop and submit the 
        Congress the Energy Workforce Transition Plan.
            (8) Engagement of others.--The Advisory Committee may 
        engage additional nonvoting members or advisors to provide 
        additional expertise as needed.

SEC. 513. ENERGY WORKFORCE TRANSITION PLANS AND REEMPLOYMENT OF 
              AFFECTED WORKERS.

    (a) Submission.--The owner or operator of an energy-related 
facility shall to the extent practicable submit to the Director a 
workforce transition plan--
            (1) with respect to a coal-fueled electric generating 
        facility with a capacity of more than 50 megawatts, 12 months 
        before the closure of the facility;
            (2) with respect to a coal mine with a capacity of more 
        than 4,000,000 short tons of coal per year, 12 months before 
        the closure of the coal mine; and
            (3) with respect to an energy-related facility not 
        described under paragraph (1) or (2), not later than 60 days 
        before the closure of the facility.
    (b) Contents.--To the extent practicable, a workforce transition 
plan submitted under subsection (a) shall include estimates of--
            (1) the number of workers, including those employed by a 
        contractor or subcontractor, employed by the coal-related 
        facility before the closure of the facility;
            (2) the total number of such workers, including those 
        employed by a contractor or subcontractor, whose employment, as 
        a result of the closure of the coal-related facility, will--
                    (A) be retained;
                    (B) be eliminated; and
                    (C) be given a reduction in hours;
            (3) with respect to the workers, including those employed 
        by a contractor or subcontractor, whose existing jobs will be 
        eliminated as a result of the closure of the coal-related 
        facility, the total number, and the number by job 
        classification, of workers--
                    (A) whose employment will end without being offered 
                other employment;
                    (B) who will retire as planned, be offered early 
                retirement, or leave on their own;
                    (C) who will be retained by being transferred to 
                other activities under the employment of the owner or 
                operator; and
                    (D) who will be retained to continue to work for 
                the owner or operator in a new job classification;
            (4) with respect to the workers, including those employed 
        by a contractor or subcontractor, whose existing jobs will be 
        retained during the closure of the coal-related facility, the 
        total number, and the number by job classification, of workers 
        who will work on the decommissioning and environmental 
        remediation of the facility; and
            (5) if an owner or operator is replacing a coal-related 
        facility with a new electric generating facility, the number 
        of--
                    (A) workers from the closed coal-related facility 
                who will be employed at the new electric generating 
                facility; and
                    (B) jobs at the new electric generating facility 
                that will be outsourced to contractors or 
                subcontractors.
    (c) Privacy.--A workforce transition plan submitted under 
subsection (a) shall not include information that violates privacy of 
workers or confidential business information.
    (d) Regulations.--Not later than 1 year after the date of enactment 
of this Act, the Secretary shall promulgate regulations to implement 
this subtitle.

            Subtitle C--Modern Energy Workforce Development

SEC. 521. DEFINITIONS.

    In this subtitle:
            (1) Apprenticeship program.--The term ``apprenticeship 
        program'' means an apprenticeship registered under the Act of 
        August 16, 1937 (29 U.S.C. 50 et seq.) (commonly known as the 
        ``National Apprenticeship Act''), that meets the requirements 
        of parts 29 and 30 of title 29, Code of Federal Regulations, as 
        in effect on December 30, 2019.
            (2) Energy transition worker.--The term ``energy transition 
        worker'' means a worker, including workers employed by 
        contractors or subcontractors, terminated, laid off from 
        employment, or whose work-hours have been reduced, on or after 
        the date of enactment of this Act, from a coal-related 
        facility, coal-related industrial facility, or other energy-
        related entity.
            (3) Institution of higher education.--The term 
        ``institution of higher education'' has the meaning given that 
        term in section 101(a) of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (20 
        U.S.C. 1001(a)).
            (4) Labor organization.--The term ``labor organization'' 
        has the meaning given the term in section 2 of the National 
        Labor Relations Act (29 U.S.C. 152).
            (5) Local educational agency.--The term ``local educational 
        agency'' means a public board of education or other public 
        authority legally constituted within a State for either 
        administrative control or direction of, or to perform a service 
        function for, public schools in a city, county, township, 
        school district, or other political subdivision of a State, or 
        for a combination of school districts or counties as are 
        recognized in a State as an administrative agency for its 
        public elementary schools or secondary schools.
            (6) Local workforce development board.--The term ``local 
        workforce development board'' has the meaning given that term 
        in section 3122 of title 29, United States Code.
            (7) Minority institution.--The term ``minority 
        institution'' has the meaning given that term in section 365(3) 
        of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1067k(3)).
            (8) Nonprofit organization.--The term ``nonprofit 
        organization'' means a group organized for purposes other than 
        generating profit and in which no part of the organization's 
        income is distributed to its members, directors, or officers.
            (9) Pre-apprenticeship.--The term ``pre-apprenticeship'' 
        means, with respect to a program, an initiative or set of 
        strategies that--
                    (A) is designed to prepare participants to enter an 
                apprenticeship program;
                    (B) is carried out by an eligible sponsor that has 
                a documented partnership with one or more sponsors of 
                apprenticeship programs; and
                    (C) includes each of the following:
                            (i) Training (including a curriculum for 
                        the training) aligned with industry standards 
                        related to an apprenticeship program and 
                        reviewed and approved annually by sponsors of 
                        the apprenticeship program within the 
                        documented partnership that will prepare 
                        participants by teaching the skills and 
                        competencies needed to enter one or more 
                        apprenticeship programs.
                            (ii) Hands-on training and theoretical 
                        education for participants that does not 
                        displace a paid employee.
                            (iii) A formal agreement with a sponsor of 
                        an apprenticeship program that would enable 
                        participants who successfully complete the pre-
                        apprenticeship program--
                                    (I) to enter into the 
                                apprenticeship program if a place in 
                                the program is available and if the 
                                participant meets the qualifications of 
                                the apprenticeship program; and
                                    (II) to earn credits towards the 
                                apprenticeship program.

SEC. 522. MODERN ENERGY WORKFORCE DEVELOPMENT.

    (a) Establishment.--The Secretary of Energy, in consultation with 
the Secretary of Labor, shall establish and carry out a comprehensive 
and nationwide program (referred to in this section as the ``Program'') 
to improve education and training for jobs in energy-related industries 
(including manufacturing, engineering, construction, and retrofitting 
jobs in energy-related industries) to increase the number of skilled 
workers trained to work in energy-related industries with existing or 
expected worker shortages.
    (b) Workforce Development.--
            (1) In general.--In carrying out the Program, the Secretary 
        shall--
                    (A) offer available resources to energy transition 
                workers and underrepresented groups, including 
                religious and ethnic minorities, women, veterans, 
                individuals with disabilities, and socioeconomically 
                disadvantaged individuals, to enter into science, 
                technology, engineering, and mathematics fields;
                    (B) offer available resources to institutions of 
                higher education to equip students with the skills, 
                training, and technical expertise necessary to fill 
                existing or expected worker shortages in energy-related 
                industries;
                    (C) provide internships, fellowships, and 
                traineeships at the Department of Energy, including at 
                National Laboratories;
                    (D) provide energy workforce-related research 
                grants and technical assistance to institutions of 
                higher education, with priority given to minority 
                institutions;
                    (E) ensure that internships, fellowships, 
                traineeships, apprenticeships, and pre-apprenticeships 
                provide the necessary skills and certifications for 
                employment in energy-related industries with existing 
                or expected worker shortages;
                    (F) ensure that the Program is in alignment with 
                the Minorities in Energy Initiative of the Department 
                of Energy;
                    (G) ensure alignment with other programs that are 
                carrying out the Minorities in Energy Initiative of the 
                Department of Energy;
                    (H) to the maximum extent practicable, collaborate 
                with and support State workforce development programs 
                to maximize the efficiency of the Program; and
                    (I) work with labor organizations and institutions 
                of higher education to promote pre-apprenticeship as a 
                pathway to an energy-related career through an 
                apprenticeship program.
            (2) Priority.--In carrying out the Program, the Secretary 
        shall--
                    (A) prioritize the education and training of energy 
                transition workers and underrepresented groups, 
                including religious and ethnic minorities, women, 
                veterans, individuals with disabilities, and 
                socioeconomically disadvantaged individuals for jobs in 
                energy-related industries, especially construction; and
                    (B) partner with labor organizations that have 
                multi-year records of training and supporting energy 
                transition workers and underrepresented groups to 
                successful completion of pre-apprenticeship and 
                apprenticeship programs.
    (c) Direct Assistance.--
            (1) In general.--In carrying out the Program, the Secretary 
        shall provide direct assistance (including financial assistance 
        awards, technical expertise, and guidance) to local educational 
        agencies, local workforce development boards, institutions of 
        higher education, nonprofit organizations, labor organizations, 
        apprenticeship programs, and pre-apprenticeship programs.
            (2) Distribution.--The Secretary shall distribute direct 
        assistance under paragraph (1) in a manner that--
                    (A) is reflective of the needs of, and demand for 
                jobs in, an energy-related industry; and
                    (B) is consistent with the information obtained 
                under subsections (e)(4) and (j).
            (3) Restriction.--In providing financial assistance awards 
        under paragraph (1) for education and training relating to 
        construction, eligible entities shall only include 
        apprenticeship programs, and pre-apprenticeship programs that 
        have an articulation agreement with one or more apprenticeship 
        programs.
    (d) Resource Center.--The Secretary shall establish an online 
resource center--
            (1) to maintain and update information and resources on 
        training programs for jobs in energy-related industries 
        (including manufacturing, engineering, construction, and 
        retrofitting jobs in energy-related industries); and
            (2) to connect local educational agencies, State 
        educational agencies, institutions of higher education, local 
        workforce development boards, State workforce development 
        boards, nonprofit organizations, labor organizations, 
        apprenticeship programs and pre-apprenticeship programs that 
        are working to develop and implement training programs for the 
        jobs described in paragraph (1) to share resources, approaches, 
        and best practices.
    (e) Collaboration and Report.--In carrying out the Program, the 
Secretary shall--
            (1) collaborate with local educational agencies, 
        institutions of higher education, local workforce development 
        boards, nonprofit organizations, labor organizations, 
        apprenticeship programs and pre-apprenticeship programs, and 
        energy-related industries;
            (2) facilitate the sharing of best practices and approaches 
        that best suit local, State, and national needs;
            (3) encourage and foster collaboration, mentorship, and 
        partnership between--
                    (A) industry partners, local workforce development 
                boards, nonprofit organizations, labor organizations, 
                apprenticeship and pre-apprenticeship programs, that 
                provide effective training programs for jobs in energy-
                related industries; and
                    (B) local educational agencies, State educational 
                agencies, and institutions of higher education that 
                seek to establish those programs; and
            (4) collaborate with the Secretary of Labor, the 
        Commissioner of the Bureau of Labor Statistics, the Secretary 
        of Commerce, the Director of the Bureau of the Census, labor 
        organizations, and energy-related industries--
                    (A) to develop a comprehensive and detailed 
                understanding of the workforce needs of, and job 
                opportunities in, energy-related industries, by State 
                and by region; and
                    (B) to publish an annual report on job creation in 
                the sectors of energy-related industries identified 
                under subsection (j).
    (f) Best Practices for Educational Institutions.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary, in collaboration with the 
        Secretary of Education, the Secretary of Commerce, the 
        Secretary of Labor, and the Director of the National Science 
        Foundation, shall develop and report best practices for 
        providing students with skills necessary for jobs in energy-
        related industries (including manufacturing, engineering, 
        construction, and retrofitting jobs in energy-related 
        industries) to local educational agencies, institutions of 
        higher education, and apprenticeship programs.
            (2) Energy efficiency and community energy resiliency 
        initiatives.--The Secretary shall develop and provide best 
        practices for teaching students and the families of those 
        students about energy efficiency and community energy 
        resiliency.
            (3) Input from industry labor organizations.--In carrying 
        out paragraphs (1) and (2), the Secretary shall solicit input 
        from energy-related industries and labor organizations, 
        especially sectors with existing or expected worker shortages 
        or expertise in energy efficiency.
            (4) STEM education.--In carrying out paragraphs (1) and 
        (2), the Secretary shall promote education in science, 
        technology, engineering, and mathematics.
    (g) Outreach to Minority Institutions.--In carrying out the 
Program, the Secretary shall--
            (1) increase the Department of Energy's outreach to 
        minority institutions;
            (2) work with minority institutions to increase the number 
        of skilled minorities and women qualified for jobs in energy-
        related industries (including manufacturing, engineering, 
        construction, and retrofitting jobs in energy-related 
        industries);
            (3) work with energy-related industries to improve 
        opportunities for students of minority institutions to 
        participate in industry internships and cooperative work-study 
        programs; and
            (4) work with the Directors of the National Laboratories to 
        increase the participation of students from minority 
        institutions in internships, fellowships, training programs, 
        and employment at those laboratories.
    (h) Outreach to Energy Transition Workers.--The Secretary shall--
            (1) work with employers and job trainers, including 
        apprenticeship and pre-apprenticeship programs, in preparing 
        energy transition workers for emerging jobs in energy-related 
        industries (including manufacturing, engineering, construction, 
        and retrofitting jobs in energy-related industries);
            (2) work with energy transition workers to increase the 
        number of individuals trained for jobs in energy-related 
        industries (including manufacturing, engineering, construction, 
        and retrofitting jobs in energy-related industries); and
            (3) work with labor organizations and energy-related 
        industry partners to improve opportunities for energy 
        transition workers to participate in industry internships, 
        cooperative work-study programs, apprenticeships, and pre-
        apprenticeships.
    (i) Enrollment in Training and Apprenticeship and Pre-
Apprenticeship Programs.--The Secretary shall provide assistance to 
industry, local workforce development boards, State workforce 
development boards, nonprofit organizations, labor organizations, and 
apprenticeship programs in identifying students and other candidates, 
including energy transition workers and underrepresented groups, 
including religious and ethnic minorities, women, veterans, individuals 
with disabilities, and socioeconomically disadvantaged individuals, to 
enroll in training and apprenticeship programs and pre-apprenticeship 
programs for jobs in energy-related industries.
    (j) Guidelines To Develop Skills for a Modern Energy Industry 
Workforce.--The Secretary shall, in collaboration with energy-related 
industries and labor organizations, identify the sectors within each 
energy-related industry that have the greatest demand for workers and 
develop guidelines for the skills necessary to work in those sectors. 
The Secretary shall identify the sectors in consultation with a broad 
cross-section of the energy industry, including relevant energy 
industry organizations, public and private employers, labor 
organizations, postsecondary education institutions, and workforce 
development boards.
    (k) Rule of Construction.--Nothing in this section authorizes any 
department, agency, officer, or employee of the Federal Government to 
exercise any direction, supervision, or control over--
            (1) the curriculum, program of instruction, or 
        instructional content of any State, local educational agency, 
        or school; or
            (2) the selection of library resources, textbooks, or other 
        printed or published instructional materials used by any State, 
        local educational agency, or school.

SEC. 523. ZERO-EMISSION ECONOMY WORKFORCE PILOT PROGRAM.

    (a) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Eligible entity.--The term ``eligible entity'' means a 
        National Laboratory, business, or labor organization that 
        demonstrates success in placing graduates of pre-apprenticeship 
        or apprenticeship programs in jobs relevant to such programs 
        and--
                    (A) is directly involved with zero-emission 
                electricity technology, energy efficiency, or other 
                activity that results in a reduction in greenhouse gas 
                emissions, as determined by the Secretary;
                    (B) works on behalf of a business or labor 
                organization that is directly involved with zero-
                emission electricity technology, energy efficiency, or 
                other activity that results in a reduction in 
                greenhouse gas emissions, as determined by the 
                Secretary;
                    (C) provides services related to--
                            (i) zero-emission electricity technology 
                        deployment and maintenance and energy 
                        efficiency;
                            (ii) grid modernization; or
                            (iii) reduction in greenhouse gas emissions 
                        through the use of zero-emission energy 
                        technologies;
                    (D) has knowledge of technician workforce needs of 
                a National Laboratory or covered facility of the 
                National Nuclear security Administration and the 
                associated security requirements of such laboratory or 
                facility;
                    (E) demonstrates experience in implementing and 
                operating apprenticeship programs or pre-apprenticeship 
                programs that provide a direct pathway to an energy-
                related career; or
                    (F) demonstrates success in placing graduates of 
                pre-apprenticeship or apprenticeship programs in jobs 
                relevant to such programs.
            (2) National laboratory.--The term ``National Laboratory'' 
        means any of the following laboratories owned by the Department 
        of Energy:
                    (A) Ames Laboratory.
                    (B) Argonne National Laboratory.
                    (C) Brookhaven National Laboratory.
                    (D) Fermi National Accelerator Laboratory.
                    (E) Idaho National Laboratory.
                    (F) Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory.
                    (G) Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory.
                    (H) Los Alamos National Laboratory.
                    (I) National Energy Technology Laboratory.
                    (J) National Renewable Energy Laboratory.
                    (K) Oak Ridge National Laboratory.
                    (L) Pacific Northwest National Laboratory.
                    (M) Princeton Plasma Physics Laboratory.
                    (N) Sandia National Laboratories.
                    (O) Savannah River National Laboratory.
                    (P) Stanford Linear Accelerator Center.
                    (Q) Thomas Jefferson National Accelerator Facility.
            (3) Pilot program.--The term ``pilot program'' means the 
        pilot program established under subsection (b).
    (b) Establishment.--The Secretary of Energy, in consultation with 
the Secretary of Labor, shall establish a pilot program to provide 
competitively awarded cost-shared grants to eligible entities to pay 
for on-the-job training of a new or existing employee--
            (1) to work in zero-emission electricity generation, energy 
        efficiency, or grid modernization;
            (2) to work otherwise on the reduction of greenhouse gas 
        emissions; or
            (3) to participate in a pre-apprenticeship program that 
        provides a direct pathway to an energy-related career in 
        construction through one or more apprenticeship programs.
    (c) Grants.--
            (1) In general.--An eligible entity desiring a grant under 
        the pilot program shall submit to the Secretary of Energy an 
        application at such time, in such manner, and containing such 
        information as the Secretary of Energy may require.
            (2) Priority for targeted communities.--In providing grants 
        under the pilot program, the Secretary of Energy shall give 
        priority to an eligible entity that--
                    (A) recruits employees--
                            (i) from the one or more communities that 
                        are served by the eligible entity; and
                            (ii) that are minorities, women, veterans, 
                        individuals from Indian Tribes or Tribal 
                        organizations, or energy transition workers;
                    (B) provides trainees with the opportunity to 
                obtain real-world experience; or
                    (C) has fewer than 100 employees; and
                    (D) in the case of a pre-apprenticeship program, 
                demonstrates--
                            (i) a multi-year record of successfully 
                        recruiting energy transition workers, 
                        minorities, women, and veterans for training 
                        and supporting such individuals to a successful 
                        completion of a pre-apprenticeship program; and
                            (ii) a successful multi-year record of 
                        placing the majority of pre-apprenticeship 
                        program graduates into apprenticeship programs 
                        in the construction industry.
            (3) Use of grant for federal share.--
                    (A) In general.--An eligible entity shall use a 
                grant received under the pilot program to--
                            (i) pay the Federal share of the cost of 
                        providing on-the-job training for an employee, 
                        in accordance with subparagraph (B); or
                            (ii) in the case of a pre-apprenticeship 
                        program--
                                    (I) recruiting minorities, women, 
                                and veterans for training;
                                    (II) supporting those individuals 
                                in the successful completion of the 
                                pre-apprenticeship program; and
                                    (III) carrying out any other 
                                activity of the pre-apprenticeship 
                                program, as determined to be 
                                appropriate by the Secretary of Labor, 
                                in consultation with the Secretary.
                    (B) Federal share amount.--The Federal share 
                described in subparagraph (A)(i) shall not exceed--
                            (i) in the case of an eligible entity with 
                        20 or fewer employees, 45 percent of the cost 
                        of on-the-job-training for an employee;
                            (ii) in the case of an eligible entity with 
                        not fewer than 21 employees and not more than 
                        99 employees, 37.5 percent of the cost of on-
                        the-job-training for an employee;
                            (iii) in the case of an eligible entity 
                        with not fewer than 100 employees, 25 percent 
                        of the cost of on-the-job-training for an 
                        employee; and
                            (iv) in the case of an eligible entity that 
                        administers a pre-apprenticeship program, 75 
                        percent of the cost of the pre-apprenticeship 
                        program.
            (4) Employer payment of non-federal share.--
                    (A) In general.--The non-Federal share of the cost 
                of providing on-the-job training for an employee under 
                a grant received under the pilot program shall be paid 
                in cash or in kind by the employer of the employee 
                receiving the training or by a nonprofit organization.
                    (B) Inclusions.--The non-Federal share described in 
                subparagraph (A) may include the amount of wages paid 
                by the employer to the employee during the time that 
                the employee is receiving on-the-job training, as 
                fairly evaluated by the Secretary of Labor.
            (5) Construction.--In providing grants under the pilot 
        program for training, recruitment, and support relating to 
        construction, eligible entities shall only include pre-
        apprenticeship programs that have an articulation agreement 
        with one or more apprenticeship programs.
            (6) Grant amount.--An eligible entity may not receive more 
        than $1,000,000 per fiscal year in grant funds under the pilot 
        program.

SEC. 524. UNIVERSITY ZERO-EMISSION ENERGY LEADERSHIP PROGRAM.

    (a) Establishment.--
            (1) In general.--Subtitle E of title IX of the Energy 
        Policy Act of 2005 is further amended by adding at the end the 
        following:

``SEC. 959C. UNIVERSITY ZERO-EMISSION ENERGY LEADERSHIP PROGRAM.

    ``(a) Establishment.--The Secretary of Energy shall establish a 
program, to be known as the `University Zero-Emission Energy Leadership 
Program'.
    ``(b) Use of Funds.--Amounts made available to carry out the 
University Zero-Emission Energy Leadership Program--
            ``(1) shall be used to provide financial assistance for 
        scholarships, fellowships, and research and development 
        projects at institutions of higher education in areas relevant 
        to departmental missions in research, development, 
        demonstration, and deployment activities for zero-emission 
        technologies;
            ``(2) may be used to provide financial assistance to 
        businesses to offset the costs of a partnership with, or 
        investments in, institutions of higher education in areas 
        relevant to departmental missions in research, development, 
        demonstration, and deployment activities for zero-emission 
        technologies; and
            ``(3) may be used to provide financial assistance for a 
        scholarship, fellowship, or multiyear research and development 
        project that does not align directly with a departmental 
        mission, if the activity for which assistance is provided 
        promotes a zero-emission energy transition.''.
            (2) Table of contents.--The table of contents for the 
        Energy Policy Act of 2005 is further amended by adding after 
        the item relating to section 959B the following:

``Sec. 959C. University Zero-Emission Energy Leadership Program.''.
    (b) Repeal.--The Energy and Water Development and Related Agencies 
Appropriations Act, 2009 is amended by striking section 313.

SEC. 525. CLIMATE RESILIENCY CORPS.

    (a) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Energy transition workers.--The term ``energy 
        transition workers'' means workers, including workers employed 
        by contractors or subcontractors, terminated, laid off from 
        employment, or whose work-hours have been reduced, on or after 
        the date of enactment of this Act, from a coal-related 
        facility, coal-related industry, or other energy-related 
        entity.
            (2) Members of the reserve components of the armed 
        forces.--The term ``members of the reserve components of the 
        Armed Forces'' means members of the--
                    (A) Army National Guard of the United States;
                    (B) Army Reserve;
                    (C) Navy Reserve;
                    (D) Marine Corps Reserve;
                    (E) Air National Guard of the United States;
                    (F) Air Force Reserve; and
                    (G) Coast Guard Reserve.
            (3) Underemployed.--The term ``underemployed'' means 
        individuals who are employed at less than full-time because 
        they are unable to obtain full time employment or who are 
        employed at jobs inadequate to their training or economic 
        needs.
            (4) Veterans of the armed forces.--The term ``veterans of 
        the Armed Forces'' means a person who served in the active 
        military, naval, or air service and who was discharged or 
        released under conditions other than dishonorable.
    (b) Establishment.--In order to relieve distress and unemployment 
in the United States and to provide for the restoration of depleted 
natural resources in the United States and the advancement of an 
orderly program of useful public works, the President shall establish 
and operate a Climate Resiliency Corps to employ residents of the 
United States, who are unemployed or underemployed, in the 
construction, maintenance, and carrying out of works of a public nature 
in connection with, but not limited to--
            (1) coastal restoration, including--
                    (A) adaptive management;
                    (B) exposed element relocation, elevation, or 
                removal;
                    (C) flood and storm surge barrier;
                    (D) sea dikes;
                    (E) seawall or revetment;
                    (F) spatial planning and integrated coastal zone 
                management planning;
                    (G) temporary and demountable flood defenses;
                    (H) rainwater harvesting;
                    (I) sustainable urban drainage systems; and
                    (J) wet and dry proofing;
            (2) resilient infrastructure, including--
                    (A) deployment and management of resilient 
                transportation and other infrastructure systems;
                    (B) sustainable urban underground structures 
                development; and
                    (C) earthquake resiliency and interaction of above- 
                and below-ground infrastructure;
            (3) natural solutions, including--
                    (A) restoration of wetlands, mangroves, marshes, 
                seagrasses, and oyster reefs, and the installation of 
                living shorelines;
                    (B) green roofs;
                    (C) rain gardens;
                    (D) bioswales;
                    (E) urban tree canopies; and
                    (F) permeable pavements; and
            (4) other activities that are deemed necessary by the 
        President, with guidance from the Secretary of Energy, the 
        Secretary of Agriculture, the Secretary of the Interior, the 
        Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency, or other 
        relevant agency leaders.
    (c) Role of Federal Agencies.--To operate the Climate Resiliency 
Corps, the President may utilize existing Federal departments and 
agencies, including the Department of Labor, the Department of Defense, 
the National Guard Bureau, the Department of the Interior, the 
Department of Agriculture, the Army Corps of Engineers, the Department 
of Transportation, the Department of Energy, the Environmental 
Protection Agency, and Federal governmental corporations.
    (d) Contract Authority.--(1) For the purpose of carrying out this 
section, the President may enter into such contracts or agreements with 
States as may be necessary, including provisions for utilization of 
existing State administrative agencies.
    (2) States entering into such contracts or agreements shall provide 
written assurances to the President that all laborers and mechanics 
employed by contractors or subcontractors in the performance of 
construction work financed in whole or in part with assistance under 
this section shall be paid wages at rates not less than those 
prevailing on similar work in the locality as determined by the 
Secretary of Labor in accordance with subchapter IV of chapter 31 of 
title 40, United States Code.
    (e) Acquisition of Real Property.--The President, or the head of 
any department or agency authorized by the President to construct any 
project or to carry on any public works under this Act, may acquire 
real property for such project or public work by purchase, donation, 
condemnation, or otherwise.
    (f) Administration.--
            (1) Employment preference.--If the President determines 
        that amounts appropriated to carry out a Climate Resiliency 
        Corps under this Act for a fiscal year will be insufficient to 
        employ all of the citizens of the United States described in 
        section (b) who are seeking or likely to seek employment in the 
        Climate Resiliency Corps and continue the employment of current 
        employees who desire to remain in the Climate Resiliency Corps, 
        the President shall give priority to the hiring of additional 
        persons in the Climate Resiliency Corps to--
                    (A) energy transition workers;
                    (B) unemployed veterans of the Armed Forces and 
                unemployed members of the reserve components of the 
                Armed Forces;
                    (C) unemployed citizens who have exhausted their 
                entitlement to unemployment compensation;
                    (D) unemployed citizens, who immediately before 
                employment in the Climate Resiliency Corps, are 
                eligible for unemployment compensation payable under 
                any State law or Federal unemployment compensation law, 
                including any additional compensation or extended 
                compensation under such laws; and
                    (E) other citizens from minority groups, including, 
                religious and ethnic minorities, women, and individuals 
                with disabilities.
            (2) Housing and care of employees.--The President may 
        provide housing for persons employed in the Climate Resiliency 
        Corps and furnish them with such subsistence, clothing, medical 
        attendance and hospitalization, and cash allowance, as may be 
        necessary, during the period they are so employed.
            (3) Transportation.--The President may provide for the 
        transportation of persons employed in the Climate Resiliency 
        Corps to and from the places of employment.
            (4) Non-discrimination.--In employing citizens for the 
        Climate Resiliency Corps, no discrimination shall occur, in 
        accordance with Federal employment law, except that no 
        individual under conviction for crime and serving sentence 
        therefore shall be employed under the provisions of this Act.
    (g) Use of Unobligated Funds Appropriated for Public Works.--
            (1) Use of existing funds.--The President may use any 
        moneys previously appropriated for public works and unobligated 
        as of the date of the enactment of this Act to establish and 
        operate a Climate Resiliency Corps under this section.
            (2) Use to relieve unemployment.--Not less than 80 percent 
        of the funds utilized pursuant to this subsection must be used 
        to provide for the employment of individuals under this 
        section.
            (3) Exceptions.--Paragraph (1) shall not apply to--
                    (A) unobligated moneys appropriated for public 
                works on which actual construction has been commenced 
                as of the date of the enactment of this Act or may be 
                commenced within 90 days after that date; and
                    (B) maintenance funds for river and harbor 
                improvements already allocated as of the date of the 
                enactment of this Act.
    (h) Termination.--The authority of the President to establish and 
operate a Climate Resilience Corps under this section expires on 
September 30, 2035.

SEC. 526. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.

    There are authorized to be appropriated to carry out this subtitle 
such sums as may be necessary for each of fiscal years 2021 through 
2035.
                                 &lt;all&gt;
</pre></body></html>
