<html><body><pre>
[Congressional Bills 118th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[S. 4367 Introduced in Senate (IS)]

&lt;DOC&gt;






118th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                S. 4367

  To provide for improvements to the rivers and harbors of the United 
 States, to provide for the conservation and development of water and 
               related resources, and for other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                   IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

                              May 20, 2024

   Mr. Carper (for himself, Mrs. Capito, Mr. Kelly, and Mr. Cramer) 
introduced the following bill; which was read twice and referred to the 
               Committee on Environment and Public Works

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
  To provide for improvements to the rivers and harbors of the United 
 States, to provide for the conservation and development of water and 
               related resources, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE; TABLE OF CONTENTS.

    (a) Short Title.--This Act may be cited as the ``Water Resources 
Development Act of 2024''.
    (b) Table of Contents.--The table of contents for this Act is as 
follows:

Sec. 1. Short title; table of contents.
Sec. 2. Definition of Secretary.
Sec. 3. Effective date.
                      TITLE I--GENERAL PROVISIONS

Sec. 101. Notice to Congress regarding WRDA implementation.
Sec. 102. Prior guidance.
Sec. 103. Ability to pay.
Sec. 104. Federal interest determinations.
Sec. 105. Annual report to Congress.
Sec. 106. Processing timelines.
Sec. 107. Services of volunteers.
Sec. 108. Support of Army civil works missions.
Sec. 109. Inland waterway projects.
Sec. 110. Leveraging Federal infrastructure for increased water supply.
Sec. 111. Outreach and access.
Sec. 112. Model development.
Sec. 113. Planning assistance for States.
Sec. 114. Corps of Engineers Levee Owners Advisory Board.
Sec. 115. Silver Jackets program.
Sec. 116. Tribal partnership program.
Sec. 117. Tribal project implementation pilot program.
Sec. 118. Eligibility for inter-Tribal consortiums.
Sec. 119. Sense of Congress relating to the management of recreation 
                            facilities.
                     TITLE II--STUDIES AND REPORTS

Sec. 201. Authorization of proposed feasibility studies.
Sec. 202. Vertical integration and acceleration of studies.
Sec. 203. Expedited completion.
Sec. 204. Expedited completion of other feasibility studies.
Sec. 205. Alexandria to the Gulf of Mexico, Louisiana, feasibility 
                            study.
Sec. 206. Craig Harbor, Alaska.
Sec. 207. Sussex County, Delaware.
Sec. 208. Forecast-informed reservoir operations in the Colorado River 
                            Basin.
Sec. 209. Beaver Lake, Arkansas, reallocation study.
Sec. 210. Gathright Dam, Virginia, study.
Sec. 211. Delaware Inland Bays Watershed Study.
Sec. 212. Upper Susquehanna River Basin comprehensive flood damage 
                            reduction feasibility study.
Sec. 213. Kanawha River Basin.
Sec. 214. Authorization of feasibility studies for projects from CAP 
                            authorities.
Sec. 215. Port Fourchon Belle Pass channel, Louisiana.
Sec. 216. Studies for modification of project purposes in the Colorado 
                            River Basin in Arizona.
Sec. 217. Non-Federal interest preparation of water reallocation 
                            studies, North Dakota.
Sec. 218. Technical correction, Walla Walla River.
Sec. 219. Watershed and river basin assessments.
Sec. 220. Independent peer review.
Sec. 221. Ice jam prevention and mitigation.
Sec. 222. Report on hurricane and storm damage risk reduction design 
                            guidelines.
Sec. 223. Briefing on status of certain activities on the Missouri 
                            River.
Sec. 224. Report on material contaminated by a hazardous substance and 
                            the civil works program.
Sec. 225. Report on efforts to monitor, control, and eradicate invasive 
                            species.
Sec. 226. J. Strom Thurmond Lake, Georgia.
Sec. 227. Study on land valuation procedures for the Tribal Partnership 
                            Program.
Sec. 228. Report to Congress on levee safety guidelines.
Sec. 229. Public-private partnership user's guide.
Sec. 230. Review of authorities and programs for alternative project 
                            delivery.
Sec. 231. Report to Congress on emergency response expenditures.
Sec. 232. Excess land report for certain projects in North Dakota.
Sec. 233. GAO studies.
Sec. 234. Prior reports.
Sec. 235. Briefing on status of Cape Cod Canal Bridges, Massachusetts.
   TITLE III--DEAUTHORIZATIONS, MODIFICATIONS, AND RELATED PROVISIONS

Sec. 301. Deauthorizations.
Sec. 302. Environmental infrastructure.
Sec. 303. Pennsylvania environmental infrastructure.
Sec. 304. Acequias irrigation systems.
Sec. 305. Oregon environmental infrastructure.
Sec. 306. Kentucky and West Virginia environmental infrastructure.
Sec. 307. Lake Champlain Watershed, Vermont and New York.
Sec. 308. Ohio and North Dakota.
Sec. 309. Southern West Virginia.
Sec. 310. Northern West Virginia.
Sec. 311. Ohio, Pennsylvania, and West Virginia.
Sec. 312. Western rural water.
Sec. 313. Continuing authorities programs.
Sec. 314. Small project assistance.
Sec. 315. Great Lakes and Mississippi River Interbasin project, Brandon 
                            Road, Will County, Illinois.
Sec. 316. Mamaroneck-Sheldrake Rivers, New York.
Sec. 317. Lowell Creek Tunnel, Alaska.
Sec. 318. Selma flood risk management and bank stabilization.
Sec. 319. Illinois River basin restoration.
Sec. 320. Hawaii environmental restoration.
Sec. 321. Connecticut River Basin invasive species partnerships.
Sec. 322. Expenses for control of aquatic plant growths and invasive 
                            species.
Sec. 323. Corps of Engineers Asian carp prevention pilot program.
Sec. 324. Extension for certain invasive species programs.
Sec. 325. Storm damage prevention and reduction, coastal erosion, 
                            riverine erosion, and ice and glacial 
                            damage, Alaska.
Sec. 326. Rehabilitation of Corps of Engineers constructed dams.
Sec. 327. Ediz Hook Beach Erosion Control Project, Port Angeles, 
                            Washington.
Sec. 328. Sense of Congress relating to certain Louisiana hurricane and 
                            coastal storm damage risk reduction 
                            projects.
Sec. 329. Chesapeake Bay Oyster Recovery Program.
Sec. 330. Bosque wildlife restoration project.
Sec. 331. Expansion of temporary relocation assistance pilot program.
Sec. 332. Wilson Lock floating guide wall.
Sec. 333. Delaware Inland Bays and Delaware Bay Coast Coastal Storm 
                            Risk Management Study.
Sec. 334. Upper Mississippi River Plan.
Sec. 335. Rehabilitation of pump stations.
Sec. 336. Navigation along the Tennessee-Tombigbee Waterway.
Sec. 337. Garrison Dam, North Dakota.
Sec. 338. Sense of Congress relating to Missouri River priorities.
Sec. 339. Soil moisture and snowpack monitoring.
Sec. 340. Contracts for water supply.
Sec. 341. Rend Lake, Carlyle Lake, and Lake Shelbyville, Illinois.
Sec. 342. Delaware Coastal System Program.
Sec. 343. Maintenance of pile dike system.
Sec. 344. Conveyances.
Sec. 345. Emergency drought operations pilot program.
Sec. 346. Rehabilitation of existing levees.
Sec. 347. Non-Federal implementation pilot program.
Sec. 348. Harmful algal bloom demonstration program.
Sec. 349. Sense of Congress relating to Mobile Harbor, Alabama.
Sec. 350. Sense of Congress relating to Port of Portland, Oregon.
Sec. 351. Chattahoochee River Program.
Sec. 352. Additional projects for underserved community harbors.
Sec. 353. Winooski River tributary watershed.
Sec. 354. Waco Lake, Texas.
Sec. 355. Seminole Tribal claim extension.
                    TITLE IV--PROJECT AUTHORIZATIONS

Sec. 401. Project authorizations.

SEC. 2. DEFINITION OF SECRETARY.

    In this Act, the term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary of the 
Army.

SEC. 3. EFFECTIVE DATE.

    This Act and the amendments made by this Act shall take effect on 
the day that is 1 day after the date of enactment of this Act.

                      TITLE I--GENERAL PROVISIONS

SEC. 101. NOTICE TO CONGRESS REGARDING WRDA IMPLEMENTATION.

    (a) Plan of Implementation.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 90 days after the date of 
        enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall develop a plan for 
        implementing this Act and the amendments made by this Act.
            (2) Requirements.--In developing the plan under paragraph 
        (1), the Secretary shall--
                    (A) identify each provision of this Act (or an 
                amendment made by this Act) that will require--
                            (i) the development and issuance of 
                        guidance, including whether that guidance will 
                        be significant guidance;
                            (ii) the development and issuance of a 
                        rule; or
                            (iii) appropriations;
                    (B) develop timelines for the issuance of--
                            (i) any guidance described in subparagraph 
                        (A)(i); and
                            (ii) each rule described in subparagraph 
                        (A)(ii); and
                    (C) establish a process to disseminate information 
                about this Act and the amendments made by this Act to 
                each District and Division Office of the Corps of 
                Engineers.
            (3) Transmittal.--On completion of the plan under paragraph 
        (1), the Secretary shall transmit the plan to--
                    (A) the Committee on Environment and Public Works 
                of the Senate; and
                    (B) the Committee on Transportation and 
                Infrastructure of the House of Representatives.
    (b) Implementation of Prior Water Resources Development Laws.--
            (1) Definition of prior water resources development law.--
        In this subsection, the term ``prior water resources 
        development law'' means each of the following (including the 
        amendments made by any of the following):
                    (A) The Water Resources Development Act of 2000 
                (Public Law 106-541; 114 Stat. 2572).
                    (B) The Water Resources Development Act of 2007 
                (Public Law 110-114; 121 Stat. 1041).
                    (C) The Water Resources Reform and Development Act 
                of 2014 (Public Law 113-121; 128 Stat. 1193).
                    (D) The Water Infrastructure Improvements for the 
                Nation Act (Public Law 114-322; 130 Stat. 1628).
                    (E) The America's Water Infrastructure Act of 2018 
                (Public Law 115-270; 132 Stat. 3765).
                    (F) Division AA of the Consolidated Appropriations 
                Act, 2021 (Public Law 116-260; 134 Stat. 2615).
                    (G) Title LXXXI of division H of the James M. 
                Inhofe National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
                Year 2023 (Public Law 117-263; 136 Stat. 3691).
            (2) Notice.--
                    (A) In general.--Not later than 60 days after the 
                date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall 
                submit to the Committee on Environment and Public Works 
                of the Senate and the Committee on Transportation and 
                Infrastructure of the House of Representatives a 
                written notice of the status of efforts by the 
                Secretary to implement the prior water resources 
                development laws.
                    (B) Contents.--
                            (i) In general.--As part of the notice 
                        under subparagraph (A), the Secretary shall 
                        include a list describing each provision of a 
                        prior water resources development law that has 
                        not been fully implemented as of the date of 
                        submission of the notice.
                            (ii) Additional information.--For each 
                        provision included on the list under clause 
                        (i), the Secretary shall--
                                    (I) establish a timeline for 
                                implementing the provision;
                                    (II) provide a description of the 
                                status of the provision in the 
                                implementation process; and
                                    (III) provide an explanation for 
                                the delay in implementing the 
                                provision.
            (3) Briefings.--
                    (A) In general.--Not later than 180 days after the 
                date of enactment of this Act, and every 90 days 
                thereafter until the Chairs of the Committee on 
                Environment and Public Works of the Senate and the 
                Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure of the 
                House of Representatives determine that this Act, the 
                amendments made by this Act, and prior water resources 
                development laws are fully implemented, the Secretary 
                shall provide to relevant congressional committees a 
                briefing on the implementation of this Act, the 
                amendments made by this Act, and prior water resources 
                development laws.
                    (B) Inclusions.--A briefing under subparagraph (A) 
                shall include--
                            (i) updates to the implementation plan 
                        under subsection (a); and
                            (ii) updates to the written notice under 
                        paragraph (2).
    (c) Additional Notice Pending Issuance.--Not later than 30 days 
before issuing any guidance, rule, notice in the Federal Register, or 
other documentation required to implement this Act, an amendment made 
by this Act, or a prior water resources development law (as defined in 
subsection (b)(1)), the Secretary shall submit to the Committee on 
Environment and Public Works of the Senate and the Committee on 
Transportation and Infrastructure of the House of Representatives a 
written notice regarding the pending issuance.
    (d) Wrda Implementation Team.--
            (1) Definitions.--In this subsection:
                    (A) Prior water resources development law.--The 
                term ``prior water resources development law'' has the 
                meaning given the term in subsection (b)(1).
                    (B) Team.--The term ``team'' means the Water 
                Resources Development Act implementation team 
                established under paragraph (2).
            (2) Establishment.--The Secretary shall establish a Water 
        Resources Development Act implementation team that shall 
        consist of current employees of the Federal Government, 
        including--
                    (A) not fewer than 2 employees in the Office of the 
                Assistant Secretary of the Army for Civil Works;
                    (B) not fewer than 2 employees at the headquarters 
                of the Corps of Engineers; and
                    (C) a representative of each district and division 
                of the Corps of Engineers.
            (3) Duties.--The team shall be responsible for assisting 
        with the implementation of this Act, the amendments made by 
        this Act, and prior water resources development laws, 
        including--
                    (A) performing ongoing outreach to--
                            (i) Congress; and
                            (ii) employees and servicemembers stationed 
                        in districts and divisions of the Corps of 
                        Engineers to ensure that all Corps of Engineers 
                        employees are aware of and implementing 
                        provisions of this Act, the amendments made by 
                        this Act, and prior water resources development 
                        laws, in a manner consistent with congressional 
                        intent;
                    (B) identifying any issues with implementation of a 
                provision of this Act, the amendments made by this Act, 
                and prior water resources development laws at the 
                district, division, or national level;
                    (C) resolving the issues identified under 
                subparagraph (B), in consultation with Corps of 
                Engineers leadership and the Secretary; and
                    (D) ensuring that any interpretation developed as a 
                result of the process under subparagraph (C) is 
                consistent with congressional intent for this Act, the 
                amendments made by this Act, and prior water resources 
                development laws.

SEC. 102. PRIOR GUIDANCE.

    Not later than 180 days after the date of enactment of this Act, 
the Secretary shall issue the guidance required pursuant to each of the 
following provisions:
            (1) Section 1043(b)(9) of the Water Resources Reform and 
        Development Act of 2014 (33 U.S.C. 2201 note; Public Law 113-
        121).
            (2) Section 8136 of the Water Resources Development Act of 
        2022 (10 U.S.C. 2667 note; Public Law 117-263).

SEC. 103. ABILITY TO PAY.

    (a) Implementation.--The Secretary shall expedite any guidance or 
rulemaking necessary to the implementation of section 103(m) of the 
Water Resources Development Act 1986 (33 U.S.C. 2213(m)) to address 
ability to pay.
    (b) Ability to Pay.--Section 103(m) of the Water Resources 
Development Act of 1986 (33 U.S.C. 2213(m)) is amended by adding the 
end the following:
            ``(5) Congressional notification.--
                    ``(A) In general.--The Secretary shall annually 
                submit to the Committee on Environment and Public Works 
                of the Senate and the Committee on Transportation and 
                Infrastructure of the House of Representatives written 
                notification of determinations made by the Secretary of 
                the ability of non-Federal interests to pay under this 
                subsection.
                    ``(B) Contents.--In preparing the written 
                notification under subparagraph (A), the Secretary 
                shall include, for each determination made by the 
                Secretary--
                            ``(i) the name of the non-Federal interest 
                        that submitted to the Secretary a request for a 
                        determination under this subsection;
                            ``(ii) the name and location of the 
                        project; and
                            ``(iii) the determination made by the 
                        Secretary and the reasons for the 
                        determination, including the adjusted share of 
                        the costs of the project of the non-Federal 
                        interest, if applicable.''.
    (c) Tribal Partnership Program.--Section 203(d) of the Water 
Resources Development Act of 2000 (33 U.S.C. 2269(d)) is amended by 
adding at the end the following:
            ``(7) Congressional notification.--
                    ``(A) In general.--The Secretary shall annually 
                submit to the Committee on Environment and Public Works 
                of the Senate and the Committee on Transportation and 
                Infrastructure of the House of Representatives written 
                notification of determinations made by the Secretary of 
                the ability of non-Federal interests to pay under this 
                subsection.
                    ``(B) Contents.--In preparing the written 
                notification under subparagraph (A), the Secretary 
                shall include, for each determination made by the 
                Secretary--
                            ``(i) the name of the non-Federal interest 
                        that submitted to the Secretary a request for a 
                        determination under paragraph (1)(B)(ii);
                            ``(ii) the name and location of the 
                        project; and
                            ``(iii) the determination made by the 
                        Secretary and the reasons for the 
                        determination, including the adjusted share of 
                        the costs of the project of the non-Federal 
                        interest, if applicable.''.

SEC. 104. FEDERAL INTEREST DETERMINATIONS.

    Section 905(b) of the Water Resources Development Act of 1986 (33 
U.S.C. 2282(b)) is amended--
            (1) by striking paragraph (1) and inserting the following:
            ``(1) In general.--
                    ``(A) Identification.--As part of the submission of 
                a work plan to Congress pursuant to the joint 
                explanatory statement for an annual appropriations Act 
                or as part of the submission of a spend plan to 
                Congress for a supplemental appropriations Act under 
                which the Corps of Engineers receives funding, the 
                Secretary shall identify the studies in the plan--
                            ``(i) for which the Secretary plans to 
                        prepare a feasibility report under subsection 
                        (a) that will benefit--
                                    ``(I) an economically disadvantaged 
                                community (as defined pursuant to 
                                section 160 of the Water Resources 
                                Development Act of 2020 (33 U.S.C. 2201 
                                note; Public Law 116-260)); or
                                    ``(II) a community other than a 
                                community described in subclause (I); 
                                and
                            ``(ii) that are designated as a new start 
                        under the work plan.
                    ``(B) Determination.--
                            ``(i) In general.--After identifying the 
                        studies under subparagraph (A) and subject to 
                        subparagraph (C), the Secretary shall, with the 
                        consent of the applicable non-Federal interest 
                        for the study, first determine the Federal 
                        interest in carrying out the study and the 
                        projects that may be proposed in the study.
                            ``(ii) Feasibility cost share agreement.--
                        The Secretary may make a determination under 
                        clause (i) prior to the execution of a 
                        feasibility cost share agreement between the 
                        Secretary and the non-Federal interest.
                    ``(C) Limitation.--For each fiscal year, the 
                Secretary may not make a determination under 
                subparagraph (B) for more than 20 studies identified 
                under subparagraph (A)(i)(II).
                    ``(D) Application.--
                            ``(i) In general.--Subject to clause (ii) 
                        and with the consent of the non-Federal 
                        interest, the Secretary may use the authority 
                        provided under this subsection for a study in a 
                        work plan submitted to Congress prior to the 
                        date of enactment of the Water Resources 
                        Development Act of 2024 if the study otherwise 
                        meets the requirements described in 
                        subparagraph (A).
                            ``(ii) Limitation.--Subparagraph (C) shall 
                        apply to the use of authority under clause 
                        (i).'';
            (2) in paragraph (2)--
                    (A) in subparagraph (A), by striking ``and'' at the 
                end;
                    (B) in subparagraph (B), by striking the period and 
                inserting ``; and''; and
                    (C) by adding at the end the following:
                    ``(C) shall be paid from the funding provided for 
                the study in the applicable work plan described in that 
                paragraph.''; and
            (3) by adding at the end the following:
            ``(6) Post-determination work.--A study under this section 
        shall continue after a determination under paragraph (1)(B)(i) 
        without a new investment decision.''.

SEC. 105. ANNUAL REPORT TO CONGRESS.

    Section 7001 of the Water Resources Reform and Development Act of 
2014 (33 U.S.C. 2282d) is amended--
            (1) by redesignating subsection (g) as subsection (i); and
            (2) by inserting after subsection (f) the following:
    ``(g) Non-Federal Interest Notification.--
            ``(1) In general.--After the publication of the annual 
        report under subsection (f), if the proposal of a non-Federal 
        interest submitted under subsection (b) was included by the 
        Secretary in the appendix under subsection (c)(4), the 
        Secretary shall provide written notification to the non-Federal 
        interest of such inclusion.
            ``(2) Debrief.--
                    ``(A) In general.--Not later than 30 days after the 
                date on which a non-Federal interest receives the 
                written notification under paragraph (1), the non-
                Federal interest shall notify the Secretary that the 
                non-Federal interest is requesting a debrief under this 
                paragraph.
                    ``(B) Response.--If a non-Federal interest requests 
                a debrief under this paragraph, the Secretary shall 
                provide the debrief to the non-Federal interest by not 
                later than 60 days after the date on which the 
                Secretary receives the request for the debrief.
                    ``(C) Inclusions.--The debrief provided by the 
                Secretary under this paragraph shall include--
                            ``(i) an explanation of the reasons that 
                        the proposal was included in the appendix under 
                        subsection (c)(4); and
                            ``(ii) a description of--
                                    ``(I) any revisions to the proposal 
                                that may allow the proposal to be 
                                included in a subsequent annual report, 
                                to the maximum extent practicable;
                                    ``(II) other existing authorities 
                                of the Secretary that may be used to 
                                address the need that prompted the 
                                proposal, if applicable; and
                                    ``(III) any other information that 
                                the Secretary determines to be 
                                appropriate.
    ``(h) Congressional Notification.--Not later than 30 days after the 
publication of the annual report under subsection (f), for each 
proposal included in that annual report or appendix, the Secretary 
shall notify each Member of Congress that represents the State in which 
that proposal will be located that the proposal was included the annual 
report or the appendix.''.

SEC. 106. PROCESSING TIMELINES.

    Not later than 30 days after the end of each fiscal year, the 
Secretary shall ensure that the public website for the ``permit 
finder'' of the Corps of Engineers accurately reflects the current 
status of projects for which a permit was, or is being, processed using 
amounts accepted under section 214 of the Water Resources Development 
Act of 2000 (33 U.S.C. 2352).

SEC. 107. SERVICES OF VOLUNTEERS.

    The seventeenth paragraph under the heading ``general provisions'' 
under the heading ``Corps of Engineers--Civil'' under the heading 
``DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY'' in chapter IV of title I of the Supplemental 
Appropriations Act, 1983 (33 U.S.C. 569c), is amended--
            (1) in the first sentence, by striking ``The United States 
        Army Chief of Engineers'' and inserting the following:

                        ``services of volunteers

    ``Sec. 141.  (a) In General.--The Chief of Engineers''.
            (2) in subsection (a) (as so designated), in the second 
        sentence, by striking ``Such volunteers'' and inserting the 
        following:
    ``(b) Treatment.--Volunteers under subsection (a)''; and
            (3) by adding at the end the following:
    ``(c) Recognition.--
            ``(1) In general.--Subject to paragraphs (2) and (3), the 
        Chief of Engineers may recognize through an award or other 
        appropriate means the service of volunteers under subsection 
        (a).
            ``(2) Process.--The Chief of Engineers shall establish a 
        process to carry out paragraph (1).
            ``(3) Limitation.--The Chief of Engineers shall ensure that 
        the recognition provided to a volunteer under paragraph (1) 
        shall not be in the form of a cash award.''.

SEC. 108. SUPPORT OF ARMY CIVIL WORKS MISSIONS.

    Section 8159 of the Water Resources Development Act of 2022 (136 
Stat. 3740) is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (3), by striking ``and'' at the end; and
            (2) by striking paragraph (4) and inserting the following:
            ``(4) West Virginia University to conduct academic research 
        on flood resilience planning and risk management, water 
        resource-related emergency management, aquatic ecosystem 
        restoration, water quality, siting and risk management for 
        open- and closed-loop pumped hydropower energy storage, 
        hydropower, and water resource-related recreation and 
        management of resources for recreation in the State of West 
        Virginia;
            ``(5) Delaware State University to conduct academic 
        research on water resource ecology, water quality, aquatic 
        ecosystem restoration, coastal restoration, and water resource-
        related emergency management in the State of Delaware, the 
        Delaware River Basin, and the Chesapeake Bay watershed; and
            ``(6) the University of Notre Dame to conduct academic 
        research on hazard mitigation policies and practices in coastal 
        communities, including through the incorporation of data 
        analysis and the use of risk-based analytical frameworks for 
        reviewing flood mitigation and hardening plans and for 
        evaluating the design of new infrastructure.''.

SEC. 109. INLAND WATERWAY PROJECTS.

    (a) In General.--Section 102(a) of the Water Resources Development 
Act of 1986 (33 U.S.C. 2212(a)) is amended--
            (1) in the matter preceding paragraph (1), by striking ``65 
        percent of the costs'' and inserting ``75 percent of the 
        costs''; and
            (2) in the undesignated matter following paragraph (3), in 
        the second sentence, by striking ``35 percent of such costs'' 
        and inserting ``25 percent of such costs''.
    (b) Application.--The amendments made by subsection (a) shall apply 
beginning on October 1, 2024, to any construction of a project for 
navigation on the inland waterways that is new or ongoing on or after 
that date.
    (c) Exception.--In the case of an inland waterways project that 
receives funds under the heading ``construction'' under the heading 
``Corps of Engineers--Civil'' under the heading ``DEPARTMENT OF THE 
ARMY'' in title III of division J of the Infrastructure Investment and 
Jobs Act (135 Stat. 1359) that will not complete construction, 
replacement, rehabilitation, and expansion with such funds--
            (1) section 102(a) of the Water Resources Development Act 
        of 1986 (33 U.S.C. 2212(a)) shall not apply; and
            (2) any remaining costs shall be paid only from amounts 
        appropriated from the general fund of the Treasury.

SEC. 110. LEVERAGING FEDERAL INFRASTRUCTURE FOR INCREASED WATER SUPPLY.

    Section 1118(i) of Water Resources Development Act of 2016 (43 
U.S.C. 390b-2(i)) is amended by striking paragraph (2) and inserting 
the following:
            ``(2) Contributed funds for other federal reservoir 
        projects.--
                    ``(A) In general.--The Secretary is authorized to 
                receive and expend funds from a non-Federal interest or 
                a Federal agency that owns a Federal reservoir project 
                described in subparagraph (B) to formulate, review, or 
                revise operational documents pursuant to a proposal 
                submitted in accordance with subsection (a).
                    ``(B) Federal reservoir projects described.--A 
                Federal reservoir project referred to in subparagraph 
                (A) is a reservoir for which the Secretary is 
                authorized to prescribe regulations for the use of 
                storage allocated for flood control or navigation 
                pursuant to section 7 of the Act of December 22, 1944 
                (commonly known as the `Flood Control Act of 1944') (58 
                Stat. 890, chapter 665; 33 U.S.C. 709).''.

SEC. 111. OUTREACH AND ACCESS.

    (a) In General.--Section 8117(b) of the Water Resources Development 
Act of 2022 (33 U.S.C. 2281b(b)) is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (1)--
                    (A) in subparagraph (A)(iii), by striking ``and'' 
                at the end;
                    (B) in subparagraph (B), by striking the period at 
                the end and inserting ``; and''; and
                    (C) by adding at the end the following:
                    ``(C) ensuring that a potential non-Federal 
                interest is aware of the roles, responsibilities, and 
                financial commitments associated with a completed water 
                resources development project prior to initiating a 
                feasibility study (as defined in section 105(d) of the 
                Water Resources Development Act of 1986 (33 U.S.C. 
                2215(d))), including operations, maintenance, repair, 
                replacement, and rehabilitation responsibilities.'';
            (2) in paragraph (2)--
                    (A) in subparagraph (D), by striking ``and'' at the 
                end;
                    (B) in subparagraph (E), by striking the period at 
                the end and inserting ``; and''; and
                    (C) by adding at the end the following:
                    ``(F) to the maximum extent practicable--
                            ``(i) develop and continue to make publicly 
                        available, through a publicly available 
                        existing website, information on the projects 
                        and studies within the jurisdiction of each 
                        district of the Corps of Engineers; and
                            ``(ii) ensure that the information 
                        described in clause (i) is consistent and made 
                        publicly available in the same manner across 
                        all districts of the Corps of Engineers.'';
            (3) by redesignating paragraphs (3) and (4) as paragraphs 
        (4) and (5), respectively; and
            (4) by inserting after paragraph (2) the following:
            ``(3) Guidance.--The Secretary shall develop and issue 
        guidance to ensure that the points of contacts established 
        under paragraph (2)(B) are adequately fulfilling their 
        obligations under that paragraph.''.
    (b) Briefing.--Not later than 60 days after the date of enactment 
of this Act, the Secretary shall provide to the Committee on 
Environment and Public Works of the Senate and the Committee on 
Transportation and Infrastructure of the House of Representatives a 
briefing on the status of the implementation of section 8117 of the 
Water Resources Development Act of 2022 (33 U.S.C. 2281b), including 
the amendments made to that section by subsection (a), including--
            (1) a plan for implementing any requirements under that 
        section; and
            (2) any potential barriers to implementing that section.

SEC. 112. MODEL DEVELOPMENT.

    Section 8230 of the Water Resources Development Act of 2022 (136 
Stat. 3765) is amended by adding at the end the following:
    ``(d) Model Development.--
            ``(1) In general.--The Secretary may partner with other 
        Federal agencies, National Laboratories, and institutions of 
        higher education to develop, update, and maintain hydrologic 
        and climate-related models for use in water resources planning, 
        including models to assess compound flooding that arises when 2 
        or more flood drivers occur simultaneously or in close 
        succession, or are impacting the same region over time.
            ``(2) Use.--The Secretary may use models developed by the 
        entities described in paragraph (1).''.

SEC. 113. PLANNING ASSISTANCE FOR STATES.

    Section 22(a)(2)(B) of the Water Resources Development Act of 1974 
(42 U.S.C. 1962d-16(a)(2)(B)) is amended by inserting ``and title 
research for abandoned structures'' before the period at the end.

SEC. 114. CORPS OF ENGINEERS LEVEE OWNERS ADVISORY BOARD.

    (a) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Federal levee system owner-operator.--The term 
        ``Federal levee system owner-operator'' means a non-Federal 
        interest that owns and operates and maintains a levee system 
        that was constructed by the Corps of Engineers.
            (2) Owners board.--The term ``Owners Board'' means the 
        Levee Owners Advisory Board established under subsection (b).
    (b) Establishment.--Not later than 90 days after the date of 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall establish a Levee Owners 
Advisory Board.
    (c) Membership.--
            (1) In general.--The Owners Board--
                    (A) shall be composed of--
                            (i) 11 members, to be appointed by the 
                        Secretary, who shall--
                                    (I) represent various regions of 
                                the country, including not less than 1 
                                Federal levee system owner-operator 
                                from each of the civil works divisions 
                                of the Corps of Engineers; and
                                    (II) have the requisite 
                                experiential or technical knowledge to 
                                carry out the duties of the Owners 
                                Board described in subsection (d); and
                            (ii) a representative of the Corps of 
                        Engineers, to be designated by the Secretary, 
                        who shall serve as a nonvoting member; and
                    (B) may include a representative designated by the 
                head of the Federal agency described in section 9002(1) 
                of the Water Resources Development Act of 2007 (33 
                U.S.C. 3301(1)), who shall serve as a nonvoting member.
            (2) Terms of members.--
                    (A) In general.--Subject to subparagraphs (B) and 
                (C), a member of the Owners Board shall be appointed 
                for a term of 3 years.
                    (B) Reappointment.--A member of the Owners Board 
                may be reappointed to the Owners Board, as the 
                Secretary determines to be appropriate.
                    (C) Vacancies.--A vacancy on the Owners Board shall 
                be filled in the same manner as the original 
                appointment was made.
            (3) Chairperson.--The members of the Owners Board shall 
        appoint a chairperson from among the members of the Owners 
        Board.
    (d) Duties.--
            (1) Recommendations.--The Owners Board shall provide advice 
        and recommendations to the Secretary and the Chief of Engineers 
        on--
                    (A) the activities and actions, consistent with 
                applicable statutory authorities, that should be 
                undertaken by the Corps of Engineers and Federal levee 
                system owner-operators to improve flood risk management 
                throughout the United States; and
                    (B) how to improve cooperation and communication 
                between the Corps of Engineers and Federal levee system 
                owner-operators.
            (2) Meetings.--The Owners Board shall meet not less 
        frequently than semiannually.
            (3) Report.--The Secretary, on behalf of the Owners Board, 
        shall--
                    (A) submit to the Committee on Environment and 
                Public Works of the Senate and the Committee on 
                Transportation and Infrastructure of the House of 
                Representatives a report that includes the 
                recommendations provided under paragraph (1); and
                    (B) make those recommendations publicly available, 
                including on a publicly available existing website.
    (e) Independent Judgment.--Any advice or recommendation made by the 
Owners Board pursuant to subsection (d)(1) shall reflect the 
independent judgment of the Owners Board.
    (f) Administration.--
            (1) Compensation.--Except as provided in paragraph (2), the 
        members of the Owners Board shall serve without compensation.
            (2) Travel expenses.--The members of the Owners Board shall 
        receive travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of 
        subsistence, in accordance with applicable provisions under 
        subchapter I of chapter 57 of title 5, United States Code.
            (3) Treatment.--The members of the Owners Board shall not 
        be considered to be Federal employees, and the meetings and 
        reports of the Owners Board shall not be considered a major 
        Federal action under the National Environmental Policy Act of 
        1969 (42 U.S.C. 4321 et seq.).
    (g) Savings Clause.--The Owners Board shall not supplant the 
Committee on Levee Safety established by section 9003 of the Water 
Resources Development Act of 2007 (33 U.S.C. 3302).

SEC. 115. SILVER JACKETS PROGRAM.

    The Secretary shall continue the Silver Jackets program established 
by the Secretary pursuant to section 206 of the Flood Control Act of 
1960 (33 U.S.C. 709a) and section 204 of the Robert T. Stafford 
Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5134).

SEC. 116. TRIBAL PARTNERSHIP PROGRAM.

    Section 203 of the Water Resources Development Act of 2000 (33 
U.S.C. 2269) is amended--
            (1) in subsection (b)(2)--
                    (A) in subparagraph (C)(ii), by striking ``and'' at 
                the end;
                    (B) by redesignating subparagraph (D) as 
                subparagraph (E); and
                    (C) by inserting after subparagraph (C) the 
                following:
                    ``(D) projects that improve emergency response 
                capabilities and provide increased access to 
                infrastructure that may be utilized in the event of a 
                severe weather event or other natural disaster; and''; 
                and
            (2) by striking subsection (e) and inserting the following:
    ``(e) Pilot Program.--
            ``(1) In general.--The Secretary shall carry out a pilot 
        program under which the Secretary shall carry out not more than 
        5 projects described in paragraph (2).
            ``(2) Projects described.--Notwithstanding subsection 
        (b)(1)(B), a project referred to in paragraph (1) is a 
        project--
                    ``(A) that is otherwise eligible and meets the 
                requirements under this section; and
                    ``(B) that is located--
                            ``(i) along the Mid-Columbia River, 
                        Washington, Taneum Creek, Washington, or Similk 
                        Bay, Washington; or
                            ``(ii) at Big Bend, Lake Oahe, Fort 
                        Randall, or Gavins Point Reservoirs, South 
                        Dakota.
            ``(3) Requirement.--The Secretary shall carry out a project 
        described in paragraph (2) in accordance with this section.
            ``(4) Savings provision.--Nothing in this subsection 
        authorizes--
                    ``(A) a project for the removal of a dam that 
                otherwise is a project described in paragraph (2);
                    ``(B) the study of the removal of a dam; or
                    ``(C) the study of any Federal dam, including the 
                study of power, flood control, or navigation 
                replacement, or the implementation of any functional 
                alteration to that dam, that is located along a body of 
                water described in clause (i) or (ii) of paragraph 
                (2)(B).''.

SEC. 117. TRIBAL PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION PILOT PROGRAM.

    (a) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Eligible project.--The term ``eligible project'' means 
        a project or activity eligible to be carried out under the 
        Tribal partnership program under section 203 of the Water 
        Resources Development Act of 2000 (33 U.S.C. 2269).
            (2) Indian tribe.--The term ``Indian Tribe'' has the 
        meaning given the term in section 4 of the Indian Self-
        Determination and Education Assistance Act (25 U.S.C. 5304).
    (b) Authorization.--Not later than 180 days after the date of 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall establish and implement a 
pilot program under which Indian Tribes may directly carry out eligible 
projects.
    (c) Purposes.--The purposes of the pilot program under this section 
are--
            (1) to authorize Tribal contracting to advance Tribal self-
        determination and provide economic opportunities for Indian 
        Tribes; and
            (2) to evaluate the technical, financial, and 
        organizational efficiencies of Indian Tribes carrying out the 
        design, execution, management, and construction of 1 or more 
        eligible projects.
    (d) Administration.--
            (1) In general.--In carrying out the pilot program under 
        this section, the Secretary shall--
                    (A) identify a total of not more than 5 eligible 
                projects that have been authorized for construction;
                    (B) notify the Committee on Environment and Public 
                Works of the Senate and the Committee on Transportation 
                and Infrastructure of the House of Representatives on 
                the identification of each eligible project under the 
                pilot program under this section;
                    (C) in collaboration with the Indian Tribe, develop 
                a detailed project management plan for each identified 
                eligible project that outlines the scope, budget, 
                design, and construction resource requirements 
                necessary for the Indian Tribe to execute the project 
                or a separable element of the eligible project;
                    (D) on the request of the Indian Tribe and in 
                accordance with subsection (f)(2), enter into a project 
                partnership agreement with the Indian Tribe for the 
                Indian Tribe to provide full project management control 
                for construction of the eligible project, or a 
                separable element of the eligible project, in 
                accordance with plans approved by the Secretary;
                    (E) following execution of the project partnership 
                agreement, transfer to the Indian Tribe to carry out 
                construction of the eligible project, or a separable 
                element of the eligible project--
                            (i) if applicable, the balance of the 
                        unobligated amounts appropriated for the 
                        eligible project, except that the Secretary 
                        shall retain sufficient amounts for the Corps 
                        of Engineers to carry out any responsibilities 
                        of the Corps of Engineers relating to the 
                        eligible project and the pilot program under 
                        this section; and
                            (ii) additional amounts, as determined by 
                        the Secretary, from amounts made available to 
                        carry out this section, except that the total 
                        amount transferred to the Indian Tribe shall 
                        not exceed the updated estimate of the Federal 
                        share of the cost of construction, including 
                        any required design; and
                    (F) regularly monitor and audit each eligible 
                project being constructed by an Indian Tribe under this 
                section to ensure that the construction activities are 
                carried out in compliance with the plans approved by 
                the Secretary and that the construction costs are 
                reasonable.
            (2) Detailed project schedule.--Not later than 180 days 
        after entering into an agreement under paragraph (1)(D), each 
        Indian Tribe, to the maximum extent practicable, shall submit 
        to the Secretary a detailed project schedule, based on 
        estimated funding levels, that lists all deadlines for each 
        milestone in the construction of the eligible project.
            (3) Technical assistance.--On the request of an Indian 
        Tribe, the Secretary may provide technical assistance to the 
        Indian Tribe, if the Indian Tribe contracts with and 
        compensates the Secretary for the technical assistance relating 
        to--
                    (A) any study, engineering activity, and design 
                activity for construction carried out by the Indian 
                Tribe under this section; and
                    (B) expeditiously obtaining any permits necessary 
                for the eligible project.
    (e) Cost Share.--Nothing in this section affects the cost-sharing 
requirement applicable on the day before the date of enactment of this 
Act to an eligible project carried out under this section.
    (f) Implementation Guidance.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 120 days after the date of 
        enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall issue guidance for 
        the implementation of the pilot program under this section 
        that, to the extent practicable, identifies--
                    (A) the metrics for measuring the success of the 
                pilot program;
                    (B) a process for identifying future eligible 
                projects to participate in the pilot program;
                    (C) measures to address the risks of an Indian 
                Tribe constructing eligible projects under the pilot 
                program, including which entity bears the risk for 
                eligible projects that fail to meet Corps of Engineers 
                standards for design or quality;
                    (D) the laws and regulations that an Indian Tribe 
                must follow in carrying out an eligible project under 
                the pilot program; and
                    (E) which entity bears the risk in the event that 
                an eligible project carried out under the pilot program 
                fails to be carried out in accordance with the project 
                authorization or this section.
            (2) New project partnership agreements.--The Secretary may 
        not enter into a project partnership agreement under this 
        section until the date on which the Secretary issues the 
        guidance under paragraph (1).
    (g) Report.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 3 years after the date of 
        enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall submit to the 
        Committee on Environment and Public Works of the Senate and the 
        Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure of the House of 
        Representatives and make publicly available a report detailing 
        the results of the pilot program under this section, 
        including--
                    (A) a description of the progress of Indian Tribes 
                in meeting milestones in detailed project schedules 
                developed pursuant to subsection (d)(2); and
                    (B) any recommendations of the Secretary concerning 
                whether the pilot program or any component of the pilot 
                program should be implemented on a national basis.
            (2) Update.--Not later than 5 years after the date of 
        enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall submit to the 
        Committee on Environment and Public Works of the Senate and the 
        Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure of the House of 
        Representatives an update to the report under paragraph (1).
            (3) Failure to meet deadline.--If the Secretary fails to 
        submit a report by the required deadline under this subsection, 
        the Secretary shall submit to the Committee on Environment and 
        Public Works of the Senate and the Committee on Transportation 
        and Infrastructure of the House of Representatives a detailed 
        explanation of why the deadline was missed and a projected date 
        for submission of the report.
    (h) Administration.--All laws and regulations that would apply to 
the Secretary if the Secretary were carrying out the eligible project 
shall apply to an Indian Tribe carrying out an eligible project under 
this section.
    (i) Termination of Authority.--The authority to commence an 
eligible project under this section terminates on December 31, 2029.
    (j) Authorization of Appropriations.--In addition to any amounts 
appropriated for a specific eligible project, there is authorized to be 
appropriated to the Secretary to carry out this section, including the 
costs of administration of the Secretary, $15,000,000 for each of 
fiscal years 2024 through 2029.

SEC. 118. ELIGIBILITY FOR INTER-TRIBAL CONSORTIUMS.

    (a) In General.--Section 221(b)(1) of the Flood Control Act of 1970 
(42 U.S.C. 1962d-5b(b)(1)) is amended by inserting ``and an inter-
tribal consortium (as defined in section 403 of the Indian Child 
Protection and Family Violence Prevention Act (25 U.S.C. 3202)))'' 
after ``5304))''.
    (b) Tribal Partnership Program.--Section 203 of the Water Resources 
Development Act of 2000 (33 U.S.C. 2269) is amended--
            (1) in subsection (a)--
                    (A) by striking the subsection designation and 
                heading and all that follows through ``the term'' and 
                inserting the following:
    ``(a) Definitions.--In this section:
            ``(1) Indian tribe.--The term''; and
                    (B) by adding at the end the following:
            ``(2) Inter-tribal consortium.--The term `inter-tribal 
        consortium' has the meaning given the term in section 403 of 
        the Indian Child Protection and Family Violence Prevention Act 
        (25 U.S.C. 3202).
            ``(3) Tribal organization.--The term `Tribal organization' 
        has the meaning given the term in section 4 of the Indian Self-
        Determination and Education Assistance Act (25 U.S.C. 5304).''; 
        and
            (2) in subsection (b)--
                    (A) in paragraph (1)--
                            (i) in the matter preceding subparagraph 
                        (A), by inserting ``, inter-tribal consortiums, 
                        Tribal organizations,'' after ``Indian 
                        tribes''; and
                            (ii) in subparagraph (A), by inserting ``, 
                        inter-tribal consortiums, or Tribal 
                        organizations'' after ``Indian tribes'';
                    (B) in paragraph (2)--
                            (i) in subparagraph (A), by striking 
                        ``flood hurricane'' and inserting ``flood or 
                        hurricane'';
                            (ii) in subparagraph (C), in the matter 
                        preceding clause (i), by inserting ``, an 
                        inter-tribal consortium, or a Tribal 
                        organization'' after ``Indian tribe''; and
                            (iii) in subparagraph (E) (as redesignated 
                        by section 116(1)(B)), by inserting ``, inter-
                        tribal consortiums, Tribal organizations,'' 
                        after ``Indian tribes''; and
                    (C) in paragraph (3)(A), by inserting ``, inter-
                tribal consortium, or Tribal organization'' after 
                ``Indian tribe'' each place it appears.

SEC. 119. SENSE OF CONGRESS RELATING TO THE MANAGEMENT OF RECREATION 
              FACILITIES.

    It is the sense of Congress that--
            (1) the Corps of Engineers should have greater access to 
        the revenue collected from the use of Corps of Engineers-
        managed facilities with recreational purposes;
            (2) revenue collected from Corps of Engineers-managed 
        facilities with recreational purposes should be available to 
        the Corps of Engineers for necessary operation, maintenance, 
        and improvement activities at the facility from which the 
        revenue was derived;
            (3) the districts of the Corps of Engineers should be 
        provided with more authority to partner with non-Federal public 
        entities and private nonprofit entities for the improvement and 
        management of Corps of Engineers-managed facilities with 
        recreational purposes; and
            (4) legislation to address the issues described in 
        paragraphs (1) through (3) should be considered by Congress.

                     TITLE II--STUDIES AND REPORTS

SEC. 201. AUTHORIZATION OF PROPOSED FEASIBILITY STUDIES.

    (a) New Projects.--The Secretary is authorized to conduct a 
feasibility study for the following projects for water resources 
development and conservation and other purposes, as identified in the 
reports titled ``Report to Congress on Future Water Resources 
Development'' submitted to Congress pursuant to section 7001 of the 
Water Resources Reform and Development Act of 2014 (33 U.S.C. 2282d) or 
otherwise reviewed by Congress:
            (1) Yavapai county, arizona.--Project for flood risk 
        management, Yavapai County, Arizona.
            (2) Eastman lake, california.--Project for ecosystem 
        restoration and water supply, including for conservation and 
        recharge, Eastman Lake, Merced and Madera Counties, California.
            (3) Pine flat dam, california.--Project for ecosystem 
        restoration, water supply, and recreation, Pine Flat Dam, 
        Fresno County, California.
            (4) San diego, california.--Project for flood risk 
        management, including sea level rise, San Diego, California.
            (5) Sacramento, california.--Project for flood risk 
        management and ecosystem restoration, including levee 
        improvement, Sacramento River, Sacramento, California.
            (6) San mateo, california.--Project for flood risk 
        management, City of San Mateo, California.
            (7) Sacramento county, california.--Project for flood risk 
        management, ecosystem restoration, and water supply, Lower 
        Cosumnes River, Sacramento County, California.
            (8) Colorado springs, colorado.--Project for ecosystem 
        restoration and flood risk management, Fountain Creek, Monument 
        Creek, and T-Gap Levee, Colorado Springs, Colorado.
            (9) Plymouth, connecticut.--Project for ecosystem 
        restoration, Plymouth, Connecticut.
            (10) Windham, connecticut.--Project for ecosystem 
        restoration and recreation, Windham, Connecticut.
            (11) Enfield, connecticut.--Project for flood risk 
        management and ecosystem restoration, including restoring 
        freshwater brook floodplain, Enfield, Connecticut.
            (12) Newington, connecticut.--Project for flood risk 
        management, Newington, Connecticut.
            (13) Hartford, connecticut.--Project for hurricane and 
        storm damage risk reduction, Hartford, Connecticut.
            (14) Fairfield, connecticut.--Project for flood risk 
        management, Rooster River, Fairfield, Connecticut.
            (15) Milton, delaware.--Project for flood risk management, 
        Milton, Delaware.
            (16) Wilmington, delaware.--Project for coastal storm risk 
        management, City of Wilmington, Delaware.
            (17) Tybee island, georgia.--Project for flood risk 
        management and coastal storm risk management, including the 
        potential for beneficial use of dredged material, Tybee Island, 
        Georgia.
            (18) Hanapepe levee, hawaii.--Project for ecosystem 
        restoration, flood risk management, and hurricane and storm 
        damage risk reduction, including Hanapepe Levee, Kauai County, 
        Hawaii.
            (19) Kauai county, hawaii.--Project for flood risk 
        management and coastal storm risk management, Kauai County, 
        Hawaii.
            (20) Hawai`i kai, hawaii.--Project for flood risk 
        management, Hawai`i Kai, Hawaii.
            (21) Maui, hawaii.--Project for flood risk management and 
        ecosystem restoration, Maui County, Hawaii.
            (22) Butterfield creek, illinois.--Project for flood risk 
        management, Butterfield Creek, Illinois, including the villages 
        of Flossmoor, Matteson, Park Forest, and Richton Park.
            (23) Rocky ripple, indiana.--Project for flood risk 
        management, Rocky Ripple, Indiana.
            (24) Coffeyville, kansas.--Project for flood risk 
        management, Coffeyville, Kansas.
            (25) Fulton county, kentucky.--Project for flood risk 
        management, including bank stabilization, Fulton County, 
        Kentucky.
            (26) Cumberland river, crittenden county, lyon county, and 
        livingston county, kentucky.--Project for ecosystem 
        restoration, including bank stabilization, Cumberland River, 
        Crittenden County, Lyon County, and Livingston County, 
        Kentucky.
            (27) Scott county, kentucky.--Project for ecosystem 
        restoration, including water supply, Scott County, Kentucky.
            (28) Bullskin creek and shelby county, kentucky.--Project 
        for ecosystem restoration, including bank stabilization, 
        Bullskin Creek and Shelby County, Kentucky.
            (29) Lake pontchartrain barrier, louisiana.--Project for 
        hurricane and storm damage risk reduction, Orleans Parish, St. 
        Tammany Parish, and St. Bernard Parish, Louisiana.
            (30) Ocean city, maryland.--Project for flood risk 
        management, Ocean City, Maryland.
            (31) Beaverdam creek, maryland.--Project for flood risk 
        management, Beaverdam Creek, Prince George's County, Maryland.
            (32) Oak bluffs, massachusetts.--Project for flood risk 
        management, coastal storm risk management, recreation, and 
        ecosystem restoration, including shoreline stabilization along 
        East Chop Drive, Oak Bluffs, Massachusetts.
            (33) Tisbury, massachusetts.--Project for coastal storm 
        risk management, including shoreline stabilization along Beach 
        Road Causeway, Tisbury, Massachusetts.
            (34) Oak bluffs harbor, massachusetts.--Project for coastal 
        storm risk management and navigation, Oak Bluffs Harbor north 
        and south jetties, Oak Bluffs, Massachusetts.
            (35) Connecticut river, massachusetts.--Project for flood 
        risk management along the Connecticut River, Massachusetts.
            (36) Marysville, michigan.--Project for coastal storm risk 
        management, including shoreline stabilization, City of 
        Marysville, Michigan.
            (37) Cheboygan, michigan.--Project for flood risk 
        management, Little Black River, City of Cheboygan, Michigan.
            (38) Kalamazoo, michigan.--Project for flood risk 
        management and ecosystem restoration, Kalamazoo River Watershed 
        and tributaries, City of Kalamazoo, Michigan.
            (39) Dearborn and dearborn heights, michigan.--Project for 
        flood risk management, Dearborn and Dearborn Heights, Michigan.
            (40) Grand traverse bay, michigan.--Project for navigation, 
        Grand Traverse Bay, Michigan.
            (41) Grand traverse county, michigan.--Project for flood 
        risk management and ecosystem restoration, Grand Traverse 
        County, Michigan.
            (42) Brighton mill pond, michigan.--Project for ecosystem 
        restoration, Brighton Mill Pond, Michigan.
            (43) Ludington, michigan.--Project for coastal storm risk 
        management, including feasibility of emergency shoreline 
        protection, Ludington, Michigan.
            (44) Pahrump, nevada.--Project for hurricane and storm 
        damage risk reduction and flood risk management, Pahrump, 
        Nevada.
            (45) Allegheny river, new york.--Project for navigation and 
        ecosystem restoration, Allegheny River, New York.
            (46) Turtle cove, new york.--Project for ecosystem 
        restoration, Turtle Cove, Pelham Bay Park, Bronx, New York.
            (47) Niles, ohio.--Project for flood risk management, 
        ecosystem restoration, and recreation, City of Niles, Ohio.
            (48) Geneva-on-the-lake, ohio.--Project for flood and 
        coastal storm risk management, ecosystem restoration, 
        recreation, and shoreline erosion protection, Geneva-on-the-
        Lake, Ohio.
            (49) Little killbuck creek, ohio.--Project for ecosystem 
        restoration, including aquatic invasive species management, 
        Little Killbuck Creek, Ohio.
            (50) Defiance, ohio.--Project for flood risk management, 
        ecosystem restoration, recreation, and bank stabilization, 
        Maumee, Auglaize, and Tiffin Rivers, Defiance, Ohio.
            (51) Dillon lake, muskingum county, ohio.--Project for 
        ecosystem restoration, recreation, and shoreline erosion 
        protection, Dillon Lake, Muskingum and Licking Counties, Ohio.
            (52) Jerusalem township, ohio.--Project for flood and 
        coastal storm risk management and shoreline erosion protection, 
        Jerusalem Township, Ohio.
            (53) Nine mile creek, cleveland, ohio.--Project for flood 
        risk management, Nine Mile Creek, Cleveland, Ohio.
            (54) Cold creek, ohio.--Project for ecosystem restoration, 
        Cold Creek, Erie County, Ohio.
            (55) Allegheny river, pennsylvania.--Project for navigation 
        and ecosystem restoration, Allegheny River, Pennsylvania.
            (56) Philadelphia, pennsylvania.--Project for ecosystem 
        restoration and recreation, including shoreline stabilization, 
        South Philadelphia Wetlands Park, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania.
            (57) Galveston bay, texas.--Project for navigation, 
        Galveston Bay, Texas.
            (58) Winooski, vermont.--Project for flood risk management, 
        Winooski River and tributaries, Winooski, Vermont.
            (59) Mt. st. helens, washington.--Project for navigation, 
        Mt. St. Helens, Washington.
            (60) Grays bay, washington.--Project for navigation, flood 
        risk management, and ecosystem restoration, Grays Bay, 
        Wahkiakum County, Washington.
            (61) Wind, klickitat, hood, deschutes, rock creek, and john 
        day tributaries, washington.--Project for ecosystem 
        restoration, Wind, Klickitat, Hood, Deschutes, Rock Creek, and 
        John Day tributaries, Washington.
            (62) La crosse, wisconsin.--Project for flood risk 
        management, City of La Crosse, Wisconsin.
    (b) Project Modifications.--The Secretary is authorized to conduct 
a feasibility study for the following project modifications:
            (1) Luxapalila creek, alabama.--Modifications to the 
        project for flood risk management, Luxapalila Creek, Alabama, 
        authorized by section 203 of the Flood Control Act of 1958 (72 
        Stat. 307).
            (2) Osceola harbor, arkansas.--Modifications to the project 
        for navigation, Osceola Harbor, Arkansas, authorized under 
        section 107 of the River and Harbor Act of 1960 (33 U.S.C. 
        577), to evaluate the expansion of the harbor.
            (3) Savannah, georgia.--Modifications to the project for 
        navigation, Savannah Harbor Expansion Project, Georgia, 
        authorized by section 7002(1) of the Water Resources Reform and 
        Development Act of 2014 (128 Stat. 1364) and modified by 
        section 1401(6) of the America's Water Infrastructure Act of 
        2018 (132 Stat. 3839).
            (4) Hagaman chute, louisiana.--Modifications to the project 
        for navigation, including sediment management, Hagaman Chute, 
        Louisiana.
            (5) Mississippi river and tributaries, ouachita river, 
        louisiana.--Modifications to the project for flood risk 
        management, including bank stabilization, Ouachita River, 
        Monroe to Caldwell Parish, Louisiana, authorized by the first 
        section of the Act of May 15, 1928 (45 Stat. 534, chapter 569).
            (6) St. marys river, michigan.--Modifications to the 
        project for navigation, St. Marys River and tributaries, 
        Michigan, for channel improvements.
            (7) Mosquito creek lake, trumbull county, ohio.--
        Modifications to the project for flood risk management and 
        water supply, Mosquito Creek Lake, Trumbull County, Ohio.
            (8) Little conemaugh, stonycreek, and conemaugh rivers, 
        pennsylvania.--Modifications to the project for ecosystem 
        restoration, recreation, and flood risk management, Little 
        Conemaugh, Stonycreek, and Conemaugh rivers, Pennsylvania, 
        authorized by section 5 of the Act of June 22, 1936 (commonly 
        known as the ``Flood Control Act of 1936'') (49 Stat. 1586, 
        chapter 688; 50 Stat. 879; chapter 877).
            (9) Charleston, south carolina.--Modifications to the 
        project for navigation, Charleston Harbor, South Carolina, 
        authorized by section 1401(1) of the Water Resources 
        Development Act of 2016 (130 Stat. 1709), including 
        improvements to address potential or actual changed conditions 
        on that portion of the project that serves the North Charleston 
        Terminal.
            (10) Addicks and barker reservoirs, texas.--Modifications 
        to the project for flood risk management, Addicks and Barker 
        Reservoirs, Texas.
            (11) Monongahela river, west virginia.--Modifications to 
        the project for recreation, Monongahela River, West Virginia.
    (c) Special Rule, St. Marys River, Michigan.--The cost of the study 
under subsection (b)(6) shall be shared in accordance with the cost 
share applicable to construction of the project for navigation, Sault 
Sainte Marie, Michigan, authorized by section 1149 of the Water 
Resources Development Act of 1986 (100 Stat. 4254; 121 Stat. 1131).

SEC. 202. VERTICAL INTEGRATION AND ACCELERATION OF STUDIES.

    (a) In General.--Section 1001 of the Water Resources Reform and 
Development Act of 2014 (33 U.S.C. 2282c) is amended--
            (1) by redesignating subsections (d), (e), and (f) as 
        subsections (e), (f), and (g), respectively;
            (2) by inserting after subsection (c) the following:
    ``(d) Delegation.--
            ``(1) In general.--The Secretary shall delegate the 
        determination to grant an extension under subsection (c) to the 
        Commander of the relevant Division if--
                    ``(A) the final feasibility report for the study 
                can be completed with an extension of not more than 1 
                year beyond the time period described in subsection 
                (a)(1); or
                    ``(B) the feasibility study requires an additional 
                cost of not more than $1,000,000 above the amount 
                described in subsection (a)(2).
            ``(2) Guidance.--If the Secretary determines that 
        implementation guidance is necessary to implement this 
        subsection, the Secretary shall issue such implementation 
        guidance not later than 180 days after the date of enactment of 
        the Water Resources Development Act of 2024.''; and
            (3) by adding at the end the following:
    ``(h) Definition of Division.--In this section, the term `Division' 
means each of the following Divisions of the Corps of Engineers:
            ``(1) The Great Lakes and Ohio River Division.
            ``(2) The Mississippi Valley Division.
            ``(3) The North Atlantic Division.
            ``(4) The Northwestern Division.
            ``(5) The Pacific Ocean Division.
            ``(6) The South Atlantic Division.
            ``(7) The South Pacific Division.
            ``(8) The Southwestern Division.'';
    (b) Deadline.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 180 days after the date of 
        enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall develop and issue 
        implementation guidance that improves the implementation of 
        section 1001 of the Water Resources Reform and Development Act 
        of 2014 (33 U.S.C. 2282c).
            (2) Standardized form.--In carrying out this subsection, 
        the Secretary shall develop and provide to each Division (as 
        defined in subsection (h) of section 1001 of the Water 
        Resources Reform and Development of 2014 (33 U.S.C. 2282c)) a 
        standardized form to assist the Divisions in preparing a 
        written request for an exception under subsection (c) of that 
        section.
            (3) Notification.--The Secretary shall submit a written 
        copy of the implementation guidance developed under paragraph 
        (1) to the Committee on Environment and Public Works of the 
        Senate and the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure 
        of the House of Representatives not less than 30 days before 
        the date on which the Secretary makes that guidance publicly 
        available.

SEC. 203. EXPEDITED COMPLETION.

    (a) Feasibility Studies.--The Secretary shall expedite the 
completion of a feasibility study or general reevaluation report (as 
applicable) for each of the following projects, and if the Secretary 
determines that the project is justified in a completed report, may 
proceed directly to preconstruction planning, engineering, and design 
of the project:
            (1) Project for food risk management, Upper Guyandotte 
        River Basin, West Virginia.
            (2) Project for flood risk management, Kanawha River Basin, 
        West Virginia, Virginia, and North Carolina.
            (3) Project for flood risk management, Cave Buttes Dam, 
        Phoenix, Arizona.
            (4) Project for flood risk management, McMicken Dam, 
        Maricopa County, Arizona.
            (5) Project for ecosystem restoration, Rio Salado, Phoenix, 
        Arizona.
            (6) Project for flood risk management, Lower San Joaquin 
        River, San Joaquin Valley, California.
            (7) Project for flood risk management, Stratford, 
        Connecticut.
            (8) Project for flood risk management, Waimea River, Kauai 
        County, Hawaii.
            (9) Modifications to the project for flood risk management, 
        Cedar River, Cedar Rapids, Iowa, authorized by section 
        8201(b)(6) of the Water Resources Development Act of 2022 (136 
        Stat. 3750).
            (10) Project for flood risk management, Rahway River, 
        Rahway, New Jersey.
            (11) Northeast Levee System portion of the project for 
        flood control and other purposes, Williamsport, Pennsylvania, 
        authorized by section 5 of the Act of June 22, 1936 (commonly 
        known as the ``Flood Control Act of 1936'') (49 Stat. 1573, 
        chapter 688).
            (12) Project for navigation, Menominee River, Menominee, 
        Wisconsin.
            (13) General reevaluation report for the project for flood 
        risk management and other purposes, East St. Louis and 
        Vicinity, Illinois.
            (14) General reevaluation report for project for flood risk 
        management, Green Brook, New Jersey.
            (15) Project for ecosystem restoration, Imperial Streams 
        Salton Sea, California.
            (16) Modification of the project for navigation, Honolulu 
        Deep Draft Harbor, Hawaii.
            (17) Project for shoreline damage mitigation, Burns 
        Waterway Harbor, Indiana.
            (18) Project for hurricane and coastal storm risk 
        management, Dare County Beaches, North Carolina.
            (19) Modification of the project for flood protection and 
        recreation, Surry Mountain Lake, New Hampshire, including for 
        consideration of low flow augmentation.
            (20) Project for coastal storm risk management, Virginia 
        Beach and vicinity, Virginia.
            (21) Project for secondary water source identification, 
        Washington Metropolitan Area, Washington, DC, Maryland, and 
        Virginia.
    (b) Study Reports.--The Secretary shall expedite the completion of 
a Chief's Report or Director's Report (as applicable) for each of the 
following projects for the project to be considered for authorization:
            (1) Modification of the project for navigation, Norfolk 
        Harbors and Channels, Anchorage F segment, Norfolk, Virginia.
            (2) Project for aquatic ecosystem restoration, Biscayne Bay 
        Coastal Wetlands, Florida.
            (3) Project for ecosystem restoration, Claiborne and 
        Millers Ferry Locks and Dam Fish Passage, Lower Alabama River, 
        Alabama.
            (4) Project for flood and storm damage reduction, Surf 
        City, North Carolina.
            (5) Project for flood and storm damage reduction, Nassau 
        County Back Bays, New York.
            (6) Project for flood risk management, Tar Pamlico, North 
        Carolina.
            (7) Project for ecosystem restoration, Central and South 
        Florida Comprehensive Everglades Restoration Program, Western 
        Everglades Restoration Project, Florida.
            (8) Project for flood and storm damage reduction, Ala Wai, 
        Hawaii.
            (9) Project for ecosystem restoration, Central and South 
        Florida Comprehensive Everglades Restoration Program, Lake 
        Okeechobee Watershed Restoration, Florida.
            (10) Project for flood and coastal storm damage reduction, 
        Miami-Dade County Back Bay, Florida.
            (11) Project for navigation, Tampa Harbor, Florida.
            (12) Project for flood and storm damage reduction, Akutan 
        Harbor Navigational Improvements, Alaska.
            (13) Project for flood and storm damage reduction, Amite 
        River and tributaries, Louisiana.
            (14) Project for flood and coastal storm risk management, 
        Puerto Rico Coastal Study, Puerto Rico.
            (15) Project for coastal storm risk management, Baltimore, 
        Maryland.
            (16) Project for flood and storm damage reduction and 
        ecosystem restoration, St. Tammany Parish, Louisiana.
            (17) Project for flood and storm damage reduction, 
        Washington, DC.
            (18) Project for ecosystem restoration, Tres Rios, Arizona.
            (19) Project for navigation, Oakland Harbor, Oakland, 
        California.
            (20) Project for water supply reallocation, Stockton Lake 
        Reallocation Study, Missouri.
            (21) Project for ecosystem restoration, Hatchie-
        Loosahatchie Mississippi River, Tennessee and Alabama.
            (22) Project for ecosystem restoration, Biscayne Bay and 
        Southern Everglades, Florida, authorized by section 601 of the 
        Water Resources Development Act of 2000 (114 Stat. 2680).
    (c) Projects.--The Secretary shall, to the maximum extent 
practicable, expedite completion of the following projects:
            (1) Project for flood control, Lower Mud River, Milton, 
        West Virginia, authorized by section 580 of the Water Resources 
        Development Act of 1996 (110 Stat. 3790) and modified by 
        section 340 of the Water Resources Development Act of 2000 (114 
        Stat. 2612) and section 3170 of the Water Resources Development 
        Act of 2007 (121 Stat. 1154).
            (2) Project for dam safety modifications, Bluestone Dam, 
        West Virginia, authorized pursuant to section 5 of the Act of 
        June 22, 1936 (commonly known as the ``Flood Control Act of 
        1936'') (49 Stat. 1586, chapter 688).
            (3) Project for flood risk management, Tulsa and West-Tulsa 
        Levee System, Tulsa County, Oklahoma, authorized by section 
        401(2) of the Water Resources Development Act of 2020 (134 
        Stat. 2735).
            (4) Project for flood risk management, Little Colorado 
        River, Navajo County, Arizona.
            (5) Project for flood risk management, Rio de Flag, 
        Flagstaff, Arizona.
            (6) Project for ecosystem restoration, Va Shly'AY Akimel, 
        Maricopa Indian Reservation, Arizona.
            (7) Project for aquatic ecosystem restoration, Quincy Bay, 
        Illinois, Upper Mississippi River Restoration Program.
            (8) Project for navigation, Matagorda Ship Channel 
        Improvement Project, Port Lavaca, Texas, authorized by section 
        401(1) of the Water Resources Development Act of 2020 (134 
        Stat. 2734).
            (9) Major maintenance on Laupahoehoe Harbor, Hawaii County, 
        Hawaii.
            (10) Project for flood risk management, Green Brook, New 
        Jersey.
            (11) Water control manual update for water supply and flood 
        control, Theodore Roosevelt Dam, Globe, Arizona.
            (12) Water control manual update for Oroville Dam, Butte 
        County, California.
            (13) Water control manual update for New Bullards Dam, Yuba 
        County, California.
            (14) Project for flood risk management, Morgan City, 
        Louisiana.
            (15) Project for hurricane and storm risk reduction, Upper 
        Barataria Basin, Louisiana.
            (16) Project for ecosystem restoration, Mid-Chesapeake Bay, 
        Maryland.
            (17) Project for navigation, Big Bay Harbor of Refuge, 
        Michigan.
            (18) Project for George W. Kuhn Headwaters Outfall, 
        Michigan.
            (19) The portion of the project for flood control and other 
        purposes, Williamsport, Pennsylvania, authorized by section 5 
        of the Act of June 22, 1936 (commonly known as the ``Flood 
        Control Act of 1936'') (49 Stat. 1573, chapter 688), to bring 
        the Northwest Levee System into compliance with current flood 
        mitigation standards.
            (20) Project for navigation, Seattle Harbor, Washington, 
        authorized by section 1401(1) of the Water Resources 
        Development Act of 2018 (132 Stat. 3836), deepening the East 
        Waterway at the Port of Seattle.
            (21) Project for shoreline stabilization, Clarksville, 
        Indiana.
    (d) Continuing Authorities Programs.--The Secretary shall, to the 
maximum extent practicable, expedite completion of the following 
projects and studies:
            (1) Projects for flood control under section 205 of the 
        Flood Control Act of 1948 (33 U.S.C. 701s) for the following 
        areas:
                    (A) Ak Chin Levee, Pinal County, Arizona.
                    (B) McCormick Wash, Globe, Arizona.
                    (C) Rose and Palm Garden Washes, Douglas, Arizona.
                    (D) Lower Santa Cruz River, Arizona.
            (2) Project for aquatic ecosystem restoration under section 
        206 of the Water Resources Development Act of 1996 (33 U.S.C. 
        2330), Corazon de los Tres Rios del Norte, Pima County, 
        Arizona.
            (3) Project for hurricane and storm damage reduction under 
        section 3 of the Act of August 13, 1946 (60 Stat. 1056, chapter 
        960; 33 U.S.C. 426g), Stratford, Connecticut.
            (4) Project modification for improvements to the 
        environment, Surry Mountain Lake, New Hampshire, under section 
        1135 of the Water Resources Development Act of 1986 (33 U.S.C. 
        2309a).
    (e) Tribal Partnership Program.--The Secretary shall, to the 
maximum extent practicable, expedite completion of the following 
projects and studies under the Tribal partnership program under section 
203 of the Water Resources Development Act of 2000 (33 U.S.C. 2269):
            (1) Maricopa (Ak Chin) Indian Reservation, Arizona.
            (2) Gila River Indian Reservation, Arizona.
            (3) Navajo Nation, Bird Springs, Arizona.
    (f) Watershed Assessments.--The Secretary shall, to the maximum 
extent practicable, expedite completion of the watershed assessment for 
flood risk management, Upper Mississippi and Illinois Rivers, 
authorized by section 1206 of Water Resources Development Act of 2016 
(130 Stat. 1686) and section 214 of the Water Resources Development Act 
of 2020 (134 Stat. 2687).
    (g) Expedited Prospectus.--The Secretary shall prioritize the 
completion of the prospectus for the United States Moorings Facility, 
Portland, Oregon, required for authorization of funding from the 
revolving fund established by the first section of the Civil Functions 
Appropriations Act, 1954 (33 U.S.C. 576).

SEC. 204. EXPEDITED COMPLETION OF OTHER FEASIBILITY STUDIES.

    (a) Cedar Port Navigation and Improvement District Channel 
Deepening Project, Baytown, Texas.--The Secretary shall expedite the 
review and coordination of the feasibility study for the project for 
navigation, Cedar Port Navigation and Improvement District Channel 
Deepening Project, Baytown, Texas, under section 203(b) of the Water 
Resources Development Act of 1986 (33 U.S.C. 2231(b)).
    (b) Lake Okeechobee Watershed Restoration Project, Florida.--The 
Secretary shall expedite the review and coordination of the feasibility 
study for the project for ecosystem restoration, Lake Okeechobee 
Component A Reservoir, Everglades, Florida, under section 203(b) of the 
Water Resources Development Act of 1986 (33 U.S.C. 2231(b)).
    (c) Sabine-Neches Waterway Navigation Improvement Project, Texas.--
The Secretary shall expedite the review and coordination of the 
feasibility study for the project for navigation, Sabine-Neches 
Waterway, Texas, under section 203(b) of the Water Resources 
Development Act of 1986 (33 U.S.C. 2231(b)).
    (d) La Quinta Expansion Project, Texas.--The Secretary shall 
expedite the review and coordination of the feasibility study for the 
project for navigation, La Quinta Ship Channel, Corpus Christi, Texas, 
under section 203(b) of the Water Resources Development Act of 1986 (33 
U.S.C. 2231(b)).

SEC. 205. ALEXANDRIA TO THE GULF OF MEXICO, LOUISIANA, FEASIBILITY 
              STUDY.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary is authorized to conduct a 
feasibility study for the project for flood risk management, navigation 
and ecosystem restoration, Rapides, Avoyelles, Point Coupee, Allen, 
Evangeline, St. Landry, Calcasieu, Jefferson Davis, Acadia, Lafayette, 
St. Martin, Iberville, Cameron, Vermilion, Iberia, and St. Mary 
Parishes, Louisiana.
    (b) Special Rule.--The study authorized by subsection (a) shall be 
considered a continuation of the study authorized by the resolution of 
the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure of the House of 
Representatives with respect to the study for flood risk management, 
Alexandria to the Gulf of Mexico, Louisiana, dated July 23, 1997.

SEC. 206. CRAIG HARBOR, ALASKA.

    The cost of completing a general reevaluation report for the 
project for navigation, Craig Harbor, Alaska, authorized by section 
1401(1) of the Water Resources Development Act of 2016 (130 Stat. 1709) 
shall be at full Federal expense.

SEC. 207. SUSSEX COUNTY, DELAWARE.

    (a) Sense of Congress.--It is the sense of Congress that consistent 
nourishments of Lewes Beach, Delaware, are important for the safety and 
economic prosperity of Sussex County, Delaware.
    (b) General Reevaluation Report.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary shall carry out a general 
        reevaluation report for the project for Delaware Bay Coastline, 
        Roosevelt Inlet, and Lewes Beach, Delaware.
            (2) Inclusions.--The general reevaluation report under 
        paragraph (1) shall include a determination of--
                    (A) the area that the project should include; and
                    (B) how section 111 of the River and Harbor Act of 
                1968 (33 U.S.C. 426i) should be applied with respect to 
                the project.

SEC. 208. FORECAST-INFORMED RESERVOIR OPERATIONS IN THE COLORADO RIVER 
              BASIN.

    Section 1222 of the America's Water Infrastructure Act of 2018 (132 
Stat. 3811; 134 Stat. 2661) is amended by adding at the end the 
following:
    ``(d) Forecast-informed Reservoir Operations in the Colorado River 
Basin.--
            ``(1) In general.--Not later than 1 year after the date of 
        enactment of this subsection, the Secretary shall submit to the 
        Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure of the House of 
        Representatives and the Committee on Environment and Public 
        Works of the Senate a report that assesses the viability of 
        forecast-informed reservoir operations at a reservoir in the 
        Colorado River Basin.
            ``(2) Authorization.--If the Secretary determines, and 
        includes in the report under paragraph (1), that forecast-
        informed reservoir operations are viable at a reservoir in the 
        Colorado River Basin, the Secretary is authorized to carry out 
        forecast-informed reservoir operations at that reservoir, 
        subject to the availability of appropriations.''.

SEC. 209. BEAVER LAKE, ARKANSAS, REALLOCATION STUDY.

    The Secretary shall expedite the completion of a study for the 
reallocation of water supply storage, carried out in accordance with 
section 301 of the Water Supply Act of 1958 (43 U.S.C. 390b), for the 
Beaver Water District, Beaver Lake, Arkansas.

SEC. 210. GATHRIGHT DAM, VIRGINIA, STUDY.

    The Secretary shall conduct a study on the feasibility of modifying 
the project for flood risk management, Gathright Dam, Virginia, 
authorized by section 10 of the Flood Control Act of 1946 (60 Stat. 
645, chapter 596), to include downstream recreation as a project 
purpose.

SEC. 211. DELAWARE INLAND BAYS WATERSHED STUDY.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary shall conduct a study to restore 
aquatic ecosystems in the Delaware Inland Bays Watershed.
    (b) Requirements.--
            (1) In general.--In carrying out the study under subsection 
        (a), the Secretary shall--
                    (A) conduct a comprehensive analysis of ecosystem 
                restoration needs in the Delaware Inland Bays 
                Watershed, including--
                            (i) saltmarsh restoration;
                            (ii) shoreline stabilization;
                            (iii) stormwater management; and
                            (iv) an identification of sources for the 
                        beneficial use of dredged materials; and
                    (B) recommend feasibility studies to address the 
                needs identified under subparagraph (A).
            (2) Natural or nature-based features.--To the maximum 
        extent practicable, a feasibility study that is recommended 
        under paragraph (1)(B) shall consider the use of natural 
        features or nature-based features (as those terms are defined 
        in section 1184(a) of the Water Resources Development Act of 
        2016 (33 U.S.C. 2289a(a))).
    (c) Consultation and Use of Existing Data.--
            (1) Consultation.--In carrying out the study under 
        subsection (a), the Secretary shall consult with applicable--
                    (A) Federal, State, and local agencies;
                    (B) Indian Tribes;
                    (C) non-Federal interests; and
                    (D) other stakeholders, as determined appropriate 
                by the Secretary.
            (2) Use of existing data.--To the maximum extent 
        practicable, in carrying out the study under subsection (a), 
        the Secretary shall use existing data provided to the Secretary 
        by entities described in paragraph (1).
    (d) Feasibility Studies.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary may carry out a feasibility 
        study for a project recommended under subsection (b)(1)(B).
            (2) Congressional authorization.--The Secretary may not 
        begin construction for a project recommended by a feasibility 
        study described in paragraph (1) unless the project has been 
        authorized by Congress.
    (e) Report.--Not later than 3 years after the date of enactment of 
this Act, the Secretary shall submit to Congress a report that 
includes--
            (1) the results of the study under subsection (a); and
            (2) a description of actions taken under this section, 
        including any feasibility studies under subsection (b)(1)(B).

SEC. 212. UPPER SUSQUEHANNA RIVER BASIN COMPREHENSIVE FLOOD DAMAGE 
              REDUCTION FEASIBILITY STUDY.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary shall, at the request of a non-
Federal interest, complete a feasibility study for comprehensive flood 
damage reduction, Upper Susquehanna River Basin, New York.
    (b) Requirements.--In carrying out the feasibility study under 
subsection (a), the Secretary shall--
            (1) use, for purposes of meeting the requirements of a 
        final feasibility study, information from the feasibility study 
        completion report entitled ``Upper Susquehanna River Basin, New 
        York, Comprehensive Flood Damage Reduction'' and dated January 
        2020; and
            (2) re-evaluate project benefits, as determined using the 
        framework described in the proposed rule of the Corps of 
        Engineers entitled ``Corps of Engineers Agency Specific 
        Procedures To Implement the Principles, Requirements, and 
        Guidelines for Federal Investments in Water Resources'' (89 
        Fed. Reg. 12066 (February 15, 2024)), including a consideration 
        of economically disadvantaged communities (as defined pursuant 
        to section 160 of the Water Resources Development Act of 2020 
        (33 U.S.C. 2201 note; Public Law 116-260)).

SEC. 213. KANAWHA RIVER BASIN.

    Section 1207 of the Water Resources Development Act of 2016 (130 
Stat. 1686) is amended--
            (1) by striking ``The Secretary shall'' and inserting the 
        following:
    ``(a) In General.--The Secretary shall''; and
            (2) by adding at the end the following:
    ``(b) Projects and Separable Elements.--Notwithstanding any other 
provision of law, for an authorized project or a separable element of 
an authorized project that is recommended as a result of a study 
carried out by the Secretary under subsection (a) benefitting an 
economically disadvantaged community (as defined pursuant to section 
160 of the Water Resources Development Act of 2020 (33 U.S.C. 2201 
note; Public Law 116-260)) in the State of West Virginia, the non-
Federal share of the cost of the project or separable element of a 
project shall be 10 percent.''.

SEC. 214. AUTHORIZATION OF FEASIBILITY STUDIES FOR PROJECTS FROM CAP 
              AUTHORITIES.

    (a) Cedar Point Seawall, Scituate, Massachusetts.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary may conduct a feasibility 
        study for the project for hurricane and storm damage risk 
        reduction, Cedar Point Seawall, Scituate, Massachusetts.
            (2) Requirement.--In carrying out paragraph (1), the 
        Secretary shall use any relevant information from the project 
        described in that paragraph that was carried out under section 
        3 of the Act of August 13, 1946 (60 Stat. 1056, chapter 960; 33 
        U.S.C. 426g).
    (b) Jones Levee, Pierce County, Washington.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary may conduct a feasibility 
        study for the project for flood risk management, Jones Levee, 
        Pierce County, Washington.
            (2) Requirement.--In carrying out paragraph (1), the 
        Secretary shall use any relevant information from the project 
        described in that paragraph that was carried out under section 
        205 of the Flood Control Act of 1948 (33 U.S.C. 701s).
    (c) Hatch, New Mexico.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary may conduct a feasibility 
        study for the project for flood risk management, Hatch, New 
        Mexico.
            (2) Requirement.--In carrying out paragraph (1), the 
        Secretary shall use any relevant information from the project 
        described in that paragraph that was carried out under section 
        205 of the Flood Control Act of 1948 (33 U.S.C. 701s).
    (d) Fort George Inlet, Jacksonville, Florida.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary may conduct a feasibility 
        study to modify the project for navigation, Fort George Inlet, 
        Jacksonville, Florida, to include navigation improvements or 
        shoreline erosion prevention or mitigation as a result of the 
        project.
            (2) Requirement.--In carrying out paragraph (1), the 
        Secretary shall use any relevant information from the project 
        described in that paragraph that was carried out under section 
        111 of the River and Harbor Act of 1968 (33 U.S.C. 426i).

SEC. 215. PORT FOURCHON BELLE PASS CHANNEL, LOUISIANA.

    (a) Feasibility Study.--
            (1) In general.--Notwithstanding section 203(a)(1) of the 
        Water Resources Development Act of 1986 (33 U.S.C. 2231(a)(1)), 
        the non-Federal interest for the project for navigation, Port 
        Fourchon Belle Pass Channel, Louisiana, authorized by section 
        403(a)(4) of the Water Resources Development Act of 2020 (134 
        Stat. 2743) may, on written notification to the Secretary, and 
        at the cost of the non-Federal interest, carry out a 
        feasibility study to modify the project for deepening in 
        accordance with section 203 of the Water Resources Development 
        Act of 1986 (33 U.S.C. 2231).
            (2) Requirement.--A modification recommended by a 
        feasibility study under paragraph (1) shall be approved by the 
        Secretary and authorized by Congress before construction.
    (b) Prior Written Agreements.--
            (1) Prior written agreements for section 203.--To the 
        maximum extent practicable, the Secretary shall use the 
        previous agreement between the Secretary and the non-Federal 
        interest for the feasibility study carried about under section 
        203 of the Water Resources Development Act of 1986 (33 U.S.C. 
        2231) that resulted in the project described in subsection 
        (a)(1) in order to expedite the revised agreement between the 
        Secretary and the non-Federal interest for the feasibility 
        study described in that subsection.
            (2) Prior written agreements for technical assistance.--On 
        the request of the non-Federal interest described in subsection 
        (a)(1), the Secretary shall use the previous agreement for 
        technical assistance under section 203 of the Water Resources 
        Development Act of 1986 (33 U.S.C. 2231) between the Secretary 
        and the non-Federal interest in order to provide technical 
        assistance to the non-Federal interest for the feasibility 
        study under subsection (a)(1).
    (c) Submission to Congress.--The Secretary shall--
            (1) review the feasibility study under subsection (a)(1); 
        and
            (2) if the Secretary determines that the proposed 
        modifications are consistent with the authorized purposes of 
        the project and the study meets the same legal and regulatory 
        requirements of a Post Authorization Change Report that would 
        be otherwise undertaken by the Secretary, submit to Congress 
        the study for authorization of the modification.

SEC. 216. STUDIES FOR MODIFICATION OF PROJECT PURPOSES IN THE COLORADO 
              RIVER BASIN IN ARIZONA.

    (a) Study.--The Secretary shall carry out a study of a project of 
the Corps of Engineers in the Colorado River Basin in the State of 
Arizona to determine whether to include water supply as a project 
purpose of that project if a request for such a study to modify the 
project purpose is made to the Secretary by--
            (1) the non-Federal interest for the project; or
            (2) in the case of a project for which there is no non-
        Federal interest, the Governor of the State of Arizona.
    (b) Coordination.--The Secretary, to the maximum extent 
practicable, shall coordinate with relevant State and local authorities 
in carrying out this section.
    (c) Recommendations.--If, after carrying out a study under 
subsection (a) with respect to a project described in that subsection, 
the Secretary determines that water supply should be included as a 
project purpose for that project, the Secretary shall submit to the 
Committee on Environment and Public Works of the Senate and the 
Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure of the House of 
Representatives a recommendation for the modification of the project 
purpose of that project.

SEC. 217. NON-FEDERAL INTEREST PREPARATION OF WATER REALLOCATION 
              STUDIES, NORTH DAKOTA.

    Section 301 of the Water Supply Act of 1958 (43 U.S.C. 390b) is 
amended by adding at the following:
    ``(f) Non-Federal Interest Preparation.--
            ``(1) In general.--In accordance with this subsection, a 
        non-Federal interest may carry out a water reallocation study 
        at a reservoir project constructed by the Corps of Engineers 
        and located in the State of North Dakota.
            ``(2) Submission.--On completion of the study under 
        paragraph (1), the non-Federal interest shall submit to the 
        Secretary the results of the study.
            ``(3) Guidelines.--
                    ``(A) In general.--Not later than 180 days after 
                the date of enactment of this subsection, the Secretary 
                shall issue guidelines for the formulation of a water 
                reallocation study carried out by a non-Federal 
                interest under this subsection.
                    ``(B) Requirements.--The guidelines under 
                subparagraph (A) shall contain provisions that--
                            ``(i) ensure that any water reallocation 
                        study with respect to which the Secretary 
                        submits an assessment under paragraph (6) 
                        complies with all of the requirements that 
                        would apply to a water reallocation study 
                        undertaken by the Secretary; and
                            ``(ii) provide sufficient information for 
                        the formulation of the water reallocation 
                        studies, including processes and procedures 
                        related to reviews and assistance under 
                        paragraph (7).
            ``(4) Agreement.--Before carrying out a water reallocation 
        study under paragraph (1), the Secretary and the non-Federal 
        interest shall enter into an agreement.
            ``(5) Review by secretary.--
                    ``(A) In general.--The Secretary shall review each 
                water reallocation study received under paragraph (2) 
                for the purpose of determining whether or not the 
                study, and the process under which the study was 
                developed, comply with Federal laws and regulations 
                applicable to water reallocation studies.
                    ``(B) Timing.--The Secretary may not submit to 
                Congress an assessment of a water reallocation study 
                under paragraph (1) until such time as the Secretary--
                            ``(i) determines that the study complies 
                        with all of the requirements that would apply 
                        to a water reallocation study carried out by 
                        the Secretary; and
                            ``(ii) completes all of the Federal 
                        analyses, reviews, and compliance processes 
                        under the National Environmental Policy Act of 
                        1969 (42 U.S.C. 4321 et seq.), that would be 
                        required with respect to the proposed action if 
                        the Secretary had carried out the water 
                        reallocation study.
            ``(6) Submission to congress.--Not later than 180 days 
        after the completion of review of a water reallocation study 
        under paragraph (5), the Secretary shall submit to the 
        Committee on Environment and Public Works of the Senate and the 
        Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure of the House of 
        Representatives an assessment that--
                    ``(A) describes--
                            ``(i) the results of that review;
                            ``(ii) based on the results of the water 
                        allocation study, any structural or operations 
                        changes at the reservoir project that would 
                        occur if the water reallocation is carried out; 
                        and
                            ``(iii) based on the results of the water 
                        reallocation study, any effects to the 
                        authorized purposes of the reservoir project 
                        that would occur if the water reallocation is 
                        carried out; and
                    ``(B) includes a determination by the Secretary of 
                whether the modifications recommended under the study 
                are those described in subsection (e).
            ``(7) Review and technical assistance.--
                    ``(A) Review.--The Secretary may accept and expend 
                funds provided by non-Federal interests to carry out 
                the reviews and other activities that are the 
                responsibility of the Secretary in carrying out this 
                subsection.
                    ``(B) Technical assistance.--At the request of the 
                non-Federal interest, the Secretary shall provide to 
                the non-Federal interest technical assistance relating 
                to any aspect of a water reallocation study if the non-
                Federal interest contracts with the Secretary to pay 
                all costs of providing that technical assistance.
                    ``(C) Impartial decisionmaking.--In carrying out 
                this subsection, the Secretary shall ensure that the 
                use of funds accepted from a non-Federal interest will 
                not affect the impartial decisionmaking of the 
                Secretary, either substantively or procedurally.
                    ``(D) Savings provision.--The provision of 
                technical assistance by the Secretary under 
                subparagraph (B)--
                            ``(i) shall not be considered to be an 
                        approval or endorsement of the water 
                        reallocation study; and
                            ``(ii) shall not affect the 
                        responsibilities of the Secretary under 
                        paragraphs (5) and (6).''.

SEC. 218. TECHNICAL CORRECTION, WALLA WALLA RIVER.

    Section 8201(a) of the Water Resources Development Act of 2022 (136 
Stat. 3744) is amended--
            (1) by striking paragraph (76) and inserting the following:
            ``(76) Nursery reach, walla walla river, oregon.--Project 
        for ecosystem restoration, Nursery Reach, Walla Walla River, 
        Oregon.'';
            (2) by redesignating paragraphs (92) through (94) as 
        paragraphs (93) through (95), respectively; and
            (3) by inserting after paragraph (91) the following:
            ``(92) Mill creek, walla walla river basin, washington.--
        Project for ecosystem restoration, Mill Creek and Mill Creek 
        Flood Control Zone District Channel, Washington.''.

SEC. 219. WATERSHED AND RIVER BASIN ASSESSMENTS.

    Section 729(d) of the Water Resources Development Act of 1986 (33 
U.S.C. 2267a(d)) is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (12), by striking ``and'' at the end;
            (2) in paragraph (13), by striking the period at the end 
        and inserting a semicolon; and
            (3) by adding at the end the following:
            ``(14) the Walla Walla River Basin; and
            ``(15) the San Francisco Bay Basin.''.

SEC. 220. INDEPENDENT PEER REVIEW.

    Section 2034(h)(2) of the Water Resources Development Act of 2007 
(33 U.S.C. 2343(h)(2)) is amended by striking ``17 years'' and 
inserting ``22 years''.

SEC. 221. ICE JAM PREVENTION AND MITIGATION.

    (a) In General.--Not later than 1 year after the date of enactment 
of this Act, the Secretary shall submit to the Committee on Environment 
and Public Works of the Senate and the Committee on Transportation and 
Infrastructure of the House of Representatives a report on efforts by 
the Secretary to prevent and mitigate flood damages associated with ice 
jams.
    (b) Inclusion.--The Secretary shall include in the report under 
subsection (a)--
            (1) an assessment of the projects carried out pursuant to 
        section 1150 of the Water Resources Development Act of 2016 (33 
        U.S.C. 701s note; Public Law 114-322), if applicable; and
            (2) a description of--
                    (A) the challenges associated with preventing and 
                mitigating ice jams;
                    (B) the potential measures that may prevent or 
                mitigate ice jams, including the extent to which 
                additional research and the development and deployment 
                of technologies are necessary; and
                    (C) actions taken by the Secretary to provide non-
                Federal interests with technical assistance, guidance, 
                or other information relating to ice jam events; and
                    (D) how the Secretary plans to conduct outreach and 
                engagement with non-Federal interests and other 
                relevant State and local agencies to facilitate an 
                understanding of the circumstances in which ice jams 
                could occur and the potential impacts to critical 
                public infrastructure from ice jams.

SEC. 222. REPORT ON HURRICANE AND STORM DAMAGE RISK REDUCTION DESIGN 
              GUIDELINES.

    (a) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Guidelines.--The term ``guidelines'' means the 
        Hurricane and Storm Damage Risk Reduction Design Guidelines of 
        the Corps of Engineers.
            (2) Larose to golden meadow hurricane protection system.--
        The term ``Larose to Golden Meadow Hurricane Protection 
        System'' means the project for hurricane-flood protection, 
        Grand Isle and Vicinity, Louisiana, authorized by section 204 
        of the Flood Control Act of 1965 (79 Stat. 1077).
    (b) Report.--Not later than 1 year after the date of enactment of 
this Act, the Secretary shall submit to the Committee on Environment 
and Public Works of the Senate and the Committee on Transportation and 
Infrastructure of the House of Representatives a report that compares--
            (1) the guidelines; and
            (2) the construction methods used by the South Lafourche 
        Levee District for the levees and flood control structures of 
        the Larose to Golden Meadow Hurricane Protection System.
    (c) Inclusions.--The report under subsection (b) shall include--
            (1) a description of--
                    (A) the guidelines;
                    (B) the construction methods used by the South 
                Lafourche Levee District for levees and flood control 
                structures of the Larose to Golden Meadow Hurricane 
                Protection System; and
                    (C) any deviations identified between the 
                guidelines and the construction methods described in 
                subparagraph (B); and
            (2) an analysis by the Secretary of geotechnical and other 
        relevant data from the land adjacent to the levees and flood 
        control structures constructed by the South Lafourche Levee 
        District to determine the effectiveness of those structures.

SEC. 223. BRIEFING ON STATUS OF CERTAIN ACTIVITIES ON THE MISSOURI 
              RIVER.

    (a) In General.--Not later than 30 days after the date on which the 
consultation under section 7 of the Endangered Species Act of 1973 (16 
U.S.C. 1536) that was reinitiated by the Secretary for the operation of 
the Missouri River Mainstem Reservoir System, the operation and 
maintenance of the Bank Stabilization and Navigation Project, the 
operation of the Kansas River Reservoir System, and the implementation 
of the Missouri River Recovery Management Plan is completed, the 
Secretary shall brief the Committee on the Environment and Public Works 
of the Senate and the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure of 
the House of Representatives on the outcomes of that consultation.
    (b) Requirements.--The briefing under subsection (a) shall include 
a discussion of--
            (1) any biological opinions that result from the 
        consultation, including any actions that the Secretary is 
        required to undertake pursuant to such biological opinions; and
            (2) any forthcoming requests from the Secretary to Congress 
        to provide funding in order carry out the actions described in 
        paragraph (1).

SEC. 224. REPORT ON MATERIAL CONTAMINATED BY A HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCE AND 
              THE CIVIL WORKS PROGRAM.

    (a) Report.--Not later than 1 year after the date of enactment of 
this Act, the Secretary shall submit to the Committee on Environment 
and Public Works of the Senate and the Committee on Transportation and 
Infrastructure of the House of Representatives a report that describes 
the impact of material contaminated by a hazardous substance on the 
civil works program of the Corps of Engineers.
    (b) Requirements.--In developing the report under subsection (a), 
the Secretary shall--
            (1) describe--
                    (A) with respect to water resources development 
                projects--
                            (i) the applicable statutory authorities 
                        that require the removal of material 
                        contaminated by a hazardous substance; and
                            (ii) the roles and responsibilities of the 
                        Secretary and non-Federal interests for 
                        removing material contaminated by a hazardous 
                        substance; and
                    (B) any regulatory actions or decisions made by 
                another Federal agency that impact--
                            (i) the removal of material contaminated by 
                        a hazardous substance; and
                            (ii) the ability of the Secretary to carry 
                        out the civil works program of the Corps of 
                        Engineers;
            (2) discuss the impact of material contaminated by a 
        hazardous substance on--
                    (A) the timely completion of construction of water 
                resources development projects;
                    (B) the operation and maintenance of water 
                resources development projects, including dredging 
                activities of the Corps of Engineers to maintain 
                authorized Federal depths at ports and along the inland 
                waterways; and
                    (C) costs associated with carrying out the civil 
                works program of the Corps of Engineers;
            (3) include any other information that the Secretary 
        determines to be appropriate to facilitate an understanding of 
        the impact of material contaminated by a hazardous substance on 
        the civil works program of the Corps of Engineers; and
            (4) propose any legislative recommendations to address any 
        issues identified in paragraphs (1) through (3).

SEC. 225. REPORT ON EFFORTS TO MONITOR, CONTROL, AND ERADICATE INVASIVE 
              SPECIES.

    (a) Definition of Invasive Species.--In this section, the term 
``invasive species'' has the meaning given the term in section 1 of 
Executive Order 13112 (42 U.S.C. 4321 note; relating to invasive 
species).
    (b) Assessment.--Not later than 1 year after the date of enactment 
of this Act, the Secretary shall conduct, and submit to the Committee 
on Environment and Public Works of the Senate and the Committee on 
Transportation and Infrastructure of the House of Representatives a 
report on the results of, an assessment of the efforts by the Secretary 
to monitor, control, and eradicate invasive species at water resources 
development projects across the United States.
    (c) Requirements.--The report under subsection (b) shall include--
            (1) a description of--
                    (A) the statutory authorities and programs used by 
                the Secretary to monitor, control, and eradicate 
                invasive species; and
                    (B) a geographically diverse sample of successful 
                projects and activities carried out by the Secretary to 
                monitor, control, and eradicate invasive species;
            (2) a discussion of--
                    (A) the impact of invasive species on the ability 
                of the Secretary to carry out the civil works program 
                of the Corps of Engineers, with a particular emphasis 
                on impact of invasive species to the primary missions 
                of the Corps of Engineers;
                    (B) the research conducted and techniques and 
                technologies used by the Secretary consistent with the 
                applicable statutory authorities described in paragraph 
                (1)(A) to monitor, control, and eradicate invasive 
                species; and
                    (C) the extent to which the Secretary has partnered 
                with States and units of local government to monitor, 
                control, and eradicate invasive species within the 
                boundaries of those States or units of local 
                government;
            (3) an update on the status of the plan developed by the 
        Secretary pursuant to section 1108(c) of the Water Resources 
        Development Act of 2018 (33 U.S.C. 2263a(c)); and
            (4) recommendations, including legislative recommendations, 
        to further the efforts of the Secretary to monitor, control, 
        and eradicate invasive species.

SEC. 226. J. STROM THURMOND LAKE, GEORGIA.

    (a) Encroachment Resolution Plan.--
            (1) In general.--Subject to paragraph (2), the Secretary 
        shall prepare, and submit to the Committee on Environment and 
        Public Works of the Senate and the Committee on Transportation 
        and Infrastructure of the House of Representatives, an 
        encroachment resolution plan for a portion of the project for 
        flood control, recreation, and fish and wildlife management, J. 
        Strom Thurmond Lake, Georgia and South Carolina, authorized by 
        section 10 of the Act of December 22, 1944 (commonly known as 
        the ``Flood Control Act of 1944'') (58 Stat. 894, chapter 665).
            (2) Limitation.--The encroachment resolution plan under 
        paragraph (1) shall only apply to the portion of the J. Strom 
        Thurmond Lake that is located within the State of Georgia.
    (b) Contents.--Subject to subsection (c), the encroachment 
resolution plan under subsection (a) shall include--
            (1) a description of the nature and number of 
        encroachments;
            (2) a description of the circumstances that contributed to 
        the development of the encroachments;
            (3) an assessment of the impact of the encroachments on 
        operation and maintenance of the project described in 
        subsection (a) for its authorized purposes;
            (4) an analysis of alternatives to the removal of 
        encroachments to mitigate any impacts identified in the 
        assessment under paragraph (3);
            (5) a description of any actions necessary or advisable to 
        prevent further encroachments; and
            (6) an estimate of the cost and timeline to carry out the 
        plan, including actions described under paragraph (5).
    (c) Restriction.--To the maximum extent practicable, the 
encroachment resolution plan under subsection (a) shall minimize 
adverse impacts to private landowners while maintaining the functioning 
of the project described in that subsection for its authorized 
purposes.
    (d) Notice and Public Comment.--
            (1) To owners.--In preparing the encroachment resolution 
        plan under subsection (a), not later than 30 days after the 
        Secretary identifies an encroachment, the Secretary shall 
        notify the owner of the encroachment.
            (2) To public.--The Secretary shall provide an opportunity 
        for the public to comment on the encroachment resolution plan 
        under subsection (a) before the completion of the plan.
    (e) Moratorium.--The Secretary shall not take action to compel 
removal of an encroachment covered by the encroachment resolution plan 
under subsection (a) unless Congress specifically authorizes such 
action.
    (f) Savings Provision.--This section does not--
            (1) grant any rights to the owner of an encroachment; or
            (2) impose any liability on the United States for operation 
        and maintenance of the project described in subsection (a) for 
        its authorized purposes.

SEC. 227. STUDY ON LAND VALUATION PROCEDURES FOR THE TRIBAL PARTNERSHIP 
              PROGRAM.

    (a) Definition of Tribal Partnership Program.--In this section, the 
term ``Tribal Partnership Program'' means the Tribal Partnership 
Program established under section 203 of the Water Resources 
Development Act of 2000 (33 U.S.C. 2269).
    (b) Study Required.--Not later than 1 year after the date of 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall carry out, and submit to the 
Committee on Environment and Public Works of the Senate and the 
Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure of the House of 
Representatives a report describing the results of, a study on 
appropriate procedures for determining the value of real estate and 
cost-share contributions for projects under the Tribal Partnership 
Program.
    (c) Requirements.--The report required under subsection (b) shall 
include--
            (1) an evaluation of the procedures used for determining 
        the valuation of real estate and contribution of real estate 
        value to cost-share for projects under the Tribal Partnership 
        Program, including consideration of cultural factors that are 
        unique to the Tribal Partnership Program and land valuation;
            (2) a description of any existing Federal authorities that 
        the Secretary intends to use to implement policy changes that 
        result from the evaluation under paragraph (1); and
            (3) recommendations for any legislation that may be needed 
        to revise land valuation or cost-share procedures for the 
        Tribal Partnership Program pursuant to the evaluation under 
        paragraph (1).

SEC. 228. REPORT TO CONGRESS ON LEVEE SAFETY GUIDELINES.

    (a) Definition of Levee Safety Guidelines.--In this section, the 
term ``levee safety guidelines'' means the levee safety guidelines 
established under section 9005(c) of the Water Resources Development 
Act of 2007 (33 U.S.C. 3303a(c)).
    (b) Report.--Not later than 1 year after the date of enactment of 
this Act, the Secretary, in coordination with other applicable Federal 
agencies, shall submit to the Committee on Environment and Public Works 
of the Senate and the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure of 
the House of Representatives a report on the levee safety guidelines.
    (c) Inclusions.--The report under subsection (b) shall include--
            (1) a description of--
                    (A) the levee safety guidelines;
                    (B) the process utilized to develop the levee 
                safety guidelines; and
                    (C) the extent to which the levee safety guidelines 
                are being used by Federal, State, Tribal, and local 
                agencies;
            (2) an assessment of the requirement for the levee safety 
        guidelines to be voluntary and a description of actions taken 
        by the Secretary and other applicable Federal agencies to 
        ensure that the guidelines are voluntary; and
            (3) any recommendations of the Secretary, including the 
        extent to which the levee safety guidelines should be revised.

SEC. 229. PUBLIC-PRIVATE PARTNERSHIP USER'S GUIDE.

    (a) In General.--Not later than 1 year after the date of enactment 
of this Act, the Secretary shall develop and make publicly available on 
an existing website of the Corps of Engineers a guide on the use of 
public-private partnerships for water resources development projects.
    (b) Inclusions.--In developing the guide under subsection (a), the 
Secretary shall include--
            (1) a description of--
                    (A) applicable authorities and programs of the 
                Secretary that allow for the use of public-private 
                partnerships to carry out water resources development 
                projects; and
                    (B) opportunities across the civil works program of 
                the Corps of Engineers for the use of public-private 
                partnerships, including at recreational facilities;
            (2) a summary of prior public-private partnerships for 
        water resources development projects, including lessons learned 
        and best practices from those partnerships and projects;
            (3) a discussion of--
                    (A) the roles and responsibilities of the Corps of 
                Engineers and non-Federal interests when using a 
                public-private partnership for a water resources 
                development project, including the opportunities for 
                risk-sharing; and
                    (B) the potential benefits associated with using a 
                public-private partnership for a water resources 
                development project, including the opportunities to 
                accelerate funding as compared to the annual 
                appropriations process; and
            (4) a description of the process for executing a project 
        partnership agreement for a water resources development 
        project, including any unique considerations when using a 
        public-private partnership.
    (c) Flexibility.--The Secretary may satisfy the requirements of 
this section by modifying an existing partnership handbook in 
accordance with this section.

SEC. 230. REVIEW OF AUTHORITIES AND PROGRAMS FOR ALTERNATIVE PROJECT 
              DELIVERY.

    (a) In General.--Not later than 1 year after the date of enactment 
of this Act and subject to subsections (b) and (c), the Secretary shall 
carry out a study of the authorities and programs of the Corps of 
Engineers that facilitate the use of alternative project delivery 
methods for water resources development projects, including public-
private partnerships.
    (b) Authorities and Programs Included.--In carrying out the study 
under subsection (a), the authorities and programs that are studied 
shall include any programs and authorities under--
            (1) section 204 of the Water Resources Development Act of 
        1986 (33 U.S.C. 2232);
            (2) section 221 of the Flood Control Act of 1970 (42 U.S.C. 
        1962d-5b); and
            (3) section 5014 of the Water Resources Reform and 
        Development Act of 2014 (33 U.S.C. 2201 note; Public Law 113-
        121).
    (c) Report.--The Secretary shall submit to the Committee on 
Environment and Public Works of the Senate and the Committee on 
Transportation and Infrastructure of the House of Representatives a 
report that--
            (1) describes the findings of the study under subsection 
        (a); and
            (2) includes--
                    (A) an assessment of how each authority and program 
                included in the study under subsection (a) has been 
                used by the Secretary;
                    (B) a list of the water resources development 
                projects that have been carried out pursuant to the 
                authorities and programs included in the study under 
                subsection (a);
                    (C) a discussion of the implementation challenges, 
                if any, associated with the authorities and programs 
                included in the study under subsection (a);
                    (D) a description of lessons learned and best 
                practices identified by the Secretary from carrying out 
                the authorities and programs included in the study 
                under subsection (a); and
                    (E) any recommendations, including legislative 
                recommendations, that result from the study under 
                subsection (a).

SEC. 231. REPORT TO CONGRESS ON EMERGENCY RESPONSE EXPENDITURES.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary shall conduct a review of emergency 
response expenditures from the emergency fund authorized by section 
5(a) of the Act of August 18, 1941 (commonly known as the ``Flood 
Control Act of 1941'') (55 Stat. 650, chapter 377; 33 U.S.C. 701n(a)) 
(referred to in this section as the ``Flood Control and Coastal 
Emergencies Account'') and from post-disaster supplemental 
appropriations Acts during the period of fiscal years 2013 through 
2023.
    (b) Report to Congress.--Not later than 1 year after the date of 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall submit to the Committee on 
Environment and Public Works of the Senate and the Committee on 
Transportation and Infrastructure of the House of Representatives a 
report that includes the results of the review under subsection (a), 
including--
            (1) for each of fiscal years 2013 through 2023, a summary 
        of--
                    (A) annual expenditures from the Flood Control and 
                Coastal Emergencies Account;
                    (B) annual budget requests for that account; and
                    (C) any activities, including any reprogramming, 
                that may have been required to cover any annual 
                shortfall in that account;
            (2) a description of the contributing factors that resulted 
        in any annual variability in the amounts described in 
        subparagraphs (A) and (B) of paragraph (1) and activities 
        described in subparagraph (C) of that paragraph;
            (3) an assessment and a description of future budget needs 
        of the Flood Control and Coastal Emergencies Account based on 
        trends observed and anticipated by the Secretary; and
            (4) an assessment and a description of the use and impact 
        of funds from post-disaster supplemental appropriations on 
        emergency response activities.

SEC. 232. EXCESS LAND REPORT FOR CERTAIN PROJECTS IN NORTH DAKOTA.

    (a) In General.--Not later than 1 year after the date of enactment 
of this Act, and subject to subsection (b), the Secretary shall submit 
to the Committee on Environment and Public Works of the Senate and the 
Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure of the House of 
Representatives a report that identifies any real property associated 
with the project of the Corps of Engineers at Lake Oahe, North Dakota, 
that the Secretary determines--
            (1) is not needed to carry out the authorized purposes of 
        the project; and
            (2) may be transferred to the Standing Rock Sioux Tribe to 
        support recreation opportunities for the Tribe, including, at a 
        minimum--
                    (A) Walker Bottom Marina, Lake Oahe;
                    (B) Fort Yates Boat Ramp, Lake Oahe;
                    (C) Cannonball District, Lake Oahe; and
                    (D) any other recreation opportunities identified 
                by the Tribe.
    (b) Inclusion.--If the Secretary determines that there is not any 
real property that may be transferred to the Standing Rock Sioux Tribe 
as described in subsection (a), the Secretary shall include in the 
report required under that subsection--
            (1) a list of the real property considered by the 
        Secretary;
            (2) an explanation of why the real property identified 
        under paragraph (1) is needed to carry out the authorized 
        purposes of the project described in subsection (a); and
            (3) a description of how the Secretary has recently 
        utilized the real property identified under paragraph (1) to 
        carry out the authorized purpose of the project described in 
        subsection (a).

SEC. 233. GAO STUDIES.

    (a) Review of the Accuracy of Project Cost Estimates.--
            (1) Review.--
                    (A) In general.--Not later than 1 year after the 
                date of enactment of this Act, the Comptroller General 
                of the United States (referred to in this section as 
                the ``Comptroller General'') shall initiate a review of 
                the accuracy of the project cost estimates developed by 
                the Corps of Engineers for completed and ongoing water 
                resources development projects carried out by the 
                Secretary.
                    (B) Requirements.--In carrying out subparagraph 
                (A), the Comptroller General shall determine the 
                factors, if any, that impact the accuracy of the 
                estimates described in that subparagraph, including--
                            (i) applicable statutory requirements, 
                        including--
                                    (I) section 1001 of the Water 
                                Resources Reform and Development Act of 
                                2014 (33 U.S.C. 2282c); and
                                    (II) section 905(b) of the Water 
                                Resources Development Act of 1986 (33 
                                U.S.C. 2282(b))]; and
                            (ii) applicable guidance, regulations, and 
                        policies of the Corps of Engineers.
                    (C) Incorporation of previous report.--In carrying 
                out subparagraph (A), the Comptroller General may 
                incorporate applicable information from the report 
                carried out by the Comptroller General under section 
                8236(c) of the Water Resources Development Act of 2022 
                (136 Stat. 3769).
            (2) Report.--On completion of the review conducted under 
        paragraph (1), the Comptroller General shall submit to the 
        Committee on Environment and Public Works of the Senate and the 
        Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure of the House of 
        Representatives a report on the findings of the review and any 
        recommendations that result from the review.
    (b) Report on Project Lifespan and Indemnification Clause in 
Project Partnership Agreements.--
            (1) Definitions.--In this subsection:
                    (A) Indemnification clause.--The term 
                ``indemnification clause'' means the indemnification 
                clause required in project partnership agreements for 
                water resources development projects under sections 
                101(e)(2) and 103(j)(1)(A) of the Water Resources 
                Development Act of 1986 (33 U.S.C. 2211(e)(2), 
                2213(j)(1)(A)).
                    (B) OMRR&R.--The term ``OMRR&R'', with respect to a 
                water resources development project, means operation, 
                maintenance, repair, replacement, and rehabilitation.
            (2) Sense of congress.--It is the sense of Congress that--
                    (A) there are significant concerns about whether--
                            (i) the indemnification clause, which was 
                        first applied in 1910 to flood control 
                        projects, should still be included in project 
                        partnership agreements prepared by the Corps of 
                        Engineers for water resources development 
                        projects; and
                            (ii) non-Federal interests for water 
                        resources development projects should be 
                        required to assume full responsibility for 
                        OMRR&R of water resources development projects 
                        in perpetuity;
                    (B) non-Federal interests have reported that the 
                indemnification clause and OMRR&R requirements are a 
                barrier to entering into project partnership agreements 
                with the Corps of Engineers;
                    (C) critical water resources development projects 
                are being delayed by years, or not pursued at all, due 
                to the barriers described in subparagraph (B); and
                    (D) legal structures have changed since the 
                indemnification clause was first applied and there may 
                be more suitable tools available to address risk and 
                liability issues.
            (3) Analysis.--Not later than 1 year after the date of 
        enactment of this Act, the Comptroller General shall conduct an 
        analysis of the implications of--
                    (A) the indemnification clause; and
                    (B) the assumption of OMRR&R responsibilities by 
                non-Federal interests in perpetuity for water resources 
                development projects.
            (4) Inclusions.--The analysis under paragraph (3) shall 
        include--
                    (A) a review of risk for the Federal Government and 
                non-Federal interests with respect to removing 
                requirements for the indemnification clause;
                    (B) an assessment of whether the indemnification 
                clause is still necessary given the changes in 
                engineering, legal structures, and water resources 
                development projects since 1910, with a focus on the 
                quantity and types of claims and takings over time;
                    (C) an identification of States with State laws 
                that prohibit those States from entering into 
                agreements that include an indemnification clause;
                    (D) a comparison to other Federal agencies with 
                respect to how those agencies approach indemnification 
                and OMRR&R requirements in projects, if applicable;
                    (E) a review of indemnification and OMRR&R 
                requirements for projects that States require with 
                respect to agreements with cities and localities, if 
                applicable;
                    (F) an analysis of the useful lifespan of water 
                resources development projects, including any 
                variations in that lifespan for different types of 
                water resources development projects and how changing 
                weather patterns and increased extreme weather events 
                impact that lifespan;
                    (G) a review of situations in which non-Federal 
                interests have been unable to meet OMRR&R requirements; 
                and
                    (H) a review of policy alternatives to OMRR&R 
                requirements, such as allowing extension, reevaluation, 
                or deauthorization of water resources development 
                projects.
            (5) Report.--On completion of the analysis under paragraph 
        (3), the Comptroller General shall submit to the Committee on 
        Environment and Public Works of the Senate and the Committee on 
        Transportation and Infrastructure of the House of 
        Representatives a report that includes--
                    (A) the results of the analysis; and
                    (B) any recommendations for changes needed to 
                existing law or policy of the Corps of Engineers to 
                address those results.
    (c) Review of Certain Permits.--
            (1) Definition of section 408 program.--In this subsection, 
        the term ``section 408 program'' means the program administered 
        by the Secretary pursuant to section 14 of the Act of March 3, 
        1899 (commonly known as the ``Rivers and Harbors Act of 1899'') 
        (30 Stat. 1152, chapter 425; 33 U.S.C. 408).
            (2) Review.--Not later than 1 year after the date of 
        enactment of this Act, the Comptroller General shall initiate a 
        review of the section 408 program.
            (3) Requirements.--The review by the Comptroller General 
        under paragraph (2) shall include, at a minimum--
                    (A) an identification of trends related to the 
                number and types of permits applied for each year under 
                the section 408 program;
                    (B) an evaluation of--
                            (i) the materials developed by the 
                        Secretary to educate potential applicants 
                        about--
                                    (I) the section 408 program; and
                                    (II) the process for applying for a 
                                permit under the section 408 program;
                            (ii) the public website of the Corps of 
                        Engineers that tracks the status of permits 
                        issued under the section 408 program, including 
                        whether the information provided by the website 
                        is updated in a timely manner;
                            (iii) the ability of the districts and 
                        divisions of the Corps of Engineers to 
                        consistently administer the section 408 
                        program; and
                            (iv) the extent to which the Secretary 
                        carries out the process for issuing a permit 
                        under the section 408 program concurrently with 
                        the review required under the National 
                        Environmental Policy Act of 1969 (42 U.S.C. 
                        4321 et seq.), if applicable;
                    (C) a determination of the factors, if any, that 
                impact the ability of the Secretary to adhere to the 
                timelines required for reviewing and making a decision 
                on an application for a permit under the section 408 
                program; and
                    (D) ways to expedite the review of applications for 
                permits under the section 408 program, including the 
                use of categorical permissions.
            (4) Report.--On completion of the review under paragraph 
        (2), the Comptroller General shall submit to the Committee on 
        Environment and Public Works of the Senate and the Committee on 
        Transportation and Infrastructure of the House of 
        Representatives a report on the findings of the review and any 
        recommendations that result from the review.
    (d) Corps of Engineers Modernization Study.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 1 year after the date of 
        enactment of this Act, the Comptroller General shall initiate 
        an analysis of opportunities for the Corps of Engineers to 
        modernize the civil works program through the use of 
        technology, where appropriate, and the best available 
        engineering practices.
            (2) Inclusions.--In conducting the analysis under paragraph 
        (1), the Comptroller General of the United States shall include 
        an assessment of the extent to which--
                    (A) existing engineering practices and technologies 
                could be better utilized by the Corps of Engineers--
                            (i) to improve study, planning, and design 
                        efforts of the Corps of Engineers to further 
                        the benefits of water resources development 
                        projects of the Corps of Engineers;
                            (ii) to reduce delays of water resources 
                        development projects, including through the 
                        improvement of environmental review and 
                        permitting processes;
                            (iii) to provide cost savings over the 
                        lifecycle of a project, including through 
                        improved design processes or a reduction of 
                        operation and maintenance costs; and
                            (iv) to improve data collection and data 
                        sharing capabilities; and
                    (B) the Corps of Engineers--
                            (i) currently utilizes the engineering 
                        practices and technologies identified under 
                        subparagraph (A), including any challenges 
                        associated with acquisition and application;
                            (ii) has effective processes to share best 
                        practices associated with the engineering 
                        practices and technologies identified under 
                        subparagraph (A) among the districts, 
                        divisions, and headquarters of the Corps of 
                        Engineers; and
                            (iii) partners with National Laboratories, 
                        academic institutions, and other Federal 
                        agencies.
            (3) Report.--On completion of the analysis under paragraph 
        (1), the Comptroller General shall submit to the Committee on 
        Environment and Public Works of the Senate and the Committee on 
        Transportation and Infrastructure of the House of 
        Representatives a report on the findings of the analysis and 
        any recommendations that result from the analysis.
    (e) Study on Easements Related to Water Resources Development 
Projects.--
            (1) Definition of covered easement.--In this subsection, 
        the term ``covered easement'' has the meaning given the term in 
        section 8235(c) of the Water Resources Development Act of 2022 
        (136 Stat. 3768).
            (2) Study on easements related to water resources 
        development projects.--Not later than 1 year after the date of 
        enactment of this Act, the Comptroller General shall initiate 
        an analysis of the use of covered easements that may be 
        provided to the Secretary by non-Federal interests in relation 
        to the construction, operation, or maintenance of a project for 
        flood risk management, hurricane and storm damage risk 
        reduction, or ecosystem restoration.
            (3) Scope.--In carrying out the analysis under paragraph 
        (2), the Comptroller General of the United States shall--
                    (A) review--
                            (i) the report submitted by the Secretary 
                        under section 8235(b) of the Water Resources 
                        Development Act of 2022 (136 Stat. 3768); and
                            (ii) the existing statutory, regulatory, 
                        and policy requirements and procedures relating 
                        to the use of covered easements; and
                    (B) assess--
                            (i) the minimum rights in property that are 
                        necessary to construct, operate, or maintain 
                        projects for flood risk management, hurricane 
                        and storm damage risk reduction, or ecosystem 
                        restoration;
                            (ii) whether increased use of covered 
                        easements in relation to projects described in 
                        clause (i) could promote greater participation 
                        from cooperating landowners in addressing local 
                        flooding or ecosystem restoration challenges;
                            (iii) whether such increased use could 
                        result in cost savings in the implementation of 
                        the projects described in clause (i), without 
                        any reduction in project benefits; and
                            (iv) the extent to which the Secretary 
                        should expand what is considered by the 
                        Secretary to be part of a series of estates 
                        deemed standard for construction, operation, or 
                        maintenance of a project for flood risk 
                        management, hurricane and storm damage risk 
                        reduction, or ecosystem restoration.
            (4) Report.--On completion of the analysis under paragraph 
        (2), the Comptroller General of the United States shall submit 
        to the Committee on Environment and Public Works of the Senate 
        and the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure of the 
        House of Representatives a report on the findings of the 
        analysis, including any recommendations, including legislative 
        recommendations, as a result of the analysis.
    (f) Modernization of Environmental Reviews.--
            (1) Definition of project study.--In this subsection, the 
        term ``project study'' means a feasibility study for a project 
        carried out pursuant to section 905 of the Water Resources 
        Development Act of 1986 (33 U.S.C. 2282).
            (2) Report.--Not later than 1 year after the date of 
        enactment of this Act, the Comptroller General shall submit to 
        the Committee on Environment and Public Works of the Senate and 
        the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure of the House 
        of Representatives a report that describes the efforts of the 
        Secretary to facilitate improved environmental review processes 
        for project studies, including through the consideration of 
        expanded use of categorical exclusions, environmental 
        assessments, or programmatic environmental impact statements.
            (3) Requirements.--In completing the report under paragraph 
        (2), the Comptroller General of the United States shall--
                    (A) describe the actions the Secretary is taking or 
                plans to take to implement the amendments to the 
                National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 (42 U.S.C. 
                4321 et seq.) made by section 321 of the Fiscal 
                Responsibility Act of 2023 (Public Law 118-5; 137 Stat. 
                38);
                    (B) describe the existing categorical exclusions 
                most frequently used by the Secretary to streamline the 
                environmental review of project studies;
                    (C) consider--
                            (i) whether the adoption of additional 
                        categorical exclusions, including those used by 
                        other Federal agencies, would facilitate the 
                        environmental review of project studies;
                            (ii) whether the adoption of new 
                        programmatic environmental impact statements 
                        would facilitate the environmental review of 
                        project studies; and
                            (iii) whether agreements with other Federal 
                        agencies would facilitate a more efficient 
                        process for the environmental review of project 
                        studies; and
                    (D) identify--
                            (i) any discrepancies or conflicts, as 
                        applicable, between the amendments to the 
                        National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 (42 
                        U.S.C. 4321 et seq.) made by section 321 of the 
                        Fiscal Responsibility Act of 2023 (Public Law 
                        118-5; 137 Stat. 38) and--
                                    (I) section 2045 of the Water 
                                Resources Development Act of 2007 (33 
                                U.S.C. 2348); and
                                    (II) section 1001 of the Water 
                                Resources Reform and Development Act of 
                                2014 (33 U.S.C. 2282c); and
                            (ii) other issues, as applicable, relating 
                        to section 2045 of the Water Resources 
                        Development Act of 2007 (33 U.S.C. 2348) that 
                        are impeding the implementation of that section 
                        consistent with congressional intent.
    (g) Study on Dredged Material Disposal Site Construction.--
            (1) In general.--The Comptroller General shall conduct a 
        study that--
                    (A) assesses the costs and limitations of the 
                construction of various types of dredged material 
                disposal sites, with a particular focus on aquatic 
                confined placement structures in the Lower Columbia 
                River; and
                    (B) includes a comparison of--
                            (i) the operation and maintenance needs and 
                        costs associated with the availability of 
                        aquatic confined placement structures; and
                            (ii) the operation and maintenance needs 
                        and costs associated with the lack of 
                        availability of aquatic confined placement 
                        structures.
            (2) Report.--On completion of the study under paragraph 
        (1), the Comptroller General shall submit to the Committee on 
        Environment and Public Works of the Senate and the Committee on 
        Transportation and Infrastructure of the House of 
        Representatives a report on the findings of the study, and any 
        recommendations that result from that study.
    (h) GAO Study on Distribution of Funding From the Harbor 
Maintenance Trust Fund.--
            (1) Definition of harbor maintenance trust fund.--In this 
        subsection, the term ``Harbor Maintenance Trust Fund'' means 
        the Harbor Maintenance Trust Fund established by section 
        9505(a) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986.
            (2) Analysis.--Not later than 1 year after the date of 
        enactment of this Act, the Comptroller General shall initiate 
        an analysis of the distribution of funding from the Harbor 
        Maintenance Trust Fund.
            (3) Requirements.--In conducting the analysis under 
        paragraph (2), the Comptroller General shall assess--
                    (A) the implementation of provisions related to the 
                Harbor Maintenance Trust Fund in the Water Resources 
                Development Act of 2020 (134 Stat. 2615) and the 
                amendments made by that Act by the Corps of Engineers, 
                including--
                            (i) changes to the budgetary treatment of 
                        funding from the Harbor Maintenance Trust Fund; 
                        and
                            (ii) amendments to the definitions of the 
                        terms ``donor ports'', ``medium-sized donor 
                        parts'', and ``energy transfer ports'' under 
                        section 2106(a) of the Water Resources Reform 
                        and Development Act of 2014 (33 U.S.C. 
                        2238c(a)), including--
                                    (I) the reliability of metrics, 
                                data for those metrics, and sources for 
                                that data used by the Corps of 
                                Engineers to determine if a port 
                                satisfies the requirements of 1 or more 
                                of those definitions; and
                                    (II) the extent of the impact of 
                                cyclical dredging cycles for operations 
                                and maintenance activities and deep 
                                draft navigation construction projects 
                                on the ability of ports to meet the 
                                requirements of 1 or more of those 
                                definitions; and
                    (B) the amount of Harbor Maintenance Trust Fund 
                funding in the annual appropriations Acts enacted after 
                the date of enactment of the Water Resources 
                Development Act of 2020 (134 Stat. 2615), including an 
                analysis of--
                            (i) the allocation of funding to donor 
                        ports and energy transfer ports (as those terms 
                        are defined in section 2106(a) of the Water 
                        Resources Reform and Development Act of 2014 
                        (33 U.S.C. 2238c(a))) and the use of that 
                        funding by those ports;
                            (ii) activities funded pursuant to section 
                        210 of the Water Resources Development Act of 
                        1986 (33 U.S.C. 2238); and
                            (iii) challenges associated with expending 
                        the remaining balance of the Harbor Maintenance 
                        Trust Fund.
            (4) Report.--On completion of the analysis under paragraph 
        (2), the Comptroller General shall submit to the Committee on 
        Environment and Public Works of the Senate and the Committee on 
        Transportation and Infrastructure of the House of 
        Representatives a report describing the findings of the 
        analysis and any recommendations that result from that 
        analysis.

SEC. 234. PRIOR REPORTS.

    (a) Reports.--The Secretary shall prioritize the completion of the 
reports required pursuant to the following provisions:
            (1) Section 2036(b) of the Water Resources Development Act 
        of 2007 (33 U.S.C. 2283a).
            (2) Section 1008(c) of the Water Resources Reform and 
        Development Act of 2014 (33 U.S.C. 2321b(c)).
            (3) Section 164(c) of the Water Resources Development Act 
        of 2020 (134 Stat. 2668).
            (4) Section 226(a) of the Water Resources Development Act 
        of 2020 (134 Stat. 2697).
            (5) Section 503(d) of the Water Resources Development Act 
        of 2020 (33 U.S.C. 610 note; Public Law 116-260).
            (6) Section 509(a)(7) of the Water Resources Development 
        Act of 2020 (33 U.S.C. 610 note; Public Law 116-260).
            (7) Section 8205(a) of the Water Resources Development Act 
        of 2022 (136 Stat. 3754).
            (8) Section 8206(c) of the Water Resources Development Act 
        of 2022 (136 Stat. 3756).
            (9) Section 8218 of the Water Resources Development Act of 
        2022 (136 Stat. 3761).
            (10) Section 8227(b) of the Water Resources Development Act 
        of 2022 (136 Stat. 3764).
            (11) Section 8232(b) of the Water Resources Development Act 
        of 2022 (136 Stat. 3766).
    (b) Notice.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 60 days after the date of 
        enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall submit to the 
        Committee on Environment and Public Works of the Senate and the 
        Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure of the House of 
        Representatives a written notification of the status of each 
        report described in subsection (a).
            (2) Contents.--As part of the notification under paragraph 
        (1), the Secretary shall include for each report described in 
        subsection (a)--
                    (A) a description of the status of the report; and
                    (B) if not completed, a timeline for the completion 
                of the report.

SEC. 235. BRIEFING ON STATUS OF CAPE COD CANAL BRIDGES, MASSACHUSETTS.

    (a) In General.--Not later than 30 days after the date of enactment 
of this Act, the Secretary shall brief the Committee on Environment and 
Public Works of the Senate and the Committee on Transportation and 
Infrastructure of the House of Representatives on the status of the 
project for the replacement of the Bourne and Sagamore Highway Bridges 
that cross the Cape Cod Canal Federal Navigation Project.
    (b) Requirements.--The briefing under subsection (a) shall include 
discussion of--
            (1) the current status of environmental review under the 
        National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 (42 U.S.C. 4321 et 
        seq.) and expected timelines for completion;
            (2) project timelines and relevant paths to move the 
        project described in that subsection toward completion; and
            (3) any issues that are impacting the delivery of the 
        project described in that subsection.

   TITLE III--DEAUTHORIZATIONS, MODIFICATIONS, AND RELATED PROVISIONS

SEC. 301. DEAUTHORIZATIONS.

    (a) Truckee Meadows, Nevada.--The project for flood control, 
Truckee Meadows, Nevada, authorized by section 3(a)(10) of the Water 
Resources Development Act of 1988 (102 Stat. 4014) and section 7002(2) 
of the Water Resources Reform and Development Act of 2014 (128 Stat. 
1366) is no longer authorized beginning on the date of enactment of 
this Act.
    (b) Seattle Harbor, Washington.--
            (1) In general.--Beginning on the date of enactment of this 
        Act, the portion of the project for navigation, Seattle Harbor, 
        Washington, described in paragraph (2) is no longer authorized.
            (2) Portion described.--The portion of the project referred 
        to in paragraph (1) is the approximately 74,490 square foot 
        area of the Federal channel within the East Waterway--
                    (A) starting at a point on the United States 
                pierhead line in the southwest corner of block 386 of 
                plat of Seattle Tidelands, T. 24 N., R. 4. E, sec.18, 
                Willamette Meridian;
                    (B) thence running N9000'00''W along the 
                projection of the south line of block 386, 206.58 feet 
                to the centerline of the East Waterway;
                    (C) thence running N1430'00''E along the 
                centerline and parallel with the northwesterly line of 
                block 386, 64.83 feet;
                    (D) thence running N3332'59''E, 235.85 feet;
                    (E) thence running N3955'22''E, 128.70 feet;
                    (F) thence running N1430'00''E, parallel with the 
                northwesterly line of block 386, 280.45 feet;
                    (G) thence running N9000'00''E, 70.00 feet to the 
                pierhead line and the northwesterly line of block 386; 
                and
                    (H) thence running S1430'00''W, 650.25 feet along 
                the pierhead line and northwesterly line of block 386 
                to the point of beginning.
    (c) Cherryfield Dam, Maine.--The project for flood control, 
Narraguagus River, Cherryfield Dam, Maine, authorized by, and 
constructed pursuant to, section 205 of the Flood Control Act of 1948 
(33 U.S.C. 701s) is no longer authorized beginning on the date of 
enactment of this Act.
    (d) Upper St. Anthony Falls Lock and Dam.--Section 2010 of the 
Water Resources Reform and Development Act of 2014 (128 Stat. 1270; 136 
Stat. 3796) is amended by adding at the end the following:
    ``(h) Navigation.--Beginning on the date of enactment of the Water 
Resources Development Act of 2024, the Upper St. Anthony Falls Lock and 
Dam is no longer authorized for navigation purposes.''.
    (e) East San Pedro Bay, California.--The study for the project for 
ecosystem restoration, East San Pedro Bay, California, authorized by 
the resolution of the Committee on Public Works of the Senate, dated 
June 25, 1969, relating to the report of the Chief of Engineers for Los 
Angeles and San Gabriel Rivers, Ballona Creek, is no longer authorized 
beginning on the date of enactment of this Act.
    (f) Souris River Basin, North Dakota.--The Talbott's Nursery 
portion, consisting of approximately 2,600 linear feet of levee, of 
stage 4 of the project for flood control, Souris River Basin, North 
Dakota, authorized by section 1124 of the Water Resources Development 
Act of 1986 (100 Stat. 4243; 101 Stat. 1329-111), is no longer 
authorized beginning on the date of enactment of this Act.
    (g) Masaryktown Canal, Florida.--
            (1) In general.--The portion of the project for the Four 
        River Basins, Florida, authorized by section 203 of the Flood 
        Control Act of 1962 (76 Stat. 1183) described in paragraph (2) 
        is no longer authorized beginning on the date of enactment of 
        this Act.
            (2) Portion described.--The portion of the project referred 
        to in paragraph (1) is the Masaryktown Canal C-534, which spans 
        approximately 5.5 miles from Hernando County, between Ayers 
        Road and County Line Road east of United States Route 41, and 
        continues south to Pasco County, discharging into Crews Lake.

SEC. 302. ENVIRONMENTAL INFRASTRUCTURE.

    (a) New Projects.--Section 219(f) of the Water Resources 
Development Act of 1992 (106 Stat. 4835; 113 Stat. 334; 136 Stat. 3808) 
is amended by adding at the end the following:
            ``(406) Glendale, arizona.--$5,200,000 for environmental 
        infrastructure, including water and wastewater infrastructure 
        (including stormwater management), drainage systems, and water 
        quality enhancement, Glendale, Arizona.
            ``(407) Tohono o'odham nation, arizona.--$10,000,000 for 
        environmental infrastructure, including water and wastewater 
        infrastructure (including facilities for withdrawal, treatment, 
        and distribution), Tohono O'odham Nation, Arizona.
            ``(408) Flagstaff, arizona.--$4,800,000 for environmental 
        infrastructure, including water and wastewater infrastructure 
        (including facilities for withdrawal, treatment, and 
        distribution), Flagstaff, Arizona.
            ``(409) Tucson, arizona.--$30,000,000 for environmental 
        infrastructure, including water and wastewater infrastructure 
        (including recycled water systems), Tucson, Arizona.
            ``(410) Bay-delta, california.--$20,000,000 for 
        environmental infrastructure, including water and wastewater 
        infrastructure (including stormwater management), drainage 
        systems, and water quality enhancement, San Francisco Bay-
        Sacramento-San Joaquin River Delta, California.
            ``(411) Indian wells valley, california.--$5,000,000 for 
        environmental infrastructure, including water and wastewater 
        infrastructure, Indian Wells Valley, Kern County, California.
            ``(412) Oakland-Alameda estuary, california.--$5,000,000 
        for environmental infrastructure, including water and 
        wastewater infrastructure (including stormwater management), 
        drainage systems, and water quality enhancement, Oakland-
        Alameda Estuary, Oakland and Alameda Counties, California.
            ``(413) Tijuana river valley watershed, california.--
        $10,000,000 for environmental infrastructure, including water 
        and wastewater infrastructure, Tijuana River Valley Watershed, 
        San Diego County, California.
            ``(414) El paso county, colorado.--$20,000,000 for 
        environmental infrastructure, including water and wastewater 
        infrastructure and stormwater management, El Paso County, 
        Colorado.
            ``(415) Rehoboth beach, lewes, dewey, bethany, south 
        bethany, fenwick island, delaware.--$25,000,000 for 
        environmental infrastructure, including water and wastewater 
        infrastructure, Rehoboth Beach, Lewes, Dewey, Bethany, South 
        Bethany, and Fenwick Island, Delaware.
            ``(416) Wilmington, delaware.--$25,000,000 for 
        environmental infrastructure, including water and wastewater 
        infrastructure, Wilmington, Delaware.
            ``(417) Pickering beach, kitts hummock, bowers beach, south 
        bowers beach, slaughter beach, prime hook beach, milton, 
        milford, delaware.--$25,000,000 for environmental 
        infrastructure, including water and wastewater infrastructure, 
        Pickering Beach, Kitts Hummock, Bowers Beach, South Bowers 
        Beach, Slaughter Beach, Prime Hook Beach, Milton, and Milford, 
        Delaware.
            ``(418) Coastal georgia.--$5,000,000 for environmental 
        infrastructure, including water and wastewater infrastructure 
        (including stormwater management), Glynn County, Chatham 
        County, Bryan County, Effingham County, McIntosh County, and 
        Camden County, Georgia.
            ``(419) Columbus, henry, and clayton counties, georgia.--
        $10,000,000 for environmental infrastructure, including water 
        and wastewater infrastructure (including stormwater 
        management), Columbus, Henry, and Clayton Counties, Georgia.
            ``(420) Cobb county, georgia.--$5,000,000 for environmental 
        infrastructure, including water and wastewater infrastructure, 
        Cobb County, Georgia.
            ``(421) Calumet city, illinois.--$10,000,000 for 
        environmental infrastructure, including water and wastewater 
        infrastructure, Calumet City, Illinois.
            ``(422) Wyandotte county and kansas city, kansas.--
        $35,000,000 for water and wastewater infrastructure, including 
        stormwater management (including combined sewer overflows), 
        Wyandotte County and Kansas City, Kansas.
            ``(423) Easthampton, massachusetts.--$10,000,000 for 
        environmental infrastructure, including water and wastewater 
        infrastructure (including wastewater treatment plant outfalls), 
        Easthampton, Massachusetts.
            ``(424) Byram, mississippi.--$7,000,000 for environmental 
        infrastructure, including water and wastewater infrastructure 
        (including stormwater management), drainage systems, and water 
        quality enhancement, Byram, Mississippi.
            ``(425) Diamondhead, mississippi.--$7,000,000 for 
        environmental infrastructure, including water and wastewater 
        infrastructure and drainage systems, Diamondhead, Mississippi.
            ``(426) Hancock county, mississippi.--$7,000,000 for 
        environmental infrastructure, including water and wastewater 
        infrastructure (including stormwater management), drainage 
        systems, and water quality enhancement, Hancock County, 
        Mississippi.
            ``(427) Madison, mississippi.--$7,000,000 for environmental 
        infrastructure, including water and wastewater infrastructure 
        (including stormwater management), drainage systems, and water 
        quality enhancement, Madison, Mississippi.
            ``(428) Pearl, mississippi.--$7,000,000 for environmental 
        infrastructure, including water and wastewater infrastructure 
        (including stormwater management), drainage systems, and water 
        quality enhancement, Pearl, Mississippi.
            ``(429) New hampshire.--$20,000,000 for environmental 
        infrastructure, including water and wastewater infrastructure, 
        New Hampshire.
            ``(430) Cape may county, new jersey.--$10,000,000 for 
        environmental infrastructure, including water and wastewater 
        infrastructure (including facilities for withdrawal, treatment, 
        and distribution), Cape May County, New Jersey.
            ``(431) Nye county, nevada.--$10,000,000 for environmental 
        infrastructure, including water and wastewater infrastructure 
        (including water wellfield and pipeline in the Pahrump Valley), 
        Nye County, Nevada.
            ``(432) Storey county, nevada.--$10,000,000 for 
        environmental infrastructure, including water and wastewater 
        infrastructure (including facilities for withdrawal, treatment, 
        and distribution), Storey County, Nevada.
            ``(433) New rochelle, new york.--$20,000,000 for 
        environmental infrastructure, including water and wastewater 
        infrastructure (including stormwater management), New Rochelle, 
        New York.
            ``(434) Cuyahoga county, ohio.--$5,000,000 for 
        environmental infrastructure, including water and wastewater 
        infrastructure (including combined sewer overflows), Cuyahoga 
        County, Ohio.
            ``(435) Bloomingburg, ohio.--$6,500,000 for environmental 
        infrastructure, including water and wastewater infrastructure 
        (including facilities for withdrawal, treatment, and 
        distribution), Bloomingburg, Ohio.
            ``(436) City of akron, ohio.--$5,500,000 for environmental 
        infrastructure, including water and wastewater infrastructure 
        (including drainage systems), City of Akron, Ohio.
            ``(437) East cleveland, ohio.--$13,000,000 for 
        environmental infrastructure, including water and wastewater 
        infrastructure (including stormwater management), East 
        Cleveland, Ohio.
            ``(438) Ashtabula county, ohio.--$1,500,000 for 
        environmental infrastructure, including water and wastewater 
        infrastructure (including water supply and water quality 
        enhancement), Ashtabula County, Ohio.
            ``(439) Struthers, ohio.--$500,000 for environmental 
        infrastructure, including water and wastewater infrastructure 
        (including wastewater infrastructure, stormwater management, 
        and sewer improvements), Struthers, Ohio.
            ``(440) Stillwater, oklahoma.--$30,000,000 for 
        environmental infrastructure, including water and wastewater 
        infrastructure and water supply infrastructure (including 
        facilities for withdrawal, treatment, and distribution), 
        Stillwater, Oklahoma.
            ``(441) Pennsylvania.--$38,600,000 for environmental 
        infrastructure, including water and wastewater infrastructure, 
        Pennsylvania.
            ``(442) Chesterfield county, south carolina.--$3,000,000 
        for water and wastewater infrastructure and other environmental 
        infrastructure (including stormwater management), Chesterfield 
        County, South Carolina.
            ``(443) Tipton county, tennessee.--$35,000,000 for 
        wastewater infrastructure and water supply infrastructure, 
        including facilities for withdrawal, treatment, and 
        distribution, Tipton County, Tennessee.
            ``(444) Othello, washington.--$14,000,000 for environmental 
        infrastructure, including water supply and storage treatment, 
        Othello, Washington.
            ``(445) College place, washington.--$5,000,000 for 
        environmental infrastructure, including water and wastewater 
        infrastructure, College Place, Washington.''.
    (b) Project Modifications.--
            (1) Consistency with reports.--Congress finds that the 
        project modifications described in this subsection are in 
        accordance with the reports submitted to Congress by the 
        Secretary under section 7001 of the Water Resources Reform and 
        Development Act of 2014 (33 U.S.C. 2282d), titled ``Report to 
        Congress on Future Water Resources Development'', or have 
        otherwise been reviewed by Congress.
            (2) Modifications.--
                    (A) Alabama.--Section 219(f)(274) of the Water 
                Resources Development Act of 1992 (106 Stat. 4835; 113 
                Stat. 334; 136 Stat. 3808) is amended by striking 
                ``$50,000,000'' and inserting ``$85,000,000''.
                    (B) Los angeles county, california.--Section 
                219(f)(93) of the Water Resources Development Act of 
                1992 (106 Stat. 4835; 113 Stat. 334; 121 Stat. 1259; 
                136 Stat. 3816) is amended by striking ``Santa Clarity 
                Valley'' and inserting ``Santa Clarita Valley''.
                    (C) Kent, delaware.--Section 219(f)(313) of the 
                Water Resources Development Act of 1992 (106 Stat. 
                4835; 113 Stat. 334; 136 Stat. 3810) is amended by 
                striking ``$35,000,000'' and inserting ``$40,000,000''.
                    (D) New castle, delaware.--Section 219(f)(314) of 
                the Water Resources Development Act of 1992 (106 Stat. 
                4835; 113 Stat. 334; 136 Stat. 3810) is amended by 
                striking ``$35,000,000'' and inserting ``$40,000,000''.
                    (E) Sussex, delaware.--Section 219(f)(315) of the 
                Water Resources Development Act of 1992 (106 Stat. 
                4835; 113 Stat. 334; 136 Stat. 3810) is amended by 
                striking ``$35,000,000'' and inserting ``$40,000,000''.
                    (F) East point, georgia.--Section 219(f)(136) of 
                the Water Resources Development Act of 1992 (106 Stat. 
                4835; 113 Stat. 334; 121 Stat. 1261; 136 Stat. 3817) is 
                amended by striking ``$15,000,000'' and inserting 
                ``$20,000,000''.
                    (G) Madison county and st. clair county, 
                illinois.--Section 219(f)(55) of the Water Resources 
                Development Act of 1992 (106 Stat. 4835; 113 Stat. 334; 
                114 Stat. 2763A-221; 136 Stat. 3817) is amended--
                            (i) by striking ``$100,000,000'' and 
                        inserting ``$110,000,000''; and
                            (ii) by inserting ``(including stormwater 
                        management)'' after ``wastewater assistance''.
                    (H) Montgomery county and christian county, 
                illinois.--Section 219(f)(333) of the Water Resources 
                Development Act of 1992 (106 Stat. 4835; 113 Stat. 334; 
                136 Stat. 3812) is amended--
                            (i) in the paragraph heading, by striking 
                        ``Montgomery and christian counties'' and 
                        inserting ``Montgomery, christian, fayette, 
                        shelby, jasper, richland, crawford, and 
                        lawrence counties''; and
                            (ii) by striking ``Montgomery County and 
                        Christian County'' and inserting ``Montgomery 
                        County, Christian County, Fayette County, 
                        Shelby County, Jasper County, Richland County, 
                        Crawford County, and Lawrence County''.
                    (I) Will county, illinois.--Section 219(f)(334) of 
                the Water Resources Development Act of 1992 (106 Stat. 
                4835; 113 Stat. 334; 136 Stat. 3812) is amended--
                            (i) in the paragraph heading, by striking 
                        ``Will county'' and inserting ``Will and grundy 
                        counties''; and
                            (ii) by striking ``Will County'' and 
                        inserting ``Will County and Grundy County''.
                    (J) Lowell, massachusetts.--Section 219(f)(339) of 
                the Water Resources Development Act of 1992 (106 Stat. 
                4835; 113 Stat. 334; 136 Stat. 3812) is amended by 
                striking ``$20,000,000'' and inserting ``$30,000,000''.
                    (K) Michigan.--Sec 219(f)(157) of the Water 
                Resources Development Act of 1992 (106 Stat. 4835; 113 
                Stat. 334; 121 Stat. 1262) is amended, in the paragraph 
                heading, by striking ``combined sewer overflows''.
                    (L) Desoto county, mississippi.--Section 219(f)(30) 
                of the Water Resources Development Act of 1992 (106 
                Stat. 4835; 113 Stat. 336; 134 Stat. 2718) is amended 
                by striking ``$130,000,000'' and inserting 
                ``$144,000,000''.
                    (M) Jackson, mississippi.--Section 219(f)(167) of 
                the Water Resources Development Act of 1992 (106 Stat. 
                4835; 113 Stat. 334; 121 Stat. 1263; 136 Stat. 3818) is 
                amended by striking ``$125,000,000'' and inserting 
                ``$139,000,000''.
                    (N) Madison county, mississippi.--Section 
                219(f)(351) of the Water Resources Development Act of 
                1992 (106 Stat. 4835; 113 Stat. 334; 136 Stat. 3813) is 
                amended by striking ``$10,000,000'' and inserting 
                ``$24,000,000''.
                    (O) Meridian, mississippi.--Section 219(f)(352) of 
                the Water Resources Development Act of 1992 (106 Stat. 
                4835; 113 Stat. 334; 136 Stat. 3813) is amended by 
                striking ``$10,000,000'' and inserting ``$24,000,000''.
                    (P) Rankin county, mississippi.--Section 
                219(f)(354) of the Water Resources Development Act of 
                1992 (106 Stat. 4835; 113 Stat. 334; 136 Stat. 3813) is 
                amended by striking ``$10,000,000'' and inserting 
                ``$24,000,000''.
                    (Q) Cincinnati, ohio.--Sec 219(f)(206) of the Water 
                Resources Development Act of 1992 (106 Stat. 4835; 113 
                Stat. 334; 121 Stat. 1265) is amended by striking 
                ``$1,000,000'' and inserting ``$9,000,000''.
                    (R) Midwest city, oklahoma.--Section 219(f)(231) of 
                the Water Resources Development Act of 1992 (106 Stat. 
                4835; 113 Stat. 334; 121 Stat. 1266; 134 Stat. 2719) is 
                amended by striking ``$5,000,000'' and inserting 
                ``$10,000,000''.
                    (S) Philadelphia, pennsylvania.--Section 
                219(f)(243) of the Water Resources Development Act of 
                1992 (106 Stat. 4835; 113 Stat. 334; 121 Stat. 1266) is 
                amended--
                            (i) by striking ``$1,600,000'' and 
                        inserting ``$3,000,000''; and
                            (ii) by inserting ``water supply and'' 
                        before ``wastewater''.
                    (T) Lakes marion and moultrie, south carolina.--
                Section 219(f)(25) of the Water Resources Development 
                Act of 1992 (106 Stat. 4835; 113 Stat. 336; 136 Stat. 
                3818) is amended by striking ``$165,000,000'' and 
                inserting ``$232,000,000''.
                    (U) Milwaukee, wisconsin.--Section 219(f)(405) of 
                the Water Resources Development Act of 1992 (106 Stat. 
                4835; 113 Stat. 334; 136 Stat. 3816) is amended by 
                striking ``$4,500,000'' and inserting ``$10,500,000''.
    (c) Non-Federal Share.--Section 219 of the Water Resources 
Development Act of 1992 (106 Stat. 4835) is amended by striking 
subsection (b) and inserting the following:
    ``(b) Non-Federal Share.--
            ``(1) In general.--Except as otherwise provided in this 
        subsection, the non-Federal share of the cost of a project for 
        which assistance is provided under this section shall be not 
        less than 25 percent.
            ``(2) Economically disadvantaged communities.--The non-
        Federal share of the cost of a project for which assistance is 
        provided under this section benefitting an economically 
        disadvantaged community (as defined pursuant to section 160 of 
        the Water Resources Development Act of 2020 (33 U.S.C. 2201 
        note; Public Law 116-260)) shall be 10 percent.
            ``(3) Ability to pay.--
                    ``(A) In general.--The non-Federal share of the 
                cost of a project for which assistance is provided 
                under this section shall be subject to the ability of 
                the non-Federal interest to pay.
                    ``(B) Determination.--The ability of a non-Federal 
                interest to pay shall be determined by the Secretary in 
                accordance with procedures established by the 
                Secretary.
                    ``(C) Deadline.--Not later than 60 days after the 
                date of enactment of the Water Resources Development 
                Act of 2024, the Secretary shall issue guidance on the 
                procedures described in subparagraph (B).
            ``(4) Congressional notification.--
                    ``(A) In general.--The Secretary shall annually 
                submit to the Committee on Environment and Public Works 
                of the Senate and the Committee on Transportation and 
                Infrastructure of the House of Representatives a 
                written notification of determinations made by the 
                Secretary of the ability of non-Federal interests to 
                pay under this section.
                    ``(B) Contents.--In preparing the written 
                notification under subparagraph (A), the Secretary 
                shall include, for each determination made by the 
                Secretary--
                            ``(i) the name of the non-Federal interest 
                        that submitted to the Secretary a request for a 
                        determination under paragraph (3)(B);
                            ``(ii) the name and location of the 
                        project; and
                            ``(iii) the determination made by the 
                        Secretary and the reasons for the 
                        determination, including the adjusted share of 
                        the costs of the project of the non-Federal 
                        interest, if applicable.''.

SEC. 303. PENNSYLVANIA ENVIRONMENTAL INFRASTRUCTURE.

    Section 313 of the Water Resources Development Act of 1992 (106 
Stat. 4845; 109 Stat. 407; 110 Stat. 3723; 113 Stat. 310; 117 Stat. 
142; 121 Stat. 1146; 134 Stat. 2719; 136 Stat. 3821) is amended--
            (1) in the section heading, by striking ``south central'';
            (2) by striking ``south central'' each place it appears;
            (3) by striking subsections (c) and (h);
            (4) by redesignating subsections (d), (e), (f), and (g) as 
        subsections (c), (d), (e), and (f), respectively; and
            (5) in paragraph (2)(A) of subsection (c) (as 
        redesignated), by striking ``the SARCD Council and other''.

SEC. 304. ACEQUIAS IRRIGATION SYSTEMS.

    Section 1113 of the Water Resources Development Act of 1986 (100 
Stat. 4232; 110 Stat. 3719; 136 Stat. 3782) is amended--
            (1) in subsection (d)--
                    (A) by striking ``costs,'' and all that follows 
                through ``except that'' and inserting ``costs, shall be 
                as described in the second sentence of subsection (b) 
                (as in effect on the day before the date of enactment 
                of the Water Resources Development Act of 2022 (136 
                Stat. 3691)), except that''; and
                    (B) by striking ``measure benefitting'' and 
                inserting ``measure (other than a reconnaissance study) 
                benefitting''; and
            (2) in subsection (e), by striking ``$80,000,000'' and 
        inserting ``$100,000,000''.

SEC. 305. OREGON ENVIRONMENTAL INFRASTRUCTURE.

    (a) In General.--Section 8359 of the Water Resources Development 
Act of 2022 (136 Stat. 3802) is amended--
            (1) in the section heading, by striking ``southwestern'';
            (2) in each of subsections (a) and (b), by striking 
        ``southwestern'' each place it appears;
            (3) in subsection (e)(1), by striking ``$50,000,000'' and 
        inserting ``$90,000,000''; and
            (4) by striking subsection (f).
    (b) Clerical Amendments.--
            (1) NDAA.--The table of contents in section 2(b) of the 
        James M. Inhofe National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
        Year 2023 (136 Stat. 2430) is amended by striking the item 
        relating to section 8359 and inserting the following:

``Sec. 8359. Oregon.''.
            (2) WRDA.--The table of contents in section 8001(b) of the 
        Water Resources Development Act of 2022 (136 Stat. 3694) is 
        amended by striking the item relating to section 8359 and 
        inserting the following:

``Sec. 8359. Oregon.''.

SEC. 306. KENTUCKY AND WEST VIRGINIA ENVIRONMENTAL INFRASTRUCTURE.

    (a) Establishment of Program.--The Secretary shall establish a 
program to provide environmental assistance to non-Federal interests in 
Kentucky and West Virginia.
    (b) Form of Assistance.--Assistance provided under this section may 
be in the form of design and construction assistance for water-related 
environmental infrastructure and resource protection and development 
projects in Kentucky and West Virginia, including projects for 
wastewater treatment and related facilities, water supply and related 
facilities, environmental restoration, and surface water resource 
protection and development.
    (c) Ownership Requirement.--The Secretary may provide assistance 
for a project under this section only if the project is publicly owned.
    (d) Local Cooperation Agreements.--
            (1) In general.--Before providing assistance under this 
        section, the Secretary shall enter into a local cooperation 
        agreement with a non-Federal interest to provide for design and 
        construction of the project to be carried out with such 
        assistance.
            (2) Requirements.--Each local cooperation agreement entered 
        into under this subsection shall provide for the following:
                    (A) Development by the Secretary, in consultation 
                with appropriate Federal and State officials, of a 
                facilities or resource protection and development plan, 
                including appropriate engineering plans and 
                specifications.
                    (B) Establishment of such legal and institutional 
                structures as are necessary to ensure the effective 
                long-term operation of the project by the non-Federal 
                interest.
            (3) Cost sharing.--
                    (A) In general.--The Federal share of the cost of a 
                project carried out under this section--
                            (i) shall be 75 percent; and
                            (ii) may be provided in the form of grants 
                        or reimbursements of project costs.
                    (B) Credit for interest.--In case of a delay in the 
                funding of the Federal share of a project that is the 
                subject of a local cooperation agreement under this 
                section, the non-Federal interest shall receive credit 
                for reasonable interest incurred in providing the non-
                Federal share of the project cost.
                    (C) Land, easements, and rights-of-way credit.--The 
                non-Federal interest shall receive credit for land, 
                easements, rights-of-way, and relocations toward the 
                non-Federal share of project costs (including all 
                reasonable costs associated with obtaining permits 
                necessary for the construction, operation, and 
                maintenance of the project on publicly owned or 
                controlled land), but such credit may not exceed 25 
                percent of total project costs.
                    (D) Operation and maintenance.--The non-Federal 
                share of operation and maintenance costs for projects 
                constructed with assistance provided under this section 
                shall be 100 percent.
    (e) Authorization of Appropriations.--
            (1) In general.--There is authorized to be appropriated 
        $75,000,000 to carry out this section, to be divided between 
        the States described in subsection (a).
            (2) Corps of engineers expenses.--Not more than 10 percent 
        of the amounts made available to carry out this section may be 
        used by the Corps of Engineers to administer projects under 
        this section.

SEC. 307. LAKE CHAMPLAIN WATERSHED, VERMONT AND NEW YORK.

    Section 542(e)(1)(A) of the Water Resources Development Act of 2000 
(114 Stat. 2672) is amended by inserting ``, or in the case of a 
critical restoration project benefitting an economically disadvantaged 
community (as defined pursuant to section 160 of the Water Resources 
Development Act of 2000 (33 U.S.C. 2201 note; Public Law 116-260)), 10 
percent of the total costs of the project'' after ``project''.

SEC. 308. OHIO AND NORTH DAKOTA.

    Section 594(d)(3)(A) of the Water Resources Development Act of 1999 
(113 Stat. 382) is amended--
            (1) in the second sentence, by striking ``The Federal share 
        may'' and inserting the following:
                            ``(iii) Form.--The Federal share may'';
            (2) by striking the subparagraph designation and heading 
        and all that follows through ``The Federal share of'' in the 
        first sentence and inserting the following:
                    ``(A) Project costs.--
                            ``(i) In general.--Except as provided in 
                        clause (ii), the Federal share of''; and
            (3) by inserting after clause (i) (as so designated) the 
        following:
                            ``(ii) Exception.--The non-Federal share of 
                        the cost of a project under this section 
                        benefitting an economically disadvantaged 
                        community (as defined pursuant to section 160 
                        of the Water Resources Development Act of 2020 
                        (33 U.S.C. 2201 note; Public Law 116-260)) 
                        shall be 10 percent.''.

SEC. 309. SOUTHERN WEST VIRGINIA.

    Section 340 of the Water Resources Development Act of 1992 (106 
Stat. 4856; 136 Stat. 3807) is amended--
            (1) in subsection (c)(3)--
                    (A) in the first sentence, by striking ``Total 
                project costs'' and inserting the following:
                    ``(A) In general.--Except as provided in 
                subparagraph (B), total project costs''; and
                    (B) by adding at the end the following:
                    ``(B) Exception.--In the case of a project 
                benefitting an economically disadvantaged community (as 
                defined pursuant to section 160 of the Water Resources 
                Development Act of 2020 (33 U.S.C. 2201 note; Public 
                Law 116-260)), the Federal share of the total project 
                costs under the applicable local cooperation agreement 
                entered into under this subsection shall be 90 percent.
                    ``(C) Federal share.--The Federal share of the 
                total project costs under this paragraph may be 
                provided in the same form as described in section 
                571(e)(3)(A) of the Water Resources Development Act of 
                1999 (113 Stat. 371).'';
            (2) by striking subsection (e);
            (3) by redesignating subsections (f), (g), (h), and (i) as 
        subsections (e), (f), (g), and (h), respectively; and
            (4) in subsection (f) (as so redesignated), in the first 
        sentence, by striking ``$140,000,000'' and inserting 
        ``$170,000,000''.

SEC. 310. NORTHERN WEST VIRGINIA.

    Section 571 of the Water Resources Development Act of 1999 (113 
Stat. 371; 121 Stat. 1257; 136 Stat. 3807) is amended--
            (1) in subsection (e)(3)--
                    (A) in subparagraph (A), in the first sentence, by 
                striking ``The Federal share'' and inserting ``Except 
                as provided in subparagraph (B), the Federal share'';
                    (B) by redesignating subparagraphs (B), (C), (D), 
                and (E) as subparagraphs (C), (D), (E), and (F), 
                respectively; and
                    (C) by inserting after subparagraph (A) the 
                following:
                    ``(B) Exception.--In the case of a project 
                benefitting an economically disadvantaged community (as 
                defined pursuant to section 160 of the Water Resources 
                Development Act of 2020 (33 U.S.C. 2201 note; Public 
                Law 116-260)), the Federal share of the project costs 
                under the applicable local cooperation agreement 
                entered into under this subsection shall be 90 
                percent.'';
            (2) by striking subsection (g);
            (3) by redesignating subsections (h), (i), and (j) as 
        sections (g), (h), and (i), respectively; and
            (4) in subsection (g) (as so redesignated), by striking 
        ``$120,000,000'' and inserting ``$150,000,000''.

SEC. 311. OHIO, PENNSYLVANIA, AND WEST VIRGINIA.

    (a) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Impaired water.--
                    (A) In general.--The term ``impaired water'' means 
                a stream of a watershed that is not, as of the date of 
                an application under this section, achieving the 
                designated use of the stream.
                    (B) Inclusion.--The term ``impaired water'' 
                includes any stream identified by a State under section 
                303(d) of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act (33 
                U.S.C. 1313(d)).
            (2) Restoration.--
                    (A) In general.--The term ``restoration'', with 
                respect to impaired water, means the restoration of the 
                impaired water to such an extent that the stream could 
                achieve its designated use over the greatest practical 
                number of stream-miles, as determined using, if 
                available, State-designated or Tribal-designated 
                criteria.
                    (B) Inclusion.--The term ``restoration'' includes 
                the removal of covered pollutants.
    (b) Establishment of Program.--The Secretary may establish a pilot 
program to provide environmental assistance to non-Federal interests 
for the restoration of impaired water impacted by acid mine drainage in 
Ohio, Pennsylvania, and West Virginia.
    (c) Form of Assistance.--Assistance under this section may be in 
the form of technical assistance and design and construction assistance 
for water-related environmental infrastructure to address acid mine 
drainage, including projects for centralized water treatment and 
related facilities.
    (d) Prioritization.--The Secretary shall prioritize assistance 
under this section to a project that--
            (1) addresses acid mine drainage from multiple sources 
        impacting impaired waters; or
            (2) includes a centralized water treatment system to reduce 
        the acid mine drainage load in impaired waters.
    (e) Public Ownership Requirement.--The Secretary may provide 
assistance for a project under this section only if the project is 
publicly owned.
    (f) Coordination.--The Secretary shall, to the maximum extent 
practicable, work with States, units of local government, and other 
relevant Federal agencies to secure any permits, variances, or 
approvals necessary to facilitate the completion of projects receiving 
assistance under this section.
    (g) Cost-share.--The non-Federal share of the cost of a project 
carried out under this section shall be 25 percent, including provision 
of all land, easements, rights-of-way, and necessary relocations.
    (h) Agreements.--Construction of a project under this section shall 
be initiated only after the non-Federal interest has entered into a 
binding agreement with the Secretary to pay--
            (1) the non-Federal share of the costs of construction of a 
        project carried out under this section; and
            (2) 100 percent of any operation, maintenance, and 
        replacement and rehabilitation costs of a project carried out 
        under this section.
    (i) Contributed Funds.--The Secretary, with the consent of the non-
Federal interest for a project carried out under this section, may 
receive or expend funds contributed by a nonprofit entity for the 
project.
    (j) Authorization of Appropriations.--There is authorized to be 
appropriated to carry out this section $50,000,000, to remain available 
until expended.

SEC. 312. WESTERN RURAL WATER.

    Section 595(a) of the Water Resources Development Act of 1999 (113 
Stat. 383; 117 Stat. 1836) is amended--
            (1) by redesignating paragraphs (1) and (2) as paragraphs 
        (2) and (3), respectively; and
            (2) by inserting before paragraph (2) (as so redesignated) 
        the following:
            ``(1) Non-federal interest.--The term `non-Federal 
        interest' includes an entity declared to be a political 
        subdivision of the State of New Mexico.''.

SEC. 313. CONTINUING AUTHORITIES PROGRAMS.

    (a) Removal of Obstructions; Clearing Channels.--Section 2 of the 
Act of August 28, 1937 (50 Stat. 877, chapter 877; 33 U.S.C. 701g), is 
amended--
            (1) by striking ``$7,500,000'' and inserting 
        ``$15,000,000'';
            (2) by inserting ``for preventing and mitigating flood 
        damages associated with ice jams,'' after ``other debris,''; 
        and
            (3) by striking ``$500,000'' and inserting ``$1,000,000''.
    (b) Emergency Streambank and Shoreline Protection.--Section 14 of 
the Flood Control Act of 1946 (33 U.S.C. 701r) is amended--
            (1) by striking ``$25,000,000'' and inserting 
        ``$40,000,000''; and
            (2) by striking ``$10,000,000'' and inserting 
        ``$15,000,000''.
    (c) Storm and Hurricane Restoration and Impact Minimization 
Program.--Section 3(c) of the Act of August 13, 1946 (60 Stat. 1056, 
chapter 960; 33 U.S.C. 426g(c)), is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (1), by striking ``$37,500,000'' and 
        inserting ``$45,000,000''; and
            (2) in paragraph (2)(B), by striking ``$10,000,000'' and 
        inserting ``$15,000,000''.
    (d) Small Flood Control Projects.--Section 205 of the Flood Control 
Act of 1948 (33 U.S.C. 701s) is amended--
            (1) in the first sentence, by striking ``$68,750,000'' and 
        inserting ``$85,000,000''; and
            (2) in the third sentence, by striking ``$10,000,000'' and 
        inserting ``$15,000,000''.
    (e) Aquatic Ecosystem Restoration.--Section 206 of the Water 
Resources Development Act of 1996 (33 U.S.C. 2330) is amended--
            (1) in subsection (a), by adding at the end the following:
            ``(4) Drought resilience.--A project under this section may 
        include measures that enhance drought resilience through the 
        restoration of wetlands or the removal of invasive species.'';
            (2) in subsection (d), by striking ``$10,000,000'' and 
        inserting ``$15,000,000''; and
            (3) in subsection (f), by striking ``$62,500,000'' and 
        inserting ``$75,000,000''.
    (f) Project Modifications for Improvement of Environment.--Section 
1135 of the Water Resources Development Act of 1986 (33 U.S.C. 2309a) 
is amended--
            (1) in subsection (d), in the third sentence, by striking 
        ``$10,000,000'' and inserting ``$15,000,000''; and
            (2) in subsection (h), by striking ``$50,000,000'' and 
        inserting ``$60,000,000''.
    (g) Shore Damage Prevention or Mitigation.--Section 111(c) of the 
River and Harbor Act of 1968 (33 U.S.C. 426i(c)) is amended by striking 
``$12,500,000'' and inserting ``$15,000,000''.
    (h) Small River and Harbor Improvement Projects.--Section 107(b) of 
the River and Harbor Act of 1960 (33 U.S.C. 577(b)) is amended by 
striking ``$10,000,000'' and inserting ``$15,000,000''.
    (i) Regional Sediment Management.--Section 204(c)(1)(C) of the 
Water Resources Development Act of 1992 (33 U.S.C. 2326(c)(1)(C)) is 
amended by striking ``$10,000,000'' and inserting ``$15,000,000''.

SEC. 314. SMALL PROJECT ASSISTANCE.

    Section 165(b) of the Water Resources Development Act of 2020 (33 
U.S.C. 2201 note; Public Law 116-260) is amended by striking ``2024'' 
each place it appears and inserting ``2029''.

SEC. 315. GREAT LAKES AND MISSISSIPPI RIVER INTERBASIN PROJECT, BRANDON 
              ROAD, WILL COUNTY, ILLINOIS.

    After completion of construction of the project for ecosystem 
restoration, Great Lakes and Mississippi River Interbasin project, 
Brandon Road, Will County, Illinois, authorized by section 401(5) of 
the Water Resources Development Act of 2020 (134 Stat. 2740) and 
modified by section 402(a) of that Act (134 Stat. 2742) and section 
8337 of the Water Resources Development Act of 2022 (136 Stat. 3793), 
the Federal share of operation and maintenance costs of the project 
shall be 90 percent.

SEC. 316. MAMARONECK-SHELDRAKE RIVERS, NEW YORK.

    The non-Federal share of the cost of features of the project for 
flood risk management, Mamaroneck-Sheldrake Rivers, New York, 
authorized by section 1401(2) of the Water Resources Development Act of 
2018 (132 Stat. 3837), benefitting an economically disadvantaged 
community (as defined pursuant to section 160 of the Water Resources 
Development Act of 2020 (33 U.S.C. 2201 note; Public Law 116-260)) 
shall be 10 percent.

SEC. 317. LOWELL CREEK TUNNEL, ALASKA.

    Section 5032(a)(2) of the Water Resources Development Act of 2007 
(121 Stat. 1205; 134 Stat. 2719) is amended by striking ``20'' and 
inserting ``25''.

SEC. 318. SELMA FLOOD RISK MANAGEMENT AND BANK STABILIZATION.

    (a) Expedited Review.--The Secretary shall expedite the review of, 
and give due consideration to, the request from the City of Selma, 
Alabama, that the Secretary apply section 103(k) of the Water Resources 
Development Act of 1986 (33 U.S.C. 2213(k)) to the project for flood 
risk management, Selma Flood Risk Management and Bank Stabilization, 
Alabama, authorized by section 8401(2) of the Water Resources 
Development Act of 2022 (136 Stat. 3839).
    (b) Cost-share.--The non-Federal share of the cost of the project 
for flood risk management, Selma Flood Risk Management and Bank 
Stabilization, Alabama, authorized by section 8401(2) of the Water 
Resources Development Act of 2022 (136 Stat. 3839), shall be 10 
percent.

SEC. 319. ILLINOIS RIVER BASIN RESTORATION.

    Section 519(c)(2) of the Water Resources Development Act of 2000 
(114 Stat. 2654; 121 Stat. 1221) is amended by striking ``2010'' and 
inserting ``2029''.

SEC. 320. HAWAII ENVIRONMENTAL RESTORATION.

    Section 444 of the Water Resources Development Act of 1996 (110 
Stat. 3747; 113 Stat. 286) is amended--
            (1) by striking ``and environmental restoration'' and 
        inserting ``environmental restoration, and coastal storm risk 
        management''; and
            (2) by inserting ``Hawaii,'' after ``Guam,''.

SEC. 321. CONNECTICUT RIVER BASIN INVASIVE SPECIES PARTNERSHIPS.

    Section 104(g)(2)(A) of the River and Harbor Act of 1958 (33 U.S.C. 
610(g)(2)(A)) is amended by inserting ``the Connecticut River Basin,'' 
after ``the Ohio River Basin,''.

SEC. 322. EXPENSES FOR CONTROL OF AQUATIC PLANT GROWTHS AND INVASIVE 
              SPECIES.

    Section 104(d)(2)(A) of the River and Harbor Act of 1958 (33 U.S.C. 
610(d)(2)(A)) is amended by striking ``50 percent'' and inserting ``35 
percent''.

SEC. 323. CORPS OF ENGINEERS ASIAN CARP PREVENTION PILOT PROGRAM.

    Section 509(a)(2)(C)(ii) of the Water Resources Development Act of 
2020 (33 U.S.C. 610 note; Public Law 116-260) is amended by striking 
``2024'' and inserting ``2029''.

SEC. 324. EXTENSION FOR CERTAIN INVASIVE SPECIES PROGRAMS.

    Section 104(b)(2)(A) of the River and Harbor Act of 1958 (33 U.S.C. 
610(b)(2)(A)) is amended--
            (1) in clause (i), by striking ``each of fiscal years 2021 
        through 2024'' and inserting ``each of fiscal years 2025 
        through 2029''; and
            (2) in clause (ii), by striking ``2028'' and inserting 
        ``2029''.

SEC. 325. STORM DAMAGE PREVENTION AND REDUCTION, COASTAL EROSION, 
              RIVERINE EROSION, AND ICE AND GLACIAL DAMAGE, ALASKA.

    (a) In General.--Section 8315 of the Water Resources Development 
Act of 2022 (136 Stat. 3783) is amended--
            (1) in the section heading, by inserting ``riverine 
        erosion,'' after ``coastal erosion,''; and
            (2) in subsection (a), in the matter preceding paragraph 
        (1), by inserting ``riverine erosion,'' after ``coastal 
        erosion,''.
    (b) Clerical Amendments.--
            (1) The table of contents in section 2(b) of the James M. 
        Inhofe National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2023 
        (136 Stat. 2429) is amended by striking the item relating to 
        section 8315 and inserting the following:

``Sec. 8315. Storm damage prevention and reduction, coastal erosion, 
                            riverine erosion, and ice and glacial 
                            damage, Alaska.''.
            (2) The table of contents in section 8001(b) of the Water 
        Resources Development Act of 2022 (136 Stat. 3693) is amended 
        by striking the item relating to section 8315 and inserting the 
        following:

``Sec. 8315. Storm damage prevention and reduction, coastal erosion, 
                            riverine erosion, and ice and glacial 
                            damage, Alaska.''.

SEC. 326. REHABILITATION OF CORPS OF ENGINEERS CONSTRUCTED DAMS.

    Section 1177 of the Water Resources Development Act of 2016 (33 
U.S.C. 467f-2 note; Public Law 114-322) is amended--
            (1) by striking subsection (c) and inserting the following:
    ``(c) Cost Sharing.--The non-Federal share of the cost of a project 
for rehabilitation of a dam under this section, including the cost of 
any required study, shall be the same share assigned to the non-Federal 
interest for the cost of initial construction of that dam, including 
provision of all land, easements, rights-of-way, and necessary 
relocations.'';
            (2) in subsection (e)--
                    (A) by striking the subsection designation and 
                heading and all that follows through ``The Secretary'' 
                and inserting the following:
    ``(e) Cost Limitation.--
            ``(1) In general.--Except as provided in paragraph (2), the 
        Secretary''; and
                    (B) by adding at the end the following:
            ``(2) Certain dams.--The Secretary shall not expend more 
        than $100,000,000 under this section for the Waterbury Dam 
        Spillway Project, Vermont.'';
            (3) in subsection (f), by striking ``fiscal years 2017 
        through 2026'' and inserting ``fiscal years 2025 through 
        2029''; and
            (4) by striking subsection (g).

SEC. 327. EDIZ HOOK BEACH EROSION CONTROL PROJECT, PORT ANGELES, 
              WASHINGTON.

    The cost-share for operation and maintenance costs for the project 
for beach erosion control, Ediz Hook, Port Angeles, Washington, 
authorized by section 4 of the Water Resources Development Act of 1974 
(88 Stat. 15), shall be in accordance with the cost-share described in 
section 101(b)(1) of the Water Resources Development Act of 1986 (33 
U.S.C. 2211(b)(1)).

SEC. 328. SENSE OF CONGRESS RELATING TO CERTAIN LOUISIANA HURRICANE AND 
              COASTAL STORM DAMAGE RISK REDUCTION PROJECTS.

    It is the sense of Congress that all efforts should be made to 
extend the scope of the project for hurricane and storm damage risk 
reduction, Morganza to the Gulf, Louisiana, authorized by section 
7002(3) of the Water Resources Reform and Development Act of 2014 (128 
Stat. 1368), and the project for hurricane and storm damage risk 
reduction, Upper Barataria Basin, Louisiana, authorized by section 
8401(3) of the Water Resources Development Act of 2022 (136 Stat. 
3841), in order to connect the two projects and realize the benefits of 
continuous hurricane and coastal storm damage risk reduction from west 
of Houma in Gibson, Louisiana, to the connection with the Hurricane 
Storm Damage Risk Reduction System around New Orleans, Louisiana.

SEC. 329. CHESAPEAKE BAY OYSTER RECOVERY PROGRAM.

    Section 704(b)(1) of the Water Resources Development Act of 1986 
(33 U.S.C. 2263 note; Public Law 99-662) is amended, in the second 
sentence, by striking ``$100,000,000'' and inserting ``$120,000,000''.

SEC. 330. BOSQUE WILDLIFE RESTORATION PROJECT.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary shall establish a program to carry 
out appropriate planning, design, and construction measures for 
wildfire prevention and restoration in the Middle Rio Grande Bosque, 
including the removal of jetty jacks.
    (b) Cost Share.--
            (1) In general.--Except as provided in paragraph (2), the 
        non-Federal share of the cost of a project carried out under 
        this section shall be in accordance with sections 103 and 105 
        of the Water Resources Development Act of 1986 (33 U.S.C. 2213, 
        2215).
            (2) Exception.--The non-Federal share of the cost of a 
        project carried out under this section benefitting an 
        economically disadvantaged community (as defined pursuant to 
        section 160 of the Water Resources Development Act of 2020 (33 
        U.S.C. 2201 note; Public Law 116-260)) shall be 10 percent.
    (c) Repeal.--Section 116 of the Energy and Water Development 
Appropriations Act, 2004 (117 Stat. 1836), is repealed.
    (d) Treatment.--The program authorized under subsection (a) shall 
be considered a continuation of the program authorized by section 116 
of the Energy and Water Development Appropriations Act, 2004 (117 Stat. 
1836) (as in effect on the day before the date of enactment of this 
Act).

SEC. 331. EXPANSION OF TEMPORARY RELOCATION ASSISTANCE PILOT PROGRAM.

    Section 8154(g)(1) of the Water Resources Development Act of 2022 
(136 Stat. 3735) is amended by adding at the end the following:
                    ``(F) Project for hurricane and storm damage risk 
                reduction, Norfolk, Virginia, authorized by section 
                401(3) of the Water Resources Development Act of 2020 
                (134 Stat. 2738).''.

SEC. 332. WILSON LOCK FLOATING GUIDE WALL.

    (a) In General.--On the request of the relevant Federal entity, the 
Secretary shall, to the maximum extent practicable, use all relevant 
authorities to expeditiously provide technical assistance, including 
engineering and design assistance, and cost estimation assistance to 
the relevant Federal entity in order to address the impacts to 
navigation along the Tennessee River at the Wilson Lock and Dam, 
Alabama.
    (b) Savings Clause.--Nothing in this section authorizes the 
Secretary to expend funding on the repair, replacement, or removal of a 
capital asset owned by the relevant Federal entity, including the 
Wilson Lock and Dam.

SEC. 333. DELAWARE INLAND BAYS AND DELAWARE BAY COAST COASTAL STORM 
              RISK MANAGEMENT STUDY.

    (a) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Economically disadvantaged community.--The term 
        ``economically disadvantaged community'' has the meaning given 
        the term pursuant to section 160 of the Water Resources 
        Development Act of 2020 (33 U.S.C. 2201 note; Public Law 116-
        260)).
            (2) Study.--The term ``study'' means the Delaware Inland 
        Bays and Delaware Bay Coast Coastal Storm Risk Management 
        Study, authorized by the resolution of the Committee on Public 
        Works and Transportation of the House of Representatives dated 
        October 1, 1986, and the resolution of the Committee on 
        Environment and Public Works of the Senate dated June 23, 1988.
    (b) Study, Projects, and Separable Elements.--Notwithstanding any 
other provision of law, if the Secretary determines that the study will 
benefit 1 or more economically disadvantaged communities, the non-
Federal share of the costs of carrying out the study, or project 
construction or a separable element of a project authorized based on 
the study, shall be 10 percent.
    (c) Cost Sharing Agreement.--The Secretary shall seek to expedite 
any amendments to any existing cost-share agreement for the study in 
accordance with this section.

SEC. 334. UPPER MISSISSIPPI RIVER PLAN.

    Section 1103(e)(4) of the Water Resources Development Act of 1986 
(33 U.S.C. 652(e)(4)) is amended by striking ``$15,000,000'' and 
inserting ``$25,000,000''.

SEC. 335. REHABILITATION OF PUMP STATIONS.

    Notwithstanding the requirements of section 133 of the Water 
Resources Development Act of 2020 (33 U.S.C. 2327a), for purposes of 
that section, each of the following shall be considered to be an 
eligible pump station (as defined in subsection (a) of that section) 
that meets the requirements described in subsection (b) of that 
section:
            (1) The flood control pump station, Hockanum Road, 
        Northampton, Massachusetts.
            (2) Pointe Celeste Pump Station, Plaquemines Parish, 
        Louisiana.

SEC. 336. NAVIGATION ALONG THE TENNESSEE-TOMBIGBEE WATERWAY.

    The Secretary shall, consistent with applicable statutory 
authorities--
            (1) coordinate with the relevant stakeholders and 
        communities in the State of Alabama and the State of 
        Mississippi to address the dredging needs of the Tennessee-
        Tombigbee Waterway in those States; and
            (2) ensure continued navigation at the locks and dams owned 
        and operated by the Corps of Engineers located along the 
        Tennessee-Tombigbee Waterway.

SEC. 337. GARRISON DAM, NORTH DAKOTA.

    The Secretary shall expedite the review of, and give due 
consideration to, the request from the relevant Federal power marketing 
administration that the Secretary apply section 1203 of the Water 
Resources Development Act of 1986 (33 U.S.C. 467n) to the project for 
dam safety at Garrison Dam, North Dakota.

SEC. 338. SENSE OF CONGRESS RELATING TO MISSOURI RIVER PRIORITIES.

    It is the sense of Congress that the Secretary should make publicly 
available, where appropriate, any data used and any decisions made by 
the Corps of Engineers relating to the operations of civil works 
projects within the Missouri River Basin in order to ensure 
transparency for the communities in that Basin.

SEC. 339. SOIL MOISTURE AND SNOWPACK MONITORING.

    Section 511(a)(3) of the Water Resources Development Act of 2020 
(134 Stat. 2753) is amended by striking ``2025'' and inserting 
``2029''.

SEC. 340. CONTRACTS FOR WATER SUPPLY.

    (a) Copan Lake, Oklahoma.--Section 8358(b)(2) of the Water 
Resources Development Act of 2022 (136 Stat. 3802) is amended by 
striking ``more than 110 percent of the initial project investment cost 
per acre-foot of storage for the acre-feet of storage space sought 
under an agreement under paragraph (1)'' and inserting ``, for the 
acre-feet of storage space being sought under an agreement under 
paragraph (1), more than 110 percent of the contractual rate per acre-
foot of storage in the most recent agreement of the City for water 
supply storage space at the project''.
    (b) State of Kansas.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary shall amend the contracts 
        described in paragraph (2) between the United States and the 
        State of Kansas, relating to storage space for water supply, to 
        change the method of calculation of the interest charges that 
        began accruing on February 1, 1977, on the investment costs for 
        the 198,350 acre-feet of future use storage space and on April 
        1, 1979, on 125,000 acre-feet of future use storage from 
        compounding interest annually to charging simple interest 
        annually on the principal amount, until--
                    (A) the State of Kansas informs the Secretary of 
                the desire to convert the future use storage space to 
                present use; and
                    (B) the principal amount plus the accumulated 
                interest becomes payable pursuant to the terms of the 
                contracts.
            (2) Contracts described.--The contracts referred to in 
        paragraph (1) are the following contracts between the United 
        States and the State of Kansas:
                    (A) Contract DACW41-74-C-0081, entered into on 
                March 8, 1974, for the use by the State of Kansas of 
                storage space for water supply in Milford Lake, Kansas.
                    (B) Contract DACW41-77-C-0003, entered into on 
                December 10, 1976, for the use by the State of Kansas 
                for water supply in Perry Lake, Kansas.

SEC. 341. REND LAKE, CARLYLE LAKE, AND LAKE SHELBYVILLE, ILLINOIS.

    (a) In General.--Not later than 90 days after the date on which the 
Secretary receives a request from the Governor of Illinois to terminate 
a contract described in subsection (c), the Secretary shall amend the 
contract to release to the United States all rights of the State of 
Illinois to utilize water storage space in the reservoir project to 
which the contract applies.
    (b) Relief of Certain Obligations.--On execution of an amendment 
described in subsection (a), the State of Illinois shall be relieved of 
the obligation to pay the percentage of the annual operation and 
maintenance expense, the percentage of major replacement cost, and the 
percentage of major rehabilitation cost allocated to the water supply 
storage specified in the contract for the reservoir project to which 
the contract applies.
    (c) Contracts.--Subsection (a) applies to the following contracts 
between the United States and the State of Illinois:
            (1) Contract DACW43-88-C-0088, entered into on September 
        23, 1988, for utilization of storage space for water supply in 
        Rend Lake, Illinois.
            (2) Contract DA-23-065-CIVENG-65-493, entered into on April 
        28, 1965, for utilization of storage space for water supply in 
        Rend Lake, Illinois.
            (3) Contract DACW43-83-C-0008, entered into on July 6, 
        1983, for utilization of storage space in Carlyle Lake, 
        Illinois.
            (4) Contract DACW43-83-C-0009, entered into on July 6, 
        1983, for utilization of storage space in Lake Shelbyville, 
        Illinois.

SEC. 342. DELAWARE COASTAL SYSTEM PROGRAM.

    (a) Purpose.--The purpose of this section is to provide for the 
collective planning and implementation of coastal storm risk management 
and hurricane and storm risk reduction projects in Delaware to provide 
greater efficiency and a more comprehensive approach to life safety and 
economic growth.
    (b) Designation.--The following projects for coastal storm risk 
management and hurricane and storm risk reduction shall be known and 
designated as the ``Delaware Coastal System Program'' (referred to in 
this section as the ``Program''):
            (1) Delaware Bay Coastline, Roosevelt Inlet and Lewes 
        Beach, Delaware, authorized by section 101(a)(13) of the Water 
        Resources Development Act of 1999 (113 Stat. 276).
            (2) Delaware Coast, Bethany Beach and South Bethany, 
        Delaware, authorized by section 101(a)(15) of the Water 
        Resources Development Act of 1999 (113 Stat. 276).
            (3) Delaware Coast from Cape Henlopen to Fenwick Island, 
        Delaware, authorized by section 101(b)(11) of the Water 
        Resources Development Act of 2000 (114 Stat. 2577).
            (4) Rehoboth Beach and Dewey Beach, Delaware, authorized by 
        section 101(b)(6) of the Water Resources Development Act of 
        1996 (110 Stat. 3667).
            (5) Indian River Inlet, Delaware.
            (6) The project for hurricane and storm damage risk 
        reduction, Delaware Beneficial Use of Dredged Material for the 
        Delaware River, Delaware, authorized by section 401(3) of the 
        Water Resources Development Act of 2020 (134 Stat. 2736) and 
        modified by section 8327(a) of the Water Resources Development 
        Act of 2022 (136 Stat. 3788) and subsection (e).
    (c) Management.--The Secretary shall manage the projects described 
in subsection (b) as components of a single, comprehensive system, 
recognizing the interdependence of the projects.
    (d) Cost-share.--Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the 
Federal share of the cost of each of the projects described in 
paragraphs (1) through (4) of subsection (b) shall be 80 percent.
    (e) Broadkill Beach, Delaware.--The project for hurricane and storm 
damage risk reduction, Delaware Beneficial Use of Dredged Material for 
the Delaware River, Delaware, authorized by section 401(3) of the Water 
Resources Development Act of 2020 (134 Stat. 2736) and modified by 
section 8327(a) of the Water Resources Development Act of 2022 (136 
Stat. 3788), is modified to include the project for hurricane and storm 
damage reduction, Delaware Bay coastline, Delaware and New Jersey-
Broadkill Beach, Delaware, authorized by section 101(a)(11) of the 
Water Resources Development Act of 1999 (113 Stat. 275).

SEC. 343. MAINTENANCE OF PILE DIKE SYSTEM.

    The Secretary shall continue to maintain the pile dike system 
constructed by the Corps of Engineers for the purpose of navigation 
along the Lower Columbia River and Willamette River, Washington, at 
Federal expense.

SEC. 344. CONVEYANCES.

    (a) Generally Applicable Provisions.--
            (1) Survey to obtain legal description.--The exact acreage 
        and the legal description of any real property to be conveyed 
        under this section shall be determined by a survey that is 
        satisfactory to the Secretary.
            (2) Applicability of property screening provisions.--
        Section 2696 of title 10, United States Code, shall not apply 
        to any conveyance under this section.
            (3) Costs of conveyance.--An entity to which a conveyance 
        is made under this section shall be responsible for all 
        reasonable and necessary costs, including real estate 
        transaction and environmental documentation costs, associated 
        with the conveyance.
            (4) Liability.--
                    (A) Hold harmless.--An entity to which a conveyance 
                is made under this section shall hold the United States 
                harmless from any liability with respect to activities 
                carried out, on or after the date of the conveyance, on 
                the real property conveyed.
                    (B) Federal responsibility.--The United States 
                shall remain responsible for any liability with respect 
                to activities carried out before the date of conveyance 
                on the real property conveyed.
            (5) Additional terms and conditions.--The Secretary may 
        require that any conveyance under this section be subject to 
        such additional terms and conditions as the Secretary considers 
        necessary and appropriate to protect the interests of the 
        United States.
    (b) Dillard Road, Indiana.--
            (1) Conveyance authorized.--The Secretary shall convey to 
        the State of Indiana all right, title, and interest of the 
        United States, together with any improvements on the land, in 
        and to the property described in paragraph (2).
            (2) Property.--The property to be conveyed under this 
        subsection is the approximately 11.85 acres of land and road 
        easements associated with Dillard Road, including improvements 
        on that land, located in Patoka Township, Crawford County, 
        Indiana.
            (3) Deed.--The Secretary shall convey the property under 
        this subsection by quitclaim deed under such terms and 
        conditions as the Secretary determines appropriate to protect 
        the interests of the United States.
            (4) Reversion.--If the Secretary determines that the 
        property conveyed under this subsection is not used for a 
        public purpose, all right, title, and interest in and to the 
        property shall revert, at the discretion of the Secretary, to 
        the United States.
    (c) Port of Skamania, Washington.--
            (1) Conveyance authorized.--The Secretary shall convey to 
        the Port of Skamania, Washington, all right, title, and 
        interest of the United States, together with any improvements 
        on the land, in and to the property described in paragraph (2).
            (2) Property.--The property to be conveyed under this 
        subsection is the approximately 1.6 acres of land designated as 
        ``Lot I-2'', including any improvements on the land, located in 
        North Bonneville, Washington, T. 2 N., R. 7 E., sec. 19, 
        Willamette Meridian.
            (3) Consideration.--The Port of Skamania, Washington, shall 
        pay to the Secretary an amount that is not less than the fair 
        market value of the property conveyed under this subsection, as 
        determined by the Secretary.

SEC. 345. EMERGENCY DROUGHT OPERATIONS PILOT PROGRAM.

    (a) Definition of Covered Project.--In this section, the term 
``covered project'' means a project--
            (1) that is located in the State of California or the State 
        of Arizona; and
            (2)(A) of the Corps of Engineers for which water supply is 
        an authorized purpose; or
            (B) for which the Secretary develops a water control manual 
        under section 7 of the Act of December 22, 1944 (commonly known 
        as the ``Flood Control Act of 1944'') (58 Stat. 890, chapter 
        665; 33 U.S.C. 709).
    (b) Emergency Operation During Drought.--Consistent with other 
authorized project purposes and in coordination with the non-Federal 
interest, in operating a covered project during a drought emergency in 
the project area, the Secretary may carry out a pilot program to 
operate the covered project with water supply as the primary project 
purpose.
    (c) Updates.--In carrying out this section, the Secretary may 
update the water control manual for a covered project to include 
drought operations and contingency plans.
    (d) Requirements.--In carrying out subsection (b), the Secretary 
shall ensure that--
            (1) operations described in that subsection--
                    (A) are consistent with water management deviations 
                and drought contingency plans in the water control 
                manual for the covered project;
                    (B) impact only the flood pool managed by the 
                Secretary; and
                    (C) shall not be carried out in the event of a 
                forecast or anticipated flood or weather event that 
                would require flood risk management to take precedence;
            (2) to the maximum extent practicable, the Secretary uses 
        forecast-informed reservoir operations; and
            (3) the covered project returns to the operations that were 
        in place prior to the use of the authority provided under that 
        subsection at a time determined by the Secretary, in 
        coordination with the non-Federal interest.
    (e) Contributed Funds.--The Secretary may receive and expend funds 
contributed by a non-Federal interest to carry out activities under 
this section.
    (f) Report.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 2 years after the date of 
        enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall submit to the 
        Committee on Environment and Public Works of the Senate and the 
        Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure of the House of 
        Representatives a report on the pilot program carried out under 
        this section.
            (2) Inclusions.--The Secretary shall include in the report 
        under paragraph (1) a description of the activities of the 
        Secretary that were carried out for each covered project and 
        any lessons learned from carrying out those activities.
    (g) Limitations.--Nothing in this section--
            (1) affects, modifies, or changes the authorized purposes 
        of a covered project;
            (2) affects existing Corps of Engineers authorities, 
        including authorities with respect to navigation, flood damage 
        reduction, and environmental protection and restoration;
            (3) affects the ability of the Corps of Engineers to 
        provide for temporary deviations;
            (4) affects the application of a cost-share requirement 
        under section 101, 102, or 103 of the Water Resources 
        Development Act of 1986 (33 U.S.C. 2211, 2212, 2213);
            (5) supersedes or modifies any written agreement between 
        the Federal Government and a non-Federal interest that is in 
        effect on the date of enactment of this Act;
            (6) supersedes or modifies any amendment to an existing 
        multistate water control plan for the Colorado River Basin, if 
        applicable;
            (7) affects any water right in existence on the date of 
        enactment of this Act;
            (8) preempts or affects any State water law or interstate 
        compact governing water;
            (9) affects existing water supply agreements between the 
        Secretary and the non-Federal interest; or
            (10) affects any obligation to comply with the provisions 
        of any Federal or State environmental law, including--
                    (A) the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 
                (42 U.S.C. 4321 et seq.);
                    (B) the Federal Water Pollution Control Act (33 
                U.S.C. 1251 et seq.); and
                    (C) the Endangered Species Act of 1973 (16 U.S.C. 
                1531 et seq.).

SEC. 346. REHABILITATION OF EXISTING LEVEES.

    Section 3017(e) of the Water Resources Reform and Development Act 
of 2014 (33 U.S.C. 3303a note; Public Law 113-121) is amended by 
striking ``2028'' and inserting ``2029''.

SEC. 347. NON-FEDERAL IMPLEMENTATION PILOT PROGRAM.

    (a) In General.--Section 1043(b) of the Water Resources Reform and 
Development Act of 2014 (33 U.S.C. 2201 note; Public Law 113-121) is 
amended--
            (1) in paragraph (3)(A)(i)--
                    (A) in the matter preceding subclause (I), by 
                striking ``20'' and inserting ``30''; and
                    (B) in subclause (III), by striking ``5'' and 
                inserting ``15''; and
            (2) in paragraph (8), by striking ``each of fiscal years 
        2019 through 2026'' and inserting ``each of fiscal years 2025 
        through 2029''.
    (b) Louisiana Coastal Area Restoration Projects.--
            (1) In general.--In carrying out the pilot program under 
        section 1043(b) of the Water Resources Reform and Development 
        Act of 2014 (33 U.S.C. 2201 note; Public Law 113-121), the 
        Secretary may include in the pilot program a project authorized 
        to be implemented under, or in accordance with, title VII of 
        the Water Resources Development Act of 2007 (121 Stat. 1270).
            (2) Eligibility.--In the case of a project described in 
        paragraph (1) for which the non-Federal interest has initiated 
        construction in accordance with authorities governing the 
        provision of in-kind contributions for the project, the 
        Secretary shall take into account the value of any in-kind 
        contributions provided by the non-Federal interest for the 
        project prior to the date of execution of the project 
        partnership agreement under section 1043(b) of the Water 
        Resources Reform and Development Act of 2014 (33 U.S.C. 2201 
        note; Public Law 113-121) for purposes of determining the non-
        Federal share of the costs to complete construction of the 
        project.

SEC. 348. HARMFUL ALGAL BLOOM DEMONSTRATION PROGRAM.

    Section 128(c) of the Water Resources Development Act of 2020 (33 
U.S.C. 610 note; Public Law 116-260) is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (13), by striking ``and'' at the end;
            (2) in paragraph (14), by striking the period at the end 
        and inserting a semicolon; and
            (3) by adding at the end the following:
            ``(15) Lake Elsinore, California; and
            ``(16) Willamette River, Oregon.''.

SEC. 349. SENSE OF CONGRESS RELATING TO MOBILE HARBOR, ALABAMA.

    It is sense of Congress that the Secretary should, consistent with 
applicable statutory authorities, coordinate with relevant stakeholders 
in the State of Alabama to address the dredging and dredging material 
placement needs associated with the project for navigation, Mobile 
Harbor, Alabama, authorized by section 201 of the Flood Control Act of 
1965 (42 U.S.C. 1962d-5) and modified by section 309 of the Water 
Resources Development Act of 2020 (134 Stat. 2704).

SEC. 350. SENSE OF CONGRESS RELATING TO PORT OF PORTLAND, OREGON.

    It is sense of Congress that--
            (1) the Port of Portland, Oregon, is the sole dredging 
        operator of the federally authorized navigation channel in the 
        Columbia River, which was authorized by section 101 of the 
        River and Harbors Act of 1962 (76 Stat. 1177);
            (2) the Corps of Engineers should continue to provide 
        operation and maintenance support for the Port of Portland, 
        Oregon, including for dredging equipment;
            (3) the pipeline dredge of the Port of Portland, known as 
        the ``Dredge Oregon'', was built in 1965, 58 years ago, while 
        the average age of a dredging vessel in the United States is 25 
        years; and
            (4) Congress commits to ensuring continued dredging for the 
        Port of Portland.

SEC. 351. CHATTAHOOCHEE RIVER PROGRAM.

    Section 8144 of the Water Resources Development Act of 2022 (136 
Stat. 3724) is amended--
            (1) in subsection (b)(1), by striking ``2 years'' and 
        inserting ``4 years''; and
            (2) in subsection (j), by striking ``3 years'' and 
        inserting ``5 years''.

SEC. 352. ADDITIONAL PROJECTS FOR UNDERSERVED COMMUNITY HARBORS.

    Section 8132 of the Water Resources Development Act of 2022 (33 
U.S.C. 2238e) is amended--
            (1) in subsection (a), by inserting ``and for purposes of 
        contributing to ecosystem restoration'' before the period at 
        the end; and
            (2) in subsection (h)(1), by striking ``2026'' and 
        inserting ``2029''.

SEC. 353. WINOOSKI RIVER TRIBUTARY WATERSHED.

    Section 212(e)(2) of the Water Resources Development Act of 1999 
(33 U.S.C. 2332(e)(2)) is amended by adding at the end the following:
                    ``(L) Winooski River tributary watershed, 
                Vermont.''.

SEC. 354. WACO LAKE, TEXAS.

    The Secretary shall, to the maximum extent practicable, expedite 
the review of, and give due consideration to, the request from the City 
of Waco, Texas, that the Secretary apply section 147 of the Water 
Resources Development Act of 2020 (33 U.S.C. 701q-1) to the embankment 
adjacent to Waco Lake in Waco, Texas.

SEC. 355. SEMINOLE TRIBAL CLAIM EXTENSION.

    Section 349 of the Water Resources Development Act of 2020 (134 
Stat. 2716) is amended in the matter preceding paragraph (1) by 
striking ``2022'' and inserting ``2027''.

                    TITLE IV--PROJECT AUTHORIZATIONS

SEC. 401. PROJECT AUTHORIZATIONS.

    The following projects for water resources development and 
conservation and other purposes, as identified in the reports titled 
``Report to Congress on Future Water Resources Development'' submitted 
to Congress pursuant to section 7001 of the Water Resources Reform and 
Development Act of 2014 (33 U.S.C. 2282d) or otherwise reviewed by 
Congress, are authorized to be carried out by the Secretary 
substantially in accordance with the plans, and subject to the 
conditions, described in the respective reports or decision documents 
designated in this section:
            (1) Navigation.--

 
------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                C. Date of
                                Report of
A. State        B. Name          Chief of         D. Estimated Costs
                                Engineers
------------------------------------------------------------------------
1. MD     Baltimore Harbor    June 22, 2023  Federal: $47,956,500
           Anchorages and                    Non-Federal: $15,985,500
           Channels, Sea                     Total: $63,942,000
           Girt Loop
------------------------------------------------------------------------

            (2) Flood risk management.--

 
------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                C. Date of
A. State        B. Name          Decision         D. Estimated Costs
                                 Document
------------------------------------------------------------------------
1. KS     Manhattan Levees    May 6, 2024    Federal: $29,455,000
                                             Non-Federal: $15,860,000
                                             Total: $45,315,000
------------------------------------------------------------------------

            (3) Hurricane and storm damage risk reduction.--

 
------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                C. Date of
                                Report of
A. State        B. Name          Chief of         D. Estimated Costs
                                Engineers
------------------------------------------------------------------------
1. RI     Rhode Island        September 28,  Federal: $188,353,750
           Coastline Storm     2023          Non-Federal: $101,421,250
           Risk Management                   Total: $289,775,000
------------------------------------------------------------------------
2. FL     St. Johns County,   April 18,      Federal: $49,223,000
           Ponte Vedra         2024          Non-Federal: $89,097,000
           Beach, Coastal                    Total: $138,320,000
           Storm Risk
           Management
------------------------------------------------------------------------

            (4) Navigation and hurricane and storm damage risk 
        reduction.--

 
------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                C. Date of
                                Report of
A. State        B. Name          Chief of         D. Estimated Costs
                                Engineers
------------------------------------------------------------------------
1. TX     Gulf Intracoastal   June 2, 2023   Federal: $204,244,000
           Waterway,                         Inland Waterways Trust
           Brazoria and                       Fund: $109,977,000
           Matagorda                         Total: $314,221,000
           Counties
------------------------------------------------------------------------

            (5) Flood risk management and aquatic ecosystem 
        restoration.--

 
------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                C. Date of
A. State        B. Name          Decision         D. Estimated Costs
                                 Document
------------------------------------------------------------------------
1. MS     Memphis             December 18,   Federal: $17,289,000
           Metropolitan        2023          Non-Federal: $9,310,000
           Stormwater-North                  Total: $26,599,000
           DeSoto County
------------------------------------------------------------------------

            (6) Modifications and other projects.--

 
------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                C. Date of
                                Report or
A. State        B. Name          Decision         D. Estimated Costs
                                 Document
------------------------------------------------------------------------
1. NY     South Shore Staten  February 6,    Federal: $1,730,973,900
           Island, Fort        2024          Non-Federal: $363,228,100
           Wadsworth to                      Total: $2,094,202,000
           Oakwood Beach
           Coastal Storm
           Risk Management
------------------------------------------------------------------------
2. MO     University City     February 9,    Federal: $9,094,000
           Branch, River Des   2024          Non-Federal: $4,897,000
           Peres                             Total: $13,990,000
------------------------------------------------------------------------

                                 &lt;all&gt;
</pre></body></html>
