<html><body><pre>
[Congressional Bills 116th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[S. 1109 Introduced in Senate (IS)]

&lt;DOC&gt;






116th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                S. 1109

  To establish as a unit of the National Park System the San Gabriel 
  National Recreation Area in the State of California, and for other 
                               purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                   IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

                             April 10, 2019

 Ms. Harris (for herself and Mrs. Feinstein) introduced the following 
bill; which was read twice and referred to the Committee on Energy and 
                           Natural Resources

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
  To establish as a unit of the National Park System the San Gabriel 
  National Recreation Area in the State of California, and for other 
                               purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE; TABLE OF CONTENTS.

    (a) Short Title.--This Act may be cited as the ``San Gabriel 
Mountains Foothills and Rivers Protection Act''.
    (b) Table of Contents.--The table of contents for this Act is as 
follows:

Sec. 1. Short title; table of contents.
Sec. 2. Definition of State.
             TITLE I--SAN GABRIEL NATIONAL RECREATION AREA

Sec. 101. Purposes.
Sec. 102. Definitions.
Sec. 103. San Gabriel National Recreation Area.
Sec. 104. Management.
Sec. 105. Acquisition of non-Federal land within recreation area.
Sec. 106. Water rights; water resource facilities; public roads; 
                            utility facilities.
Sec. 107. San Gabriel National Recreation Area Public Advisory Council.
Sec. 108. San Gabriel National Recreation Area Partnership.
Sec. 109. Visitor services and facilities.
                    TITLE II--SAN GABRIEL MOUNTAINS

Sec. 201. Definitions.
Sec. 202. National monument boundary modification.
Sec. 203. Designation of wilderness areas and additions.
Sec. 204. Administration of wilderness areas and additions.
Sec. 205. Designation of wild and scenic rivers.
Sec. 206. Water rights.

SEC. 2. DEFINITION OF STATE.

    In this Act, the term ``State'' means the State of California.

             TITLE I--SAN GABRIEL NATIONAL RECREATION AREA

SEC. 101. PURPOSES.

    The purposes of this title are--
            (1) to conserve, protect, and enhance for the benefit and 
        enjoyment of present and future generations the ecological, 
        scenic, wildlife, recreational, cultural, historical, natural, 
        educational, and scientific resources of the Recreation Area;
            (2) to provide environmentally responsible, well-managed 
        recreational opportunities within the Recreation Area;
            (3) to improve access to and from the Recreation Area;
            (4) to provide expanded educational and interpretive 
        services to increase public understanding of, and appreciation 
        for, the natural and cultural resources of the Recreation Area;
            (5) to facilitate the cooperative management of the land 
        and resources within the Recreation Area, in collaboration with 
        the State and political subdivisions of the State, historical, 
        business, cultural, civic, recreational, tourism and other 
        nongovernmental organizations, and the public; and
            (6) to allow the continued use of the Recreation Area by 
        all individuals, entities, and local government agencies in 
        activities relating to integrated water management, flood 
        protection, water conservation, water quality, water rights, 
        water supply, groundwater recharge and monitoring, wastewater 
        treatment, public roads and bridges, and utilities within or 
        adjacent to the Recreation Area.

SEC. 102. DEFINITIONS.

    In this title:
            (1) Adjudication.--The term ``adjudication'' means any 
        final judgment, order, ruling, or decree entered in any 
        judicial proceeding adjudicating or affecting water rights, 
        surface water management, or groundwater management.
            (2) Advisory council.--The term ``Advisory Council'' means 
        the San Gabriel National Recreation Area Public Advisory 
        Council established under section 107(a).
            (3) Federal lands.--The term ``Federal lands'' means--
                    (A) public lands under the jurisdiction of the 
                Secretary of the Interior; and
                    (B) lands under the jurisdiction of the Secretary 
                of Defense, acting through the Chief of Engineers.
            (4) Management plan.--The term ``management plan'' means 
        the management plan for the Recreation Area required under 
        section 104(d).
            (5) Partnership.--The term ``Partnership'' means the San 
        Gabriel National Recreation Area Partnership established by 
        section 108(a).
            (6) Recreation area.--The term ``Recreation Area'' means 
        the San Gabriel National Recreation Area established by section 
        103(a).
            (7) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary 
        of the Interior.
            (8) Utility facility.--The term ``utility facility'' means 
        electric substations, communication facilities, towers, poles, 
        and lines, ground wires, communication circuits, and other 
        structures, and related infrastructure.
            (9) Water resource facility.--The term ``water resource 
        facility'' means irrigation and pumping facilities, dams and 
        reservoirs, flood control facilities, water conservation works, 
        including debris protection facilities, sediment placement 
        sites, rain gauges and stream gauges, water quality facilities, 
        recycled water facilities and water pumping, conveyance 
        distribution systems, and water treatment facilities, 
        aqueducts, canals, ditches, pipelines, wells, hydropower 
        projects, and transmission and other ancillary facilities, 
        groundwater recharge facilities, water conservation, water 
        filtration plants, and other water diversion, conservation, 
        groundwater recharge, storage, and carriage structures.

SEC. 103. SAN GABRIEL NATIONAL RECREATION AREA.

    (a) Establishment; Boundaries.--Subject to valid existing rights, 
there is established as a unit of the National Park System in the State 
the San Gabriel National Recreation Area, which shall consist of 
approximately 51,107 acres of Federal land and interests in land in the 
State depicted as the ``Proposed San Gabriel Mountains National 
Recreation Area'' on the map entitled ``San Gabriel Mountains National 
Recreation Area and National Monument Expansion Proposal'' and dated 
October 5, 2015.
    (b) Map and Legal Description.--
            (1) In general.--As soon as practicable after the date of 
        enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall file a map and a 
        legal description of the Recreation Area with--
                    (A) the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources 
                of the Senate; and
                    (B) the Committee on Natural Resources of the House 
                of Representatives.
            (2) Force of law.--The map and legal description filed 
        under paragraph (1) shall have the same force and effect as if 
        included in this Act, except that the Secretary may correct any 
        clerical or typographical error in the map or legal 
        description.
            (3) Public availability.--The map and legal description 
        filed under paragraph (1) shall be on file and available for 
        public inspection in the appropriate offices of the National 
        Park Service.
    (c) Administration and Jurisdiction.--
            (1) Public lands.--The public lands included in the 
        Recreation Area shall be administered by the Secretary, acting 
        through the Director of the National Park Service.
            (2) Department of defense land.--Although certain Federal 
        lands under the jurisdiction of the Secretary of Defense are 
        included in the recreation area, nothing in this title 
        transfers administration jurisdiction of such Federal lands 
        from the Secretary of Defense or otherwise affects Federal 
        lands under the jurisdiction of the Secretary of Defense.
            (3) State and local jurisdiction.--Nothing in this title 
        alters, modifies, or diminishes any right, responsibility, 
        power, authority, jurisdiction, or entitlement of the State, a 
        political subdivision of the State, or any State or local 
        agency under any applicable Federal, State, or local law 
        (including regulations).

SEC. 104. MANAGEMENT.

    (a) National Park System.--Subject to valid existing rights, the 
Secretary shall manage the public lands included in the Recreation Area 
in a manner that protects and enhances the natural resources and values 
of the public lands, in accordance with--
            (1) this title;
            (2) the National Park Service Organic Act (16 U.S.C. 1 et 
        seq.);
            (3) the laws generally applicable to units of the National 
        Park System; and
            (4) other applicable law (including regulations).
    (b) Cooperation With Secretary of Defense.--The Secretary shall 
cooperate with the Secretary of Defense to develop opportunities for 
the management of the Federal land under the jurisdiction of the 
Secretary of Defense included in the Recreation Area in accordance with 
the purposes described in section 101, to the maximum extent 
practicable.
    (c) Treatment of Non-Federal Land.--
            (1) In general.--Nothing in this title--
                    (A) authorizes the Secretary to take any action 
                that would affect the use of any land not owned by the 
                United States within the Recreation Area;
                    (B) affects the use of, or access to, any non-
                Federal land within the Recreation Area;
                    (C) modifies any provision of Federal, State, or 
                local law with respect to public access to, or use of, 
                non-Federal land;
                    (D) requires any owner of non-Federal land to allow 
                public access (including Federal, State, or local 
                government access) to private property or any other 
                non-Federal land;
                    (E) alters any duly adopted land use regulation, 
                approved land use plan, or any other regulatory 
                authority of any State or local agency or unit of 
                Tribal government;
                    (F) creates any liability, or affects any liability 
                under any other law, of any private property owner or 
                other owner of non-Federal land with respect to any 
                person injured on the private property or other non-
                Federal land;
                    (G) conveys to the Partnership any land use or 
                other regulatory authority;
                    (H) shall be construed to cause any Federal, State, 
                or local regulation or permit requirement intended to 
                apply to units of the National Park System to affect 
                the Federal lands under the jurisdiction of the 
                Secretary of Defense or non-Federal lands within the 
                boundaries of the recreation area; or
                    (I) requires any local government to participate in 
                any program administered by the Secretary.
            (2) Cooperation.--The Secretary is encouraged to work with 
        owners of non-Federal land who have agreed to cooperate with 
        the Secretary to advance the purposes of this title.
            (3) Buffer zones.--
                    (A) In general.--Nothing in this title establishes 
                any protective perimeter or buffer zone around the 
                Recreation Area.
                    (B) Activities or uses up to boundaries.--The fact 
                that an activity or use of land can be seen or heard 
                from within the Recreation Area shall not preclude the 
                activity or land use up to the boundary of the 
                Recreation Area.
            (4) Facilities.--Nothing in this title affects the 
        operation, maintenance, modification, construction, or 
        expansion of any water resource facility or any solid waste, 
        sanitary sewer, water or waste-water treatment, groundwater 
        recharge or conservation, hydroelectric, conveyance 
        distribution system, recycled water facility, or utility 
        facility located within or adjacent to the recreation area.
            (5) Exemption.--Section 100903 of title 54, United States 
        Code, shall not apply to the Puente Hills landfill, materials 
        recovery facility, or intermodal facility.
    (d) Management Plan.--
            (1) Deadline.--Not later than 3 years after the date of 
        enactment of this Act, the Secretary and the Advisory Council 
        shall establish a comprehensive management plan for the 
        Recreation Area that supports the purposes described in section 
        101.
            (2) Use of existing plans.--In developing the management 
        plan, to the extent consistent with this section, the Secretary 
        may incorporate any provision of a land use or other plan 
        applicable to the public lands included in the Recreation Area.
            (3) Incorporation of visitor services plan.--To the maximum 
        extent practicable, the Secretary shall incorporate into the 
        management plan the visitor services plan under section 
        109(a)(2).
            (4) Partnership.--In developing the management plan, the 
        Secretary shall consider recommendations of the partnership. To 
        the maximum extent practicable, the Secretary shall incorporate 
        recommendations of the partnership into the management plan if 
        the Secretary determines that the recommendations are feasible 
        and consistent with the purposes in section 101, this title, 
        and applicable laws (including regulations).
    (e) Fish and Wildlife.--Nothing in this title affects the 
jurisdiction of the State with respect to fish or wildlife located on 
public lands in the State.

SEC. 105. ACQUISITION OF NON-FEDERAL LAND WITHIN RECREATION AREA.

    (a) Limited Acquisition Authority.--
            (1) In general.--Subject to paragraph (2), the Secretary 
        may acquire non-Federal land within the boundaries of the 
        Recreation Area only through exchange, donation, or purchase 
        from a willing seller.
            (2) Additional requirement.--As a further condition on the 
        acquisition of land section, the Secretary shall make a 
        determination that the land contains important biological, 
        cultural, historic, or recreational values.
    (b) Prohibition on Use of Eminent Domain.--Nothing in this title 
authorizes the use of eminent domain to acquire land or an interest in 
land.
    (c) Treatment of Acquired Land.--Any land or interest in land 
acquired by the United States within the boundaries of the Recreation 
Area shall be--
            (1) included in the Recreation Area; and
            (2) administered by the Secretary in accordance with--
                    (A) this title; and
                    (B) other applicable laws (including regulations).

SEC. 106. WATER RIGHTS; WATER RESOURCE FACILITIES; PUBLIC ROADS; 
              UTILITY FACILITIES.

    (a) No Effect on Water Rights.--Nothing in this title--
            (1) shall affect the use or allocation, as in existence on 
        the date of enactment of this Act, of any water, water right, 
        or interest in water (including potable, recycled, reclaimed, 
        waste, imported, exported, banked, or stored water, surface 
        water, groundwater, and a public trust interest);
            (2) shall affect any public or private contract in 
        existence on the date of enactment of this Act for the sale, 
        lease, or loan of any water (including potable, recycled, 
        reclaimed, waste, imported, exported, banked, or stored water, 
        surface water, and groundwater);
            (3) shall be considered to be a relinquishment or reduction 
        of any water rights reserved or appropriated by the United 
        States in the State on or before the date of enactment of this 
        Act;
            (4) authorizes or imposes any new reserved Federal water 
        right or expands water usage pursuant to any existing Federal 
        reserved riparian or appropriative right;
            (5) shall be considered a relinquishment or reduction of 
        any water rights (including potable, recycled, reclaimed, 
        waste, imported, exported, banked, or stored water, surface 
        water, and groundwater) held, reserved, or appropriated by any 
        public entity or other persons or entities, on or before the 
        date of enactment of this Act;
            (6) shall be construed to, or shall interfere or conflict 
        with the exercise of the powers or duties of any watermaster, 
        public agency, or other body or entity responsible for 
        groundwater or surface water management or groundwater 
        replenishment as designated or established pursuant to any 
        adjudication or Federal or State law, including the management 
        of the San Gabriel River watershed and basin, to provide water 
        supply or other environmental benefits;
            (7) shall be construed to impede or adversely impact any 
        previously adopted Los Angeles County Drainage Area project, as 
        described in the report of the Chief of Engineers dated June 
        30, 1992, including any supplement or addendum to that report, 
        or any maintenance agreement to operate that project;
            (8) shall interfere or conflict with any action by a 
        watermaster or public agency pursuant to any Federal or State 
        law, water right, or adjudication, including any action 
        relating to water conservation, water quality, surface water 
        diversion or impoundment, groundwater recharge, water 
        treatment, conservation or storage of water, pollution, waste 
        discharge, the pumping of groundwater; the spreading, 
        injection, pumping, storage, or the use of water from local 
        sources, storm water flows, and runoff, or from imported or 
        recycled water, that is undertaken in connection with the 
        management or regulation of the San Gabriel River;
            (9) shall interfere with, obstruct, hinder, or delay the 
        exercise of, or access to, any water right by the owner of a 
        public water system or any other individual or entity, 
        including the construction, operation, maintenance, 
        replacement, repair, location, or relocation of any well; 
        pipeline; or water pumping, treatment, diversion, impoundment, 
        or storage facility; or other facility or property necessary or 
        useful to access any water right or operate an public water 
        system;
            (10) shall require the initiation or reinitiation of 
        consultation with the United States Fish and Wildlife Service 
        under, or the application of any provision of, the Endangered 
        Species Act of 1973 (16 U.S.C. 1531 et seq.) relating to any 
        action affecting any water, water right, or water management or 
        water resource facility in the San Gabriel River watershed and 
        basin; or
            (11) authorizes any agency or employee of the United 
        States, or any other person, to take any action inconsistent 
        with any of paragraphs (1) through (10).
    (b) Water Resource Facilities.--
            (1) No effect on existing water resource facilities.--
        Nothing in this title shall affects--
                    (A) the use, operation, maintenance, repair, 
                construction, reconfiguration, expansion, or 
                replacement of a water resource facility within or 
                adjacent to the Recreation Area; or
                    (B) access to a water resource facility within or 
                adjacent to the Recreation Area.
            (2) No effect on new water resource facilities.--Nothing in 
        this title shall precludes the establishment of a new water 
        resource facility (including instream sites, routes, and areas) 
        within the Recreation Area if the water resource facility is 
        necessary to preserve or enhance the health, safety, water 
        supply, or utility services to residents of Los Angeles County.
            (3) Flood control.--Nothing in this title shall be 
        construed to--
                    (A) impose any new restriction or requirement on 
                flood protection, water conservation, water supply, 
                groundwater recharge, water transfers, or water quality 
                operations; or
                    (B) increase the liability of an agency carrying 
                out flood protection, water conservation, water supply, 
                groundwater recharge, water transfers, or water quality 
                operations.
            (4) Diversion or use of water.--Nothing in this title shall 
        authorizes or requires the use of water in, or the diversion of 
        water to, the Recreation Area.
    (c) Utility Facilities and Rights of Way.--Nothing in this title 
shall--
            (1) affect the use, operation, maintenance, repair, 
        construction, reconfiguration, expansion, inspection, renewal, 
        reconstruction, alteration, addition, relocation, improvement, 
        removal, or replacement of a utility facility or appurtenant 
        right-of-way within or adjacent to the Recreation Area;
            (2) affect access to a utility facility or right-of-way 
        within or adjacent to the Recreation Area; or
            (3) preclude the establishment of a new utility facility or 
        right-of-way (including instream sites, routes, and areas) 
        within the Recreation Area if such a facility or right-of-way 
        is necessary for public health and safety, electricity supply, 
        or other utility services.
    (d) Roads; Public Transit.--
            (1) Definitions.--In this subsection:
                    (A) Public road.--The term ``public road'' means 
                any paved road or bridge (including any appurtenant 
                structure and right-of-way) that is--
                            (i) operated or maintained by a non-Federal 
                        entity; and
                            (ii)(I) open to vehicular use by the 
                        public; or
                            (II) used by a public agency or utility for 
                        the operation, maintenance, repair, 
                        construction, or rehabilitation of 
                        infrastructure, a utility facility, or a right-
                        of-way.
                    (B) Public transit.--The term ``public transit'' 
                means any transit service (including operations and 
                rights-of-way) that is--
                            (i) operated or maintained by a non-Federal 
                        entity; and
                            (ii)(I) open to the public; or
                            (II) used by a public agency or contractor 
                        for the operation, maintenance, repair, 
                        construction, or rehabilitation of 
                        infrastructure, a utility facility, or a right-
                        of-way.
            (2) No effect on public roads or public transit.--Nothing 
        in this title--
                    (A) authorizes the Secretary to take any action 
                that would affect the operation, maintenance, repair, 
                or rehabilitation of public roads or public transit 
                (including activities necessary to comply with Federal 
                or State safety or public transit standards); or
                    (B) creates any new liability, or increases any 
                existing liability, of an owner or operator of a public 
                road.

SEC. 107. SAN GABRIEL NATIONAL RECREATION AREA PUBLIC ADVISORY COUNCIL.

    (a) Establishment.--Not later than 180 days after the date of 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall establish an advisory 
council, to be known as the ``San Gabriel National Recreation Area 
Public Advisory Council''.
    (b) Duties.--The Advisory Council shall advise the Secretary 
regarding the development and implementation of the management plan and 
the visitor services plan.
    (c) Applicable Law.--The Advisory Council shall be subject to--
            (1) the Federal Advisory Committee Act (5 U.S.C. App.); and
            (2) all other applicable laws (including regulations).
    (d) Membership.--The Advisory Council shall consist of 22 members, 
to be appointed by the Secretary after taking into consideration 
recommendations of the Partnership, of whom--
            (1) 2 shall represent local, regional, or national 
        environmental organizations;
            (2) 2 shall represent the interests of outdoor recreation, 
        including off-highway vehicle recreation, within the Recreation 
        Area;
            (3) 2 shall represent the interests of community-based 
        organizations, the missions of which include expanding access 
        to the outdoors;
            (4) 2 shall represent business interests;
            (5) 1 shall represent Indian Tribes within or adjacent to 
        the Recreation Area;
            (6) 1 shall represent the interests of homeowners' 
        associations within the Recreation Area;
            (7) 3 shall represent the interests of holders of 
        adjudicated water rights, water agencies, wastewater and sewer 
        agencies, recycled water facilities, and water replenishment 
        entities;
            (8) 1 shall represent energy and mineral development 
        interests;
            (9) 1 shall represent owners of Federal grazing permits or 
        other land use permits within the Recreation Area;
            (10) 1 shall represent archaeological and historical 
        interests;
            (11) 1 shall represent the interests of environmental 
        educators;
            (12) 1 shall represent cultural history interests;
            (13) 1 shall represent environmental justice interests;
            (14) 1 shall represent electrical utility interests; and
            (15) 2 shall represent the affected public at large.
    (e) Terms.--
            (1) Staggered terms.--A member of the Advisory Council 
        shall be appointed for a term of 3 years, except that, of the 
        members first appointed, 7 of the members shall be appointed 
        for a term of 1 year and 7 of the members shall be appointed 
        for a term of 2 years.
            (2) Reappointment.--A member may be reappointed to serve on 
        the Advisory Council on the expiration of the term of service 
        of the member.
            (3) Vacancy.--A vacancy on the Advisory Council shall be 
        filled in the same manner in which the original appointment was 
        made.
    (f) Quorum.--A quorum shall be ten members of the advisory council. 
The operations of the advisory council shall not be impaired by the 
fact that a member has not yet been appointed as long as a quorum has 
been attained.
    (g) Chairperson; Procedures.--The Advisory Council shall elect a 
chairperson and establish such rules and procedures as the advisory 
council considers necessary or desirable.
    (h) Service Without Compensation.--Members of the Advisory Council 
shall serve without pay.
    (i) Termination.--The Advisory Council shall cease to exist--
            (1) on the date that is 5 years after the date on which the 
        management plan is adopted by the Secretary; or
            (2) on such later date as the Secretary considers to be 
        appropriate.

SEC. 108. SAN GABRIEL NATIONAL RECREATION AREA PARTNERSHIP.

    (a) Establishment.--There is established a partnership, to be known 
as the ``San Gabriel National Recreation Area Partnership''.
    (b) Purposes.--The purposes of the Partnership are to--
            (1) coordinate the activities of Federal, State, Tribal, 
        and local authorities and the private sector in advancing the 
        purposes of this title; and
            (2) use the resources and expertise of each agency in 
        improving management and recreational opportunities within the 
        Recreation Area.
    (c) Membership.--The Partnership shall include the following:
            (1) The Secretary (or a designee) to represent the National 
        Park Service.
            (2) The Secretary of Defense (or a designee) to represent 
        the Corps of Engineers.
            (3) The Secretary of Agriculture (or a designee) to 
        represent the Forest Service.
            (4) The Secretary of the Natural Resources Agency of the 
        State (or a designee) to represent--
                    (A) the California Department of Parks and 
                Recreation; and
                    (B) the Rivers and Mountains Conservancy.
            (5) One designee of the Los Angeles County Board of 
        Supervisors.
            (6) One designee of the Puente Hills Habitat Preservation 
        Authority.
            (7) Four designees of the San Gabriel Council of 
        Governments, of whom one shall be selected from a local land 
        conservancy.
            (8) One designee of the San Gabriel Valley Economic 
        Partnership.
            (9) One designee of the Los Angeles County Flood Control 
        District.
            (10) One designee of the San Gabriel Valley Water 
        Association.
            (11) One designee of the Central Basin Water Association.
            (12) One designee of the Six Basins Watermaster.
            (13) One designee of a public utility company, to be 
        appointed by the Secretary.
            (14) One designee of the Watershed Conservation Authority.
            (15) One designee of the Advisory Council for the period 
        during which the Advisory Council remains in effect.
            (16) One designee of San Gabriel Mountains National 
        Monument Community Collaborative.
    (d) Duties.--To advance the purposes described in section 101, the 
Partnership shall--
            (1) make recommendations to the Secretary regarding the 
        development and implementation of the management plan;
            (2) review and comment on the visitor services plan under 
        section 109(a)(2), and facilitate the implementation of that 
        plan;
            (3) assist units of local government, regional planning 
        organizations, and nonprofit organizations in advancing the 
        purposes of the Recreation Area by--
                    (A) carrying out programs and projects that 
                recognize, protect, and enhance important resource 
                values within the Recreation Area;
                    (B) establishing and maintaining interpretive 
                exhibits and programs within the Recreation Area;
                    (C) developing recreational and educational 
                opportunities in the Recreation Area in accordance with 
                the purposes of this title;
                    (D) increasing public awareness of, and 
                appreciation for, natural, historic, scenic, and 
                cultural resources of the Recreation Area;
                    (E) ensuring that signs identifying points of 
                public access and sites of interest are posted 
                throughout the Recreation Area;
                    (F) promoting a wide range of partnerships among 
                governments, organizations, and individuals to advance 
                the purposes of the Recreation Area; and
                    (G) ensuring that management of the Recreation Area 
                takes into consideration--
                            (i) local ordinances and land-use plans; 
                        and
                            (ii) adjacent residents and property 
                        owners;
            (4) make recommendations to the Secretary regarding the 
        appointment of members to the Advisory Council; and
            (5) carry out any other actions necessary to achieve the 
        purposes of this title.
    (e) Authorities.--Subject to approval by the Secretary, for the 
purposes of preparing and implementing the management plan, the 
Partnership may use Federal funds made available under this section--
            (1) to make grants to the State, political subdivisions of 
        the State, nonprofit organizations, and other persons;
            (2) to enter into cooperative agreements with, or provide 
        grants or technical assistance to, the State, political 
        subdivisions of the State, nonprofit organizations, Federal 
        agencies, and other interested parties;
            (3) to hire and compensate staff;
            (4) to obtain funds or services from any source, including 
        funds and services provided under any other Federal law or 
        program;
            (5) to contract for goods or services; and
            (6) to support activities of partners and any other 
        activities that--
                    (A) advance the purposes of the Recreation Area; 
                and
                    (B) are in accordance with the management plan.
    (f) Terms of Office; Reappointment; Vacancies.--
            (1) Terms.--A member of the Partnership shall be appointed 
        for a term of 3 years.
            (2) Reappointment.--A member may be reappointed to serve on 
        the Partnership on the expiration of the term of service of the 
        member.
            (3) Vacancy.--A vacancy on the Partnership shall be filled 
        in the same manner in which the original appointment was made.
    (g) Quorum.--A quorum shall be eleven members of the partnership. 
The operations of the partnership shall not be impaired by the fact 
that a member has not yet been appointed as long as a quorum has been 
attained.
    (h) Chairperson; Procedures.--The Partnership shall elect a 
chairperson and establish such rules and procedures as it deems 
necessary or desirable.
    (i) Service Without Compensation.--A member of the Partnership 
shall serve without compensation.
    (j) Duties and Authorities of Secretary.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary shall convene the 
        Partnership on a regular basis to carry out this title.
            (2) Technical and financial assistance.--The Secretary may 
        provide to the Partnership or any member of the Partnership, on 
        a reimbursable or nonreimbursable basis, such technical and 
        financial assistance as the Secretary determines to be 
        appropriate to carry out this title.
            (3) Cooperative agreements.--The Secretary may enter into a 
        cooperative agreement with the Partnership, a member of the 
        Partnership, or any other public or private entity to provide 
        technical, financial, or other assistance to carry out this 
        title.
            (4) Construction of facilities on non-federal land.--
                    (A) In general.--In order to facilitate the 
                administration of the Recreation Area, the Secretary is 
                authorized, subject to valid existing rights, to 
                construct administrative or visitor use facilities on 
                land owned by a non-profit organization, local agency, 
                or other public entity.
                    (B) Additional requirements.--A facility under this 
                paragraph may only be developed--
                            (i) with the consent of the owner of the 
                        non-Federal land; and
                            (ii) in accordance with applicable Federal, 
                        State, and local laws (including regulations) 
                        and plans.
            (5) Priority.--The Secretary shall give priority to actions 
        that--
                    (A) conserve the significant natural, historic, 
                cultural, and scenic resources of the Recreation Area; 
                and
                    (B) provide educational, interpretive, and 
                recreational opportunities consistent with the purposes 
                of the Recreation Area.
    (k) Committees.--The Partnership shall establish--
            (1) a Water Technical Advisory Committee to advise the 
        Secretary regarding water-related issues relating to the 
        Recreation Area; and
            (2) a Public Safety Advisory Committee to advise the 
        Secretary regarding public safety issues relating to the 
        Recreation Area.

SEC. 109. VISITOR SERVICES AND FACILITIES.

    (a) Visitor Services.--
            (1) Purpose.--The purpose of this subsection is to 
        facilitate the development of an integrated visitor services 
        plan to improve visitor experiences in the Recreation Area 
        through expanded recreational opportunities and increased 
        interpretation, education, resource protection, and 
        enforcement.
            (2) Visitor services plan.--
                    (A) In general.--Not later than 3 years after the 
                date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall 
                develop and carry out an integrated visitor services 
                plan for the Recreation Area in accordance with this 
                paragraph.
                    (B) Contents.--The visitor services plan shall--
                            (i) assess current and anticipated future 
                        visitation to the Recreation Area, including 
                        recreation destinations;
                            (ii) consider the demand for various types 
                        of recreation (including hiking, picnicking, 
                        horseback riding, and the use of motorized and 
                        mechanized vehicles), as permissible and 
                        appropriate;
                            (iii) evaluate the impacts of recreation on 
                        natural and cultural resources, water resource 
                        facilities, public roads, adjacent residents 
                        and property owners, and utilities within the 
                        recreation area, as well as the effectiveness 
                        of current enforcement and efforts;
                            (iv) assess the current level of 
                        interpretive and educational services and 
                        facilities;
                            (v) include recommendations to--
                                    (I) expand opportunities for high-
                                demand recreational activities, in 
                                accordance with the purposes described 
                                in section 101;
                                    (II) better manage Recreation Area 
                                resources and improve the experience of 
                                Recreation Area visitors through 
                                expanded interpretive and educational 
                                services and facilities, and improved 
                                enforcement; and
                                    (III) better manage Recreation Area 
                                resources to reduce negative impacts on 
                                the environment, ecology, and 
                                integrated water management activities 
                                in the Recreation Area;
                            (vi) in coordination and consultation with 
                        affected owners of non-Federal land, assess 
                        options to incorporate recreational 
                        opportunities on non-Federal land into the 
                        Recreation Area--
                                    (I) in manner consistent with the 
                                purposes and uses of the non-Federal 
                                land; and
                                    (II) with the consent of the non-
                                Federal landowner;
                            (vii) assess opportunities to provide 
                        recreational opportunities that connect with 
                        adjacent National Forest System land; and
                            (viii) be developed and carried out in 
                        accordance with applicable Federal, State, and 
                        local laws and ordinances.
                    (C) Consultation.--In developing the visitor 
                services plan, the Secretary shall--
                            (i) consult with--
                                    (I) the Partnership;
                                    (II) the Advisory Council;
                                    (III) appropriate State and local 
                                agencies; and
                                    (IV) interested nongovernmental 
                                organizations; and
                            (ii) involve members of the public.
    (b) Visitor Use Facilities.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary may construct visitor use 
        facilities in the Recreation Area.
            (2) Requirements.--Each facility under paragraph (1) shall 
        be developed in accordance with applicable Federal, State, and 
        local--
                    (A) laws (including regulations); and
                    (B) plans.
    (c) Donations.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary may accept and use donated 
        funds, property, in-kind contributions, and services to carry 
        out this title.
            (2) Prohibition.--The Secretary may not use the authority 
        provided by paragraph (1) to accept non-Federal land that has 
        been acquired after the date of enactment of this Act through 
        the use of eminent domain.
    (d) Cooperative Agreements.--In carrying out this title, the 
Secretary may make grants to, or enter into cooperative agreements 
with, units of State, Tribal, and local governments and private 
entities to conduct research, develop scientific analyses, and carry 
out any other initiative relating to the management of, and visitation 
to, the Recreation Area.

                    TITLE II--SAN GABRIEL MOUNTAINS

SEC. 201. DEFINITIONS.

    In this title:
            (1) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary 
        of Agriculture.
            (2) Wilderness area or addition.--The term ``wilderness 
        area or addition'' means any wilderness area or wilderness 
        addition designated by section 203(a).

SEC. 202. NATIONAL MONUMENT BOUNDARY MODIFICATION.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary shall modify the boundaries of the 
San Gabriel Mountains National Monument in the State to include the 
approximately 109,143 acres of additional National Forest System land 
depicted as the ``Proposed National Monument Expansion'' on the map 
entitled ``San Gabriel Mountains National Recreation Area and National 
Monument Expansion Proposal'' and dated October 5, 2015.
    (b) Administration.--On inclusion of the National Forest System 
land described in subsection (a), the Secretary shall administer that 
land as part of the San Gabriel Mountains National Monument in 
accordance with the laws generally applicable to the Monument.
            (1) Within 3 years after the date of enactment of this Act, 
        the Secretary shall consult with State and local governments 
        and the interested public to update the existing San Gabriel 
        Mountains National Monument Plan to incorporate and provide 
        management direction and protection for the lands added to the 
        Monument.

SEC. 203. DESIGNATION OF WILDERNESS AREAS AND ADDITIONS.

    (a) Designation.--In accordance with the Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 
1131 et seq.), the following parcels of National Forest System land in 
the State are designated as wilderness and as components of the 
National Wilderness Preservation System:
            (1) Condor peak wilderness.--Certain Federal land in the 
        Angeles National Forest, comprising approximately 8,417 acres, 
        as generally depicted on the map entitled ``Condor Peak 
        Wilderness--Proposed'' and dated _____, which shall be known as 
        the ``Condor Peak Wilderness''.
            (2) San gabriel wilderness additions.--Certain Federal land 
        in the Angeles National Forest, comprising approximately 2,027 
        acres, as generally depicted on the map entitled ``San Gabriel 
        Wilderness Additions'' and dated _____, which is incorporated 
        in, and considered to be a part of, the San Gabriel Wilderness 
        designated by Public Law 90-318 (16 U.S.C. 1132 note; 82 Stat. 
        131).
            (3) Sheep mountain wilderness additions.--Certain Federal 
        land in the Angeles National Forest, comprising approximately 
        13,851 acres, as generally depicted on the map entitled ``Sheep 
        Mountain Wilderness Additions'' and dated _____, which is 
        incorporated in, and considered to be a part of, the Sheep 
        Mountain Wilderness designated by section 101(a)(29) of the 
        California Wilderness Act of 1984 (16 U.S.C. 1132 note; 98 
        Stat. 1623; Public Law 98-425).
            (4) Yerba buena wilderness.--Certain Federal land in the 
        Angeles National Forest, comprising approximately 6,774 acres, 
        as generally depicted on the map entitled ``Yerba Buena 
        Wilderness--Proposed'' and dated _____, which shall be known as 
        the ``Yerba Buena Wilderness''.
    (b) Map and Legal Description.--
            (1) In general.--As soon as practicable after the date of 
        enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall file a map and a 
        legal description of the wilderness areas and additions with--
                    (A) the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources 
                of the Senate; and
                    (B) the Committee on Natural Resources of the House 
                of Representatives.
            (2) Force of law.--The map and legal description filed 
        under paragraph (1) shall have the same force and effect as if 
        included in this title, except that the Secretary may correct 
        any clerical or typographical error in the map or legal 
        description.
            (3) Public availability.--The map and legal description 
        filed under paragraph (1) shall be on file and available for 
        public inspection in the appropriate offices of the Forest 
        Service.

SEC. 204. ADMINISTRATION OF WILDERNESS AREAS AND ADDITIONS.

    (a) In General.--Subject to valid existing rights, the wilderness 
areas and additions shall be administered by the Secretary in 
accordance with this section and the Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1131 et 
seq.), except that any reference in that Act to the effective date of 
that Act shall be considered to be a reference to the date of enactment 
of this Act.
    (b) Fire Management and Related Activities.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary may take such measures in a 
        wilderness area or addition designated in section 203 as are 
        necessary for the control of fire, insects, or diseases in 
        accordance with--
                    (A) section 4(d)(1) of the Wilderness Act (16 
                U.S.C. 1133(d)(1)); and
                    (B) House Report 98-40 of the 98th Congress.
            (2) Funding priorities.--Nothing in this title limits 
        funding for fire or fuels management in a wilderness area or 
        addition.
            (3) Revision and development of local fire management 
        plans.--As soon as practicable after the date of enactment of 
        this Act, the Secretary shall amend, as applicable, any local 
        fire management plan that applies to a wilderness area or 
        addition designated in section 203.
            (4) Administration.--In accordance with paragraph (1) and 
        any other applicable Federal law, to ensure a timely and 
        efficient response to a fire emergency in a wilderness area or 
        addition, the Secretary shall--
                    (A) not later than 1 year after the date of 
                enactment of this Act, establish agency approval 
                procedures (including appropriate delegations of 
                authority to the Forest Supervisor, District Manager, 
                or other agency officials) for responding to fire 
                emergencies; and
                    (B) enter into agreements with appropriate State or 
                local firefighting agencies.
    (c) Grazing.--The grazing of livestock in a wilderness area or 
addition, if established before the date of enactment of this Act, 
shall be administered in accordance with--
            (1) section 4(d)(4) of the Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 
        1133(d)(4)); and
            (2) the guidelines contained in Appendix A of the report of 
        the Committee on Interior and Insular Affairs of the House of 
        Representatives accompanying H.R. 2570 of the 101st Congress 
        (H. Rept. 101-405).
    (d) Fish and Wildlife.--
            (1) In general.--In accordance with section 4(d)(7) of the 
        Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1133(d)(7)), nothing in this title 
        affects the jurisdiction or responsibility of the State with 
        respect to fish or wildlife on public land in the State.
            (2) Management activities.--
                    (A) In general.--In furtherance of the purposes and 
                principles of the Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1131 et 
                seq.), the Secretary may conduct any management 
                activity that are necessary to maintain or restore fish 
                or wildlife populations or habitats in the wilderness 
                areas and wilderness additions, if the management 
                activities are--
                            (i) consistent with relevant wilderness 
                        management plans; and
                            (ii) conducted in accordance with 
                        appropriate policies, such as the policies 
                        established in Appendix B of the report of the 
                        Committee on Interior and Insular Affairs of 
                        the House of Representatives accompanying H.R. 
                        2570 of the 101st Congress (H. Rept. 101-405).
                    (B) Inclusions.--A management activity under 
                subparagraph (A) may include the occasional and 
                temporary use of motorized vehicles, if the use, as 
                determined by the Secretary, would promote healthy, 
                viable, and more naturally distributed wildlife 
                populations that would enhance wilderness values while 
                causing the minimum impact necessary to accomplish 
                those tasks.
                    (C) Existing activities.--In accordance with 
                section 4(d)(1) of the Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 
                1133(d)(1)) and appropriate policies (such as the 
                policies established in Appendix B of House Report 101-
                405), the State may use aircraft (including 
                helicopters) in a wilderness area or addition to 
                survey, capture, transplant, monitor, or provide water 
                for a wildlife population, including bighorn sheep.
    (e) Buffer Zones.--
            (1) In general.--Congress does not intend for the 
        designation of wilderness areas or wilderness additions by 
        section 202 to lead to the creation of protective perimeters or 
        buffer zones around each wilderness area or wilderness 
        addition.
            (2) Activities or uses up to boundaries.--The fact that a 
        nonwilderness activities or uses can be seen or heard from 
        within a wilderness area or wilderness addition designated by 
        section 202 shall not, of itself, preclude the activities or 
        uses up to the boundary of the wilderness area or addition.
    (f) Military Activities.--Nothing in this Act precludes--
            (1) low-level overflights of military aircraft over the 
        wilderness areas or wilderness additions designated by section 
        202;
            (2) the designation of new units of special airspace over 
        the wilderness areas or wilderness additions designated by 
        section 202; or
            (3) the use or establishment of a military flight training 
        routes over the wilderness areas or wilderness additions 
        designated by section 202.
    (g) Horses.--Nothing in this title precludes horseback riding in, 
or the entry of recreational or commercial saddle or pack stock into, 
an area designated as a wilderness area or wilderness addition by 
section 202--
            (1) in accordance with section 4(d)(5) of the Wilderness 
        Act (16 U.S.C. 1133(d)(5)); and
            (2) subject to such terms and conditions as the Secretary 
        determines to be necessary.
    (h) Law Enforcement.--Nothing in this title precludes any law 
enforcement or drug interdiction effort within the wilderness areas or 
wilderness additions designated by section 2 in accordance with the 
Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1131 et seq.).
    (i) Withdrawal.--Subject to valid existing rights, the wilderness 
areas and additions designated by section 202 are withdrawn from--
            (1) all forms of entry, appropriation, and disposal under 
        the public land laws;
            (2) location, entry, and patent under the mining laws; and
            (3) operation of the mineral materials and geothermal 
        leasing laws.
    (j) Incorporation of Acquired Land and Interests.--Any land within 
the boundary of a wilderness area or addition that is acquired by the 
United States shall--
            (1) become part of the wilderness area or addition in which 
        the land is located; and
            (2) be managed in accordance with this section, the 
        Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1131 et seq.), and any other 
        applicable law.
    (k) Climatological Data Collection.--In accordance with the 
Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1131 et seq.) and subject to such terms and 
conditions as the Secretary may prescribe, the Secretary may authorize 
the installation and maintenance of hydrologic, meteorologic, or 
climatological collection devices in a wilderness area or addition if 
the Secretary determines that the facilities and access to the 
facilities is essential to a flood warning, flood control, or water 
reservoir operation activity.

SEC. 205. DESIGNATION OF WILD AND SCENIC RIVERS.

    (a) Designation.--Section 3(a) of the Wild and Scenic Rivers Act 
(16 U.S.C. 1274(a)) is amended by adding at the end the following:
            ``(231) East fork san gabriel river, california.--The 
        following segments of the East Fork San Gabriel River, to be 
        administered by the Secretary of Agriculture in the following 
        classes:
                    ``(A) The 10-mile segment from the confluence of 
                the Prairie Fork and Vincent Gulch to 100 yards 
                upstream of the Heaton Flats trailhead and day use 
                area, as a wild river.
                    ``(B) The 2.7-mile segment from 100 yards upstream 
                of the Heaton Flats trailhead and day use area to 100 
                yards upstream of the confluence with Williams Canyon, 
                as a recreational river.
            ``(232) North fork san gabriel river, california.--The 4.3-
        mile segment of the North Fork San Gabriel River from the 
        confluence with Cloudburst Canyon to 0.25 miles upstream of the 
        confluence with the West Fork San Gabriel River, to be 
        administered by the Secretary of Agriculture as a recreational 
        river.
            ``(233) West fork san gabriel river, california.--The 
        following segments of the West Fork San Gabriel River, to be 
        administered by the Secretary of Agriculture in the following 
        classes:
                    ``(A) The 6.7-mile segment from 0.25 miles 
                downstream of its source near Red Box Gap in sec. 14, 
                T. 2 N., R. 12 W., to the confluence with the unnamed 
                tributary 0.25 miles downstream of the power lines in 
                sec. 22, T. 2 N., R. 11 W., as a recreational river.
                    ``(B) The 1.6-mile segment of the West Fork from 
                0.25 miles downstream of the powerlines in sec. 22, T. 
                2 N., R. 11 W., to the confluence with Bobcat Canyon, 
                as a wild river.
            ``(234) Little rock creek, california.--The following 
        segments of Little Rock Creek and tributaries, to be 
        administered by the Secretary of Agriculture in the following 
        classes:
                    ``(A) The 10.3-mile segment from its source on Mt. 
                Williamson in sec. 6, T. 3 N., R. 9 W., to 100 yards 
                upstream of the confluence with the South Fork Little 
                Rock Creek, as a wild river.
                    ``(B) The 6.6-mile segment from 100 yards upstream 
                of the confluence with the South Fork Little Rock Creek 
                to the confluence with Santiago Canyon, as a 
                recreational river.
                    ``(C) The 1-mile segment of Cooper Canyon Creek 
                from 0.25 miles downstream of Highway 2 to 100 yards 
                downstream of Cooper Canyon Campground, as a scenic 
                river.
                    ``(D) The 1.3-mile segment of Cooper Canyon Creek 
                from 100 yards downstream of Cooper Canyon Campground 
                to the confluence with Little Rock Creek, as a wild 
                river.
                    ``(E) The 1-mile segment of Buckhorn Creek from 100 
                yards downstream of the Buckhorn Campground to its 
                confluence with Cooper Canyon Creek, as a wild 
                river.''.
    (b) Water Resource Facilities and Water Use.--
            (1) Water resource facilities.--
                    (A) Definitions.--In this section, the term ``water 
                resource facility'' means--
                            (i) irrigation and pumping facilities, dams 
                        and reservoirs, flood control facilities, water 
                        conservation works, including debris protection 
                        facilities, sediment placement sites, rain 
                        gauges and stream gauges, water quality 
                        facilities, recycled water pumping, conveyance 
                        distribution systems, and treatment facilities, 
                        aqueducts, canals, ditches, pipelines, wells, 
                        hydropower projects, and transmission and other 
                        ancillary facilities; and
                            (ii) other water diversion, storage, and 
                        carriage structures.
                    (B) No effect on existing water resource 
                facilities.--Nothing in this section shall alter, 
                modify, or affect--
                            (i) the use, operation, maintenance, 
                        repair, construction, reconfiguration, 
                        expansion, or replacement of a water resource 
                        facility downstream of a wild and scenic river 
                        segment designated by this section, provided 
                        that the physical structures of such facilities 
                        or reservoirs shall not be located within the 
                        river areas designated in this section; or
                            (ii) access to a water resource facility 
                        downstream of a wild and scenic river segment 
                        designated by this section.
                    (C) No effect on new water resource facilities.--
                Nothing in this section shall preclude the 
                establishment of a new water resource facilities 
                (including instream sites, routes, and areas) 
                downstream of a wild and scenic river segment.
            (2) Limitation.--Any new reservation of water or new use of 
        water pursuant to existing water rights held by the United 
        States to advance the purposes of the National Wild and Scenic 
        Rivers Act (16 U.S.C. 1271 et seq.) shall be for nonconsumptive 
        instream use only within the segments designated by this 
        section.
            (3) Existing law.--Nothing in this section affects the 
        implementation of the Endangered Species Act of 1973 (16 U.S.C. 
        1531 et seq.).

SEC. 206. WATER RIGHTS.

    (a) Statutory Construction.--Nothing in this Act, and no action to 
implement this Act--
            (1) shall constitute an express or implied reservation of 
        any water or water right, or authorizing an expansion of water 
        use pursuant to existing water rights held by the United 
        States, with respect to the land designated as a wilderness 
        area or wilderness addition by section 202 or land adjacent to 
        the wild and scenic river segments designated by the amendment 
        made by section 204;
            (2) shall affect, alter, modify, or condition any water 
        rights in the State in existence on the date of enactment of 
        this Act, including any water rights held by the United States;
            (3) shall be construed as establishing a precedent with 
        regard to any future wilderness or wild and scenic river 
        designations;
            (4) shall affect, alter, or modify the interpretation of, 
        or any designation, decision, or action made pursuant to, any 
        other Act; or
            (5) shall be construed as limiting, altering, modifying, or 
        amending any of the interstate compacts or equitable 
        apportionment decrees that apportions water among or between 
        the State and any other State.
    (b) State Water Law.--The Secretary shall comply with applicable 
procedural and substantive requirements of the law of the State in 
order to obtain and hold any water rights not in existence on the date 
of enactment of this Act with respect to the wilderness areas and 
wilderness additions designated by section 202, and the wild and scenic 
rivers designated by amendment made by section 204.
                                 &lt;all&gt;
</pre></body></html>
