<html><body><pre>
[Congressional Bills 116th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[S. 1269 Introduced in Senate (IS)]

&lt;DOC&gt;






116th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                S. 1269

 To address the threat to national security from illegal, unreported, 
and unregulated fishing and associated illegal activity, to prevent the 
 illegal trade of seafood and seafood products, and for other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                   IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

                              May 1, 2019

 Mr. Wicker (for himself and Mr. Coons) introduced the following bill; 
    which was read twice and referred to the Committee on Commerce, 
                      Science, and Transportation

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
 To address the threat to national security from illegal, unreported, 
and unregulated fishing and associated illegal activity, to prevent the 
 illegal trade of seafood and seafood products, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE; TABLE OF CONTENTS.

    (a) Short Title.--This Act may be cited as the ``Maritime Security 
And Fisheries Enforcement Act'' or the ``Maritime SAFE Act''.
    (b) Table of Contents.--The table of contents for this Act is as 
follows:

Sec. 1. Short title; table of contents.
Sec. 2. Definitions.
Sec. 3. Findings.
Sec. 4. Purposes.
Sec. 5. Statement of policy.
 TITLE I--PROGRAMS TO COMBAT IUU FISHING AND INCREASE MARITIME SECURITY

Sec. 101. Coordination with international organizations.
Sec. 102. Engagement of diplomatic missions of the United States.
Sec. 103. Assistance by Federal agencies to improve law enforcement 
                            within priority regions and priority flag 
                            states.
Sec. 104. Expansion of existing mechanisms to combat IUU fishing.
Sec. 105. Improvement of transparency and traceability programs.
Sec. 106. Technology programs.
Sec. 107. Information sharing.
TITLE II--ESTABLISHMENT OF INTERAGENCY WORKING GROUP ON IUU FISHING AND 
                             SEAFOOD FRAUD

Sec. 201. Interagency Working Group on IUU Fishing and Seafood Fraud.
Sec. 202. Strategic plan.
Sec. 203. Reports.
Sec. 204. Gulf of Mexico IUU Fishing Subworking Group.
TITLE III--COMBATING HUMAN TRAFFICKING IN CONNECTION WITH THE CATCHING 
                   AND PROCESSING OF SEAFOOD PRODUCTS

Sec. 301. Finding.
Sec. 302. Adding the Secretary of Commerce to the Interagency Task 
                            Force to Monitor and Combat Trafficking.
Sec. 303. Human trafficking in the seafood supply chain report.
               TITLE IV--AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS

Sec. 401. Authorization of appropriations.

SEC. 2. DEFINITIONS.

    In this Act:
            (1) AIS.--The term ``AIS'' means Automatic Identification 
        System (as defined in section 164.46 of title 33, Code of 
        Federal Regulations, or a similar successor regulation).
            (2) Combined maritime forces.--The term ``Combined Maritime 
        Forces'' means the 33-nation naval partnership, originally 
        established in February 2002, which promotes security, 
        stability, and prosperity across approximately 3,200,000 square 
        miles of international waters.
            (3) Exclusive economic zone.--
                    (A) In general.--Unless otherwise specified by the 
                President as being in the public interest in a writing 
                published in the Federal Register, the term ``exclusive 
                economic zone'' means--
                            (i) the area within a zone established by a 
                        maritime boundary that has been established by 
                        a treaty in force or a treaty that is being 
                        provisionally applied by the United States; or
                            (ii) in the absence of a treaty described 
                        in clause (i)--
                                    (I) a zone, the outer boundary of 
                                which is 200 nautical miles from the 
                                baseline from which the breadth of the 
                                territorial sea is measured; or
                                    (II) if the distance between the 
                                United States and another country is 
                                less than 400 nautical miles, a zone, 
                                the outer boundary of which is 
                                represented by a line equidistant 
                                between the United States and the other 
                                country.
                    (B) Inner boundary.--Without affecting any 
                Presidential Proclamation with regard to the 
                establishment of the United States territorial sea or 
                exclusive economic zone, the inner boundary of the 
                exclusive economic zone is--
                            (i) in the case of coastal States, a line 
                        coterminous with the seaward boundary of each 
                        such State (as described in section 4 of the 
                        Submerged Lands Act (43 U.S.C. 1312));
                            (ii) in the case of the Commonwealth of 
                        Puerto Rico, a line that is 3 marine leagues 
                        from the coastline of the Commonwealth of 
                        Puerto Rico;
                            (iii) in the case of American Samoa, the 
                        United States Virgin Islands, and Guam, a line 
                        that is 3 geographic miles from the coastlines 
                        of American Samoa, the United States Virgin 
                        Islands, or Guam, respectively;
                            (iv) in the case of the Commonwealth of the 
                        Northern Mariana Islands--
                                    (I) the coastline of the 
                                Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana 
                                Islands, until the Commonwealth of the 
                                Northern Mariana Islands is granted 
                                authority by the United States to 
                                regulate all fishing to a line seaward 
                                of its coastline; and
                                    (II) upon the United States grant 
                                of the authority described in subclause 
                                (I), the line established by such grant 
                                of authority; or
                            (v) for any possession of the United States 
                        not referred to in clause (ii), (iii), or (iv), 
                        the coastline of such possession.
                    (C) Rule of construction.--Nothing in this 
                paragraph may be construed to diminish the authority of 
                the Department of Defense, the Department of the 
                Interior, or any other Federal department or agency.
            (4) Food security.--The term ``food security'' means access 
        to, and availability, utilization, and stability of, sufficient 
        food to meet caloric and nutritional needs for an active and 
        healthy life.
            (5) Global record of fishing vessels, refrigerated 
        transport vessels, and supply vessels.--The term ``global 
        record of fishing vessels, refrigerated transport vessels, and 
        supply vessels'' means the Food and Agriculture Organization of 
        the United Nations' initiative to rapidly make available 
        certified data from state authorities about vessels and vessel 
        related activities.
            (6) IUU fishing.--The term ``IUU fishing'' means illegal 
        fishing, unreported fishing, or unregulated fishing (as such 
        terms are defined in paragraph 3 of the International Plan of 
        Action to Prevent, Deter, and Eliminate Illegal, Unreported and 
        Unregulated Fishing, adopted at the 24th Session of the 
        Committee on Fisheries in Rome on March 2, 2001).
            (7) Port state measures agreement.--The term ``Port State 
        Measures Agreement'' means the Agreement on Port State Measures 
        to Prevent, Deter, and Eliminate Illegal, Unreported, and 
        Unregulated Fishing set forth by the Food and Agriculture 
        Organization of the United Nations, done at Rome, Italy 
        November 22, 2009, and entered into force June 5, 2016, which 
        offers standards for reporting and inspecting fishing 
        activities of foreign-flagged fishing vessels at port.
            (8) Priority flag state.--The term ``priority flag state'' 
        means a country selected in accordance with section 202(b)(3)--
                    (A) whereby the flagged vessels of which actively 
                engage in, knowingly profit from, or are complicit in 
                IUU fishing; and
                    (B) that is willing, but lacks the capacity, to 
                monitor or take effective enforcement action against 
                its fleet.
            (9) Priority region.--The term ``priority region'' means a 
        region selected in accordance with section 202(b)(2)--
                    (A) that is at high risk for IUU fishing activity 
                or the entry of illegally caught seafood into the 
                markets of countries in the region; and
                    (B) in which countries lack the capacity to fully 
                address the illegal activity described in subparagraph 
                (A).
            (10) Regional fisheries management organization.--The term 
        ``Regional Fisheries Management Organization'' means an 
        intergovernmental fisheries organization or arrangement, as 
        appropriate, that has the competence to establish conservation 
        and management measures.
            (11) Seafood.--The term ``seafood''--
                    (A) means marine finfish, mollusks, crustaceans, 
                and all other forms of marine animal and plant life, 
                including those grown, produced, or reared through 
                marine aquaculture operations or techniques; and
                    (B) does not include marine mammals or birds.
            (12) Seafood fraud.--The term ``seafood fraud'' means the 
        knowing mislabeling or misrepresentation of information 
        regarding seafood or seafood products with the intent to 
        deceive or defraud.
            (13) Seafood traceability program.--The term ``seafood 
        traceability program'' means any program implemented by the 
        National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (such as the 
        Seafood Import Monitoring Program) that requires, with respect 
        to seafood and seafood products imported into the United 
        States--
                    (A) permitting, data reporting, and recordkeeping 
                to prevent illegal, unreported, unregulated, or 
                misrepresented seafood from entering United States 
                commerce; and
                    (B) verifying the chain of custody of such seafood, 
                from harvest to point of entry into the United States.
            (14) Transnational organized illegal activity.--The term 
        ``transnational organized illegal activity'' means criminal 
        activity conducted by self-perpetuating associations of 
        individuals who operate transnationally for the purpose of 
        obtaining power, influence, or monetary or commercial gains, 
        wholly or in part by illegal means, while protecting their 
        activities through a pattern of corruption or violence or 
        through a transnational organizational structure and the 
        exploitation of transnational commerce or communication 
        mechanisms.
            (15) Transshipment.--The term ``transshipment'' means the 
        use of refrigerated vessels that--
                    (A) collect catch from multiple fishing boats;
                    (B) carry the accumulated catches back to port; and
                    (C) deliver supplies to fishing boats, which allows 
                fishing vessels to remain at sea for extended periods 
                without coming into port.

SEC. 3. FINDINGS.

    Congress makes the following findings:
            (1) In a report titled, ``Global Implications of Illegal, 
        Unreported, and Unregulated (IUU) Fishing'', the Office of the 
        Director of National Intelligence identified IUU fishing as--
                    (A) a threat to the national security of the United 
                States; and
                    (B) a challenge to peace and stability in regions 
                of importance to the United States.
            (2) Executive Order 13773 (82 Fed. Reg. 10691), issued on 
        February 9, 2017, calls for a comprehensive approach by the 
        Federal Government to combat crime syndicates, including 
        transnational organized illegal activities that may be 
        associated with IUU fishing.
            (3) It is estimated that the value of IUU fishing may 
        exceed $1,000,000,000 annually in unlawful or undocumented 
        revenue and may sometimes be linked to transnational organized 
        illegal activities, including weapons, drug, and human 
        trafficking.
            (4) IUU fishing--
                    (A) undermines the business of legitimate workers 
                in the seafood industry; and
                    (B) can create inaccurate population estimates for 
                fish and other seafood species.
            (5) Marine fisheries employ millions of people worldwide, 
        the livelihoods of whom can be negatively impacted by IUU 
        fishing and associated transnational organized illegal 
        activities.
            (6) IUU fishing vessels play a significant role in other 
        forms of trafficking, particularly drug trafficking. The 
        Department of Justice has documented numerous cases of illicit 
        fishing ships involved in trafficking cocaine, heroin, and 
        cannabis from South America to the United States.
            (7) By introducing cheaper, illegal products into the 
        global market, IUU fishing undercuts the business and economic 
        livelihoods of legitimate fishermen in the United States and 
        around the world.
            (8) In the United States and around the world, seafood 
        fraud undermines the economic viability of fisheries and 
        deceives consumers about their purchasing choices.
            (9) Competition over seafood resources can lead to 
        heightened tensions, conflict, and geostrategic instability in 
        regions of importance to the United States.

SEC. 4. PURPOSES.

    The purposes of this Act are--
            (1) to support a whole-of-government approach across the 
        Federal Government to counter IUU fishing and related threats 
        to maritime security;
            (2) to improve data sharing that enhances surveillance, 
        enforcement, and prosecution against IUU fishing and related 
        activities at a global level;
            (3) to support coordination and collaboration to counter 
        IUU fishing and seafood fraud within priority regions;
            (4) to increase and improve global transparency and 
        traceability across the seafood supply chain as--
                    (A) a deterrent to IUU fishing and seafood fraud;
                    (B) a tool for strengthening fisheries management 
                and food security; and
                    (C) an approach to enhancing the implementation of 
                United States seafood traceability programs;
            (5) to improve global enforcement operations against IUU 
        fishing through a whole-of-government approach by the United 
        States; and
            (6) to prevent the use of IUU fishing as a financing source 
        for transnational organized groups that undermine United States 
        and global security interests.

SEC. 5. STATEMENT OF POLICY.

    It is the policy of the United States--
            (1) to take action to curtail the global trade in seafood 
        and seafood products derived from IUU fishing, including its 
        links to forced labor and transnational organized illegal 
        activity;
            (2) to develop holistic diplomatic, military, law 
        enforcement, economic, and capacity-building tools to counter 
        IUU fishing;
            (3) to provide technical and other forms of assistance to 
        countries in priority regions and priority flag states to 
        combat IUU fishing and seafood fraud, including assistance--
                    (A) to increase local, national, and regional level 
                capacities to counter IUU fishing through the 
                engagement of law enforcement and security forces;
                    (B) to enhance port capacity and security, 
                including through support to implement the Port State 
                Measures Agreement;
                    (C) to combat corruption and increase transparency 
                and traceability in fisheries management and trade;
                    (D) to enhance information sharing within and 
                across governments and multilateral organizations 
                through the development and use of agreed standards for 
                information sharing; and
                    (E) to support effective, science-based fisheries 
                management regimes that promote legal and safe 
                fisheries and act as a deterrent to IUU fishing;
            (4) to promote global maritime security through improved 
        capacity and technological assistance to support improved 
        maritime domain awareness;
            (5) to engage with priority flag states to encourage the 
        use of high quality vessel tracking technologies;
            (6) to engage with multilateral organizations working on 
        fisheries issues, including Regional Fisheries Management 
        Organizations and the Food and Agriculture Organization of the 
        United Nations, to combat and deter IUU fishing;
            (7) to advance information sharing across governments and 
        multilateral organizations in areas that cross multiple 
        jurisdictions, through the development and use of an agreed 
        standard for information sharing;
            (8) to continue to use existing and future trade agreements 
        to combat IUU fishing and seafood fraud;
            (9) to employ appropriate assets and resources of the 
        United States Government in a coordinated manner to disrupt the 
        illicit networks involved in IUU fishing;
            (10) to continue to declassify and make available, as 
        appropriate and practicable, technologies developed by the 
        United States Government that can be used to help counter IUU 
        fishing;
            (11) to recognize the ties of IUU fishing to transnational 
        organized illegal activity, including human trafficking and 
        illegal trade in narcotics and arms, and as applicable, to 
        focus on illicit activity in a coordinated, cross-cutting 
        manner;
            (12) to recognize and respond to poor working conditions, 
        labor abuses, and other violent crimes in the fishing industry;
            (13) to increase and improve global transparency and 
        traceability along the seafood supply chain as--
                    (A) a deterrent to IUU fishing and seafood fraud; 
                and
                    (B) an approach for strengthening fisheries 
                management and food security; and
            (14) to promote technological investment and innovation to 
        combat IUU fishing and seafood fraud.

 TITLE I--PROGRAMS TO COMBAT IUU FISHING AND INCREASE MARITIME SECURITY

SEC. 101. COORDINATION WITH INTERNATIONAL ORGANIZATIONS.

    The Secretary of State, in conjunction with the Secretary of 
Commerce, shall coordinate with Regional Fisheries Management 
Organizations and the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United 
Nations, and may coordinate with other relevant international 
governmental or nongovernmental organizations, or the private sector, 
as appropriate, to enhance regional responses to IUU fishing and 
related transnational organized illegal activities.

SEC. 102. ENGAGEMENT OF DIPLOMATIC MISSIONS OF THE UNITED STATES.

    Not later than 1 year after the date of the enactment of this Act, 
each chief of mission (as defined in section 102 of the Foreign Service 
Act of 1980 (22 U.S.C. 3902)) to a relevant country in a priority 
region or to a priority flag state may, if the Secretary of State 
determines such action is appropriate--
            (1) convene a working group, led by Department of State 
        officials, to examine IUU fishing, which may include 
        stakeholders such as--
                    (A) United States officials from relevant agencies 
                participating in the interagency working group 
                identified in section 201, foreign officials, 
                nongovernmental organizations, the private sector, and 
                representatives of local fishermen in the region; and
                    (B) experts on IUU fishing, law enforcement, 
                criminal justice, transnational organized illegal 
                activity, defense, intelligence, vessel movement 
                monitoring, and international development operating in 
                or with knowledge of the region; and
            (2) designate a counter-IUU Fishing Coordinator from among 
        existing personnel at the mission if the chief of mission 
        determines such action is appropriate.

SEC. 103. ASSISTANCE BY FEDERAL AGENCIES TO IMPROVE LAW ENFORCEMENT 
              WITHIN PRIORITY REGIONS AND PRIORITY FLAG STATES.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary of State, in collaboration with the 
Secretary of Commerce and the Secretary of the department in which the 
Coast Guard is operating, shall provide assistance, as appropriate, in 
accordance with this section.
    (b) Law Enforcement Training and Coordination Activities.--The 
officials referred to in subsection (a) shall evaluate opportunities to 
provide assistance, as appropriate, to countries in priority regions 
and priority flag states to improve the effectiveness of IUU fishing 
enforcement, with clear and measurable targets and indicators of 
success, including--
            (1) by assessing and using existing resources, enforcement 
        tools, and legal authorities to coordinate efforts to combat 
        IUU fishing with efforts to combat other illegal trade, 
        including weapons, drugs, and human trafficking;
            (2) by expanding existing IUU fishing enforcement training;
            (3) by providing targeted, country- and region-specific 
        training on combating IUU fishing;
            (4) by supporting increased effectiveness and transparency 
        of the fisheries enforcement sectors of the governments of such 
        countries; and
            (5) by supporting increased outreach to stakeholders in the 
        affected communities as key partners in combating and 
        prosecuting IUU fishing.
    (c) Port Security Assistance.--The officials referred to in 
subsection (a) shall evaluate opportunities to provide assistance, as 
appropriate, to countries in priority regions and priority flag states 
to help those states implement programs related to port security and 
capacity for the purposes of preventing IUU fishing products from 
entering the global seafood market, including support for implementing 
the Port State Measures Agreement.
    (d) Capacity Building for Investigations and Prosecutions.--The 
officials referred to in subsection (a), in collaboration with the 
governments of countries in priority regions and of priority flag 
states, shall evaluate opportunities to assist those countries in 
designing and implementing programs in such countries, as appropriate, 
to increase the capacity of IUU fishing enforcement and customs and 
border security officers to improve their ability--
            (1) to conduct effective investigations, including using 
        law enforcement techniques such as undercover investigations 
        and the development of informer networks and actionable 
        intelligence;
            (2) to conduct vessel boardings and inspections at sea and 
        associated enforcement actions;
            (3) to exercise existing shiprider agreements and to enter 
        into and implement new shiprider agreements, as appropriate;
            (4) to conduct vessel inspections at port and associated 
        enforcement actions;
            (5) to assess technology needs and promote the use of 
        technology to improve monitoring, enforcement, and prosecution 
        of IUU fishing;
            (6) to conduct DNA-based and forensic identification of 
        seafood used in trade;
            (7) to conduct training on techniques, such as collecting 
        electronic evidence and using computer forensics, for law 
        enforcement personnel involved in complex investigations 
        related to international matters, financial issues, and 
        government corruption that include IUU fishing;
            (8) to assess financial flows and the use of financial 
        institutions to launder profits related to IUU fishing;
            (9) to conduct training on the legal mechanisms that can be 
        used to prosecute those identified in the investigations as 
        alleged perpetrators of IUU fishing and other associated crimes 
        such as trafficking and forced labor; and
            (10) to conduct training to raise awareness of the use of 
        whistleblower information and ways to incentivize 
        whistleblowers to come forward with original information 
        related to IUU fishing.
    (e) Capacity Building for Information Sharing.--The officials 
referred to in subsection (a) shall evaluate opportunities to provide 
assistance, as appropriate, to key countries in priority regions and 
priority flag states in the form of training, equipment, and systems 
development to build capacity for information sharing related to 
maritime enforcement and port security.
    (f) Coordination With Other Relevant Agencies.--The Secretary of 
State, in collaboration with the Secretary of the department in which 
the Coast Guard is operating and the Secretary of Commerce, shall 
coordinate with other relevant agencies, as appropriate, in accordance 
with this section.

SEC. 104. EXPANSION OF EXISTING MECHANISMS TO COMBAT IUU FISHING.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary of State, the Administrator of the 
United States Agency for International Development, the Secretary of 
the Department in which the Coast Guard is operating, the Secretary of 
Defense, the Secretary of Commerce, the Attorney General, and the heads 
of other appropriate Federal agencies shall assess opportunities to 
combat IUU fishing by expanding, as appropriate, the use of the 
following mechanisms:
            (1) Including counter-IUU fishing in existing shiprider 
        agreements in which the United States is a party.
            (2) Entering into shiprider agreements that include 
        counter-IUU fishing with priority flag states and countries in 
        priority regions with which the United States does not already 
        have such an agreement.
            (3) Including counter-IUU fishing as part of the mission of 
        the Combined Maritime Forces.
            (4) Including counter-IUU fishing exercises in the annual 
        at-sea exercises conducted by the Department of Defense, in 
        coordination with the United States Coast Guard.
            (5) Creating partnerships similar to the Oceania Maritime 
        Security Initiative and the Africa Maritime Law Enforcement 
        Partnership in other priority regions.
            (6) Creating incentives for informants.
    (b) Incentives for Informants.--
            (1) In general.--Any person who reports a violation of an 
        IUU fishing law, rule, or regulation may apply to the 
        Department of Justice for a reward.
            (2) Applicable procedures.--
                    (A) In general.--Except as provided in subparagraph 
                (B), the procedures set forth in section 7623(b) of the 
                Internal Revenue Code of 1986 (except for paragraph 
                (5)) shall apply to any application under paragraph 
                (1).
                    (B) Exceptions.--
                            (i) Judicial review.--An informant who 
                        applies for a reward under paragraph (1) may 
                        seek judicial review of a decision by the 
                        Department of Justice in the appropriate United 
                        States District Court.
                            (ii) Amount of reward.--Proceeds payable to 
                        an informant under this subsection shall 
                        include any civil, criminal, or administrative 
                        monetary sanction paid to the Federal 
                        Government in any IUU fishing case or related 
                        action.
                            (iii) Payment deadline.--Not later than 90 
                        days after the payment of the proceeds 
                        described in clause (ii), the Attorney General 
                        shall pay the informant who is eligible for a 
                        reward under this subsection.

SEC. 105. IMPROVEMENT OF TRANSPARENCY AND TRACEABILITY PROGRAMS.

    The Secretary of State, the Administrator of the United States 
Agency for International Development, the Secretary of the Department 
in which the Coast Guard is operating, the Secretary of Commerce, and 
the heads of other Federal agencies, if merited, shall work, as 
appropriate, with priority flag states and key countries in priority 
regions--
            (1) to increase knowledge within such countries about the 
        United States transparency and traceability standards for 
        imports of seafood and seafood products;
            (2) to improve the capacity of seafood industries within 
        such countries through information sharing and training to meet 
        the requirements of Seafood Import Monitoring Program or 
        similar transparency and traceability standards for seafood and 
        seafood product imports, including catch documentation and 
        trade tracking programs adopted by relevant regional fisheries 
        management organizations;
            (3) to improve the capacities of government, industry, and 
        civil society groups to develop and implement comprehensive 
        traceability systems that--
                    (A) deter IUU fishing;
                    (B) strengthen fisheries management; and
                    (C) enhance maritime domain awareness;
            (4) to support the implementation of seafood traceability 
        standards in such countries to prevent IUU fishing products 
        from entering the global seafood market and assess capacity and 
        training needs in those countries;
            (5) to utilize harvest, landing, vessel tracking, and other 
        relevant data that may be collected in response to requirements 
        of seafood traceability programs--
                    (A) to improve fisheries dependent data systems; 
                and
                    (B) to achieve sound management and conservation of 
                fisheries resources; and
            (6) to address, as appropriate, broader underlying causes 
        of IUU fishing, including weak policies and systems, domestic 
        resourcing, and corruption.

SEC. 106. TECHNOLOGY PROGRAMS.

    The Secretary of State, the Administrator of the United States 
Agency for International Development, the Secretary of the Department 
in which the Coast Guard is operating, the Secretary of Defense, the 
Secretary of Commerce, and the heads of other Federal agencies, as 
appropriate, shall pursue programs to expand the role of technology for 
combating IUU fishing and seafood fraud, including by--
            (1) promoting the use of technology to combat IUU fishing 
        and seafood fraud;
            (2) assessing the technology needs, including vessel 
        tracking technologies and data sharing, in priority regions and 
        priority flag states;
            (3) engaging with priority flag states to encourage the 
        mandated use of vessel tracking technologies, including vessel 
        monitoring systems, AIS, or other vessel movement monitoring 
        technologies on fishing vessels and transshipment vessels at 
        all times, as appropriate, while at sea as a means to identify 
        IUU fishing activities and the shipment of illegally caught 
        fish products; and
            (4) building partnerships with the private sector, 
        including universities, nonprofit research organizations, the 
        seafood industry, and the technology, transportation and 
        logistics sectors, to leverage new and existing technologies 
        and data analytics to address IUU fishing and seafood fraud.

SEC. 107. INFORMATION SHARING.

    The Director of National Intelligence, in conjunction with other 
agencies, as appropriate, shall develop an enterprise approach to 
appropriately share information and data within the United States 
Government or with other countries or nongovernmental organizations, or 
the private sector, as appropriate, on IUU fishing and other connected 
transnational organized illegal activity occurring in priority regions 
and elsewhere, including big data analytics and machine learning.

TITLE II--ESTABLISHMENT OF INTERAGENCY WORKING GROUP ON IUU FISHING AND 
                             SEAFOOD FRAUD

SEC. 201. INTERAGENCY WORKING GROUP ON IUU FISHING AND SEAFOOD FRAUD.

    (a) In General.--There is established a collaborative interagency 
working group on maritime security, IUU fishing, and seafood fraud 
(referred to in this title as the ``Working Group'').
    (b) Members.--The members of the Working Group shall be composed 
of--
            (1) 1 chair, who shall be appointed by the Commandant of 
        the United States Coast Guard;
            (2) 2 deputy chairs, who shall be appointed by their 
        respective agency heads, from--
                    (A) the Department of State; and
                    (B) the National Oceanic and Atmospheric 
                Administration;
            (3) 12 members, who shall be appointed by their respective 
        agency heads, from--
                    (A) the Department of Defense;
                    (B) the United States Navy;
                    (C) the United States Agency for International 
                Development;
                    (D) the United States Fish and Wildlife Service;
                    (E) the Department of Justice;
                    (F) the Department of the Treasury;
                    (G) U.S. Customs and Border Protection;
                    (H) U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement;
                    (I) the Federal Trade Commission;
                    (J) the National Institute of Food and Agriculture;
                    (K) the Food and Drug Administration; and
                    (L) the Department of Labor;
            (4) 1 or more members from the intelligence community, who 
        shall be appointed by the Director of National Intelligence; 
        and
            (5) 5 members, who shall be appointed by the President, 
        from--
                    (A) the National Security Council;
                    (B) the Council on Environmental Quality;
                    (C) the Office of Management and Budget;
                    (D) the Office of Science and Technology Policy; 
                and
                    (E) the Office of the United States Trade 
                Representative.
    (c) Responsibilities.--The Working Group shall ensure an 
integrated, Federal Government-wide response to IUU fishing and seafood 
fraud globally, including by--
            (1) improving the coordination of Federal agencies to 
        identify, interdict, investigate, prosecute, and dismantle IUU 
        fishing operations and organizations perpetrating and knowingly 
        benefitting from IUU fishing and seafood fraud in the United 
        States and abroad;
            (2) assessing areas for increased interagency information 
        sharing on matters related to IUU fishing and related crimes;
            (3) establishing standards for information sharing related 
        to maritime enforcement;
            (4) developing a strategy to determine how military assets 
        and intelligence can contribute to enforcement strategies to 
        combat IUU fishing;
            (5) increasing maritime domain awareness relating to IUU 
        fishing and related crimes and developing a strategy to 
        leverage awareness for enhanced enforcement and prosecution 
        actions against IUU fishing;
            (6) supporting the implementation of the Port State 
        Measures Agreement in relevant countries and assessing the 
        capacity and training needs in such countries;
            (7) outlining a strategy to coordinate, increase, and use 
        shiprider agreements between the Department of Defense or the 
        Coast Guard and relevant countries;
            (8) enhancing cooperation with partner governments to 
        combat IUU fishing and seafood fraud;
            (9) identifying opportunities for increased information 
        sharing between Federal agencies and partner governments 
        working to combat IUU fishing and seafood fraud;
            (10) consulting and coordinating with the seafood industry 
        and nongovernmental stakeholders that work to combat IUU 
        fishing and seafood fraud;
            (11) supporting the work of collaborative international 
        initiatives to make available certified data from State 
        authorities about vessel and vessel-related activities related 
        to IUU fishing;
            (12) supporting the identification and certification 
        procedures to address IUU fishing in accordance with the High 
        Seas Driftnet Fishing Moratorium Protection Act (16 U.S.C. 
        1826d et seq.); and
            (13) developing a strategy for raising domestic awareness 
        of the issues relating to IUU fishing and seafood fraud, 
        including publishing annual reports summarizing nonsensitive 
        information about the Working Group's efforts to investigate, 
        enforce, and prosecute groups and individuals engaging in IUU 
        fishing and seafood fraud.

SEC. 202. STRATEGIC PLAN.

    (a) Strategic Plan.--Not later than 2 years after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Working Group shall submit to Congress a 5-
year integrated strategic plan on combating IUU fishing and enhancing 
maritime security, including specific strategies with monitoring 
benchmarks for addressing IUU fishing in priority regions.
    (b) Identification of Priority Regions and Priority Flag States.--
            (1) In general.--The strategic plan submitted under 
        subsection (a) shall identify priority regions and priority 
        flag states to be the focus of assistance coordinated by the 
        Working Group under section 201.
            (2) Priority region selection criteria.--In selecting 
        priority regions under paragraph (1), the Working Group shall 
        select regions that--
                    (A) are at high risk for IUU fishing activity or 
                the entry of illegally caught seafood into their 
                markets; and
                    (B) lack the capacity to fully address the issues 
                described in subparagraph (A).
            (3) Priority flag states selection criteria.--In selecting 
        priority flag states under paragraph (1), the Working Group 
        shall select countries--
                    (A) the flagged vessels of which actively engage 
                in, knowingly profit from, or are complicit in IUU 
                fishing; and
                    (B) that are willing, but lack the capacity, to 
                police their fleet.

SEC. 203. REPORTS.

    Not later than 5 years after the submission of the 5-year 
integrated strategic plan under section 202, and every 5 years 
thereafter, the Working Group shall submit a report to the Committee on 
Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate, the Committee on 
Foreign Relations of the Senate, the Committee on Appropriations of the 
Senate, the Committee on Natural Resources of the House of 
Representatives, the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of 
Representatives, and the Committee on Appropriations of the House of 
Representatives that contains--
            (1) a summary of global and regional trends in IUU fishing 
        and seafood fraud;
            (2) an assessment of the extent of the convergence between 
        transnational organized illegal activity, including human 
        trafficking and forced labor, and IUU fishing;
            (3) an assessment of the topics, data sources, and 
        strategies that would benefit from increased information 
        sharing and recommendations regarding harmonization of data 
        collection and sharing;
            (4) an assessment of assets, including military assets and 
        intelligence, which can be used for either enforcement 
        operations or strategies to combat IUU fishing;
            (5) summaries of the situational threats with respect to 
        IUU fishing in priority regions and an assessment of the 
        capacity of countries within such regions to respond to those 
        threats;
            (6) an assessment of the progress of countries in priority 
        regions in responding to those threats as a result of 
        assistance by the United States pursuant to the strategic plan 
        developed under section 202, including--
                    (A) the identification of--
                            (i) relevant supply routes, ports of call, 
                        methods of landing and entering illegally 
                        caught product into legal supply chains, and 
                        financial institutions used in each country by 
                        participants engaging in IUU fishing; and
                            (ii) indicators of IUU fishing that are 
                        related to money laundering;
                    (B) an assessment of the adherence of countries in 
                priority regions to international treaties related to 
                IUU fishing, including the Port State Measures 
                Agreement;
                    (C) an assessment of the implementation by 
                countries in priority regions of seafood traceability 
                or capacity to apply traceability to verify the 
                legality of catch and strengthen fisheries management;
                    (D) an assessment of the capacity of countries in 
                priority regions to implement shiprider agreements;
                    (E) an assessment of the capacity of countries in 
                priority regions to increase maritime domain awareness; 
                and
                    (F) an assessment of the capacity of governments of 
                relevant countries in priority regions to sustain the 
                programs for which the United States has provided 
                assistance under this Act;
            (7) an assessment of the capacity of priority flag states 
        to track the movement of and police their fleet, prevent their 
        flagged vessels from engaging in IUU fishing, and enforce 
        applicable laws and regulations; and
            (8) an assessment of the extent of involvement in IUU 
        fishing of organizations designated as foreign terrorist 
        organizations under section 219 of the Immigration and 
        Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1189).

SEC. 204. GULF OF MEXICO IUU FISHING SUBWORKING GROUP.

    (a) In General.--Not later than 90 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Administrator of the National Oceanic and 
Atmospheric Administration, in coordination with the Coast Guard and 
the Department of State, shall establish a subworking group to address 
IUU fishing in the exclusive economic zone of the United States in the 
Gulf of Mexico.
    (b) Functions.--The subworking group established under subsection 
(a) shall identify--
            (1) Federal actions taken and policies established during 
        the 5-year period immediately preceding the date of the 
        enactment of this Act with respect to IUU fishing in the 
        exclusive economic zone of the United States in the Gulf of 
        Mexico, including such actions and policies related to--
                    (A) the surveillance, interdiction, and prosecution 
                of any foreign nationals engaged in such fishing; and
                    (B) the application of the provisions of the High 
                Seas Driftnet Fishing Moratorium Protection Act (16 
                U.S.C. 1826d et seq.) to any relevant nation, including 
                the status of any past or ongoing consultations and 
                certification procedures;
            (2) actions and policies, in addition to the actions and 
        policies described in paragraph (1), each of the Federal 
        agencies described in subsection (a) can take, using existing 
        resources, to combat IUU fishing in the exclusive economic zone 
        of the United States in the Gulf of Mexico; and
            (3) any additional authorities that could assist each such 
        agency in more effectively addressing such IUU fishing.
    (c) Report.--Not later than 1 year after the IUU Fishing Subworking 
Group is established under subsection (a), the group shall submit a 
report to the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the 
Senate and the Committee on Natural Resources of the House of 
Representatives that contains--
            (1) the findings identified pursuant to subsection (b); and
            (2) a timeline for each of the Federal agencies described 
        in subsection (a) to implement each action or policy identified 
        pursuant to subsection (b)(2).

TITLE III--COMBATING HUMAN TRAFFICKING IN CONNECTION WITH THE CATCHING 
                   AND PROCESSING OF SEAFOOD PRODUCTS

SEC. 301. FINDING.

    Congress finds that human trafficking is a pervasive problem in the 
catching and processing of certain seafood products imported into the 
United States, particularly seafood products obtained through illegal, 
unreported, and unregulated fishing.

SEC. 302. ADDING THE SECRETARY OF COMMERCE TO THE INTERAGENCY TASK 
              FORCE TO MONITOR AND COMBAT TRAFFICKING.

    Section 105(b) of the Victims of Trafficking and Violence 
Protection Act of 2000 (22 U.S.C. 7103(b)) is amended by inserting 
``the Secretary of Commerce,'' after ``the Secretary of Education,''.

SEC. 303. HUMAN TRAFFICKING IN THE SEAFOOD SUPPLY CHAIN REPORT.

    (a) In General.--Not later than 1 year after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Administrator of the National Oceanic and 
Atmospheric Administration and the Commissioner of the Food and Drug 
Administration shall jointly submit a report to Congress that describes 
the existence of human trafficking in the supply chains of seafood 
products imported into the United States.
    (b) Report Elements.--The report required under subsection (a) 
shall include--
            (1) a list of the countries at risk for human trafficking 
        in their seafood catching and processing industries, and an 
        assessment of such risk for each listed country;
            (2) a description of the quantity and economic value of 
        seafood products imported into the United States from the 
        countries on the list compiled pursuant to paragraph (1);
            (3) a description and assessment of the methods, if any, in 
        the countries on the list compiled pursuant to paragraph (1) to 
        trace and account for the manner in which seafood is caught;
            (4) a description of domestic and international enforcement 
        mechanisms to deter illegal practices in the catching of 
        seafood in the countries on the list compiled pursuant to 
        paragraph (1); and
            (5) such recommendations as the Administrator and the 
        Commissioner jointly consider appropriate for legislative or 
        administrative action to enhance and improve actions against 
        human trafficking in the catching and processing of seafood 
        products outside of United States waters.

               TITLE IV--AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS

SEC. 401. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.

    There are authorized to be appropriated such sums as may be 
necessary to carry out the activities required under this Act.
                                 &lt;all&gt;
</pre></body></html>
