<html><body><pre>
[Congressional Bills 110th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.R. 5610 Introduced in House (IH)]







110th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                H. R. 5610

  To designate as wilderness additional National Forest System lands, 
 Bureau of Land Management Lands, and National Parks Service lands in 
     the States of West Virginia, Arizona, New Mexico, Oregon, and 
                  California, and for other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                             March 13, 2008

Mr. Grijalva (for himself, Mr. Rahall, Mr. DeFazio, Mr. Costa, and Mr. 
Udall of New Mexico) introduced the following bill; which was referred 
to the Committee on Natural Resources, and in addition to the Committee 
   on Agriculture, for a period to be subsequently determined by the 
  Speaker, in each case for consideration of such provisions as fall 
           within the jurisdiction of the committee concerned

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
  To designate as wilderness additional National Forest System lands, 
 Bureau of Land Management Lands, and National Parks Service lands in 
     the States of West Virginia, Arizona, New Mexico, Oregon, and 
                  California, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    (a) Short Title.--This Act may be cited as the ``Protecting 
America's Wild Places Act of 2008''.
    (b) Table of Contents.--The table of contents for this Act as 
follows:

Sec. 1. Short title.
  TITLE I--CERTAIN LANDS DESIGNATED AS WILDERNESS WITHIN MONONGAHELA 
                     NATIONAL FOREST, WEST VIRGINIA

Sec. 101. Short title.
Sec. 102. Designation of wilderness, Monongahela National Forest, West 
                            Virginia.
               TITLE II--TUMACACORI HIGHLANDS WILDERNESS

Sec. 201. Short title.
Sec. 202. Expansion of Pajarita Wilderness, Coronado National Forest, 
                            Arizona.
Sec. 203. Designation of Tumacacori Highlands Wilderness, Coronado 
                            National Forest, Arizona.
Sec. 204. Administration of wilderness areas.
                     TITLE III--SABINOSO WILDERNESS

Sec. 301. Short title.
Sec. 302. Definitions.
Sec. 303. Designation of the Sabinoso Wilderness.
                   TITLE IV--COPPER SALMON WILDERNESS

Sec. 401. Short title.
Sec. 402. Designation of the Copper Salmon Wilderness.
Sec. 403. Wild and scenic river designations, Elk River, Oregon.
Sec. 404. Protection of tribal rights.
            TITLE V--CALIFORNIA DESERT AND MOUNTAIN HERITAGE

Sec. 501. Short title.
       Subtitle A--Designation and Expansion of Wilderness Areas

Sec. 511. Definition of Secretary.
Sec. 512. Designation of wilderness, Cleveland and San Bernardino 
                            National Forests, Joshua Tree National 
                            Park, and Bureau of Land Management land in 
                            Riverside County, California.
Sec. 513. Joshua Tree National Park potential wilderness.
Sec. 514. Administration of wilderness.
             Subtitle B--Wild and Scenic River Designations

Sec. 521. Wild and scenic river designations, Riverside County, 
                            California.
 Subtitle C--Additions and Technical Corrections to Santa Rosa and San 
                  Jacinto Mountains National Monument

Sec. 531. Boundary adjustment, Santa Rosa and San Jacinto Mountains 
                            National Monument.
Sec. 532. Technical amendments to the Santa Rosa and San Jacinto 
                            Mountains National Monument Act of 2000.
        TITLE VI--SEQUOIA-KINGS CANYON NATIONAL PARK WILDERNESS

Sec. 601. Short title.
Sec. 602. Definitions.
Sec. 603. Designation of wilderness areas.
Sec. 604. Administration of wilderness areas.
Sec. 605. Authorization of appropriations.

  TITLE I--CERTAIN LANDS DESIGNATED AS WILDERNESS WITHIN MONONGAHELA 
                     NATIONAL FOREST, WEST VIRGINIA

SEC. 101. SHORT TITLE.

    This title may be cited as the ``Wild Monongahela Act: A National 
Legacy for West Virginia's Special Places''.

SEC. 102. DESIGNATION OF WILDERNESS, MONONGAHELA NATIONAL FOREST, WEST 
              VIRGINIA.

    (a) Designation.--In furtherance of the purposes of the Wilderness 
Act (16 U.S.C. 1131 et seq.), the following Federal lands within the 
Monongahela National Forest in the State of West Virginia are 
designated as wilderness and as either a new component of the National 
Wilderness Preservation System or as an addition to an existing 
component of the National Wilderness Preservation System:
            (1) Certain Federal land comprising approximately 5,144 
        acres, as generally depicted on the map entitled ``Big Draft 
        Proposed Wilderness'' and dated March 11, 2008, which shall be 
        known as the ``Big Draft Wilderness''.
            (2) Certain Federal land comprising approximately 7,895 
        acres, as generally depicted on the map entitled ``Cheat 
        Mountain Proposed Wilderness'' and dated March 11, 2008, which 
        shall be known as the ``Cheat Mountain Wilderness''.
            (3) Certain Federal land comprising approximately 11,951 
        acres, as generally depicted on the map entitled ``Cranberry 
        Expansion Proposed Wilderness'' and dated March 11, 2008, which 
        shall be added to and administered as part of the Cranberry 
        Wilderness designated by section 1(1) of Public Law 97-466 (96 
        Stat. 2538).
            (4) Certain Federal land comprising approximately 7,156 
        acres, as generally depicted on the map entitled ``Dolly Sods 
        Expansion Proposed Wilderness'' and dated March 11, 2008, which 
        shall be added to and administered as part of the Dolly Sods 
        Wilderness designated by section 3(a)(13) of Public Law 93-622 
        (88 Stat. 2098).
            (5) Certain Federal land comprising approximately 698 
        acres, as generally depicted on the map entitled ``Otter Creek 
        Expansion Proposed Wilderness'' and dated March 11, 2008, which 
        shall be added to and administered as part of the Otter Creek 
        Wilderness designated by section 3(a)(14) of Public Law 93-622 
        (88 Stat. 2098).
            (6) Certain Federal land comprising approximately 6,792 
        acres, as generally depicted on the map entitled ``Roaring 
        Plains West Proposed Wilderness'' and dated March 11, 2008, 
        which shall be known as the ``Roaring Plains West Wilderness''.
            (7) Certain Federal land comprising approximately 6,030 
        acres, as generally depicted on the map entitled ``Spice Run 
        Proposed Wilderness'' and dated March 11, 2008, which shall be 
        known as the ``Spice Run Wilderness''.
    (b) Maps and Legal Description.--
            (1) Filing and availability.--As soon as practicable after 
        the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of 
        Agriculture, acting through the Chief of the Forest Service, 
        shall file with the Committee on Natural Resources of the House 
        of Representatives and the Committee on Energy and Natural 
        Resources of the Senate a map and legal description of each 
        wilderness area designated or expanded by subsection (a). The 
        maps and legal descriptions shall be on file and available for 
        public inspection in the office of the Chief of the Forest 
        Service and the office of the Supervisor of the Monongahela 
        National Forest.
            (2) Force and effect.--The maps and legal descriptions 
        referred to in this subsection shall have the same force and 
        effect as if included in this title, except that the Secretary 
        may correct clerical and typographical errors in the maps and 
        descriptions.
    (c) Administration.--Subject to valid existing rights, the Federal 
lands designated as wilderness by subsection (a) shall be administered 
by the Secretary in accordance with the Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1131 
et seq.).
    (d) Effective Date of Wilderness Act.--With respect to the Federal 
lands designated as wilderness by subsection (a), any reference in the 
Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1131 et seq.) to the effective date of the 
Wilderness Act shall be deemed to be a reference to the date of the 
enactment of this Act.
    (e) Fish and Wildlife.--As provided in section 4(d)(7) of the 
Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1133(d)(7)), nothing in this section affects 
the jurisdiction or responsibility of the State of West Virginia with 
respect to wildlife and fish.

               TITLE II--TUMACACORI HIGHLANDS WILDERNESS

SEC. 201. SHORT TITLE.

    This title may be cited as the ``Tumacacori Highlands Wilderness 
Act of 2008''.

SEC. 202. EXPANSION OF PAJARITA WILDERNESS, CORONADO NATIONAL FOREST, 
              ARIZONA.

    (a) Expansion.--Section 101(a)(17) of the Arizona Wilderness Act of 
1984 (Public Law 98-406; 98 Stat. 1487; 16 U.S.C. 1132 note) is amended 
by inserting after ``1984,'' the following: ``and which comprise 
approximately 13,300 acres, as generally depicted on a map entitled 
`Tumacacori Highlands Wilderness and Pajarita Wilderness Addition', 
dated August 1, 2007,''.
    (b) Map and Legal Description.--As soon as practicable after the 
date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Agriculture shall 
submit a copy of the map referred to in the amendment made by 
subsection (a) and a legal description of the National Forest System 
land included in the Pajarita Wilderness by the amendment with the 
Committee on Energy and Natural Resources of the Senate and the 
Committee on Resources of the House of Representatives. The map and 
legal description shall have the same force and effect as if included 
in the Arizona Wilderness Act of 1984, except that the Secretary may 
correct clerical and typographical errors in the map and legal 
description. The map and legal description shall be on file and 
available for public inspection in the appropriate offices of the 
Forest Service.

SEC. 203. DESIGNATION OF TUMACACORI HIGHLANDS WILDERNESS, CORONADO 
              NATIONAL FOREST, ARIZONA.

    (a) Designation.--In furtherance of the purposes of the Wilderness 
Act (16 U.S.C. 1131 et seq.), certain lands in the Coronado National 
Forest, Arizona, which comprise approximately 70,000 acres, as 
generally depicted on a map entitled ``Tumacacori Highlands Wilderness 
and Pajarita Wilderness Addition'' and dated August 1, 2007, are hereby 
designated as wilderness and, therefore, as a component of the National 
Wilderness Preservation System, which shall be known as the 
``Tumacacori Highlands Wilderness''.
    (b) Map and Legal Description.--As soon as practicable after the 
date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Agriculture shall 
submit a copy of the map referred to in subsection (a) and a legal 
description of the Tumacacori Highlands Wilderness with the Committee 
on Energy and Natural Resources of the Senate and the Committee on 
Resources of the House of Representatives. The map and legal 
description shall have the same force and effect as if included in this 
title, except that the Secretary may correct clerical and typographical 
errors in the map and legal description. The map and legal description 
shall be on file and available for public inspection in the appropriate 
offices of the Forest Service.

SEC. 204. ADMINISTRATION OF WILDERNESS AREAS.

    (a) Covered Wilderness Areas.--In this section, the term ``covered 
wilderness area'' means--
            (1) the National Forest System land included in the 
        Pajarita Wilderness by the amendment made by section 202(a); 
        and
            (2) the Tumacacori Highlands Wilderness designated by 
        section 203(a).
    (b) Administration.--The Secretary of Agriculture shall manage the 
covered wilderness area in accordance with the Wilderness Act (16 
U.S.C. 1131 et seq.) and this section, except that, with respect to a 
covered wilderness area, any reference in the Wilderness Act to the 
effective date of the Wilderness Act shall be deemed to be a reference 
to the date of the enactment of this Act.
    (c) Valid Existing Rights.--Nothing in this section shall affect 
any valid existing right.
    (d) Buffer Zones.--As provided in section 101(d) of the Arizona 
Wilderness Act of 1984 (Public Law 98-406; 98 Stat. 1488), Congress 
does not intend that designation of a covered wilderness area lead to 
the creation of protective perimeters or buffer zones around the 
covered wilderness area. The fact that nonwilderness activities or uses 
can be seen or heard from areas within a covered wilderness area shall 
not, of itself, preclude such activities or uses up to the boundary of 
the covered wilderness area.
    (e) Grazing.--Grazing of livestock and maintenance of existing 
facilities related to grazing in a covered wilderness area, where 
established before the date of the enactment of this Act, shall be 
permitted to continue in accordance with--
            (1) section 4(d)(4) of the Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 
        1133(d)(4)); and
            (2) the guidelines set forth in House Report 96-617 to 
        accompany H.R. 5487 of the 96th Congress.
    (f) Hunting, Fish and Wildlife.--
            (1) Hunting.--Nothing in this section or the Wilderness Act 
        shall affect hunting, under applicable State and Federal laws 
        and regulations, within a covered wilderness area.
            (2) Jurisdiction.--As provided in section 4(d)(7) of the 
        Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1133(d)(7)), nothing in this section 
        or the Wilderness Act shall be construed as affecting the 
        jurisdiction or responsibilities of the State of Arizona with 
        respect to fish and wildlife in the State.
            (3) Wildlife management.--In furtherance of the purposes 
        and principles of the Wilderness Act, management activities to 
        maintain or restore fish and wildlife populations and habitats 
        to support such populations may be carried out within a covered 
        wilderness area, where consistent with relevant wilderness 
        management plans, in accordance with appropriate policies and 
        guidelines.
    (g) Protection of Tribal Rights.--Nothing in this section shall be 
construed to diminish the existing rights of any Indian tribe. Nothing 
in this section shall be construed to diminish tribal rights regarding 
access to Federal lands for tribal activities, including spiritual, 
cultural, and traditional food gathering activities.
    (h) Military Activities.--Nothing in this section shall preclude 
low level overflights of military aircraft, the designation of new 
units of special airspace, or the use or establishment of military 
flight training routes over a covered wilderness area.
    (i) Border Enforcement and Drug Interdiction.--Because of the 
proximity of the covered wilderness areas to the United States-Mexico 
international border, drug interdiction and border enforcement 
operations are common management actions throughout the area 
encompassing the covered wilderness areas. This title recognizes the 
need to continue such management actions so long as such management 
actions are conducted in accordance with the Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 
1131 et seq.) and existing inter-agency agreements.
    (j) Maintenance of Existing Communications Facilities.--The 
provisions of the Wilderness Act shall not be construed to prevent--
            (1) the maintenance of communications facilities, in 
        existence on the date of the enactment of this Act and located 
        in a covered wilderness area; or
            (2) limited motorized access to such facilities when 
        nonmotorized access means are not reasonably available or when 
        time is of the essence, subject to such conditions as the 
        Secretary of Agriculture considers to be desirable.

                     TITLE III--SABINOSO WILDERNESS

SEC. 301. SHORT TITLE.

    This title may be cited as the ``Sabinoso Wilderness Act of 2008''.

SEC. 302. DEFINITIONS.

    In this title:
            (1) Map.--The term ``map'' means the map titled ``Sabinoso 
        Wilderness'' and dated May 10, 2007.
            (2) State.--The term ``State'' means the State of New 
        Mexico.
            (3) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary 
        of the Interior.

SEC. 303. DESIGNATION OF THE SABINOSO WILDERNESS.

    (a) In General.--In furtherance of the purposes of the Wilderness 
Act (16 U.S.C. 1131 et seq.), there is hereby designated as wilderness, 
and, therefore, as a component of the National Wilderness Preservation 
System, certain land under the jurisdiction of the Taos Field Office 
Bureau of Land Management, New Mexico, which comprises approximately 
19,880 acres, as generally depicted on the map, and which shall be 
known as the ``Sabinoso Wilderness''.
    (b) Map and Legal Description.--The map and a legal description of 
the wilderness area designated by this title shall--
            (1) be filed by the Secretary with the Committee on Energy 
        and Natural Resources of the Senate and the Committee on 
        Natural Resources of the House of Representatives as soon as 
        practicable after the date of the enactment of this Act;
            (2) have the same force and effect as if included in this 
        title, except that the Secretary may correct clerical and 
        typographical errors in the legal description and map; and
            (3) be on file and available for public inspection in the 
        appropriate offices of the Bureau of Land Management.
    (c) Management of Wilderness.--Subject to valid existing rights, 
the wilderness areas designated by this title shall be administered in 
accordance with the Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1131 et seq.) and this 
title, except that with respect to the wilderness areas designated by 
this title, any reference to the effective date of the Wilderness Act 
shall be deemed to be a reference to the date of enactment of this Act 
and any reference in the Wilderness Act to the Secretary of Agriculture 
shall be considered to be a reference to the Secretary of the Interior.
    (d) Incorporation of Acquired Land.--Any land or interest in land 
located inside the boundaries of the wilderness area designated by this 
title that is acquired by the United States after the date of enactment 
of this Act shall become part of the wilderness area designated by this 
title and shall be managed in accordance with this title and other 
applicable law.
    (e) Grazing.--Grazing of livestock in the wilderness area 
designated by this title, where established before the date of 
enactment of this Act, shall be administered in accordance with the 
provisions of section 4(d)(4) of the Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 
1133(d)(4)) and the guidelines set forth in Appendix A of the Report of 
the Committee on Interior and Insular Affairs to accompany H.R. 2570 of 
the 101st Congress (H. Rept. 101-405).
    (f) Fish and Wildlife.--As provided in section 4(d)(7) of the 
Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1133(d)(7)), nothing in this section shall be 
construed as affecting the jurisdiction or responsibilities of the 
State with respect to fish and wildlife in the State, including the 
regulation of hunting, fishing, and trapping, in the wilderness area 
designated by this title.
    (g) Withdrawal.--Subject to valid existing rights, the wilderness 
area designated by this title is withdrawn from--
            (1) all forms of entry, appropriation, and disposal under 
        the public land laws;
            (2) location, entry, and patent under the mining laws; and
            (3) operation of the mineral leasing, mineral materials, 
        and geothermal leasing laws.

                   TITLE IV--COPPER SALMON WILDERNESS

SEC. 401. SHORT TITLE.

    This title may be cited as the ``Copper Salmon Wilderness Act of 
2008''.

SEC. 402. DESIGNATION OF THE COPPER SALMON WILDERNESS.

    (a) Designation.--Section 3 of the Oregon Wilderness Act of 1984 
(16 U.S.C. 1132 note; Public Law 98-328) is amended--
            (1) in the matter preceding paragraph (1), by striking 
        ``eight hundred fifty-nine thousand six hundred acres'' and 
        inserting ``873,300 acres'';
            (2) in paragraph (29), by striking the period at the end 
        and inserting ``; and''; and
            (3) by adding at the end the following:
            ``(30) certain land in the Siskiyou National Forest, 
        comprising approximately 13,700 acres, as generally depicted on 
        the map entitled `Proposed Copper Salmon Wilderness Area' and 
        dated December 7, 2007, to be known as the `Copper Salmon 
        Wilderness'.''.
    (b) Maps and Legal Description.--
            (1) In general.--As soon as practicable after the date of 
        enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Agriculture (referred 
        to in this title as the ``Secretary'') shall file a map and a 
        legal description of the Copper Salmon Wilderness with--
                    (A) the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources 
                of the Senate; and
                    (B) the Committee on Natural Resources of the House 
                of Representatives.
            (2) Force of law.--The map and legal description filed 
        under paragraph (1) shall have the same force and effect as if 
        included in this Act, except that the Secretary may correct 
        typographical errors in the map and legal description.
            (3) Boundary.--If the boundary of the Copper Salmon 
        Wilderness shares a border with a road, the Secretary may only 
        establish an offset that is not more than 150 feet from the 
        centerline of the road.
            (4) Public availability.--Each map and legal description 
        filed under paragraph (1) shall be on file and available for 
        public inspection in the appropriate offices of the Forest 
        Service.

SEC. 403. WILD AND SCENIC RIVER DESIGNATIONS, ELK RIVER, OREGON.

    Section 3(a)(76) of the Wild and Scenic Rivers Act (16 U.S.C. 
1274(a)(76)) is amended--
            (1) in the matter preceding subparagraph (A), by striking 
        ``19-mile segment'' and inserting ``28.2-mile segment'';
            (2) in subparagraph (A), by striking ``; and'' and 
        inserting a period; and
            (3) by striking subparagraph (B) and inserting the 
        following:
                    ``(B)(i) The approximately 0.6-mile segment of the 
                North Fork Elk from its source in sec. 21, T. 33 S., R. 
                12 W., Willamette Meridian, downstream to 0.01 miles 
                below Forest Service Road 3353, as a scenic river.
                    ``(ii) The approximately 5.5-mile segment of the 
                North Fork Elk from 0.01 miles below Forest Service 
                Road 3353 to its confluence with the South Fork Elk, as 
                a wild river.
                    ``(C)(i) The approximately 0.9-mile segment of the 
                South Fork Elk from its source in the southeast quarter 
                of sec. 32, T. 33 S., R. 12 W., Willamette Meridian, 
                downstream to 0.01 miles below Forest Service Road 
                3353, as a scenic river.
                    ``(ii) The approximately 4.2-mile segment of the 
                South Fork Elk from 0.01 miles below Forest Service 
                Road 3353 to its confluence with the North Fork Elk, as 
                a wild river.''.

SEC. 404. PROTECTION OF TRIBAL RIGHTS.

    (a) In General.--Nothing in this title shall be construed as 
diminishing any right of any Indian tribe.
    (b) Memorandum of Understanding.--The Secretary shall seek to enter 
into a memorandum of understanding with the Coquille Indian Tribe 
regarding access to the Copper Salmon Wilderness to conduct historical 
and cultural activities.

            TITLE V--CALIFORNIA DESERT AND MOUNTAIN HERITAGE

SEC. 501. SHORT TITLE.

    This title may be cited as the ``California Desert and Mountain 
Heritage Act of 2008''.

       Subtitle A--Designation and Expansion of Wilderness Areas

SEC. 511. DEFINITION OF SECRETARY.

    In this subtitle, the term ``Secretary'' means--
            (1) with respect to land under the jurisdiction of the 
        Secretary of Agriculture, the Secretary of Agriculture; and
            (2) with respect to land under the jurisdiction of the 
        Secretary of the Interior, the Secretary of the Interior.

SEC. 512. DESIGNATION OF WILDERNESS, CLEVELAND AND SAN BERNARDINO 
              NATIONAL FORESTS, JOSHUA TREE NATIONAL PARK, AND BUREAU 
              OF LAND MANAGEMENT LAND IN RIVERSIDE COUNTY, CALIFORNIA.

    (a) Agua Tibia Wilderness Addition.--In accordance with the 
Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1131 et seq.), certain land in the Cleveland 
National Forest and certain land administered by the Bureau of Land 
Management in Riverside County, California, together comprising 
approximately 2,031 acres, as generally depicted on the map entitled 
``Agua Tibia Proposed Wilderness'', and dated February 23, 2007, is 
designated as wilderness and is incorporated in, and shall be deemed to 
be a part of, the Agua Tibia Wilderness designated by section 2(a) of 
Public Law 93-632 (88 Stat. 2154; 16 U.S.C. 1132 note).
    (b) Cahuilla Mountain Wilderness.--In accordance with the 
Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1131 et seq.), certain land in the San 
Bernardino National Forest, California, comprising approximately 6,421 
acres, as generally depicted on the map entitled ``Cahuilla Mountain 
Proposed Wilderness'', and dated February 23, 2007, is designated as 
wilderness and, therefore, as a component of the National Wilderness 
Preservation System, which shall be known as the ``Cahuilla Mountain 
Wilderness''.
    (c) South Fork San Jacinto Wilderness.--In accordance with the 
Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1131 et seq.), certain land in the San 
Bernardino National Forest, California, comprising approximately 20,695 
acres, as generally depicted on the map entitled ``South Fork San 
Jacinto Proposed Wilderness'', and dated September 20, 2007, is 
designated as wilderness and, therefore, as a component of the National 
Wilderness Preservation System, which shall be known as the ``South 
Fork San Jacinto Wilderness''.
    (d) Santa Rosa Wilderness Addition.--In accordance with the 
Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1131 et seq.), certain land in the San 
Bernardino National Forest, California, and certain land administered 
by the Bureau of Land Management in Riverside County, California, 
comprising approximately 2,149 acres, as generally depicted on the map 
entitled ``Santa Rosa-San Jacinto National Monument Expansion and Santa 
Rosa Wilderness Addition'', and dated March 12, 2008, is designated as 
wilderness and is incorporated in, and shall be deemed to be a part of, 
the Santa Rosa Wilderness designated by section 101(a)(28) of Public 
Law 98-425 (98 Stat. 1623; 16 U.S.C. 1132 note) and expanded by 
paragraph (59) of section 102 of Public Law 103-433 (108 Stat. 4472; 16 
U.S.C. 1132 note).
    (e) Beauty Mountain Wilderness.--In accordance with the Wilderness 
Act (16 U.S.C. 1131 et seq.), certain land administered by the Bureau 
of Land Management in Riverside County, California, comprising 
approximately 15,621 acres, as generally depicted on the map entitled 
``Beauty Mountain Proposed Wilderness'', and dated April 3, 2007, is 
designated as wilderness and, therefore, as a component of the National 
Wilderness Preservation System, which shall be known as the ``Beauty 
Mountain Wilderness''.
    (f) Joshua Tree National Park Wilderness Addition.--In accordance 
with the Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1131 et seq.), certain land in 
Joshua Tree National Park, comprising approximately 36,700 acres, as 
generally depicted on the map numbered 156/80,055, and entitled 
``Joshua Tree National Park Proposed Wilderness Additions'', and dated 
March 2008, is designated as wilderness and is incorporated in, and 
shall be deemed to be a part of, the Joshua Tree Wilderness designated 
by section 1(g) of Public Law 94-567 (90 Stat. 2692; 16 U.S.C. 1132 
note).
    (g) Orocopia Mountains Wilderness Addition.--In accordance with the 
Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1131 et seq.), certain land administered by 
the Bureau of Land Management in Riverside County, California, 
comprising approximately 4,835 acres, as generally depicted on the map 
entitled ``Orocopia Mountains Proposed Wilderness Addition'', and dated 
February 21, 2008, is designated as wilderness and is incorporated in, 
and shall be deemed to be a part of, the Orocopia Mountains Wilderness 
as designated by paragraph (44) of section 102 of Public Law 103-433 
(108 Stat. 4472; 16 U.S.C. 1132 note), except that the wilderness 
boundaries established by this subsection in Township 7 South are 
intended to exclude--
            (1) a corridor 250 feet north of the centerline of the 
        Bradshaw Road;
            (2) a corridor 250 feet from both sides of the centerline 
        of the vehicle route in the unnamed wash that flows between the 
        Eagle Mountain Railroad on the south and the existing Orocopia 
        Mountains Wilderness boundary; and
            (3) a corridor 250 feet from both sides of the centerline 
        of the vehicle route in the unnamed wash that flows between the 
        Chocolate Mountain Aerial Gunnery Range on the south and the 
        existing Orocopia Mountains Wilderness boundary.
    (h) Palen/McCoy Wilderness Additions.--In accordance with the 
Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1131 et seq.), certain land administered by 
the Bureau of Land Management in Riverside County, California, 
comprising approximately 23,465 acres, as generally depicted on the map 
entitled ``Palen/McCoy Proposed Wilderness Additions'', and dated 
September 25, 2007, is designated as wilderness and is incorporated in, 
and shall be deemed to be a part of, the Palen/McCoy Wilderness as 
designated by paragraph (47) of section 102 of Public Law 103-433 (108 
Stat. 4472; 16 U.S.C. 1132 note).
    (i) Pinto Mountains Wilderness.--In accordance with the Wilderness 
Act (16 U.S.C. 1131 et seq.), certain land administered by the Bureau 
of Land Management in Riverside County, California, comprising 
approximately 24,404 acres, as generally depicted on the map entitled 
``Pinto Mountains Proposed Wilderness'', and dated February 21, 2008, 
is designated as wilderness and, therefore, as a component of the 
National Wilderness Preservation System, which shall be known as the 
``Pinto Mountains Wilderness''.
    (j) Chuckwalla Mountains Wilderness Additions.--In accordance with 
the Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1131 et seq.), certain land administered 
by the Bureau of Land Management in Riverside County, California, 
comprising approximately 13,255 acres, as generally depicted on the map 
entitled ``Chuckwalla Mountains Proposed Wilderness Addition'', and 
dated February 21, 2008, is designated as wilderness and is 
incorporated in, and shall be deemed to be a part of the Chuckwalla 
Mountains Wilderness as designated by paragraph (12) of section 102 of 
Public Law 103-433 (108 Stat. 4472; 16 U.S.C. 1132 note).
    (k) Maps and Descriptions.--
            (1) In general.--As soon as practicable after the date of 
        the enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall file a map and 
        legal description of each wilderness area and wilderness 
        addition designated by this section with the Committee on 
        Natural Resources of the House of Representatives and the 
        Committee on Energy and Natural Resources of the Senate.
            (2) Force of law.--A map and legal description filed under 
        paragraph (1) shall have the same force and effect as if 
        included in this title, except that the Secretary may correct 
        errors in the map and legal description.
            (3) Public availability.--Each map and legal description 
        filed under paragraph (1) shall be filed and made available for 
        public inspection in the appropriate office of the Secretary.
    (l) Utility Facilities and Corridors.--The wilderness areas and 
wilderness additions designated by this section are intended to exclude 
rights of way for existing utility facilities, such as power, gas, and 
telecommunications lines, and associated structures and access roads, 
and existing designated utility corridors. Nothing in this section or 
the Wilderness Act shall be construed to prohibit construction, 
operation, and maintenance, using standard industry practices, of 
existing utility facilities located outside of the wilderness areas and 
wilderness additions designated by this section.

SEC. 513. JOSHUA TREE NATIONAL PARK POTENTIAL WILDERNESS.

    (a) Designation of Potential Wilderness.--Certain land in the 
Joshua Tree National Park, comprising approximately 43,300 acres, as 
generally depicted on the map numbered 156/80,055, and entitled 
``Joshua Tree National Park Proposed Wilderness Additions'', and dated 
March 2008, is designated potential wilderness and shall be managed by 
the Secretary of the Interior insofar as practicable as wilderness 
until such time as the land is designated as wilderness pursuant to 
subsection (b).
    (b) Designation as Wilderness.--The land designated potential 
wilderness by subsection (a) shall be designated as wilderness and 
incorporated in, and be deemed to be a part of, the Joshua Tree 
Wilderness designated by section 1(g) of Public Law 94-567 (90 Stat. 
2692; 16 U.S.C. 1132 note), effective upon publication by the Secretary 
of the Interior in the Federal Register of a notice that--
            (1) all uses of the land within the potential wilderness 
        prohibited by the Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1131 et seq.) have 
        ceased; or
            (2) sufficient inholdings within the boundaries of the 
        potential wilderness have been acquired to establish a 
        manageable wilderness unit.
    (c) Map and Description.--
            (1) In general.--As soon as practicable after the date on 
        which the notice required by subsection (b) is published in the 
        Federal Register, the Secretary shall file a map and legal 
        description of the land designated as wilderness and potential 
        wilderness by this section with the Committee on Natural 
        Resources of the House of Representatives and the Committee on 
        Energy and Natural Resources of the Senate.
            (2) Force of law.--The map and legal description filed 
        under paragraph (1) shall have the same force and effect as if 
        included in this title, except that the Secretary may correct 
        errors in the map and legal description.
            (3) Public availability.--Each map and legal description 
        filed under paragraph (1) shall be filed and made available for 
        public inspection in the appropriate office of the Secretary.

SEC. 514. ADMINISTRATION OF WILDERNESS.

    (a) Management.--Subject to valid existing rights, the land 
designated as wilderness or as a wilderness addition by this subtitle 
shall be administered by the Secretary in accordance with the 
Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1131 et seq.), except that--
            (1) any reference in that Act to the effective date of that 
        Act shall be deemed to be a reference to--
                    (A) the date of the enactment of this Act; or
                    (B) in the case of the wilderness addition 
                designated by subsection (b) of section 513, the date 
                on which the notice required by such subsection is 
                published in the Federal Register; and
            (2) any reference in that Act to the Secretary of 
        Agriculture shall be deemed to be a reference to the Secretary 
        that has jurisdiction over the land.
    (b) Incorporation of Acquired Land and Interests.--Any land within 
the boundaries of a wilderness area or wilderness addition designated 
by this subtitle that is acquired by the United States shall--
            (1) become part of the wilderness area in which the land is 
        located; and
            (2) be managed in accordance with this subtitle, the 
        Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1131 et seq.), and any other 
        applicable law.
    (c) Withdrawal.--Subject to valid rights in existence on the date 
of enactment of this Act, the land designated as wilderness by this 
subtitle is withdrawn from all forms of--
            (1) entry, appropriation, or disposal under the public land 
        laws;
            (2) location, entry, and patent under the mining laws; and
            (3) disposition under all laws pertaining to mineral and 
        geothermal leasing or mineral materials.
    (d) Fire Management and Related Activities.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary may take such measures in a 
        wilderness area or wilderness addition designated by this title 
        as are necessary for the control and prevention of fire, 
        insects, and diseases, including the use of prescribed burning, 
        priority treatments, or fuels reduction, in accordance with 
        section 4(d)(1) of the Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1133(d)(1)) 
        and House Report 98-40 of the 98th Congress. The designation of 
        wilderness areas and wilderness additions by this title is not 
        intended to alter the priorities afforded the land so 
        designated in allocating funds for fire and related fuels 
        management.
            (2) Revision and development of local fire management 
        plans.--As soon as practicable after the date of the enactment 
        of this Act, the Secretary shall amend the local fire 
        management plans that apply to the Santa Rosa Mountain 
        Wilderness and Agua Tibia Wilderness, and prepare local fire 
        management plans for the Beauty Mountain Wilderness, Cahuilla 
        Mountain Wilderness, and South Fork San Jacinto Wilderness 
        Area, to authorize the appropriate local manager to take such 
        actions in the wilderness areas under their jurisdiction as are 
        necessary for fire prevention and watershed protection 
        consistent with the Wilderness Act, including best management 
        practices for fire presuppression and fire suppression measures 
        and techniques.
            (3) Incorporation into land management planning.--Any 
        special provisions contained in the local fire management plans 
        for the wilderness areas referred to in paragraph (2) pursuant 
        to such paragraph shall be incorporated into the applicable 
        Land Management Plans.
            (4) State or local agencies.--Consistent with the 
        Wilderness Act and other applicable Federal law, the Secretary 
        may delegate by written agreement primary firefighting 
        authority and fire-related public safety activities to an 
        appropriate State or local agency.
    (e) Grazing.--Grazing of livestock in a wilderness area or 
wilderness addition designated by this subtitle shall be administered 
in accordance with the provisions of section 4(d)(4) of the Wilderness 
Act (16 U.S.C. 1133(d)(4)) and the guidelines set forth in House Report 
96-617 to accompany H.R. 5487 of the 96th Congress.
    (f) Native American Uses and Interests.--
            (1) Effect of designation.--Nothing in the designation of 
        the Cahuilla Mountain Wilderness by this subtitle affects the 
        unique cultural artifacts and sacred sites of the Indian tribes 
        that are contained within that wilderness area, as identified 
        by Indian tribes and the Forest Service.
            (2) Access and use.--To the extent practicable, the 
        Secretary shall ensure access to the Cahuilla Mountain 
        Wilderness by members of an Indian tribe for traditional 
        cultural purposes. In implementing this section, the Secretary, 
        upon the request of an Indian tribe, may temporarily close to 
        the general public use of one or more specific portions of the 
        wilderness area in order to protect the privacy of traditional 
        cultural activities in such areas by members of the Indian 
        tribe. Any such closure shall be made to affect the smallest 
        practicable area for the minimum period necessary for such 
        purposes. Such access shall be consistent with the purpose and 
        intent of Public Law 95-341 (42 U.S.C. 1996), commonly referred 
        to as the American Indian Religious Freedom Act, and the 
        Wilderness Act (11 U.S.C. 1131 et seq.).
            (3) Indian tribe defined.--In this subsection, the term 
        ``Indian tribe'' means any Indian tribe, band, nation, or other 
        organized group or community of Indians which is recognized as 
        eligible by the Secretary of the Interior for the special 
        programs and services provided by the United States to Indians 
        because of their status as Indians.

             Subtitle B--Wild and Scenic River Designations

SEC. 521. WILD AND SCENIC RIVER DESIGNATIONS, RIVERSIDE COUNTY, 
              CALIFORNIA.

    Section 3(a) of the Wild and Scenic Rivers Act (16 U.S.C. 1274(a)) 
is amended by adding at the end the following new paragraphs:
    ``(_) North Fork San Jacinto River, California.--The following 
segments of the North Fork San Jacinto River in the State of 
California, to be administered by the Secretary of Agriculture:
            ``(A) The 2.12-mile segment from the source of the North 
        Fork San Jacinto River at Deer Springs in Mt. San Jacinto State 
        Park to the State Park boundary, as a wild river.
            ``(B) The 1.66-mile segment from the Mt. San Jacinto State 
        Park boundary to the Lawler Park boundary in section 26, 
        township 4 south, range 2 east, San Bernardino meridian, as a 
        scenic river.
            ``(C) The 0.68-mile segment from the Lawler Park boundary 
        to its confluence with Fuller Mill Creek, as a recreational 
        river.
            ``(D) The 2.15-mile segment from its confluence with Fuller 
        Mill Creek to .25 miles upstream of the 5S09 road crossing, as 
        a wild river.
            ``(E) The 0.6-mile segment from .25 miles upstream of the 
        5S09 Road crossing to its confluence with Stone Creek, as a 
        scenic river.
            ``(F) The 2.91-mile segment from the Stone Creek confluence 
        to the northern boundary of section 17, township 5 south, range 
        2 east, San Bernardino meridian, as a wild river.
    ``(_) Fuller Mill Creek, California.--The following segments of 
Fuller Mill Creek in the State of California, to be administered by the 
Secretary of Agriculture:
            ``(A) The 1.2-mile segment from the source of Fuller Mill 
        Creek in the San Jacinto Wilderness to the Pinewood property 
        boundary in section 13, township 4 south, range 2 east, San 
        Bernardino meridian, as a scenic river.
            ``(B) The 0.9-mile segment in the Pine Wood property, as a 
        recreational river.
            ``(C) The 1.4-mile segment from the Pinewood property 
        boundary in section 23, township 4 south, range 2 east, San 
        Bernardino meridian, to its confluence with the North Fork San 
        Jacinto River, as a scenic river.
    ``(_) Palm Canyon Creek, California.--The 8.1-mile segment of Palm 
Canyon Creek in the State of California from the southern boundary of 
section 6, township 7 south, range 5 east, San Bernardino meridian, to 
the San Bernardino National Forest boundary in section 1, township 6 
south, range 4 east, San Bernardino meridian, to be administered by the 
Secretary of Agriculture as a wild river, and the Secretary shall enter 
into a cooperative management agreement with the Agua Caliente Band of 
Cahuilla Indians to protect and enhance river values.
    ``(_) Bautista Creek, California.--The 9.8-mile segment of Bautista 
Creek in the State of California from the San Bernardino National 
Forest boundary in section 36, township 6 south, range 2 east, San 
Bernardino meridian, to the San Bernardino National Forest boundary in 
section 2, township 6 south, range 1 east, San Bernardino meridian, to 
be administered by the Secretary of Agriculture as a recreational 
river.''.

 Subtitle C--Additions and Technical Corrections to Santa Rosa and San 
                  Jacinto Mountains National Monument

SEC. 531. BOUNDARY ADJUSTMENT, SANTA ROSA AND SAN JACINTO MOUNTAINS 
              NATIONAL MONUMENT.

    Section 2 of the Santa Rosa and San Jacinto Mountains National 
Monument Act of 2000 (Public Law 106-351; 114 U.S.C. 1362; 16 U.S.C. 
431 note) is amended by adding at the end the following new subsection:
    ``(e) Expansion of Boundaries.--In addition to the land described 
in subsection (c), the boundaries of the National Monument shall 
include the following lands identified as additions to the National 
Monument on the map entitled `Santa Rosa-San Jacinto National Monument 
Expansion and Santa Rosa Wilderness Addition', and dated March 12, 
2007:
            ``(1) The `Santa Rosa Peak Area Monument Expansion'.
            ``(2) The `Snow Creek Area Monument Expansion'.
            ``(3) The `Tahquitz Peak Area Monument Expansion'.
            ``(4) The `Southeast Area Monument Expansion', which is 
        designated as wilderness in section 512(d), and is thus 
        incorporated into, and shall be deemed part of, the San Rosa 
        Wilderness.''.

SEC. 532. TECHNICAL AMENDMENTS TO THE SANTA ROSA AND SAN JACINTO 
              MOUNTAINS NATIONAL MONUMENT ACT OF 2000.

    Section 7(d) of the Santa Rosa and San Jacinto Mountains National 
Monument Act of 2000 (Public Law 106-351; 114 U.S.C. 1362; 16 U.S.C. 
431 note) is amended by striking ``eight'' and inserting ``a majority 
of the appointed''.

        TITLE VI--SEQUOIA-KINGS CANYON NATIONAL PARK WILDERNESS

SEC. 601. SHORT TITLE.

    This title may be cited as the ``Sequoia-Kings Canyon National Park 
Wilderness Act of 2008''.

SEC. 602. DEFINITIONS.

    In this title:
            (1) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary 
        of the Interior.
            (2) State.--The term ``State'' means the State of 
        California.

SEC. 603. DESIGNATION OF WILDERNESS AREAS.

    In accordance with the Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1131 et seq.), the 
following areas in the State are designated as wilderness areas and as 
components of the National Wilderness Preservation System:
            (1) John krebs wilderness.--
                    (A) Designation.--Certain land in Sequoia-Kings 
                Canyon National Park, comprising approximately 69,500 
                acres of land, and 130 arces of potential wilderness 
                additions as generally depicted on the map entitled 
                ``John Krebs Wilderness'' and dated March 10, 2008.
                    (B) Limitations.--The designation of the wilderness 
                under subparagraph (A) does not preclude operation and 
                maintenance of the existing Hockett Meadow Cabin and 
                Quinn Patrol Cabin in the same manner and degree in 
                which the cabins were operated and maintained on the 
                day before the date of enactment of this Act.
                    (C) Effect.--Nothing in this paragraph affects--
                            (i) the cabins in, and adjacent to, Mineral 
                        King Valley; or
                            (ii) the private inholdings known as 
                        ``Silver City'' and ``Kaweah Han''.
                    (D) Potential wilderness additions.--The 
                designation of the potential wilderness additions under 
                subparagraph (A) shall not prohibit the operation, 
                maintenance, and repair of the small check dams and 
                water impoundments on Lower Franklin Lake, Crystal 
                Lake, Upper Monarch Lake, and Eagle Lake. The potential 
                wilderness additions shall be designated as wilderness 
                and incorporated into the John Krebs Wilderness 
                established by this title upon termination of the non-
                conforming uses.
            (2) Sequoia-kings canyon wilderness addition.--Certain land 
        in the North Fork/Redwood Canyon, California, comprising 
        approximately 43,450 acres, and certain land in Chimney Rock, 
        California, comprising approximately 1,736 acres, as generally 
        depicted on the map entitled ``Sequoia-Kings Canyon Wilderness 
        Addition'' and dated March 10, 2008, is incorporated in, and 
        shall be considered to be a part of, the Sequoia-Kings Canyon 
        Wilderness.

SEC. 604. ADMINISTRATION OF WILDERNESS AREAS.

    (a) In General.--Subject to valid existing rights, each area 
designated as wilderness by this title shall be administered by the 
Secretary in accordance with the Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1131 et 
seq.), except that any reference in the Wilderness Act to the effective 
date of the Wilderness Act shall be considered to be a reference to the 
date of enactment of this Act.
    (b) Map and Legal Description.--
            (1) Submission of map and legal description.--As soon as 
        practicable, but not later than 3 years, after the date of 
        enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall file a map and legal 
        description of each area designated as wilderness by this title 
        with--
                    (A) the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources 
                of the Senate; and
                    (B) the Committee on Natural Resources of the House 
                of Representatives.
            (2) Force and effect.--The map and legal description filed 
        under paragraph (1) shall have the same force and effect as if 
        included in this title, except that the Secretary may correct 
        any clerical or typographical error in the map or legal 
        description.
            (3) Public availability.--The map and legal description 
        filed under paragraph (1) shall be on file and available for 
        public inspection in the Office of the Secretary.
    (c) Hydrologic, Meteorologic, and Climatological Devices, 
Facilities, and Associated Equipment .--The Secretary shall continue to 
manage maintenance and access to hydrologic, meteorologic, and 
climatological devices, facilities and associated equipment consistent 
with House Report 98-40.
    (d) No Buffer Zones.--
            (1) In general.--Nothing in this title creates a protective 
        perimeter or buffer zone around an area designated as 
        wilderness by this title.
            (2) Activities outside wilderness.--Nothing in this title 
        precludes authorized activities conducted outside of the areas 
        designated as wilderness by this title by cabin owners in the 
        Mineral King Valley area or the property owners or lessees in 
        the Silver City private inholding (as identified on the map 
        entitled ``John Krebs Wilderness'' and dated March 10, 2008).
    (e) Horseback Riding.--Nothing in this title precludes horseback 
riding in, or the entry of recreational or commercial saddle or pack 
stock into, an area designated as wilderness by this title.

SEC. 605. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.

    There are authorized to be appropriated such sums as are necessary 
to carry out this title.
                                 &lt;all&gt;
</pre></body></html>
