<html><body><pre>
[Congressional Bills 106th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[S. 2181 Introduced in Senate (IS)]

  2d Session
                                S. 2181

   To amend the Land and Water Conservation Fund Act to provide full 
   funding for the Land and Water Conservation Fund, and to provide 
 dedicated funding for other conservation programs, including coastal 
stewardship, wildlife habitat protection, State and local park and open 
   space preservation, historic preservation, forestry conservation 
    programs, and youth conservation corps; and for other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                   IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

                             March 6, 2000

 Mr. Bingaman (for himself, Mr. Hollings, Mr. Baucus, Mr. Kerry, Mrs. 
    Boxer, Mr. Lieberman, Mr. Bryan, Mr. Akaka, Mr. Leahy, and Mr. 
   Sarbanes) introduced the following bill; which was read twice and 
       referred to the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
   To amend the Land and Water Conservation Fund Act to provide full 
   funding for the Land and Water Conservation Fund, and to provide 
 dedicated funding for other conservation programs, including coastal 
stewardship, wildlife habitat protection, State and local park and open 
   space preservation, historic preservation, forestry conservation 
    programs, and youth conservation corps; and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representa
tives of the United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Conservation and Stewardship Act''.

               TITLE I--LAND AND WATER CONSERVATION FUND

SEC. 101. SHORT TITLE.

    This title may be cited as the ``Land and Water Conservation Fund 
Act Amendments of 2000''.

SEC. 102. LAND AND WATER CONSERVATION FUND AMENDMENTS.

    (a) Permanent Appropriation Into the Fund.--Section 2 of the Land 
and Water Conservation Fund Act of 1965 (16 U.S.C. 460l-5) is amended--
            (1) in the first paragraph by striking ``During the period 
        ending September 30, 2015, there'' and inserting ``There'';
            (2) in paragraph (c)(1) by striking ``not less than'' and 
        all that follows through the end of the paragraph and inserting 
        ``not less than $900,000,000 for each fiscal year.''; and
            (3) in paragraph (c)(2) by striking ``shall be credited'' 
        and all that follows through the end of the paragraph and 
        inserting ``shall be deposited into the fund from qualified 
        Outer Continental Shelf revenues (as that term is defined in 
        section 2(u) of the Outer Continental Shelf Lands Act (43 
        U.S.C. 1331(u)) (as amended by the Coastal Stewardship Act of 
        2000)). Such moneys shall only be used to carry out the 
        purposes of this Act.''.
    (b) Permanent Funding Authority.--Section 3 of the Land and Water 
Conservation Fund Act of 1965 (16 U.S.C. 460l-6) is amended to read as 
follows:
            ``Of amounts in the fund, $900,000,000 shall be available 
        each fiscal year for obligation or expenditure in accordance 
        with section 5 of this Act. Such funds shall be made available 
        without further appropriation, and shall remain available until 
        expended. Other moneys in the fund shall be available for 
        expenditure only when appropriated therefor. Such 
        appropriations may be made without fiscal year limitation.''.
    (c) Allocation of Funds.--Section 5 of the Land and Water 
Conservation Fund Act of 1965 (16 U.S.C. 460l-7) is amended to read as 
follows:
            ``Fifty percent of the funds made available each fiscal 
        year shall be used for Federal land acquisition purposes as 
        provided in section 7 of this Act, and fifty percent shall be 
        used for financial assistance to States as provided in section 
        6 of this Act.''.
    (d) State Funding Allocations.--Section 6(b) of the Land and Water 
Conservation Fund Act of 1965 (16 U.S.C. 460l-8(b)) is amended--
            (1) by striking ``Sums appropriated and available'' and 
        inserting ``Amounts made available'';
            (2) by striking paragraph (1) in its entirety and inserting 
        the following:
            ``(1) Eighty percent of the amounts made available shall be 
        apportioned as follows:
                    ``(A) Sixty percent shall be apportioned equally 
                among the several States;
                    ``(B) Twenty percent shall be apportioned on the 
                basis of the ratio which the population of each State 
                bears to the total population of the United States; and
                    ``(C) Twenty percent shall be apportioned on the 
                basis of the urban population in each State (as defined 
                by Metropolitan Statistical Areas).''; and
            (3) in paragraph (2) by striking ``At any time, the 
        remaining appropriation'' and inserting ``The remaining 
        allocation''.
    (e) Federal Land Acquisition Projects.--Section 7(a) of the Land 
and Water Conservation Fund Act of 1965 (16 U.S.C. 460l-9(a)) is 
amended--
            (1) by striking ``Moneys appropriated'' and all that 
        follows through ``subpurposes'' and inserting the following:
            ``(1)(A) The President shall transmit, as part of the 
        annual budget proposal, a priority list for Federal land 
        acquisition projects. Funds shall be made available from the 
        Land and Water Conservation Fund, without further 
        appropriation, 15 days after the date the Congress adjourns 
        sine die for each year, for the projects identified on the 
        President's priority list, unless prior to such date, 
        legislation is enacted establishing a different priority list.
            ``(B) If Congress enacts legislation establishing an 
        alternate priority list, and such priority list funds less than 
        the annual authorized funding amount identified in section 5, 
        the difference between the authorized funding amount and the 
        alternate priority list shall be available for expenditure, 
        without further appropriation, in accordance with the priority 
        list submitted by the President.
            ``(C)(1) In developing the annual land acquisition priority 
        list, the President shall require the Secretary of the Interior 
        and the Secretary of Agriculture to develop the priority list 
        for the sites under each Secretary's jurisdiction. The 
        Secretaries shall prepare the lists in consultation with the 
        head of each affected bureau or agency, taking into account the 
        best professional judgment regarding the land acquisition 
        priorities and policies of each bureau or agency.
            ``(2) In preparing the lists referred to in paragraph (1), 
        the Secretaries shall ensure that not less than $5 million is 
        made available each year for the acquisition of easements, on a 
        willing seller basis, to provide for non-motorized access to 
        public lands for hunting, fishing, and other recreational 
        purposes.
            ``(D) Amounts made available from the fund for Federal land 
        acquisition projects shall be used for the purposes and 
        subpurposes identified in paragraphs (2), (3), and (4) of this 
        subsection.''; and
            (2) by redesignating subsequent paragraphs accordingly.

SEC. 102. NON-FEDERAL LANDS OF REGIONAL OR NATIONAL INTEREST.

    Title I of the Land and Water Conservation Fund Act of 1965 (16 
U.S.C. 460l-4 et seq.) is amended by adding at the end the following:

``SEC. 14. NON-FEDERAL LANDS OF REGIONAL OR NATIONAL INTEREST.

    ``(a) Establishment of Fund.--There is established in the Treasury 
of the United States a fund which shall be known as the `Non-Federal 
Lands of Regional or National Interest Fund' (in this section referred 
to as the `fund'). There shall be deposited into the fund $125,000,000 
in fiscal year 2001 and each fiscal year thereafter from qualified 
Outer Continental Shelf Revenues (as that term is defined in section 
2(u) of the Outer Continental Shelf Lands Act (43 U.S.C. 1331(u)) (as 
amended by the Coastal Stewardship Act of 2000)). Such moneys shall be 
used only to carry out the purposes of this section.
    ``(b) Expenditures.--(1) Of the amounts in the fund, $125,000,000 
shall be available each year to the Secretary of the Interior for 
obligation or expenditure in accordance with this section. Such funds 
shall be available without further appropriation, subject to the 
requirements of this section, and shall remain available until 
expended.
    ``(2) The Secretary shall prepare, as part of the annual budget 
proposal, a priority list for grant projects to be funded under this 
section, from among the applications submitted pursuant to subsection 
(c). Moneys shall be available from the fund, without further 
appropriation, 15 days after the date Congress adjourns sine die each 
year, for the projects specified on the priority list, unless prior to 
such date, legislation is enacted establishing a different priority 
list.
    ``(c) Grants to States.--(1) A State may submit an application to 
the Secretary for a grant to fund the conservation of non-Federal lands 
or waters of clear regional or national interest.
    ``(2) In determining whether to recommend the award of a grant 
under this section, the Secretary shall consider, on a competitive 
basis, the extent to which a proposed conservation project described in 
the grant application will conserve the natural, historic, cultural, 
and recreational values of the non-Federal lands or waters to be 
protected.
    ``(3) The Secretary shall give preference to proposed conservation 
projects--
            ``(A) that seek to protect ecosystems;
            ``(B) that are developed in collaboration with other 
        States, or with private persons or entities; or
            ``(C) that are complementary to conservation or restoration 
        programs undertaken on Federal lands.
    ``(4) A grant awarded to a State under this subsection shall cover 
not more than 50 percent of the total cost of the conservation 
project.''.

                     TITLE II--COASTAL STEWARDSHIP

SEC. 201. SHORT TITLE.

    This title may be cited as the ``Coastal Stewardship Act of 2000''.

SEC. 202. AMENDMENT TO OUTER CONTINENTAL SHELF LANDS ACT.

    (a) Definitions.--Section 2 of the Outer Continental Shelf Lands 
Act (43 U.S.C. 1331) is amended by adding at the end the following:
    ``(r) As used in sections 31 and 32, the term `coastline' has the 
meaning given such term in section 2(c) of the Submerged Lands Act (43 
U.S.C. 1301(c));
    ``(s) As used in sections 31 and 32, the term `Coastal State' has 
the same meaning given such term in section 304(4) of the Coastal Zone 
Management Act of 1972 (16 U.S.C. 1453(4));
    ``(t) As used in sections 31 and 32, the term `leased tract' means 
a tract, maintained under section 6 or leased under section 8 for the 
purposes of drilling for, developing and producing oil and natural gas 
resources, which is a unit consisting of either a block, a portion of a 
block, a combination of blocks or portions of blocks (or both), as 
specified in the lease, and as depicted on an Outer Continental Shelf 
Official Protraction Diagram;
    ``(u) As used in sections 31 and 32, the term `qualified Outer 
Continental Shelf revenues' means all amounts received by the United 
States as bonus bids, rents, royalties (including payments for royalty 
taken in kind and sold), net profit share payments, and related late 
payment interest from natural gas and oil leases issued pursuant to 
section 8 or maintained under section 6, accruing from each leased 
tract or portion of a leased tract, the geographic center of which lies 
within a distance of 200 miles from any part of the coastline of any 
Coastal State. It shall not include amounts from any leased tract or 
portion of a leased tract which is included within any area of the 
Outer Continental Shelf where a moratorium on new leasing was in effect 
as of January 1, 1999, unless the leased tract or portion of leased 
tract was issued prior to the establishment of the moratorium and is in 
production as of January 1, 2000. For each leased tract or portion of a 
leased tract lying within the zone defined and governed by section 
8(g), and to which section 8(g) applies, the term `qualified Outer 
Continental Shelf revenues' shall include only amounts remaining after 
payment has been made to States in accordance with section 8(g).''.
    (b) Ocean and Coast Conservation.--The Outer Continental Shelf 
Lands Act (43 U.S.C. 1331 et seq.) is amended by adding at the end the 
following:

``SEC. 31. OCEAN AND COAST CONSERVATION FUND.

    ``(a) Establishment of Fund.--(1) There is established in the 
Treasury of the United States a fund which shall be known as the `Ocean 
and Coast Conservation Fund' (in this section referred to as the 
`fund'). There shall be deposited into the fund $365,000,000 from 
qualified Outer Continental Shelf revenues in fiscal year 2001 and each 
fiscal year thereafter. Such moneys shall be used only to carry out the 
purposes of this section.
    ``(2) Of the amounts in the fund, $365,000,000 shall be available 
each fiscal year for obligation or expenditure in accordance with this 
section. Such funds shall be made available to the Secretary of 
Commerce without further appropriation, subject to the requirements of 
this section, and shall remain available until expended.
    ``(b) Allocation of Funds.--Notwithstanding section 9, the 
Secretary of Commerce shall allocate funds available under this section 
as follows:
            ``(1) for uses identified in subsection (c), $250,000,000;
            ``(2) for uses identified in subsection (d), $25,000,000;
            ``(3) for uses identified in subsection (e), $75,000,000; 
        and
            ``(4) for uses identified in subsection (f), $15,000,000.
    ``(c) Coastal Stewardship.--(1) The Secretary of Commerce shall 
allocate among all Coastal States the funds available under subsection 
(b)(1) as follows:
            ``(A) 25 percent of the funds under this subsection shall 
        be allocated based on the ratio of the coastline miles of the 
        Coastal State to the coastline miles of all Coastal States;
            ``(B) 25 percent of the funds under this subsection shall 
        be allocated based on the ratio of the coastal population of 
        the Coastal State to the coastal population of all Coastal 
        States;
            ``(C) 50 percent of the funds under this subsection shall 
        be allocated based on the demonstrated conservation and 
        protection needs of the Coastal State for coastal stewardship 
        uses as determined under this subsection.
    ``(2) The Secretary of Commerce, in accordance with the 
requirements of this section, shall determine the allocation each State 
is entitled to receive based on demonstrated conservation and 
protection need under subsection (c)(1)(C).
    ``(3) To be eligible to receive moneys under subsection (c)(1)(C), 
a Coastal State must submit to the Secretary of Commerce an application 
demonstrating the conservation and protection needs of the Coastal 
State. Such application shall indicate how moneys received from that 
portion of the fund would be used in accordance with the allowable uses 
identified in this subsection. This application shall be submitted as 
part of the plan required under subsection (c)(6) and in accordance 
with the requirements of that subsection.
    ``(4) In determining the allocation of moneys based on demonstrated 
conservation and protection need as provided in subsection (c)(1)(C), 
priority shall be given to activities and plans--
            ``(A) which support and are consistent with National 
        Estuary programs, National Estuarine Research Reserve programs, 
        the National Marine Sanctuary Act, the Coastal Zone Management 
        Act, and other State or Federal laws governing the conservation 
        or restoration of coastal or marine fish habitat;
            ``(B) which promote coastal conservation, restoration, or 
        water quality protection on a watershed or regional basis; or
            ``(C) which address coastal conservation needs created by 
        seasonal or otherwise transient fluctuations in population in 
        Coastal States.
    ``(5) Coastal States shall use moneys received under this 
subsection only for--
            ``(A) the conservation or protection of coastal and marine 
        habitats including wetlands, estuaries, and coral reefs;
            ``(B) projects to remove abandoned vessels or marine debris 
        that may adversely affect coastal habitat or living marine 
        resources;
            ``(C) the reduction or monitoring of coastal polluted 
        runoff or other coastal contaminants;
            ``(D) addressing watershed protection including 
        conservation needs which cross jurisdictional boundaries;
            ``(E) the assessment, research, mapping and monitoring of 
        coastal and marine habitats.
            ``(F) addressing coastal conservation needs associated with 
        seasonal or otherwise transient fluctuations in coastal 
        populations;
            ``(G) the establishment, monitoring or assessment of marine 
        protected areas.
    ``(6) To be eligible to receive moneys under this subsection, a 
Coastal State must submit to the Secretary of Commerce a plan detailing 
the uses to which the Coastal State will put all funds received under 
this subsection. The plan shall be developed with public input, and 
must certify that uses set forth in the plan comply with all applicable 
Federal and State laws, including environmental laws. Each plan shall 
consider ways to use funds received under this subsection to assist 
local governments, non-profit organizations, or public institutions 
with activities or programs consistent with this subsection.
    ``(7) No funds under this subsection shall be made available to a 
Coastal State until the Secretary of Commerce has affirmatively found 
that all uses proposed by a Coastal State are consistent with the 
purposes and requirements of this subsection.
    ``(d) Cooperative Enforcement Uses.--(1) The Governor of a State 
represented on an Interstate Fisheries Commission may apply to the 
Secretary of Commerce for execution of a cooperative enforcement 
agreement with the Secretary of Commerce. Cooperative agreements 
between the Secretary of Commerce and such States shall authorize the 
deputization of State law enforcement officers with marine law 
enforcement responsibilities, to perform duties of the Secretary of 
Commerce relating to any law enforcement provision of any marine 
resource laws enforced by the Secretary of Commerce, including the 
National Marine Sanctuaries Act. Such cooperative enforcement 
agreements shall be consistent with the purposes and intent of section 
311(a) of the Magnuson-Stevens Fishery Conservation and Management Act 
(16 U.S.C. 1861(a)), to the extent applicable to the regulated 
activities, and may include specifications for joint management 
responsibilities as provided by section 1 of Public Law 91-412 (15 
U.S.C. 1525).
    ``(2) Upon receiving an application meeting the requirements of 
this subsection, the Secretary of Commerce shall enter into the 
cooperative enforcement agreement with the requesting State.
    ``(3) Consistent with the fund amounts contained in subsection 
(b)(2), The Secretary of Commerce shall include in each cooperative 
enforcement agreement an allocation of funds to assist in management of 
the agreement. The allocation shall be equitably distributed among all 
States participating in cooperative enforcement agreements under this 
subsection, based upon consideration of the specific marine 
conservation enforcement needs of each participating State. Such 
agreement may provide for amounts to be withheld by the Secretary of 
Commerce for the cost of any technical or other assistance provided to 
the State by the Secretary of Commerce under the agreement.
    ``(e) Cooperative Research and Management Uses.--(1) The Governor 
of any State represented on an Interstate Marine Fishery Commission may 
apply to the Secretary of Commerce for the execution of a research and 
management agreement, on a sole source basis, for the purpose of 
undertaking eligible projects required for the effective management of 
living marine resources of the United States. Upon determining that the 
application meets the requirements of this subsection, the Secretary of 
Commerce shall enter into such agreement. Such agreement may provide 
for amounts to be withheld by the Secretary of Commerce for the cost of 
any technical or other assistance provided to the State by the 
Secretary of Commerce under the agreement.
    ``(2) The Secretary of Commerce shall allocate to States 
participating in a research and management agreement under this 
subsection funds to assist in implementing the agreement, consistent 
with the amounts available under subsection (b)(3).
    ``(3) For purposes of this subsection, eligible projects are those 
which address critical needs identified in fishery management reports 
or plans developed and approved by a State, Marine Fisheries 
Commission, Regional Fishery Management Council, or other regional or 
tribal entity, charged with management and conservation of living 
marine resources, and that pertain to--
            ``(A) the collection and analysis of fishery data and 
        information, including data on landings, fishing effort, 
        biology, habitat, economics and social changes, including those 
        information needs identified pursuant to section 401 of the 
        Magnuson-Stevens Fishery Conservation and Management Act (16 
        U.S.C. 1881); or
            ``(B) the development of measures to promote innovative or 
        cooperative management of fisheries.
    (4) ``In making funds available under this subsection, the 
Secretary of Commerce shall give priority to eligible projects that 
meet any of the following criteria:
            ``(A) establishment of observer programs;
            ``(B) cooperative research projects developed among States, 
        academic institutions, and the fishing industry, to obtain data 
        or other information necessary to meet national or regional 
        management priorities;
            ``(C) projects to reduce harvesting capacity performed in a 
        manner consistent with section 312(b) of the Magnuson-Stevens 
        Fishery and Conservation Act (16 U.S.C. 1862(b));
            ``(D) projects designed to identify ecosystem impacts of 
        fishing, including the relationship between fishing harvest and 
        marine mammal population abundance; and
            ``(E) projects for the identification, conservation or 
        restoration of fish habitat.
    ``(5) Within 90 days of enactment of this Act, the Secretary of 
Commerce shall adopt procedures necessary to implement this section.
    ``(f) Coral Reef Protection.--The Secretary of Commerce shall use 
amounts provided in subsection (b)(4) for the conservation and 
protection of coral reefs.
    ``(g) Annual Accounting.--Not later than June 15 of each year, each 
Coastal State receiving moneys from the fund shall account for all 
moneys so received for the previous fiscal year in a written report to 
the Secretary of Commerce. This report shall include a description of 
all projects and activities receiving funds under this section.
    ``(h) Congressional Approval.--The Secretary of Commerce shall 
transmit, as part of the annual budget proposal, a priority list for 
allocations to Coastal States under subsection (c)(1)(C), and 
subsections (d), (e), and (f). Monies shall be made available from the 
fund 15 days after the sine die adjournment of the Congress each year, 
without further appropriation, for the projects identified on the 
priority list, unless prior to such date, legislation is enacted 
establishing a different priority list. If Congress enacts legislation 
establishing an alternate priority list, and such priority list funds 
less than the annual authorized funding amount identified in 
subsections (c)(3), (d), (e), or (f), the difference between the 
authorized funding amount and the alternate priority list shall be 
available for expenditure, without further appropriation, in accordance 
with the priority list submitted by the Secretary.

``SEC. 32. COASTAL IMPACT ASSISTANCE.

    ``(a) Definitions.--In this section:
            ``(1) Distance.--The term `distance' means minimum great 
        circle distance, measured in statute miles; and
            ``(2) Producing coastal state.--The term `Producing Coastal 
        State' means a Coastal State, any portion of which lies within 
        a distance of 200 miles from the geographic center of any 
        leased tract having an approved plan of development, and which 
        leased tract, as of January 1, 1999, was not covered by a 
        moratorium on leasing, unless the lease was issued prior to the 
        establishment of the moratorium and was in production on 
        January 1, 1999.
    ``(b) Establishment of Fund.--(1) There is established in the 
Treasury of the United States a fund which shall be known as the `Outer 
Continental Shelf Impact Assistance Fund' (in this section referred to 
as the `fund'). There shall be deposited into the fund in fiscal year 
2000 and each fiscal year thereafter $100,000,000 from qualified Outer 
Continental Shelf revenues for each leased tract or portion of a leased 
tract lying seaward of the zone defined and governed by section 8(g), 
or lying within that zone but to which section 8(g) does not apply. 
Such moneys shall be used only to carry out the purposes of this 
section.
    ``(2) Of the amounts in the fund, $100,000,000 shall be available 
each fiscal year for obligation or expenditure in accordance with this 
section. Such funds shall be made available to the Secretary without 
further appropriation, subject to the requirements of this section, and 
shall remain available until expended.
    ``(c) Payment to Producing Coastal States.--
            ``(1) Notwithstanding section 9, the Secretary shall, 
        without further appropriation, make payments in each fiscal 
        year to Producing Coastal States equal to the amount deposited 
        in the fund for the prior fiscal year.
            ``(2) Such payments shall be allocated among the Producing 
        Coastal States as follows:
                    ``(A) 25 percent of the funds shall be allocated 
                based on the ratio of the shoreline miles of the 
                Producing Coastal State to the shoreline miles of all 
                Producing Coastal States;
                    ``(B) 25 percent of the funds shall be allocated 
                based on the ratio of the coastal population of the 
                Producing Coastal State to the coastal population of 
                all Producing Coastal States;
                    ``(C) 50 percent of the funds shall be allocated 
                based upon the Outer Continental Shelf oil and gas 
                production offshore of such Producing Coastal State. 
                The allocation shall only include qualified Outer 
                Continental Shelf revenues from any leased tract the 
                geographic center of which lies within a distance of 
                200 miles from any portion of such Producing Coastal 
                State, but shall not include revenues from any leased 
                tract or portion of a leased tract which, as of January 
                1, 1999, was covered by a moratorium on leasing, unless 
                the lease was issued prior to the establishment of the 
                moratorium and was in production on January 1, 1999. 
                Each Producing Coastal State's allocable share shall be 
                inversely proportional to the distance between the 
                nearest port on the coastline of such Producing Coastal 
                State and the geographic center of each leased tract or 
                portion of the leased tract as determined by the 
                Secretary.
    ``(e) Minimum State Share.--The allocable share of revenues for 
each Producing Coastal State shall not be less than $2,000,000.
    ``(f) Uses.--Producing Coastal States shall use moneys received 
from the fund only to mitigate adverse environmental impacts directly 
attributable to the development of oil and gas resources of the Outer 
Continental Shelf.
    ``(g) State Plans and Annual Report.--(1) Prior to the receipt of 
funds pursuant to this section in any fiscal year, a Producing Coastal 
State shall submit to the Secretary a plan for the use of such moneys. 
The plan shall be developed with public participation and in accordance 
with all applicable State and Federal laws. The Secretary shall make 
payments from the fund only upon determining, in consultation with the 
Secretary of Commerce, that the State plan ensures that the Producing 
Coastal State will use its allocated funds in a manner that is 
consistent with the purposes of this section.
    ``(2) No later than June 15 of each year, each Producing Coastal 
State receiving money from this fund shall account for all moneys so 
received for the previous fiscal year in a written report to the 
Secretary and the Secretary of Commerce. The report shall include a 
description of all projects and activities receiving funds under this 
section.''.

            TITLE III--WILDLIFE CONSERVATION AND RESTORATION

SEC. 301. SHORT TITLE.

    This title may be cited as the ``Wildlife Conservation and 
Restoration Act of 2000''.

SEC. 302. FINDINGS.

    The Congress finds and declares that--
            (1) a diverse array of species of fish and wildlife is of 
        significant value to the Nation for many reasons: aesthetic, 
        ecological, educational, cultural, recreational, economic, and 
        scientific;
            (2) the United States should retain for present and future 
        generations the opportunity to observe, understand, and 
        appreciate a wide variety of wildlife;
            (3) millions of citizens participate in outdoor recreation 
        through hunting, fishing, and wildlife observation, all of 
        which have significant value to the citizens who engage in 
        these activities;
            (4) providing sufficient and properly maintained wildlife 
        associated recreational opportunities is important to enhancing 
        public appreciation of a diversity of wildlife and the habitats 
        upon which they depend;
            (5) lands and waters which contain species neither 
        classified as game nor identified as endangered or threatened 
        can provide opportunities for wildlife associated recreation 
        and education such as hunting and fishing permitted by 
        applicable State or Federal law;
            (6) hunters and anglers have for more than 60 years 
        willingly paid user fees in the form of Federal excise taxes on 
        hunting and fishing equipment to support wildlife diversity and 
        abundance, through enactment of the Federal Aid in Wildlife 
        Restoration Act (16 U.S.C. 1669 et seq.; commonly referred to 
        as the Pittman-Robertson Act), and the Federal Aid in Sport 
        Fish Restoration Act (16 U.S.C. 777 et seq.; commonly referred 
        to as the Dingell-Johnson Act);
            (7) State programs, adequately funded to conserve a broader 
        array of wildlife in an individual State and conducted in 
        coordination with Federal, State, tribal, and private 
        landowners and interested organizations, would continue to 
        serve as a vital link in a nationwide effort to restore game 
        and nongame wildlife, and the essential elements of such 
        programs should include conservation measures which manage for 
        a diverse variety of populations of wildlife; and
            (8) cooperative conservation efforts aimed at preventing 
        species from becoming endangered will significantly benefit 
        private landowners and other citizens by responding to early 
        warning signs of decline in a flexible, incentive-based manner 
        that minimizes the social and economic costs often associated 
        with listing species as threatened or endangered; and
            (9) it is proper for Congress to bolster and extend this 
        highly successful program to aid game and nongame wildlife in 
        supporting the health and diversity of habitat, as well as 
        providing funds for conservation education.

SEC. 303. PURPOSES.

    The purposes of this title are--
            (1) to extend financial and technical assistance to the 
        States under the Federal Aid in Wildlife Restoration Act for 
        the benefit of a diverse array of wildlife and associated 
        habitats, including species that are not hunted or fished, to 
        fulfill unmet needs of wildlife within the States while 
        recognizing the mandate of the States to conserve all wildlife;
            (2) to assure sound conservation policies through the 
        development, revision and implementation of wildlife associated 
        recreation and wildlife associated education and wildlife 
        conservation law enforcement;
            (3) to encourage State fish and wildlife agencies to create 
        partnerships between the Federal Government, other State 
        agencies, wildlife conservation organizations, and outdoor 
        recreation and conservation interests through cooperative 
        planning and implementation of this title; and
            (4) to encourage State fish and wildlife agencies to 
        provide for public involvement in the process of development 
        and implementation of a wildlife conservation and restoration 
        program.

SEC. 304. DEFINITIONS.

    (a) Reference to Law.--The term ``Federal Aid in Wildlife 
Restoration Act'' means the Act of September 2, 1937 (16 U.S.C. 669 et 
seq.), commonly referred to as the Federal Aid in Wildlife Restoration 
Act or the Pittman-Robertson Act.
    (b) Wildlife Conservation and Restoration Program.--Section 2 of 
the Federal Aid in Wildlife Restoration Act (16 U.S.C. 669a) is amended 
by inserting after ``shall be construed'' the first place it appears 
the following: ``to include the wildlife conservation and restoration 
program and''.
    (c) State Agencies.--Section 2 of the Federal Aid in Wildlife 
Restoration Act (16 U.S.C. 669a) is further amended by inserting ``or 
State fish and wildlife department'' after ``State fish and game 
department''.
    (d) Conservation.--Section 2 of the Federal Aid in Wildlife 
Restoration Act (16 U.S.C. 669a) is further amended by striking the 
period at the end thereof, substituting a semicolon, and adding the 
following: ``the term `conservation' shall be construed to mean the use 
of methods and procedures necessary or desirable to sustain healthy 
populations of wildlife including all activities associated with 
scientific resources management such as research, census, monitoring of 
populations, acquisition, improvement and management of habitat, live 
trapping and transplantation, wildlife damage management, and periodic 
or total protection of a species or population as well as the taking of 
individuals within wildlife stock or population if permitted by 
applicable State and Federal law; the term `wildlife conservation and 
restoration program' shall be construed to mean a program developed by 
a State fish and wildlife department that the Secretary determines 
meets the criteria in section 6(d), the projects that constitute such a 
program, which may be implemented in whole or part through grants and 
contracts by a State to other State, Federal, or local agencies 
wildlife conservation organizations and outdoor recreation and 
conservation education entities from funds apportioned under this 
title, and maintenance of such projects; the term `wildlife' shall be 
construed to mean any species of wild, free-ranging fauna including 
fish, and also fauna in captive breeding programs the object of which 
is to reintroduce individuals of a depleted indigenous species into 
previously occupied range; the term `wildlife-associated recreation' 
shall be construed to mean projects intended to meet the demand for 
outdoor activities associated with wildlife including, but not limited 
to, hunting and fishing, such projects as construction or restoration 
of wildlife viewing areas, observation towers, blinds, platforms, land 
and water trails, water access, trailheads, and access for such 
projects; and the term `wildlife conservation education' shall be 
construed to mean projects, including public outreach, intended to 
foster responsible natural resource stewardship.''.
    (e) Funding.--Subsection 3(a) of the Federal Aid in Wildlife 
Restoration Act (16 U.S.C. 669b(a)) is amended in the first sentence--
            (1) by inserting at the beginning thereof the following: 
        ``There shall be deposited into the Federal Aid in Wildlife 
        Restoration Fund (referred to as the `fund') in the Treasury: 
        (1)''; and
            (2) by striking ``shall,'';
            (3) by inserting after ``Internal Revenue Code of 1954'' 
        the following: ``; and (2) $350,000,000 in fiscal year 2001 and 
        each fiscal year thereafter from qualified Outer Continental 
        Shelf revenues (as that term is defined in section 2(u) of the 
        Outer Continental Shelf Land Act (43 U.S.C. 1331(u)) (as 
        amended by the Coastal Stewardship Act of 2000)).''; and
            (4) by striking ``be covered into'' and all that follows 
        through ``is authorized'' and inserting ``Moneys in the fund 
        are authorized''.

SEC. 305. SUBACCOUNTS.

    Section 3 of the Federal Aid in Wildlife Restoration Act (16 U.S.C. 
669b) is further amended by adding at the end the following:
    ``(c) A subaccount shall be established in the Federal Aid in 
Wildlife Restoration Fund in the Treasury to be known as the `wildlife 
conservation and restoration account' and the deposits each fiscal year 
to such account shall be equal to the $350,000,000 referred to in 
subsection (a)(2). Amounts in such account shall be made available 
without further appropriation, for apportionment at the beginning of 
fiscal year 2001 and each fiscal year thereafter to carry out State 
wildlife conservation and restoration programs.
    ``(d) Funds covered into the wildlife conservation and restoration 
account shall supplement, but not replace, existing funds available to 
the States from the sport fish restoration and wildlife restoration 
accounts and shall be used for the development, revision, and 
implementation of wildlife conservation and restoration programs and 
should be used to address the unmet needs for a diverse array of 
wildlife and associated habitats, with an emphasis on species that are 
not hunted or fished, for wildlife conservation, wildlife conservation 
education, and wildlife-associated recreation projects. Such funds may 
be used for new programs and projects as well as to enhance existing 
programs and projects.
    ``(e) Notwithstanding subsections (a) and (b), with respect to the 
wildlife conservation and restoration account, so much of the 
appropriation apportioned to any State for any fiscal year as remains 
unexpended at the close thereof is authorized to be made available for 
expenditure in that State until the close of the fourth succeeding 
fiscal year. Any amount apportioned to any State under this subsection 
that is unexpended or unobligated at the end of the period during which 
it is available for expenditure on any project is authorized to be 
reapportioned to all States during the succeeding fiscal year.''.

SEC. 306. ALLOCATION OF SUBACCOUNT RECEIPTS.

    Section 4 of the Federal Aid in Wildlife Restoration Act (16 U.S.C. 
669c) is amended by adding the following:
    ``(c)(1) Notwithstanding subsection (a), not more than 2 percent of 
the revenues deposited into the wildlife conservation and restoration 
account in each fiscal year as the Secretary of the Interior may 
estimate to be necessary for expenses in the administration and 
execution of programs carried out under the wildlife conservation and 
restoration account shall be deducted for that purpose, and such amount 
is authorized to be made available therefor until the expiration of the 
next succeeding fiscal year. Within 60 days after the close of such 
fiscal year, the Secretary shall apportion any portion thereof as 
remains unexpended, if any, on the same basis and in the same manner as 
is provided under paragraphs (2) and (3).
    ``(2) The Secretary, after making the deduction under paragraph 
(1), shall make the following apportionment from the amount remaining 
in the wildlife conservation and restoration account:
            ``(A) to the District of Columbia and to the Commonwealth 
        of Puerto Rico, each a sum equal to not more than \1/2\ of 1 
        percent thereof; and
            ``(B) to Guam, American Samoa, the Virgin Islands, and the 
        Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, each a sum equal 
        to not more than \1/6\ of 1 percent thereof.
    ``(3) The Secretary, after making the deduction under paragraph (1) 
and the apportionment under paragraph (2), shall apportion the 
remaining amount in the wildlife conservation and restoration account 
for each year among the States in the following manner:
            ``(A) one-third of which is based on the ratio to which the 
        land area of such State bears to the total land area of all 
        such States; and
            ``(B) two-thirds of which is based on the ratio to which 
        the population of such State bears to the total population of 
        all such States.
    ``(4) The amounts apportioned under this paragraph shall be 
adjusted equitably so that no such State shall be apportioned a sum 
which is less than \1/2\ of 1 percent of the amount available for 
apportionment under this paragraph for any fiscal year or more than 5 
percent of such amount.
    ``(d) Wildlife Conservation and Restoration Program.--(1) Any 
State, through its fish and wildlife department, may apply to the 
Secretary for approval of a wildlife conservation and restoration 
program or for funds to develop a program, which shall--
            ``(A) contain provision for vesting in the fish and 
        wildlife department of overall responsibility and 
        accountability for development and implementation of the 
        program; and
            ``(B) contain provision for development and implementation 
        of--
                    ``(i) wildlife conservation projects which expand 
                and support existing wildlife programs to meet the 
                needs of a diverse array of wildlife species, including 
                a wildlife strategy as set forth in subsection (e),
                    ``(ii) wildlife associated recreation programs, 
                including provisions for non-motorized public access to 
                public lands, and
                    ``(iii) wildlife conservation projects; and
            ``(C) contain provisions for public participation in the 
        development, revision, and implementation of projects and 
        programs stipulated in subparagraph (B) of this subsection.
    ``(2) If the Secretary finds that an application for such program 
contains the elements specified in subparagraphs (A), (B), and (C) of 
paragraph (1), the Secretary shall approve such application and set 
aside from the apportionment to the State made pursuant to section 4(c) 
an amount that shall not exceed 90 percent of the estimated cost of 
developing and implementing segments of the program for the first 5 
fiscal years following enactment of this subsection and not to exceed 
75 percent thereafter. Not more than 10 percent of the amounts 
apportioned to each State from this subaccount for the State's wildlife 
conservation and restoration program may be used for law enforcement. 
Following approval, the Secretary may make payments on a project that 
is a segment of the State's wildlife conservation and restoration 
programs as the project progresses but such payments, including 
previous payments on the project, if any, shall not be more than the 
United States pro rata share of such project. The Secretary, under such 
regulations as he may prescribe, may advance funds representing the 
United States pro rata share of a project that is a segment of a 
wildlife conservation and restoration program, including funds to 
develop such program. For purposes of this subsection, the term `State' 
shall include the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto 
Rico, the United States Virgin Islands, Guam, America Samoa, and the 
Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands.
    ``(e) Wildlife Conservation Strategy.--Any state that receives an 
apportionment pursuant to section 4(c) shall within five years of the 
date of the initial apportionment develop and begin implementation of a 
wildlife conservation strategy based upon the best scientific 
information and data available that--
            ``(1) integrates available information on the distribution 
        and abundance of species of wildlife, including low population 
        and declining species as the State fish and wildlife department 
        deems appropriate, that exemplify and are indicative of the 
        diversity and health of wildlife of the State;
            ``(2) identifies the extent and condition of habitats and 
        community types essential to conservation of species identified 
        under paragraph (1);
            ``(3) identifies the problems which may adversely affect 
        the species identified under paragraph (1) or their habitats, 
        and provides for research to identify factors which may assist 
        in restoration and more effective conservation of such species 
        and their habitats;
            ``(4) determines those actions which should be taken to 
        conserve the species identified under paragraph (1) in their 
        habitats, and establishes priorities for implementing such 
        conservation actions;
            ``(5) provides for periodic monitoring of species 
        identified under paragraph (1) and their habitats and the 
        effectiveness of the conservation actions determined under 
        paragraph (4), and for adapting conservation actions as 
        appropriate to respond to new information or changing 
        conditions;
            ``(6) provides for the review of the State wildlife 
        conservation strategy and, if appropriate, revision at 
        intervals of not more than ten years;
            ``(7) provides for coordination by the State fish and 
        wildlife department, during the development, implementation, 
        review, and revision of the wildlife conservation strategy, 
        with Federal, State, and local agencies and Indian tribes that 
        manage significant areas of land or water within the State, or 
administer programs that significantly affect the conservation of 
species identified under paragraph (1) or their habitats.''.

SEC. 307. FACA.

    Coordination with State fish and wildlife department personnel or 
with personnel of other State agencies pursuant to the Federal Aid in 
Wildlife Restoration Act or the Federal Aid in Sport Fish Restoration 
Act shall not be subject to the Federal Advisory Committee Act (5 
U.S.C. App.). Except for the preceding sentence, the provisions of this 
title relate solely to wildlife conservation and restoration programs 
as defined in this title and shall not be construed to affect the 
provisions of the Federal Aid in Wildlife Restoration Act relating to 
wildlife restoration projects or the provisions of the Federal Aid in 
Sport Fish Restoration Act relating to fish restoration and management 
projects.

SEC. 308. LAW ENFORCEMENT.

    The third sentence of subsection (a) of section 8 of the Federal 
Aid in Wildlife Restoration Act (16 U.S.C. 669g is amended by inserting 
before the period at the end thereof: ``, except that not more than 5 
percent of the funds available from this subaccount for a State 
wildlife conservation and restoration program may be used for law 
enforcement through existing State programs''.

SEC. 309 PROHIBITION AGAINST DIVERSION.

            No designated State agency shall be eligible to receive 
matching funds under this Act if sources of revenue available to it on 
January 1, 1998, for conservation of wildlife are diverted for any 
purpose other than the administration of the designated State agency, 
it being the intention of Congress that funds available to States under 
this Act be added to revenues from existing State sources and not serve 
as a substitute for revenues from such sources. Such revenues shall 
include interest, dividends, or other income earned on the foregoing.

     TITLE IV--ENDANGERED AND THREATENED SPECIES HABITAT PROTECTION

SEC. 401. ENDANGERED AND THREATENED SPECIES RECOVERY FUND.

    (A) Definitions.--As used in this section--
            (1) the term ``recovery agreements'' means Endangered and 
        Threatened Species Recovery Agreements entered into by the 
        Secretary under subsection (e); and
            (2) the term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary of the 
        Interior.
    (b) Establishment.--There is established in the Treasury of the 
United States a fund that shall be known as the ``Endangered and 
Threatened Species Recovery Fund'' (in this section referred to as the 
``fund''). There shall deposit into the fund $50,000,000 in fiscal year 
2001 and each fiscal year thereafter from qualified Outer Continental 
Shelf revenues (as that term is defined in section 2(u) of the Outer 
Continental Shelf Lands Act (43 U.S.C. 1331(u)) (as amended by the 
Coastal Stewardship Act of 2000)). Such moneys shall be used only to 
carry out the purposes of this section.
    (c) Expenditures.--Of the amounts in the fund, $50,000,000 shall be 
available each fiscal year to the Secretary of the Interior for 
obligation or expenditure in accordance with this section. Such funds 
shall be made available without further appropriation, subject to the 
requirements of this section, and shall remain available until 
expended.
    (d) Financial Assistance.--(1) The Secretary of the Interior may 
use amounts in the fund to provide financial assistance to any person 
for the development of recovery agreements.
    (2) In providing assistance under this section, the Secretary shall 
give priority to the development and implementation of recovery 
agreements that--
            (A) implement actions identified under recovery plans 
        approved by the Secretary under section 4(f) of the Endangered 
        Species Act of 1973 (16 U.S.C. 1533(f));
            (B) have the greatest potential for contributing to the 
        recovery of an endangered or threatened species; and
            (C) to the extent practicable, require the assistance of 
        private landowners or the owners or operators of family farms.
    (e) Prohibition of Assistance for Required Activities.--The 
Secretary may not provide financial assistance under this section for 
any action that is required by a permit issued under the Endangered 
Species Act of 1973 (16 U.S.C. 1531 et seq.) or that is otherwise 
required under the Act or any other Federal law.
    (f) Endangered and Threatened Species Recovery Agreements.--The 
Secretary is authorized to enter into Endangered and threatened Species 
Recovery Agreements in accordance with this section. The purpose of 
such recovery agreements shall be to provide voluntary incentives for 
landowners to take actions to contribute to the recovery of endangered 
or threatened species. Each recovery agreement shall--
            (1) require the person--
                    (A) to carry out on real property owned or leased 
                by such person activities that are not otherwise 
                required by law and that contribute to the recovery of 
                an endangered or threatened species; and
                    (B) to refrain from carrying out on real property 
                owned or leased by such person otherwise lawful 
                activities that would inhibit the recovery of a 
                threatened or endangered species;
            (2) describe the real property referred to in paragraph 
        (1);
            (3) specify species recovery goals for the agreement and 
        measures for attaining such goals;
            (4) establish a schedule for the implementation of the 
        recovery agreement; and
            (5) specify how the recovery agreement will be monitored to 
        assess the effectiveness in attaining the species recovery 
        goals.

                  TITLE V--HISTORIC PRESERVATION FUND

SEC. 501. HISTORIC PRESERVATION FUND AMENDMENTS.

    Section 108 of the National Preservation Act (16 U.S.C. 470h) is 
amended--
            (1) by inserting ``(a)'' before the first sentence of the 
        first paragraph;
            (2) by inserting ``(b)'' before the first sentence of the 
        second paragraph;
            (3) by adding at the end thereof the following new 
        subsections:
    ``(c) There shall be deposited into the fund $150,000,000 in fiscal 
year 2001 and each fiscal year thereafter from qualified Outer 
Continental Shelf revenues (as that term is defined in section 2(u) of 
the Outer Continental Shelf Lands Act (43 U.S.C. 1331(u)) (as amended 
by the Coastal Stewardship Act of 2000)). Such moneys shall be used 
only to carry out the purposes of this Act.
    ``(d)(1) Of the amounts in the fund, $150,000,000 shall be 
available each fiscal year for obligation or expenditure in accordance 
with paragraph (2). Such funds shall be made available without further 
appropriation, subject to the requirements of this Act, and shall 
remain available until expended.
    ``(2) Of the amounts made available each fiscal year--
            ``(A) not less than $75,000,000 shall be available for 
        State, local governmental, and tribal historic preservation 
        programs as provided in subsections 101(b), (c), and (d) of 
        this Act; and
            ``(B) $15,000,000 shall be available to the American 
        Battlefield Protection Program (section 604 of Public Law 104-
        333; 16 U.S.C. 469k) for the protection of threatened 
        battlefields; and
            ``(C) the remainder shall be available for the matching 
        grant programs authorized in section 101(e) of this Act: 
        Provided, That not less than 50 percent of the amounts made 
        available shall be used for preservation projects on historic 
        properties in accordance with this Act, with priority given to 
        the preservation of endangered historic properties.
    ``(e)(1) The President shall transmit, as part of the annual budget 
proposal, a list of matching grant programs to be funded and additional 
funding amounts, if any, for State, local governmental, and tribal 
historic programs. Funds shall be made available from the Historic 
Preservation Fund, without further appropriation, 15 days after the 
date the Congress adjourns sien die each year, for the programs 
identified by the President to be funded, unless prior to such date, 
legislation is enacted establishing funding, for other specific 
programs authorized in this Act.
    ``(2) If the list of programs approved by Congress funds less than 
the annual authorized funding amount, the remainder shall be available 
for expenditure, without further appropriation, in accordance with the 
list of programs submitted by the President.
    ``(3) If the President recommends additional funding for State, 
local government, or tribal historic preservation programs, priority 
shall be given to the preservation of endangered historic 
properties.''.

SEC. 502. AMERICAN BATTLEFIELD PROTECTION PROGRAM AMENDMENTS.

    The American Battlefield Act of 1996 (section 604 of Public Law 
1045-333; 16 U.S.C. 469k) is amended as follows:
            (1) in subsection (c)(2) by adding the following sentence 
        at the end thereof: ``Priority for financial assistance for the 
        preservation of Civil War Battlefields shall be given to sites 
        identified as Priority 1 battlefields in the 1993 ``Civil War 
        Sites Advisory Commission Report on the Nation's Civil War 
        Battlefields'';
            (2) by amending subsection (d) to read as follows:
    ``(d) Funding Authority.--Of amounts in the Historic Preservation 
Fund, $15,000,000 shall be available each year for obligation or 
expenditure for the protection of threatened battlefields in accordance 
with this title. Such funds shall be available without further 
appropriation, and shall remain available until expended.''.
            (3) By repealing subsection (e) in its entirety.

            TITLE VI--NATURAL RESOURCE RESTORATION PROGRAMS

SEC. 601. NATIONAL PARK SYSTEM RESOURCE PROTECTION.

    (a) Establishment.--There is established in the Treasury of the 
United States a fund that shall be known as the ``National Park System 
Resource Protection Fund'' (in this title referred to as the ``fund''). 
There shall be deposited into the fund $150,000,000 in fiscal year 2001 
and each fiscal year thereafter from qualified Outer Continental Shelf 
revenues (as that term is defined in section 2(u) of the Outer 
Continental Shelf Lands Act (43 U.S.C. 1331(u)) (as amended by the 
Coastal and Marine Resources Enhancement Act of 2000)). Such moneys 
shall be used only to carry out the purposes of this section.
    (b) Expenditures.--(1) Of the amounts in the fund, $150,000,000 
shall be available each fiscal year to the Secretary of the Interior 
for obligation or expenditure in accordance with this section. Such 
funds shall be made available without further appropriation, subject to 
the requirements of this section, and shall remain available until 
expended.
    (2) Amounts in the fund shall only be used to protect significant 
natural, cultural or historical resources at units of the National park 
System that are--
            (A) threatened by activities occurring inside or outside 
        park boundaries; or
            (B) in need of stabilization or restoration.
    (3) The Secretary is authorized to enter into cooperative 
agreements with State and local governments and other public and 
private organizations to carry out the purposes of this section.
    (4) No funds made available by this section shall be used for--
            (A) acquisition of lands or interests therein;
            (B) salaries of National Park Service permanent employees;
            (C) construction of roads;
            (D) construction of new visitor centers;
            (E) routine maintenance activities; or
            (F) specific projects which are funded by the Recreational 
        Fee Demonstration Program (section 315 of Public Law 104-134; 
        16 U.S.C. 460l (note)).
    (5)(A) The Secretary of the Interior shall prepare, as part of the 
annual budget proposal, a priority list for projects to be funded under 
this section. Moneys shall be made available from the fund, without 
further appropriation, 15 days after the date the Congress adjourns 
sine die each year, for the projects identified on the priority list, 
unless prior to such date, legislation is enacted establishing a 
different priority list.
    (B) In preparing the list of projects to be funded under this 
section, the Secretary of the Interior shall give priority to projects 
that--
            (i) are identified in the park unit's general management 
        plan;
            (ii) are included in authorized environmental restoration 
        projects; or
            (iii) are identified by the Secretary of the Interior as 
        necessary to prevent immediate damage to a park unit's natural, 
        cultural, or historical resources.
    (C) If Congress enacts legislation establishing an alternate 
priority list, and such priority list funds less than the annual 
authorized funding amount identified in subsection (b)(1), the 
difference between the authorized funding amount and the alternate 
priority list shall be available for expenditure, without further 
appropriation, in accordance with the priority list submitted by the 
Secretary of the Interior.

SEC. 602. CORAL REEF RESOURCE CONSERVATION FUND.

    (a) Establishment of Fund.--There is established in the Treasury of 
the United States a fund that shall be known as the ``Coral Reef 
Resources Restoration Fund'' (in this section referred to as the 
``fund''). There shall be deposited into the fund $15,000,000 in fiscal 
year 2000 and each fiscal year thereafter from qualified Outer 
Continental Shelf revenues (as that term is defined in section 2 of the 
Outer Continental Shelf Lands Act (43 U.S.C. 1331) (as amended by the 
Coastal and Marine Resources Enhancement Act of 1999)). Such moneys 
shall be used only to carry out the purposes of this section.
    (b) Expenditures.--(1) Of the amounts in this fund, $15,000,000 
shall be available each fiscal year to the Secretary of the Interior 
for obligation or expenditure in accordance with this section, and 
shall remain available until expended.
    (2)(A) the Secretary shall prepare, as part of the annual budget 
proposal, a priority list for projects to be funded under this section. 
Monies shall be made available from the fund, without further 
appropriation, 15 days after the date the Congress adjourns sine die 
for each year, for the projects identified on that priority list, 
unless prior to such date, legislation is enacted establishing a 
different priority list.
    (B) If Congress enacts legislation establishing an alternate 
priority list, and such priority list funds less than the annual 
authorized funding amount identified in subsection (b)(1), the 
difference between the authorized funding amount and the alternate 
priority list shall be available for expenditure, without further 
appropriation, in accordance with the priority list submitted by the 
Secretary.
    (c) Definitions.--As used in this section--
            (1) the term ``coral reef'' means species (including reef 
        plants and coralline algae), habitats, and other natural 
        resources associated with any reefs or shoals composed 
        primarily of corals within all maritime areas and zones subject 
        to the jurisdiction of the Secretary of the Interior, including 
        in the south Atlantic, Caribbean, Gulf of Mexico, and pacific 
        Ocean;
            (2) the term ``coral'' means species of the phylum 
        Cnidaria, including--
                    (A) all species of the orders Antipatharia (black 
                corals), Scleractinia (stony corals), Gorgonacea (horny 
                corals), Stlolnifea (organpipe corals and others), 
                Alcyanacea (soft corals), and Coenothecalia (blue 
                corals), of the class Anthozoa; and
                    (B) all species of the order Hydrocoralline (fire 
                corals and hydrocorals), of the class Hydroza;
            (3) the term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary of the 
        Interior;
            (4) the term ``coral reef conservation project'' means 
        activities that contribute to or result in preserving, 
        sustaining or enhancing coral reef ecosystems as healthy, 
        diverse and viable ecosystems, including--
                    (A) actions to enhance or improve resource 
                management of coral reefs, such as assessment, 
                scientific research, protection, restoration and 
                mapping;
                    (B) habitat monitoring and species surveys and 
                monitoring;
                    (C) activities necessary for planning and 
                development of strategies for coral reef management;
                    (D) community outreach and education on coral reef 
                importance and conservation; and
                    (E) activities in support of the enforcement of 
                laws relating to coral reefs; and
            (5) the term ``coral reef task force'' means the task force 
        established under Executive Order 13089 (June 11, 1998).
    (d) Coral Reef Conservation Program.--(1) The Secretary shall 
provide grants of financial assistance for coral reef conservation 
projects on areas under the jurisdiction of the Department of the 
Interior in accordance with this section.
    (2)(A) Except as provided in subparagraph (B), Federal funds for 
any coral reef conservation project under this section may not exceed 
75 percent of the total cost of such project. For purposes of this 
paragraph, the non-Federal share of project costs may be provided in 
in-kind contributions or other non-cash support.
    (B) The Secretary may waive all or part of the matching fund 
requirement under paragraph (A) if the project costs are $25,000 or 
less.
    (3) Any relevant natural resource management authority of a Sate or 
territory of the United States, or other government authority with 
jurisdiction over coral reefs or whose activities affect coral reefs, 
or educational or non-governmental institutions or organizations with 
demonstrated expertise in marine science or the conservation of coral 
reefs, may submit a proposal for funding to the Secretary.
    (4) The Secretary shall ensure that financial assistance provided 
under subsection (a) is distributed so that--
            (A) not less than 40 percent of the funds available are 
        awarded for conservation projects in the Pacific Ocean;
            (B) not less than 40 percent of the funds are awarded for 
        coral reef restoration and conservation projects in the 
        Atlantic, Gulf of Mexico and Caribbean Sea; and
            (C) remaining funds are awarded for coral reef project that 
        address emerging priorities or threats identified by the 
        Secretary in consultation with the Coral Reef Task Force.
    (5) After consultation with the Coral Reef Task Force, States and 
territories, regional and local entities, and non-governmental 
organizations involved in coral and marine conservation, the Secretary 
shall identify--
            (A) site-specific threats and constraints, and
            (B) comprehensive threats known to affect coral reef 
        ecosystems in the national parks, refuges, territories and 
        possessions to be used in establishing funding priorities for 
        grants issued under subsection (a).
    (6) The Secretary shall review and rank final coral reef 
conservation project proposals according to the criteria set out in 
subsection (d)(7).
            (A) For projects costing $25,000 or greater, the Secretary 
        shall provide for the merit-based peer review of the proposal 
        and require standardized documentation of that peer review;
            (B) As part of the peer review process for individual 
        grants, the Secretary shall also request written comments from 
        the appropriate bureaus or departments of State or territorial 
        governments, or other governmental jurisdiction, where the 
        project is proposed to be conducted.
    (7) The Secretary shall evaluate final project proposals based on 
the degree to which the project will--
            (A) promote the long-term protection, conservation, 
        restoration or enhancement of coral reef ecosystems within or 
        adjoining areas under the jurisdiction of the Department of the 
        Interior;
            (B) promote cooperative conservation projects with local 
        communities, non-governmental organizations, educational or 
        private institutions; or local affected governments, 
        territories or insular areas;
            (C) enhance public knowledge and awareness of coral reef 
        resources and sustainable use through education and outreach;
            (D) develop sound scientific information on the condition 
        of coral reef ecosystems or the threats to such ecosystems, 
        through mapping, monitoring, research and analysis; and
            (E) enhance compliance with laws relating to coral reefs.
    (8) Within 180 days after the enactment of this Act, the Secretary 
shall promulgate guidelines and requirements for implementing this 
section, including the requirements for project proposals.
            (A) In developing guidelines and requirements, the 
        Secretary shall consult with the Coral Reef Task Force, 
        interested States, regional and local entities, and non-
        governmental organizations.

              TITLE VII--URBAN PARK AND FORESTRY PROGRAMS

SEC. 701. URBAN PARK AND RECREATION RECOVERY FUND.

    Section 1013 of the Urban Park and Recreation Recovery Act of 1978 
(title X of Public Law 95-625; 16 U.S.C. 2512) is amended to read as 
follows:
    ``(a) There is established in the Treasury of the United States a 
fund that shall be known as the `Urban Park and Recreation Recovery 
Fund' (referred to as the `fund'). There shall deposited into the fund 
$75,000,000 in fiscal year 2001 and each fiscal year thereafter from 
qualified Outer Continental Shelf revenues (as that term is defined in 
section 2(u) of the Outer Continental Shelf Lands Act (43 U.S.C. 
1331(u)) (as amended by the Coastal Stewardship Act of 2000)). Such 
moneys shall be used only to carry out the purposes of this Act.
    ``(b)(1) Of the amounts in the fund, $75,000,000 shall be available 
each fiscal year for obligation or expenditure in accordance with this 
Act. Such funds shall be made available without further appropriation, 
subject to the requirements of this Act, and shall remain available 
until expended.
    ``(2) Not more than 3 percent of the funds made available in any 
fiscal year may be used for grants for the development of local park 
and recreation recovery programs pursuant to subsection 1007(a) and (c) 
of this Act.
    ``(3) Not more than 10 percent of the funds made available in any 
fiscal year may be used for innovation grants pursuant to section 1006 
of this act.
    ``(4) Note more than 15 percent of the funds made available in any 
fiscal year may be provided as grants, in the aggregate, for projects 
in any one State.''.

SEC. 702. URBAN AND COMMUNITY FORESTRY ASSISTANCE FUND.

    Section 9(i) of the Cooperative Forestry Assistance Act of 1978 
(Public Law 95-313; 16 U.S.C. 2101(note)) is amended to read as 
follows:
    ``(a) There is established in the Treasury of the United States a 
fund that shall be known as the `Urban and Community Forestry 
Assistance Fund' (referred to as the `fund'). There shall be deposited 
into the fund $50,000,000 in fiscal year 2001 and each fiscal year 
thereafter from qualified Outer Continental Shelf revenues (as that 
term is defined in section 2(u) of the Outer Continental Shelf Lands 
Act (43 U.S.C. 1331(u)) (as amended by the Coastal Stewardship Act of 
2000)). Such moneys shall be used only to carry out the purposes of 
this Act.
    ``(b) Of the amounts in the fund, $50,000,000 shall be available 
each fiscal year for obligation or expenditure in accordance with this 
Act. Such funds shall be made available without further appropriation, 
subject to the requirements of this Act, and shall remain available 
until expended.''.

                   TITLE VIII--CONSERVATION EASEMENTS

SEC. 801. FOREST LEGACY FUND.

    Section 7(l) of the Cooperative Forestry Assistance Act of 1978 
(Public Law 95-313; 16 U.S.C. 2101 (note)) is amended to read as 
follows:
    ``(a) There is established in the Treasury of the United States a 
fund that shall be known as the `Forest Legacy Fund' (referred to as 
the `fund'). There shall be deposited into the fund $50,000,000 in 
fiscal year 2001 and each fiscal year thereafter from qualified Outer 
Continental Shelf revenues (as that term is defined in section 2(u) of 
the Outer Continental Shelf Lands Act (43 U.S.C. 1331(u)) (as amended 
by the Coastal Stewardship Act of 2000)). Such moneys shall be used 
only to carry out the purposes of this Act.
    ``(b) Of the amounts in the fund, $50,000,000 shall be available 
each fiscal year to the Secretary of Agriculture for obligation or 
expenditure in accordance with this Act. Such funds shall be made 
available without further appropriation, subject to the requirements of 
this Act, and shall remain available until expended.''.

SEC. 802. FARMLAND PROTECTION PROGRAM.

    Section 388(c) of Public Law 104-127 (16 U.S.C. 3831 (note)) is 
amended to read as follows:
    ``(a) There is established in the Treasury of the United States a 
fund that shall be known as the `Farmland Protection Fund' (referred to 
as the `fund'). There shall be deposited into the fund $50,000,000 in 
fiscal year 2001 and each fiscal year thereafter from qualified Outer 
Continental Shelf revenues (as that term is defined in section 2(u) of 
the Outer Continental Shelf Lands Act (43 U.S.C. 1331(u)) (as amended 
by the Coastal Stewardship Act of 2000)). Such moneys shall be used 
only to carry out the purposes of this Act.
    ``(b) Of the amounts in the fund, $50,000,000 shall be available 
each fiscal year to the Secretary of Agriculture for obligation or 
expenditure in accordance with this Act. Such funds shall be made 
available without further appropriation, subject to the requirements of 
this Act, and shall remain available until expended.''.

SEC. 803. RANCHLAND PROTECTION.

    (a) Establishment of Ranchland Protection Fund.--There is 
established in the Treasury of the United States a fund that shall be 
known as the ``Ranchland Protection Fund'' (in this section referred to 
as the ``fund''). There shall be deposited into the fund $50,000,000 in 
fiscal year 2001 and each fiscal year thereafter from qualified Outer 
Continental Shelf revenues (as that term is defined in section 2(u) of 
the Outer Continental Shelf Lands Act (43 U.S.C. 1331(u)) (as amended 
by the Coastal Stewardship Act of 2000)). Such moneys shall be used 
only to carry out the purposes of this section.
    (b) Expenditures.--Of the amounts in the fund, $50,000,000 shall be 
available each fiscal year to the Secretary of the Interior for 
obligation or expenditure in accordance with this section. Such funds 
shall be made available without further appropriation, subject to the 
requirements of this section, and shall remain available until 
expended.
    (c) Ranchland Protection Program.--(1) The Secretary of the 
Interior shall establish and carry out a program, to be known as the 
``Ranchland Protection Program'', under which the Secretary shall 
provide grants from the Ranchland Protection Fund to State or local 
governmental agencies, Indian tribes or appropriate non-profit 
organizations to provide the Federal share of the cost of purchasing 
permanent conservation easements on ranchland, for the purpose of 
protecting the continued use of the land as ranchland or open space and 
preventing its conversion to non-agricultural or open space uses.
    (2) No funds made available under this section may be used to 
acquire any interest in land without the consent of the owner thereof.
    (3) The holder of a conservation easement described in paragraph 
(1) may enforce the conservation requirements of the easement.
    (4) Prior to making funds available for a grant under this section, 
the Secretary of the Interior shall receive certification from the 
Attorney General of the State in which the conservation easement is to 
be purchased that the conservation easement is in a form that is 
sufficient, under the laws of that State, to achieve the purpose of the 
Ranchland Protection Program and the terms and conditions of the grant.
    (5) For the purposes of this section, the term ``ranch land'' means 
private or tribally owned range land, pasture land, grazed forest land, 
and hay land.

        TITLE IX--NATURAL RESOURCE COMMUNITY INVESTMENT PROGRAMS

SEC. 901. YOUTH CONSERVATION CORPS FUND.

    Section 106 of the Youth Conservation Corps Act of 1970 (Public Law 
91-378; 16 U.S.C. 1706) is amended to read as follows:
    ``(a) There is established in the Treasury of the United States a 
fund that shall be known as the `Youth Conservation Corps Fund' (in 
this section referred to as the `fund'). There shall be deposited into 
the fund $60,000,000 in fiscal year 2001 and each fiscal year 
thereafter from qualified Outer Continental Shelf revenues (as that 
term is defined in section 2(u) of the Outer Continental Shelf Lands 
Act (43 U.S.C. 1331(u)) (as amended by the Coastal Stewardship Act of 
2000)). Such moneys shall be used only to carry out the purposes of 
title I and II of this Act.
    ``(b) Of the amounts in the fund, $60,000,000 shall be available 
each fiscal year for obligation or expenditure in accordance with 
titles I and II of this Act. Such funds shall be made available to the 
Secretary of Agriculture and the Secretary of the Interior, without 
further appropriation, subject to the requirements of titles I and II 
of this Act, and shall remain available until expended.''.

SEC. 902. FOREST SERVICE RURAL COMMUNITY ASSISTANCE.

    (a) Rural Development Program.--The Cooperative Forestry Assistance 
Act of 1978 (Public Law 95-313; 16 U.S.C. 2101 (note)) is amended by 
adding the following new section:

``SEC. 21. RURAL DEVELOPMENT.

    ``(a) The Secretary shall conduct a Rural Development program to 
provide technical assistance to rural communities for sustainable rural 
development purposes.
    ``(b) There is established in the Treasury of the United States a 
fund that shall be known as the `Forest Service Rural Development Fund' 
(in this section referred to as the `fund'). There shall be deposited 
into the fund $25,000,000 in fiscal year 2001 and each fiscal year 
thereafter from qualified Outer Continental Shelf revenues (as that 
term is defined in section 2(u) of the Outer Continental Shelf Lands 
Act (43 U.S.C. 1331(u)) (as amended by the Coastal Stewardship Act of 
2000)). Such moneys shall be used only to carry out the purposes of 
this Act.
    ``(c) Of the amounts in the fund, $25,000,000 shall be available 
each fiscal year to the Secretary of Agriculture for obligation or 
expenditure in accordance with this Act. Such funds shall be made 
available without further appropriation, subject to the requirements of 
this section, and shall remain available until expended.''.
    (b) Rural Community Assistance.--Section 2379 of the National 
Forest-Dependent Rural Communities Economic Diversification Act (Public 
Law 101-624, 7 U.S.C. 6601 (note)) is amended to read as follows:
    ``(a) There is established in the Treasury of the United States a 
fund that shall be known as the `Forest Service Rural Community 
Assistance Fund' (in this section referred to as the `fund'). There 
shall be deposited into the fund $25,000,000 in fiscal year 2001 and 
each fiscal year thereafter from qualified Outer Continental Shelf 
revenues (as that term is defined in section 2(u) of the Outer 
Continental Shelf Lands Act (43 U.S.C. 1331(u)) (as amended by the 
Coastal Stewardship Act of 2000)). Such moneys shall be used only to 
carry out the purposes of this Act.
    ``(b) Of the amounts in the fund, $25,000,000 shall be available 
each fiscal year for obligation or expenditure in accordance with this 
Act. Such funds shall be made available without further appropriation, 
subject to the requirements of this Act, and shall remain available 
until expended.''.

                   TITLE X--PAYMENT IN LIEU OF TAXES

SEC. 1001. PAYMENT IN LIEU OF TAXES.

    Section 6906 of title 31, United States Code, (96 Stat. 1035) is 
amended to read as follows:
    ``(a) There is established in the Treasury of the United States a 
fund that shall be known as the `Payment in Lieu of Taxes Fund' 
(referred to as the `fund'). There shall be deposited into the fund in 
fiscal year 2001 and thereafter from qualified Outer Continental Shelf 
revenues (as that term is defined in section 2(u) of the Outer 
Continental Shelf Lands Act (43 U.S.C. 1331(u)) (as amended by the 
Coastal Stewardship Act of 2000)) such moneys as are necessary to full 
fund payments to units of general local governments as provided in this 
Act.
    ``(b) Amounts in the fund shall be available each fiscal year to 
the Secretary of the Interior for obligation or expenditure in 
accordance with this Act. Such funds shall be made available without 
further appropriations, and shall remain available until expended.''.
                                 &lt;all&gt;
</pre></body></html>
