<html><body><pre>
[Congressional Bills 118th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[S. 4457 Introduced in Senate (IS)]

&lt;DOC&gt;






118th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                S. 4457

 To provide for conservation and economic development in the State of 
                    Nevada, and for other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                   IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

                              June 4, 2024

 Ms. Cortez Masto introduced the following bill; which was read twice 
     and referred to the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
 To provide for conservation and economic development in the State of 
                    Nevada, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE; TABLE OF CONTENTS.

    (a) Short Title.--This Act may be cited as the ``Southern Nevada 
Economic Development and Conservation Act''.
    (b) Table of Contents.--The table of contents for this Act is as 
follows:

Sec. 1. Short title; table of contents.
Sec. 2. Definitions.
          TITLE I--TRIBAL EMPOWERMENT AND ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT

Sec. 101. Transfer of land to be held in trust for the Moapa Band of 
                            Paiutes.
Sec. 102. Tribal fee land to be held in trust.
Sec. 103. Transfer of land to be held in trust for the Las Vegas Paiute 
                            Tribe.
                     TITLE II--CLARK COUNTY, NEVADA

Sec. 201. Definition of public park under the Red Rock Canyon National 
                            Conservation Area Protection and 
                            Enhancement Act of 2002.
Sec. 202. Red Rock Canyon National Conservation Area boundary 
                            adjustment.
Sec. 203. Land disposal and public purpose conveyances.
Sec. 204. Revocation of Ivanpah Area of Critical Environmental Concern 
                            and establishment of special management 
                            areas.
Sec. 205. Relationship to the Clark County Multiple Species Habitat 
                            Conservation Plan.
Sec. 206. Designation of Maude Frazier Mountain.
Sec. 207. Availability of special account.
Sec. 208. Nevada Cancer Institute land conveyance.
Sec. 209. Sloan Canyon National Conservation Area boundary adjustment.
Sec. 210. Sloan Job Creation Zone.
Sec. 211. Amendments to the Apex Project, Nevada Land Transfer and 
                            Authorization Act of 1989.
                         TITLE III--WILDERNESS

Sec. 301. Additions to the National Wilderness Preservation System.
   TITLE IV--LOCAL GOVERNMENT CONVEYANCES IN THE STATE OF NEVADA FOR 
                            PUBLIC PURPOSES

Sec. 401. City of Boulder City, Nevada, conveyance.
Sec. 402. City of Mesquite, Nevada, conveyance for the protection of 
                            the Virgin River watershed.
Sec. 403. Clark County, Nevada, conveyance to support public safety and 
                            wildfire response.
Sec. 404. Moapa Valley Water District, Nevada, conveyance to support 
                            access to rural water supply.
Sec. 405. City of North Las Vegas, Nevada, conveyance for fire training 
                            facility.
Sec. 406. Clark County, Nevada, conveyance to support public 
                            recreation.
Sec. 407. Conveyance of Desert Breeze Water Resources Center in Clark 
                            County, Nevada.
Sec. 408. Clark County Water Reclamation District conveyance for 
                            wastewater treatment facility.
Sec. 409. Water infrastructure conveyances for public purposes.
Sec. 410. Henderson, Nevada, conveyance to support public recreation.
Sec. 411. Flood control infrastructure conveyances for public purposes.
Sec. 412. Las Vegas, Nevada, conveyance to support public recreation.
Sec. 413. North Las Vegas, Nevada, conveyance to support public 
                            recreation.
Sec. 414. Mesquite, Nevada, conveyance to support public 
                            infrastructure.
      TITLE V--IMPLEMENTATION OF LOWER VIRGIN RIVER WATERSHED PLAN

Sec. 501. Implementation of Lower Virgin River watershed plan.
           TITLE VI--SOUTHERN NEVADA LIMITED TRANSITION AREA

Sec. 601. Southern Nevada Limited Transition Area.
                  TITLE VII--MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS

Sec. 701. Off-highway vehicle recreation areas.
Sec. 702. Lower Las Vegas Wash weirs.
Sec. 703. Critical flood control facilities.
Sec. 704. Jurisdiction over fish and wildlife.

SEC. 2. DEFINITIONS.

    In this Act:
            (1) County.--The term ``County'' means Clark County, 
        Nevada.
            (2) Federal incidental take permit.--The term ``Federal 
        incidental take permit'' means an incidental take permit issued 
        under section 10(a)(1)(B) of the Endangered Species Act of 1973 
        (16 U.S.C. 1539(a)(1)(B)) to--
                    (A) the Nevada Department of Transportation;
                    (B) the County; or
                    (C) any of the following cities in the State:
                            (i) Las Vegas.
                            (ii) North Las Vegas.
                            (iii) Henderson.
                            (iv) Boulder City.
                            (v) Mesquite.
            (3) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary 
        of the Interior.
            (4) State.--The term ``State'' means the State of Nevada.
            (5) Unit of local government.--The term ``unit of local 
        government'' has the meaning given the term in section 3 of the 
        Southern Nevada Public Land Management Act of 1998 (Public Law 
        105-263; 112 Stat. 2343).

          TITLE I--TRIBAL EMPOWERMENT AND ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT

SEC. 101. TRANSFER OF LAND TO BE HELD IN TRUST FOR THE MOAPA BAND OF 
              PAIUTES.

    (a) Definition of Tribe.--In this section and section 102, the term 
``Tribe'' means the Moapa Band of Paiutes of the Moapa River Indian 
Reservation, Nevada.
    (b) Transfer of Land.--
            (1) In general.--Subject to valid existing rights, 
        including existing rights-of-way and pending right-of-way 
        applications for water and wastewater facilities and for 
        electric generation, storage, transmission, distribution, and 
        supporting facilities, all right, title, and interest of the 
        United States in and to the land described in subsection (c) 
        shall be--
                    (A) held in trust by the United States for the 
                benefit of the Tribe; and
                    (B) part of the reservation of the Tribe.
            (2) Certain transmission facilities.--
                    (A) In general.--The transfer of land under 
                paragraph (1) shall be subject to the reservation to 
                the United States of electric transmission corridor 
                rights-of-way, which shall be administered by the 
                Secretary under the laws applicable to such rights-of-
                way.
                    (B) Requirements.--The Secretary shall ensure that 
                any payments after the date of enactment of this Act 
                for the right-of-way under subparagraph (A) shall be--
                            (i) made for the benefit of the Tribe; and
                            (ii) transferred from the Secretary to the 
                        Tribe in a timely manner.
    (c) Description of Land.--The land referred to in subsection (b)(1) 
is the approximately 44,950 acres of land administered by the Bureau of 
Land Management and the Bureau of Reclamation, as generally depicted on 
the map entitled ``Moapa Band of Paiutes'' and dated February 2, 2023.
    (d) Survey.--Not later than 60 days after the date of enactment of 
this Act, the Secretary shall complete a survey of the boundary lines 
to establish the boundaries of the land taken into trust under 
subsection (b)(1).
    (e) Gaming.--Land taken into trust under this section shall not be 
eligible, or considered to have been taken into trust, for class II 
gaming or class III gaming (as those terms are defined in section 4 of 
the Indian Gaming Regulatory Act (25 U.S.C. 2703)).
    (f) Water Rights.--
            (1) In general.--There shall not be Federal reserved rights 
        to surface water or groundwater for any land taken into trust 
        by the United States for the benefit of the Tribe under 
        subsection (b)(1).
            (2) State water rights.--The Tribe shall retain any right 
        or claim to water under State law for any land taken into trust 
        by the United States for the benefit of the Tribe under 
        subsection (b)(1).

SEC. 102. TRIBAL FEE LAND TO BE HELD IN TRUST.

    (a) In General.--All right, title, and interest of the Tribe in and 
to the land described in subsection (b) shall be--
            (1) held in trust by the United States for the benefit of 
        the Tribe; and
            (2) part of the reservation of the Tribe.
    (b) Description of Land.--The land referred to in subsection (a) is 
the approximately 196 acres of land held in fee by the Tribe, as 
generally depicted on the map entitled ``Moapa Band of Paiutes'' and 
dated February 2, 2023.
    (c) Survey.--Not later than 180 days after the date of enactment of 
this Act, the Secretary shall complete a survey to establish the 
boundaries of the land taken into trust under subsection (a).

SEC. 103. TRANSFER OF LAND TO BE HELD IN TRUST FOR THE LAS VEGAS PAIUTE 
              TRIBE.

    (a) Definition of Tribe.--In this section, the term ``Tribe'' means 
the Las Vegas Paiute Tribe.
    (b) Transfer of Land.--Subject to valid existing rights, all right, 
title, and interest of the United States in and to the land described 
in subsection (c) shall be--
            (1) held in trust by the United States for the benefit of 
        the Tribe; and
            (2) part of the reservation of the Tribe.
    (c) Description of Land.--The land referred to in subsection (b) is 
the approximately 3,156 acres of land administered by the Bureau of 
Land Management, as generally depicted on the map entitled ``Las Vegas 
Paiute Tribe'' and dated February 2, 2023.
    (d) Survey.--Not later than 180 days after the date of enactment of 
this Act, the Secretary shall complete a survey to establish the 
boundaries of the land taken into trust under subsection (b).
    (e) Renewable Energy Transmission Corridor.--As a condition of the 
transfer of land under subsection (b), not later than 30 days after the 
date on which the land is taken into trust by the United States for the 
benefit of the Tribe under subsection (b), a 300-foot-wide right-of-way 
(as generally depicted on the map described in subsection (c)) shall be 
granted by the Tribe to a qualified electric utility for the 
construction and maintenance of high-voltage transmission facilities 
consistent with existing renewable energy transmission agreements 
between the Tribe and the qualified electric utility on the Snow 
Mountain Reservation.
    (f) Gaming.--Land taken into trust under this section shall not be 
eligible, or considered to have been taken into trust, for class II 
gaming or class III gaming (as those terms are defined in section 4 of 
the Indian Gaming Regulatory Act (25 U.S.C. 2703)).
    (g) Water Rights.--
            (1) In general.--Nothing in this section affirms or denies 
        Federal reserved rights to surface water or groundwater for any 
        land taken into trust by the United States for the benefit of 
        the Tribe under subsection (b).
            (2) State water rights.--The Tribe shall retain any right 
        or claim to water under State law for any land taken into trust 
        by the United States for the benefit of the Tribe under 
        subsection (b).
    (h) Intergovernmental Agreement.--Nothing in this section affects 
the implementation of the March 2021 Intergovernmental Agreement 
between the Las Vegas Paiute Tribe and the City of Las Vegas.
    (i) Conforming Amendment.--Section 3092 of the Carl Levin and 
Howard P. ``Buck'' McKeon National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
Year 2015 (Public Law 113-291; 128 Stat. 3870) is amended by striking 
subsection (d).

                     TITLE II--CLARK COUNTY, NEVADA

SEC. 201. DEFINITION OF PUBLIC PARK UNDER THE RED ROCK CANYON NATIONAL 
              CONSERVATION AREA PROTECTION AND ENHANCEMENT ACT OF 2002.

    Section 102 of the Red Rock Canyon National Conservation Area 
Protection and Enhancement Act of 2002 (16 U.S.C. 460ccc-4 note; Public 
Law 107-282) is amended--
            (1) by redesignating paragraphs (1), (2), and (3) as 
        paragraphs (2), (4), and (5), respectively;
            (2) by inserting before paragraph (2) (as so redesignated) 
        the following:
            ``(1) Associated supportive use.--The term `associated 
        supportive use' means a use that supports the overall function 
        and enjoyment of a public park.''; and
            (3) by inserting after paragraph (2) (as so redesignated) 
        the following:
            ``(3) Public park.--The term `public park' includes land 
        developed or managed by a partnership between Clark County, 
        Nevada, and a private entity for recreational uses and 
        associated supportive uses, including uses that require a fee 
        for admittance or use of property within the public park.''.

SEC. 202. RED ROCK CANYON NATIONAL CONSERVATION AREA BOUNDARY 
              ADJUSTMENT.

    Section 3(a) of the Red Rock Canyon National Conservation Area 
Establishment Act of 1990 (16 U.S.C. 460ccc-1(a)) is amended by 
striking paragraph (2) and inserting the following:
            ``(2) The conservation area shall consist of approximately 
        253,950 acres of land, as generally depicted on the map 
        entitled `Red Rock Canyon National Conservation Area' and dated 
        February 2, 2023.''.

SEC. 203. LAND DISPOSAL AND PUBLIC PURPOSE CONVEYANCES.

    (a) Land Disposal.--
            (1) In general.--Section 4(a) of the Southern Nevada Public 
        Land Management Act of 1998 (Public Law 105-263; 112 Stat. 
        2344; 116 Stat. 2007; 127 Stat. 3872) is amended, in the first 
        sentence, by striking ``September 17, 2012.'' and inserting 
        ``February 2, 2023. The Secretary and Clark County shall 
        jointly nominate not more than an additional 25,000 acres from 
        land depicted on the map as `Proposed Expanded Las Vegas 
        Disposal Boundary' for addition to the disposal boundary.''.
            (2) Revocation of disposal.--The designation by the Bureau 
        of Land Management of the Valley West disposal area and the 
        Nelson disposal area in the document entitled ``Record of 
        Decision for the Approved Las Vegas Resource Management Plan 
        and Final Environmental Impact Statement'' and dated October 
        1998 is revoked.
            (3) Sand and gravel.--For purposes of the Southern Nevada 
        Public Land Management Act of 1998 (Public Law 105-263; 112 
        Stat. 2343) or the Clark County Conservation of Public Land and 
        Natural Resources Act of 2002 (Public Law 107-282; 116 Stat. 
        1994), the Secretary shall authorize the following:
                    (A) The movement of common varieties of sand and 
                gravel on a surface estate acquired under the Southern 
                Nevada Public Land Management Act of 1998 (Public Law 
                105-263; 112 Stat. 2343) or the Clark County 
                Conservation of Public Land and Natural Resources Act 
                of 2002 (Public Law 107-282; 116 Stat. 1994) by the 
                owner of the surface estate for purposes including 
                recontouring or balancing the surface estate or filling 
                utility trenches on the surface estate.
                    (B) The disposal of sand or gravel described in 
                subparagraph (A) at an off-site landfill.
    (b) Affordable Housing Prioritization.--Section 7(b) of the 
Southern Nevada Public Land Management Act of 1998 (Public Law 105-263; 
112 Stat. 2349) is amended--
            (1) in the first sentence, by striking ``The Secretary'' 
        and inserting the following:
            ``(1) In general.--The Secretary''; and
            (2) by adding the following:
            ``(2) Review prioritization.--If a local governmental 
        entity submits an application to use land for affordable 
        housing purposes under this subsection, the Secretary shall 
        prioritize review of the application over other pending land 
        disposal applications under this Act.
            ``(3) Deadline.--The Secretary (and the Secretary of 
        Housing and Urban Development, if applicable) shall complete 
        all necessary reviews of an application submitted under this 
        subsection not later than 180 days after the date of submission 
        of the application, consistent with any applicable laws.''.
    (c) Use of Public-Private Partnerships by Units of Local Government 
for Affordable Housing.--
            (1) Definitions.--In this subsection:
                    (A) Affordable housing.--The term ``affordable 
                housing'' means housing that serves individuals and 
                families with a household income that does not exceed 
                120 percent of the area median income, including--
                            (i) in the case of homes for sale, homes 
                        that retain affordability for future buyers 
                        through the use of perpetual resale or deed 
                        restrictions; and
                            (ii) a manufactured home community if the 
                        manufactured home community is managed by--
                                    (I) a nonprofit organization; or
                                    (II) a resident-owned cooperative.
                    (B) Covered land.--The term ``covered land'' means 
                any parcel of Federal land in the County that is 
                acquired or conveyed by a unit of local government 
                before, on, or after the date of enactment of this Act 
                for public purposes.
            (2) Use of covered land.--
                    (A) In general.--Any covered land may be developed, 
                financed, used, and maintained for public purposes, 
                including affordable housing, by any entity operating 
                in the County that has entered into a contract with the 
                applicable unit of local government providing for the 
                use of the covered land by the entity.
                    (B) Exemption from notice of realty action 
                requirement.--If an entity seeks to use covered land 
                for affordable housing purposes under subparagraph (A), 
                the entity--
                            (i) shall not be required to comply with 
                        notice of realty action requirements with 
                        respect to the covered land; but
                            (ii) before using the covered land for 
                        affordable housing purposes, shall provide, for 
                        a period of not less than 14 days, adequate 
                        public notice of the use of the covered land.
            (3) Acquisition of covered land for affordable housing 
        purposes.--On submission of an application to the Secretary by 
        a unit of local government for the conveyance to the unit of 
        local government of covered land for affordable housing 
        purposes as authorized under section 7(b) of the Southern 
        Nevada Public Land Management Act of 1998 (Public Law 105-263; 
        111 Stat. 2349), not later than 90 days after the date of 
        receipt of the application, the Secretary shall convey to the 
        unit of local government, for consideration in an amount of not 
        more than $100 per acre, all right, title, and interest of the 
        United States in and to the covered land.
            (4) Terms and conditions for affordable housing.--The 
        Secretary, in consultation with the Secretary of Housing and 
        Urban Development, may subject covered land to other terms and 
        conditions as determined appropriate for affordable housing 
        purposes.

SEC. 204. REVOCATION OF IVANPAH AREA OF CRITICAL ENVIRONMENTAL CONCERN 
              AND ESTABLISHMENT OF SPECIAL MANAGEMENT AREAS.

    (a) Revocation of Ivanpah Area of Critical Environmental Concern.--
Any portion of the designation by the Bureau of Land Management of the 
Ivanpah Area of Critical Environmental Concern in the State dated 
February 14, 2014, not included within a Special Management Area 
designated by subsection (b) is revoked.
    (b) Establishment of Special Management Areas.--The following areas 
in the County are designated as special management areas:
            (1) Stump springs special management area.--Certain Federal 
        land in the County administered by the Bureau of Land 
        Management, comprising approximately 140,976 acres, as 
        generally depicted on the map entitled ``Special Management 
        Areas'' and dated February 2, 2023, which shall be known as the 
        ``Stump Springs Special Management Area''.
            (2) Bird springs valley special management area.--Certain 
        Federal land in the County administered by the Bureau of Land 
        Management, comprising approximately 39,327 acres, as generally 
        depicted on the map entitled ``Special Management Areas'' and 
        dated February 2, 2023, which shall be known as the ``Bird 
        Springs Valley Special Management Area''.
            (3) Desert tortoise protective corridor special management 
        area.--Certain Federal land in the County administered by the 
        Bureau of Land Management, comprising approximately 45,881 
        acres, as generally depicted on the map entitled ``Special 
        Management Areas'' and dated February 2, 2023, which shall be 
        known as the ``Desert Tortoise Protective Corridor Special 
        Management Area''.
            (4) Jean lake special management area.--Certain Federal 
        land in the County administered by the Bureau of Land 
        Management, comprising approximately 2,645 acres, as generally 
        depicted on the map entitled ``Special Management Areas'' and 
        dated February 2, 2023, which shall be known as the ``Jean Lake 
        Special Management Area''.
            (5) Gale hills special management area.--Certain Federal 
        land in the County administered by the Bureau of Land 
        Management, comprising approximately 16,355 acres, as generally 
        depicted on the map entitled ``Special Management Areas'' and 
        dated February 2, 2023, which shall be known as the ``Gale 
        Hills Special Management Area''.
            (6) California wash special management area.--Certain 
        Federal land in the County administered by the Bureau of Land 
        Management, comprising approximately 10,120 acres, as generally 
        depicted on the map entitled ``Special Management Areas'' and 
        dated February 2, 2023, which shall be known as the 
        ``California Wash Special Management Area''.
            (7) Bitter springs special management area.--Certain 
        Federal land in the County administered by the Bureau of Land 
        Management, comprising approximately 61,813 acres, as generally 
        depicted on the map entitled ``Special Management Areas'' and 
        dated February 2, 2023, which shall be known as the ``Bitter 
        Springs Special Management Area''.
            (8) Muddy mountains special management area.--Certain 
        Federal land in the County administered by the Bureau of Land 
        Management, comprising approximately 33,430 acres, as generally 
        depicted on the map entitled ``Special Management Areas'' and 
        dated February 2, 2023, which shall be known as the ``Muddy 
        Mountains Special Management Area''.
            (9) Mesa milkvetch special management area.--Certain 
        Federal land in the County administered by the Bureau of Land 
        Management, comprising approximately 8,417 acres, as generally 
        depicted on the map entitled ``Special Management Areas'' and 
        dated February 2, 2023, which shall be known as the ``Mesa 
        Milkvetch Special Management Area''.
    (c) Purposes.--The purposes of a special management area designated 
by subsection (b) (referred to in this section as a ``Special 
Management Area'') are to mitigate the impacts of any amendment to the 
Clark County Multiple Species Habitat Conservation Plan and Federal 
incidental take permit and to conserve, protect, and enhance for the 
benefit and enjoyment of present and future generations the cultural, 
archaeological, natural, wilderness, scientific, geological, 
historical, biological, wildlife (including wildlife referred to in the 
Clark County Multiple Species Habitat Conservation Plan), educational, 
and scenic resources of the Special Management Area.
    (d) Management of Special Management Areas.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary shall manage each Special 
        Management Area--
                    (A) in a manner that--
                            (i) conserves, protects, and enhances the 
                        purposes for which the Special Management Area 
                        is established; and
                            (ii) ensures protection of species covered 
                        by the Clark County Multiple Species Habitat 
                        Conservation Plan and Federal incidental take 
                        permit; and
                    (B) in accordance with--
                            (i) this section;
                            (ii) the Federal Land Policy and Management 
                        Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.); and
                            (iii) any other applicable law.
            (2) Uses.--The Secretary shall allow only uses of a Special 
        Management Area that are consistent with the purposes for which 
        the Special Management Area is established.
            (3) Motorized vehicles; new roads.--
                    (A) Motorized vehicles.--Except as needed for 
                emergency response or administrative purposes, the use 
                of motorized vehicles in the Special Management Areas 
                shall be permitted only on roads and motorized routes 
                designated for the use of motorized vehicles in the 
                management plan developed under subsection (h).
                    (B) New roads.--No new permanent or temporary roads 
                or other motorized vehicle routes shall be constructed 
                within the Special Management Areas after the date of 
                enactment of this Act.
    (e) Map and Legal Description.--
            (1) In general.--As soon as practicable after the date of 
        enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall prepare a map and 
        legal description of each Special Management Area.
            (2) Effect.--A map or legal description filed under 
        paragraph (1) shall have the same force and effect as if 
        included in this Act.
            (3) Corrections.--The Secretary--
                    (A) may correct minor errors in a map or legal 
                description filed under paragraph (1); but
                    (B) shall consult and coordinate with the County 
                before finalizing the correction under subparagraph 
                (A).
            (4) Public availability.--A copy of each map and legal 
        description filed under paragraph (1) shall be on file and 
        available for public inspection in the appropriate offices of 
        the Bureau of Land Management.
    (f) Incorporation of Acquired Land and Interests in Land.--Any land 
or interest in land that is acquired by the United States within a 
Special Management Area shall--
            (1) become part of the Special Management Area in which the 
        acquired land or interest in land is located;
            (2) be withdrawn in accordance with subsection (g); and
            (3) be managed in accordance with subsection (d).
    (g) Withdrawal.--Subject to valid existing rights and rights-of-way 
for construction, maintenance, and operation of the Moapa Valley Water 
District facilities depicted on the map entitled ``Moapa Valley Water 
District-Facilities and Land Conveyances'' and dated February 2, 2023, 
all Federal land within a Special Management Area is withdrawn from--
            (1) all forms of entry, appropriation, and disposal under 
        the public land laws;
            (2) location, entry, and patent under the mining laws; and
            (3) operation of the mineral leasing, mineral materials, 
        and geothermal leasing laws.
    (h) Management Plan.--As soon as practicable, but not later than 1 
year, after the date on which the County is issued an amended Federal 
incidental take permit under section 205, the Secretary, in 
consultation, collaboration, and coordination with the County, shall--
            (1) consistent with the purposes described in subsection 
        (c), develop a comprehensive management plan that prohibits any 
        activity inconsistent with those purposes for the long-term 
        protection and management of the Special Management Areas; and
            (2) amend the applicable resource management plan to 
        incorporate the provisions of the management plan for the 
        Special Management Areas developed under paragraph (1).
    (i) Interim Management.--During the period beginning on the date of 
enactment of this Act and ending on the date on which the management 
plan developed under paragraph (1) of subsection (h) and the amendment 
to the applicable resource management plan required under paragraph (2) 
of that subsection take effect, the Secretary shall not authorize any 
new use of the Federal land described in subsection (b) for any 
activity contrary to the purposes described in subsection (c), 
including--
            (1) disposal;
            (2) rights-of-way outside designated transportation and 
        utility corridors;
            (3) leases, including utility-scale solar energy 
        facilities;
            (4) livestock grazing;
            (5) infrastructure development; and
            (6) mineral entry.
    (j) Transportation and Utility Corridors.--
            (1) In general.--Consistent with this subsection, the 
        management plan for the Special Management Areas developed 
        under subsection (h) shall establish provisions, including 
        avoidance, minimization, and mitigation measures, for ongoing 
        maintenance of public utility and other rights-of-way in 
        existing designated transportation and utility corridors within 
        a Special Management Area.
            (2) Effect.--Nothing in this section--
                    (A) affects the existence, use, operation, 
                maintenance, repair, construction, reconfiguration, 
                expansion, inspection, renewal, reconstruction, 
                alteration, addition, relocation improvement funding, 
                removal, or replacement of any utility facility or 
                appurtenant right-of-way within an existing designated 
                transportation and utility corridor within a Special 
                Management Area;
                    (B) precludes the Secretary from authorizing the 
                establishment of a new or the renewal or expansion of 
                an existing utility facility right-of-way within an 
                existing designated transportation and utility corridor 
                within a Special Management Area, including the 
                potential realignment of a corridor numbered 224-225 
                established under section 368 of the Energy Policy Act 
                of 2005 (42 U.S.C. 15926) through the Stump Springs 
                Management Area--
                            (i) in accordance with--
                                    (I) the National Environmental 
                                Policy Act of 1969 (42 U.S.C. 4321 et 
                                seq.); and
                                    (II) any other applicable law; and
                            (ii) subject to such terms and conditions 
                        as the Secretary determines to be appropriate; 
                        or
                    (C) prohibits access to, or the repair or 
                replacement of, a transmission line within a right-of-
                way within a Special Management Area issued before the 
                date of enactment of this Act.
    (k) Cooperative Agreement.--Not later than 1 year after the date of 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall seek to enter into a 
cooperative agreement with the County under section 307(b) of the 
Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1737(b)) for 
the long-term protection and management of the Special Management 
Areas.
    (l) Effect.--Nothing in this section prevents or interferes with--
            (1) the construction or operation of the Ivanpah Valley 
        Airport authorized under the Ivanpah Valley Airport Public 
        Lands Transfer Act (Public Law 106-362; 114 Stat. 1404); or
            (2) the Airport Environs Overlay District authorized under 
        section 501(c) of the Clark County Conservation of Public Land 
        and Natural Resources Act of 2002 (Public Law 107-282; 116 
        Stat. 2008) and section 3092(i) of the Carl Levin and Howard P. 
        ``Buck'' McKeon National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
        Year 2015 (Public Law 113-291; 128 Stat. 3875).

SEC. 205. RELATIONSHIP TO THE CLARK COUNTY MULTIPLE SPECIES HABITAT 
              CONSERVATION PLAN.

    (a) Extension of Habitat Conservation Plan.--On receipt from the 
County of a complete application for an amendment to the applicable 
Federal incidental take permit and an amended Clark County Multiple 
Species Habitat Conservation Plan which incorporates the Special 
Management Areas established by section 204(b), the Secretary shall, in 
accordance with this Act, the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 
(42 U.S.C. 4321 et seq.), the Endangered Species Act of 1973 (16 U.S.C. 
1531 et seq.), and any other applicable Federal environmental laws--
            (1) credit approximately 358,964 acres of the land 
        conserved and designated as Special Management Areas under 
        section 204(b), as depicted on the map entitled ``Southern 
        Nevada Land Management'' and dated February 2, 2023, as 
        mitigation to fully or partially offset, as determined by the 
        Secretary using the best available scientific and commercial 
        information, additional incidental take impacts resulting from 
        development of additional land within the County covered under 
        the existing Clark County Multiple Species Habitat Conservation 
        Plan or to be covered through an amendment to the Clark County 
        Multiple Species Habitat Conservation Plan and Federal 
        incidental take permit; and
            (2) extend the Clark County Multiple Species Habitat 
        Conservation Plan and Federal incidental take permit for the 
        maximum authorized duration, as determined by the Secretary.
    (b) Effect.--Nothing in this Act otherwise limits, alters, 
modifies, or amends the Clark County Multiple Species Habitat 
Conservation Plan.

SEC. 206. DESIGNATION OF MAUDE FRAZIER MOUNTAIN.

    (a) In General.--The peak of Frenchman Mountain in the State 
located at latitude 3610031'45" N, by longitude 11459031'52" W, shall 
be designated as ``Maude Frazier Mountain''.
    (b) References.--Any reference in a law, map, regulation, document, 
record, or other paper of the United States to the peak described in 
subsection (a) shall be considered to be a reference to ``Maude Frazier 
Mountain''.

SEC. 207. AVAILABILITY OF SPECIAL ACCOUNT.

    Section 4(e)(3)(A)(ii) of the Southern Nevada Public Land 
Management Act of 1998 (Public Law 105-263; 112 Stat. 2346; 120 Stat. 
3045) is amended by striking ``the Great Basin National Park, and other 
areas'' and inserting ``the Great Basin National Park, the Tule Springs 
Fossil Bed National Monument, and other areas''.

SEC. 208. NEVADA CANCER INSTITUTE LAND CONVEYANCE.

    Section 2603(a)(3) of the Omnibus Public Land Management Act of 
2009 (Public Law 111-11; 123 Stat. 1118) is amended by inserting ``, or 
any successors in interest'' before the period at the end.

SEC. 209. SLOAN CANYON NATIONAL CONSERVATION AREA BOUNDARY ADJUSTMENT.

    (a) Boundary Adjustment.--
            (1) Map.--Section 603(4) of the Sloan Canyon National 
        Conservation Area Act (16 U.S.C. 460qqq-1(4)) is amended by 
        striking ``map entitled `Southern Nevada Public Land Management 
        Act' and dated October 1, 2002'' and inserting ``map entitled 
        `Proposed Sloan Canyon Expansion' and dated June 7, 2023''.
            (2) Acreage.--Section 604(b) of the Sloan Canyon National 
        Conservation Area Act (16 U.S.C. 460qqq-2(b)) is amended by 
        striking ``48,438'' and inserting ``57,728''.
    (b) Right-of-Way.--Section 605 of the Sloan Canyon National 
Conservation Area Act (16 U.S.C. 460qqq-3) is amended by adding at the 
end the following:
    ``(h) Horizon Lateral Pipeline Right-of-Way.--
            ``(1) In general.--Notwithstanding sections 202 and 503 of 
        the Federal Land Policy Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1712, 
        1763) and subject to valid existing rights and paragraph (3), 
        the Secretary of the Interior, acting through the Director of 
        the Bureau of Land Management (referred to in this subsection 
        as the `Secretary'), shall, not later than 1 year after the 
        date of enactment of this subsection, grant to the Southern 
        Nevada Water Authority (referred to in this subsection as the 
        `Authority'), not subject to the payment of rents or other 
        charges, the temporary and permanent water pipeline 
        infrastructure, and outside the boundaries of the Conservation 
        Area, powerline, facility, and access road rights-of-way 
        depicted on the map for the purposes of--
                    ``(A) performing geotechnical investigations within 
                the rights-of-way; and
                    ``(B) constructing and operating water transmission 
                and related facilities.
            ``(2) Excavation and disposal.--
                    ``(A) In general.--The Authority may, without 
                consideration, excavate and use or dispose of sand, 
                gravel, minerals, or other materials from the tunneling 
                of the water pipeline necessary to fulfill the purpose 
                of the rights-of-way granted under paragraph (1).
                    ``(B) Memorandum of understanding.--Not later than 
                30 days after the date on which the rights-of-way are 
                granted under paragraph (1), the Secretary and the 
                Authority shall enter into a memorandum of 
                understanding identifying Federal land on which the 
                Authority may dispose of materials under subparagraph 
                (A) to further the interests of the Bureau of Land 
                Management.
            ``(3) Requirements.--A right-of-way issued under this 
        subsection shall be subject to the following requirements:
                    ``(A) The Secretary may include reasonable terms 
                and conditions, consistent with section 505 of the 
                Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 1976 (43 
                U.S.C. 1765), as are necessary to protect Conservation 
                Area resources.
                    ``(B) Construction of the water pipeline shall not 
                permanently adversely affect conservation area surface 
                resources.
                    ``(C) The right-of-way shall not be located through 
                or under any area designated as wilderness.''.
    (c) Preservation of Transmission and Utility Corridors and Rights-
of-Way.--The expansion of the Conservation Area boundary under the 
amendment made by subsection (a)--
            (1) shall be subject to valid existing rights, including 
        land within a designated utility transmission corridor or a 
        transmission line right-of-way grant approved by the Secretary 
        in a record of decision issued before the date of enactment of 
        this Act;
            (2) shall not preclude--
                    (A) any activity authorized in accordance with a 
                designated corridor or right-of-way referred to in 
                paragraph (1), including the operation, maintenance, 
                repair, or replacement of any authorized utility 
                facility within the corridor or right-of-way; or
                    (B) the Secretary from authorizing the 
                establishment of a new utility facility right-of-way 
                within an existing designated transportation and 
                utility corridor referred to in paragraph (1) in 
                accordance with--
                            (i) the National Environmental Policy Act 
                        of 1969 (42 U.S.C. 4321 et seq.) and other 
                        applicable laws; and
                            (ii) subject to such terms and conditions 
                        as the Secretary determines to be appropriate; 
                        and
            (3) except as provided in the amendment made by subsection 
        (b), modifies the management of the Conservation Area pursuant 
        to section 605 of the Sloan Canyon National Conservation Area 
        Act (16 U.S.C. 460qqq-3).

SEC. 210. SLOAN JOB CREATION ZONE.

    (a) Definition of Job Creation Zone.--In this section, the term 
``Job Creation Zone'' means the approximately 354 acres of Federal land 
located in Sloan, Nevada, and identified as ``Job Creation Zone'' on 
the map entitled ``Job Creation Zone'' and dated February 2, 2023.
    (b) Clark County Conveyance.--
            (1) Conveyance.--Notwithstanding sections 202 and 203 of 
        the Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 
        1712, 1713), on request of the County, the Secretary shall, 
        without consideration and subject to all valid existing rights, 
        convey to the County all right, title, and interest of the 
        United States in and to the Job Creation Zone, except as 
        otherwise provided in this subsection.
            (2) Use of land for nonresidential development.--
                    (A) In general.--After the date of the conveyance 
                to the County under paragraph (1), the County may sell, 
                lease, or otherwise convey any portion or portions of 
                the Job Creation Zone for purposes of nonresidential 
                development, subject to subparagraphs (B) and (C).
                    (B) Fair market value.--Any sale, lease, or other 
                conveyance of land under subparagraph (A) shall be for 
                not less than fair market value.
                    (C) Disposition of proceeds.--The gross proceeds 
                from the sale, lease, or other conveyance of land under 
                subparagraph (A) shall be distributed in accordance 
                with section 4(e) of the Southern Nevada Public Land 
                Management Act of 1998 (Public Law 105-263; 112 Stat. 
                2345).
            (3) Use of land for recreation or other public purposes.--
        The County may elect to retain parcels in the Job Creation Zone 
        for public recreation or other public purposes consistent with 
        the Act of June 14, 1926 (commonly known as the ``Recreation 
        and Public Purposes Act'') (43 U.S.C. 869 et seq.), by 
        providing to the Secretary written notice of the election.
            (4) Noise compatibility requirements.--The County shall--
                    (A) plan and manage the Job Creation Zone in 
                accordance with section 47504 of title 49, United 
                States Code, and regulations promulgated in accordance 
                with that section; and
                    (B) agree that if any land in the Job Creation Zone 
                is sold, leased, or otherwise conveyed by the County, 
                the sale, lease, or conveyance shall contain a 
                limitation to require uses compatible with airport 
                noise compatibility planning.
            (5) Reversion.--
                    (A) In general.--If any parcel of land within the 
                Job Creation Zone is not conveyed for nonresidential 
                development under this section or reserved for 
                recreation or other public purposes under paragraph (3) 
                by the date that is 30 years after the date of 
                enactment of this Act, the parcel of land shall, at the 
                discretion of the Secretary, revert to the United 
                States.
                    (B) Inconsistent use.--If the County uses any 
                parcel of land within the Job Creation Zone in a manner 
                that is inconsistent with the uses specified in this 
                subsection, at the discretion of the Secretary, the 
                parcel shall revert to the United States.

SEC. 211. AMENDMENTS TO THE APEX PROJECT, NEVADA LAND TRANSFER AND 
              AUTHORIZATION ACT OF 1989.

    (a) Definitions.--Section 2(b) of the Apex Project, Nevada Land 
Transfer and Authorization Act of 1989 (Public Law 101-67; 103 Stat. 
169) is amended--
            (1) in the matter preceding paragraph (1), by striking ``As 
        used in this Act, the following terms shall have the following 
        meanings--'' and inserting ``In this Act:'';
            (2) in each of paragraphs (1), (2), (4), and (5), by 
        inserting a paragraph heading, the text of which comprises the 
        term defined in that paragraph;
            (3) in paragraph (3), by inserting ``County; clark 
        county.--'' before ``The term'';
            (4) in paragraph (6)--
                    (A) by inserting ``FLPMA terms.--'' before ``All''; 
                and
                    (B) by inserting ``(43 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.)'' 
                before the period at the end;
            (5) by redesignating paragraphs (1), (2), (3), (4), (5), 
        and (6) as paragraphs (7), (6), (4), (5), (2), and (8), 
        respectively;
            (6) by inserting before paragraph (2) (as so redesignated) 
        the following:
            ``(1) Apex industrial park owners association.--The term 
        `Apex Industrial Park Owners Association' means the Apex 
        Industrial Park Owners Association formed on April 9, 2001, and 
        chartered in the State of Nevada (including any successor in 
        interest).''; and
            (7) by inserting after paragraph (2) (as so redesignated) 
        the following:
            ``(3) City.--The term `City' means the city of North Las 
        Vegas, Nevada.''.
    (b) Kerr-Mcgee Site Transfer.--Section 3(b) of the Apex Project, 
Nevada Land Transfer and Authorization Act of 1989 (Public Law 101-67; 
103 Stat. 170) is amended--
            (1) in the first sentence--
                    (A) by striking ``Clark County'' and inserting 
                ``Clark County, the City, or the Apex Industrial Park 
                Owners Association, individually or jointly, as 
                appropriate,''; and
                    (B) by striking ``Site'' and inserting ``Site and 
                other land conveyed in accordance with this Act''; and
            (2) in the third sentence, by striking ``Clark County'' and 
        inserting ``Clark County, the City, or the Apex Industrial Park 
        Owners Association, individually or jointly, as appropriate,''.
    (c) Authorization for Additional Transfers.--Section 4 of the Apex 
Project, Nevada Land Transfer and Authorization Act of 1989 (Public Law 
101-67; 103 Stat. 171) is amended--
            (1) in subsection (c), by striking ``Clark County'' and 
        inserting ``Clark County, the City, or the Apex Industrial Park 
        Owners Association, individually or jointly, as appropriate,''; 
        and
            (2) in subsection (e), by adding at the end the following:
            ``(3) Mineral materials sale.--Notwithstanding the 
        requirements of part 3600 of title 43, Code of Federal 
        Regulations (as in effect on the date of enactment of the Apex 
        Project, Nevada Land Transfer and Authorization Act Amendments 
        Act), the Secretary may sell, at not less than fair market 
        value, without advertising or calling for bids and without 
        regard to volume or time limitations, mineral materials 
        resulting from grading, land balancing, or other activities on 
        the surface of a parcel of land within the Apex Site for which 
        the United States retains an interest in the minerals.''.
    (d) Environmental Considerations.--Section 6 of the Apex Project, 
Nevada Land Transfer and Authorization Act of 1989 (Public Law 101-67; 
103 Stat. 173) is amended by adding at the end the following:
    ``(d) Compliance With Environmental Assessments.--Each transfer by 
the United States of land or interest in lands within the Apex Site or 
rights-of-way issued pursuant to this Act shall be conditioned on the 
compliance with applicable Federal land laws, including the National 
Environmental Policy Act of 1969 (42 U.S.C. 4321 et seq.) and the 
Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1701 et 
seq.).''.

                         TITLE III--WILDERNESS

SEC. 301. ADDITIONS TO THE NATIONAL WILDERNESS PRESERVATION SYSTEM.

    (a) Designation.--Section 202(a) of the Clark County Conservation 
of Public Land and Natural Resources Act of 2002 (16 U.S.C. 1132 note; 
Public Law 107-282; 116 Stat. 1999) is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (3), by striking ``2002'' and inserting 
        ``2002, and the approximately 10,095 acres of Federal land 
        managed by the Bureau of Land Management, as generally depicted 
        on the map entitled `Wilderness Additions' and dated February 
        2, 2023'';
            (2) in paragraph (4), by striking ``2002'' and inserting 
        ``2002, and the approximately 3,789 acres of Federal land 
        managed by the Bureau of Land Management, as generally depicted 
        on the map entitled `Wilderness Additions' and dated February 
        2, 2023'';
            (3) in paragraph (5), by striking ``2002'' and inserting 
        ``2002, and the approximately 19,716 acres of Federal land 
        managed by the Bureau of Land Management, as generally depicted 
        on the map entitled `Wilderness Additions' and dated February 
        2, 2023'';
            (4) in paragraph (11), by striking ``2002'' and inserting 
        ``2002, and the approximately 33,164 acres of Federal land 
        managed by the Bureau of Land Management, as generally depicted 
        on the map entitled `Wilderness Additions' and dated February 
        2, 2023'';
            (5) in paragraph (12), by striking ``2002'' and inserting 
        ``2002, and the approximately 30,134 acres of Federal land 
        managed by the Bureau of Land Management, as generally depicted 
        on the map entitled `Wilderness Additions' and dated February 
        2, 2023'';
            (6) in paragraph (16), by striking ``2002'' and inserting 
        ``2002, and the approximately 29,966 acres of Federal land 
        managed by the Bureau of Land Management, as generally depicted 
        on the map entitled `Wilderness Additions' and dated February 
        2, 2023'';
            (7) in paragraph (17), by striking ``2002'' and inserting 
        ``2002, and the approximately 699 acres of Federal land managed 
        by the Bureau of Land Management, as generally depicted on the 
        map entitled `Wilderness Additions' and dated February 2, 
        2023''; and
            (8) by adding at the end the following:
            ``(19) Mount stirling wilderness.--Certain Federal land 
        managed by the Bureau of Land Management, comprising 
        approximately 72,942 acres, as generally depicted on the map 
        entitled `Wilderness Additions' and dated February 2, 2023, 
        which shall be known as the `Mount Stirling Wilderness'.
            ``(20) Gates of the grand canyon wilderness.--Certain 
        Federal land managed by the National Park Service, comprising 
        approximately 91,963 acres, as generally depicted on the map 
        entitled `Wilderness Additions' and dated February 2, 2023, 
        which shall be known as the `Gates of the Grand Canyon 
        Wilderness'.
            ``(21) New york mountains wilderness.--Certain Federal land 
        managed by the Bureau of Land Management, comprising 
        approximately 14,459 acres, as generally depicted on the map 
        entitled `Wilderness Additions' and dated February 2, 2023, 
        which is incorporated in, and considered to be a part of, the 
        Mojave Wilderness designated by section 601(a)(3) of the 
        California Desert Protection Act of 1994 (16 U.S.C. 1132 note; 
        Public Law 103-433; 108 Stat. 4496).
            ``(22) Paiute mountains wilderness.--Certain Federal land 
        managed by the Bureau of Land Management, comprising 
        approximately 7,520 acres, as generally depicted on the map 
        entitled `Wilderness Additions' and dated February 2, 2023, 
        which is incorporated in, and considered to be a part of, the 
        Mojave Wilderness designated by section 601(a)(3) of the 
        California Desert Protection Act of 1994 (16 U.S.C. 1132 note; 
        Public Law 103-13 433; 108 Stat. 4496).
            ``(23) Southern paiute wilderness.--Certain Federal land 
        managed by the Director of the United States Fish and Wildlife 
        Service, comprising approximately 1,276,246 acres, as generally 
        depicted as `Southern Paiute Wilderness' on the map entitled 
        `Wilderness Additions' and dated February 2, 2023, which shall 
        be known as the `Southern Paiute Wilderness'.
            ``(24) Lucy gray wilderness.--Certain Federal land managed 
        by the Bureau of Land Management, comprising approximately 
        9,601 acres, as generally depicted on the map entitled 
        `Wilderness Additions' and dated February 2, 2023, which shall 
        be known as the `Lucy Gray Wilderness'.''.
    (b) Applicable Law.--Subject to valid existing rights and 
notwithstanding section 203(a) of the Clark County Conservation of 
Public Land and Natural Resources Act of 2002 (16 U.S.C. 1132 note; 
Public Law 107-282; 116 Stat. 2002), any reference in the Wilderness 
Act (16 U.S.C. 1131 et seq.) to the effective date of that Act shall be 
considered to be a reference to the date of enactment of this Act for 
purposes of administering land designated as wilderness or a wilderness 
addition by an amendment to section 202(a) of the Clark County 
Conservation of Public Land and Natural Resources Act of 2002 (16 
U.S.C. 1132 note; Public Law 107-282; 116 Stat. 1999) made by 
subsection (a).

   TITLE IV--LOCAL GOVERNMENT CONVEYANCES IN THE STATE OF NEVADA FOR 
                            PUBLIC PURPOSES

SEC. 401. CITY OF BOULDER CITY, NEVADA, CONVEYANCE.

    (a) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) City.--The term ``City'' means the city of Boulder 
        City, Nevada.
            (2) Federal land.--The term ``Federal land'' means the 
        public land that was reserved to the United States, as 
        described in item 2 under exhibit B of Patent Nev-048100, which 
        was created pursuant to Public Law 85-339 (72 Stat. 31).
    (b) Authorization of Conveyance.--On request of the City, the 
Secretary shall convey to the City, without consideration, all right, 
title, and interest of the United States in and to the Federal land, 
except as otherwise provided in this section.
    (c) Administration of Acquired Land.--
            (1) In general.--The Federal land conveyed under subsection 
        (b) shall be subject to valid existing rights.
            (2) Administrative authority.--The Secretary shall continue 
        to have administrative authority over the Federal land conveyed 
        under subsection (b) after the date of the conveyance.
    (d) Reversion.--
            (1) In general.--If the Federal land conveyed under 
        subsection (b) ceases to be used for the public purpose for 
        which the Federal land was conveyed, the Federal land shall 
        revert to the United States, at the discretion of the 
        Secretary, if the Secretary determines that reversion is in the 
        best interest of the United States.
            (2) Responsibility of city.--If the Secretary determines 
        under paragraph (1) that the Federal land should revert to the 
        United States and that the Federal land is contaminated with 
        hazardous waste, the City shall be responsible for remediation 
        of the contamination of the Federal land.

SEC. 402. CITY OF MESQUITE, NEVADA, CONVEYANCE FOR THE PROTECTION OF 
              THE VIRGIN RIVER WATERSHED.

    (a) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) City.--The term ``City'' means the city of Mesquite, 
        Nevada.
            (2) Federal land.--The term ``Federal land'' means the 
        approximately 250 acres of Federal land, as generally depicted 
        on the Map.
            (3) Map.--The term ``Map'' means the map entitled ``City of 
        Mesquite, River Park'' and dated February 2, 2023.
    (b) Authorization of Conveyance.--Notwithstanding the land use 
planning requirements of sections 202 and 203 of the Federal Land 
Policy and Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1712, 1713), on request of 
the City, the Secretary shall convey to the City, without 
consideration, all right, title, and interest of the United States in 
and to the Federal land for use by the City in developing and 
implementing a watershed management plan for the protection of the 
Virgin River watershed, subject to the provisions of this section.
    (c) Map and Legal Descriptions.--
            (1) In general.--As soon as practicable after the date of 
        enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall complete the surveys 
        necessary to develop the final legal descriptions of the 
        Federal land to be conveyed under subsection (b).
            (2) Corrections.--The Secretary may correct any minor 
        errors in the Map or legal descriptions prepared under 
        paragraph (1).
            (3) Availability.--The Map and legal descriptions prepared 
        under paragraph (1) shall be on file and available for public 
        inspection in the Las Vegas Field Office of the Bureau of Land 
        Management.
    (d) Reversion.--
            (1) In general.--If the Federal land conveyed under 
        subsection (b) ceases to be used for the public purpose for 
        which the Federal land was conveyed, the Federal land shall 
        revert to the United States, at the discretion of the 
        Secretary, if the Secretary determines that reversion is in the 
        best interest of the United States.
            (2) Responsibility of city.--If the Secretary determines 
        under paragraph (1) that the Federal land should revert to the 
        United States and that the Federal land is contaminated with 
        hazardous waste, the City shall be responsible for the 
        remediation of the contamination of the Federal land.

SEC. 403. CLARK COUNTY, NEVADA, CONVEYANCE TO SUPPORT PUBLIC SAFETY AND 
              WILDFIRE RESPONSE.

    (a) Authorization of Conveyance.--Notwithstanding the land use 
planning requirements of sections 202 and 203 of the Federal Land 
Policy and Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1712, 1713), on request of 
the County, the Secretary shall convey to the County, without 
consideration, all right, title, and interest of the United States in 
and to the following parcels of Federal land, subject to the provisions 
of this section:
            (1) Mount charleston public safety complex.--The 
        approximately 16 acres of Federal land generally depicted as 
        ``Parcel A'' on the map entitled ``Mount Charleston Public 
        Safety Complex'' and dated February 2, 2023, and the 1.5 acres 
        of Federal land generally depicted on the map entitled ``Parcel 
        for Lee Canyon Fire Station'' and dated February 2, 2023, for 
        police and fire facilities.
            (2) Public safety training facilities.--The approximately 
        126.8 acres of Federal land generally depicted on the map 
        entitled ``Metro Parcels'' and dated February 2, 2023, for 
        public safety training facilities.
    (b) Payment of Costs.--As a condition of the conveyance under 
subsection (a), the County shall pay any costs relating to any land 
surveys and other associated costs of conveying the parcels of Federal 
land under that subsection.
    (c) Map and Legal Descriptions.--
            (1) In general.--As soon as practicable after the date of 
        enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall prepare legal 
        descriptions of the parcels of Federal land to be conveyed 
        under subsection (a).
            (2) Corrections.--The Secretary may correct any minor 
        errors in the maps described in subsection (a) or legal 
        descriptions prepared under paragraph (1).
            (3) Availability.--The maps described in subsection (a) and 
        legal descriptions prepared under paragraph (1) shall be on 
        file and available for public inspection in the appropriate 
        offices of the Bureau of Land Management.
    (d) Reversion.--
            (1) In general.--If any parcel of Federal land conveyed 
        under subsection (a) ceases to be used for the public purpose 
        for which the parcel of Federal land was conveyed, the parcel 
        of Federal land shall revert to the United States, at the 
        discretion of the Secretary, if the Secretary determines that 
        reversion is in the best interest of the United States.
            (2) Responsibility of county.--If the Secretary determines 
        under paragraph (1) that a parcel of Federal land should revert 
        to the United States and that the parcel of Federal land is 
        contaminated with hazardous waste, the County shall be 
        responsible for remediation of the contamination of the parcel 
        of Federal land.

SEC. 404. MOAPA VALLEY WATER DISTRICT, NEVADA, CONVEYANCE TO SUPPORT 
              ACCESS TO RURAL WATER SUPPLY.

    (a) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) District.--The term ``District'' means the Moapa Valley 
        Water District.
            (2) Federal land.--The term ``Federal land'' means the 
        approximately 121 acres of Federal land, as generally depicted 
        on the Map.
            (3) Map.--The term ``Map'' means the map entitled ``Moapa 
        Valley Water District-Facilities and Land Conveyances'' and 
        dated February 2, 2023.
    (b) Authorization of Conveyance.--
            (1) In general.--Notwithstanding the land use planning 
        requirements of sections 202 and 203 of the Federal Land Policy 
        and Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1712, 1713) and subject 
        to paragraph (2), on request of the District, the Secretary 
        shall convey to the District, without consideration, all right, 
        title, and interest of the United States in and to the Federal 
        land for the construction, operation, and maintenance of 
        critical water conveyance infrastructure necessary to supply 
        water to the communities of Logandale, Overton, Glendale, and 
        Moapa, Nevada, except as otherwise provided in this section.
            (2) Limitation.--If any parcel of Federal land authorized 
        for conveyance under paragraph (1) is subject to transfer for 
        the benefit of the Tribe (as defined in section 101(a)), the 
        interest in the parcel of Federal land to be conveyed to the 
        District under paragraph (1) shall be in the form of a right-
        of-way for construction, maintenance, and operation of critical 
        water conveyance infrastructure.
    (c) Map and Legal Descriptions.--
            (1) In general.--As soon as practicable after the date of 
        enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall prepare final legal 
        descriptions of the Federal land to be conveyed under 
        subsection (b).
            (2) Corrections.--The Secretary may correct any minor 
        errors in the Map or legal descriptions prepared under 
        paragraph (1).
            (3) Availability.--The Map and legal descriptions prepared 
        under paragraph (1) shall be on file and available for public 
        inspection in the appropriate offices of the Bureau of Land 
        Management.
    (d) Reversion.--
            (1) In general.--If the Federal land conveyed under 
        subsection (b) ceases to be used for the public purpose for 
        which the Federal land was conveyed, as described in subsection 
        (b), the Federal land shall revert to the United States, at the 
        discretion of the Secretary, if the Secretary determines that 
        reversion is in the best interest of the United States.
            (2) Responsibility of district.--If the Secretary 
        determines under paragraph (1) that the Federal land should 
        revert to the United States and that the Federal land is 
        contaminated with hazardous waste, the District shall be 
        responsible for remediation of the contamination of the Federal 
        land.

SEC. 405. CITY OF NORTH LAS VEGAS, NEVADA, CONVEYANCE FOR FIRE TRAINING 
              FACILITY.

    (a) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) City.--The term ``City'' means the city of North Las 
        Vegas, Nevada.
            (2) Federal land.--The term ``Federal land'' means the 
        approximately 10 acres of Federal land, as generally depicted 
        on the Map.
            (3) Map.--The term ``Map'' means the map entitled ``North 
        Las Vegas Fire Training Facility'' and dated February 2, 2023.
    (b) Authorization of Conveyance.--Notwithstanding the land use 
planning requirements of sections 202 and 203 of the Federal Land 
Policy and Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1712, 1713), on request of 
the City, the Secretary shall convey to the City, without 
consideration, all right, title, and interest of the United States in 
and to the Federal land for the construction, operation, and 
maintenance of a training facility necessary to support public safety 
and fire response, subject to the provisions of this section.
    (c) Payment of Costs.--As a condition of the conveyance under 
subsection (b), the City shall pay any costs relating to any surveys 
and other associated costs of conveying the Federal land.
    (d) Map and Legal Descriptions.--
            (1) In general.--As soon as practicable after the date of 
        enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall prepare final legal 
        descriptions of the Federal land to be conveyed under 
        subsection (b).
            (2) Corrections.--The Secretary may correct any minor 
        errors in the Map or legal descriptions prepared under 
        paragraph (1).
            (3) Availability.--The Map and legal descriptions prepared 
        under paragraph (1) shall be on file and available for public 
        inspection in the appropriate offices of the Bureau of Land 
        Management.
    (e) Reversion.--
            (1) In general.--If the Federal land conveyed under 
        subsection (b) ceases to be used for the public purpose for 
        which the Federal land was conveyed, the Federal land shall 
        revert to the United States, at the discretion of the 
        Secretary, if the Secretary determines that reversion is in the 
        best interest of the United States.
            (2) Responsibility of city.--If the Secretary determines 
        under paragraph (1) that the Federal land should revert to the 
        United States and that the Federal land is contaminated with 
        hazardous waste, the City shall be responsible for remediation 
        of the contamination on the Federal land.

SEC. 406. CLARK COUNTY, NEVADA, CONVEYANCE TO SUPPORT PUBLIC 
              RECREATION.

    (a) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Federal land.--The term ``Federal land'' means the 
        approximately 1,485.64 acres of Federal land, as generally 
        depicted on the Map.
            (2) Map.--The term ``Map'' means the map entitled ``Clark 
        County, Nevada Conveyance to Support Public Recreation'' and 
        dated May 29, 2024.
    (b) Authorization of Conveyance.--Notwithstanding the land use 
planning requirements of sections 202 and 203 of the Federal Land 
Policy and Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1712, 1713), on request of 
the County, the Secretary shall convey to the County, without 
consideration, all right, title, and interest of the United States in 
and to the following parcels of Federal land, subject to the provisions 
of this section:
            (1) Mountains edge park.--The approximately 235 acres of 
        Federal land generally depicted as ``Mountains Edge Park'' on 
        the Map, for public recreation and park facilities.
            (2) Southern highlands sports park.--The approximately 
        83.77 acres of Federal land generally depicted as ``Southern 
        Highlands Sports Park'' on the Map, for public recreation and 
        park facilities.
            (3) Moapa regional park.--The approximately 117.5 acres of 
        Federal land generally depicted as ``Moapa Regional Park'' on 
        the Map, for public recreation and park facilities.
            (4) Desert breeze park.--The approximately 277.25 acres of 
        Federal land generally depicted as ``Desert Breeze Park'' on 
        the Map, for public recreation and park facilities.
            (5) Indian springs park.--The approximately 44.42 acres of 
        Federal land generally depicted as ``Indian Springs Park'' on 
        the Map, for public recreation and park facilities.
            (6) Lone mountain park.--The approximately 400 acres of 
        Federal land generally depicted as ``Lone Mountain Park'' on 
        the Map, for public recreation and park facilities.
            (7) Southwest ridge park.--The approximately 18.2 acres of 
        Federal land generally depicted as ``Southwest Ridge Park'' on 
        the Map, for public recreation and park facilities.
            (8) Paiute park.--The approximately 15 acres of Federal 
        land generally depicted as ``Paiute Park'' on the Map, for 
        public recreation and park facilities.
            (9) Nathaniel jones park.--The approximately 20 acres of 
        Federal land generally depicted as ``Nathaniel Jones Park'' on 
        the Map, for public recreation and park facilities.
            (10) Clark county public works multiuse center.--The 
        approximately 77.5 acres of Federal land generally depicted as 
        ``Clark County Public Works Multiuse Center'' on the Map, for 
        maintenance and operations of public infrastructure and 
        facilities.
            (11) Clark county hollywood regional park, fire station, 
        and police station.--The approximately 197 acres of Federal 
        land generally depicted as ``Clark County Hollywood Regional 
        Park, Fire Station, and Police Station'' on the Map, for public 
        recreation and maintenance and public safety facilities.
    (c) Payment of Costs.--As a condition of the conveyance under 
subsection (b), the County shall pay any costs relating to any land 
surveys and other associated costs of conveying the parcels of Federal 
land under that subsection.
    (d) Map and Legal Descriptions.--
            (1) In general.--As soon as practicable after the date of 
        enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall prepare legal 
        descriptions of the parcels of Federal land to be conveyed 
        under subsection (b).
            (2) Corrections.--The Secretary may correct any minor 
        errors in the Map or legal descriptions prepared under 
        paragraph (1).
            (3) Availability.--The Map and legal descriptions prepared 
        under paragraph (1) shall be on file and available for public 
        inspection in the appropriate offices of the Bureau of Land 
        Management.
    (e) Reversion.--
            (1) In general.--If any parcel of Federal land conveyed 
        under subsection (b) ceases to be used for the public purpose 
        for which the parcel of Federal land was conveyed, the parcel 
        of Federal land shall revert to the United States, at the 
        discretion of the Secretary, if the Secretary determines that 
        reversion is in the best interest of the United States.
            (2) Responsibility of county.--If the Secretary determines 
        under paragraph (1) that a parcel of Federal land should revert 
        to the United States and that the parcel of Federal land is 
        contaminated with hazardous waste, the County shall be 
        responsible for remediation of the contamination of the parcel 
        of Federal land.

SEC. 407. CONVEYANCE OF DESERT BREEZE WATER RESOURCES CENTER IN CLARK 
              COUNTY, NEVADA.

    (a) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Districts.--The term ``Districts'' means the Clark 
        County Water Reclamation District and the Las Vegas Valley 
        Water District.
            (2) Federal land.--The term ``Federal land'' means the 11 
        acres of Federal land, as generally depicted on the Map.
            (3) Map.--The term ``Map'' means the map entitled ``Desert 
        Breeze Water Resources Facility Parcels'' and dated May 2024.
    (b) Authorization of Conveyance.--Notwithstanding the land use 
planning requirements of sections 202 and 203 of the Federal Land 
Policy and Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1712, 1713), on request of 
the Districts, the Secretary shall convey to the Districts, without 
consideration, all right, title, and interest of the United States in 
and to the Federal land for the operation, repair, and maintenance of 
wastewater treatment facilities and associated infrastructure, subject 
to the provisions of this section.
    (c) Payment of Costs.--As a condition of the conveyance under 
subsection (b), the Districts shall pay any costs relating to any 
surveys and other associated costs of conveying the Federal land.
    (d) Map and Legal Descriptions.--
            (1) In general.--As soon as practicable after the date of 
        enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall prepare final legal 
        descriptions of the Federal land to be conveyed under 
        subsection (b).
            (2) Corrections.--The Secretary may correct any minor 
        errors in the Map or legal descriptions prepared under 
        paragraph (1).
            (3) Availability.--The Map and legal descriptions prepared 
        under paragraph (1) shall be on file and available for public 
        inspection in the appropriate offices of the Bureau of Land 
        Management.
    (e) Reversion.--
            (1) In general.--If the Federal land conveyed under 
        subsection (b) ceases to be used for the public purpose for 
        which the Federal land was conveyed, the Federal land shall 
        revert to the United States, at the discretion of the 
        Secretary, if the Secretary determines that reversion is in the 
        best interest of the United States.
            (2) Responsibility of districts.--If the Secretary 
        determines under paragraph (1) that the Federal land should 
        revert to the United States and that the Federal land is 
        contaminated with hazardous waste, the Districts shall be 
        responsible for remediation of the contamination on the Federal 
        land.

SEC. 408. CLARK COUNTY WATER RECLAMATION DISTRICT CONVEYANCE FOR 
              WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY.

    (a) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) District.--The term ``District'' means the Clark County 
        Water Reclamation District.
            (2) Federal land.--The term ``Federal land'' means the 
        approximately 240 acres of Federal land, as generally depicted 
        on the Map.
            (3) Map.--The term ``Map'' means the map entitled 
        ``Flamingo Water Resources Center'' and dated May 2024.
    (b) Authorization of Conveyance.--Notwithstanding the land use 
planning requirements of sections 202 and 203 of the Federal Land 
Policy and Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1712, 1713), on request of 
the District, the Secretary shall convey to the District, without 
consideration, all right, title, and interest of the United States in 
and to the Federal land for the operation, repair, and maintenance of 
wastewater treatment facility and associated infrastructure, subject to 
the provisions of this section.
    (c) Payment of Costs.--As a condition of the conveyance under 
subsection (b), the District shall pay any costs relating to any 
surveys and other associated costs of conveying the Federal land.
    (d) Map and Legal Descriptions.--
            (1) In general.--As soon as practicable after the date of 
        enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall prepare final legal 
        descriptions of the Federal land to be conveyed under 
        subsection (b).
            (2) Corrections.--The Secretary may correct any minor 
        errors in the Map or legal descriptions prepared under 
        paragraph (1).
            (3) Availability.--The Map and legal descriptions prepared 
        under paragraph (1) shall be on file and available for public 
        inspection in the appropriate offices of the Bureau of Land 
        Management.
    (e) Reversion.--
            (1) In general.--If the Federal land conveyed under 
        subsection (b) ceases to be used for the public purpose for 
        which the Federal land was conveyed, the Federal land shall 
        revert to the United States, at the discretion of the 
        Secretary, if the Secretary determines that reversion is in the 
        best interest of the United States.
            (2) Responsibility of district.--If the Secretary 
        determines under paragraph (1) that the Federal land should 
        revert to the United States and that the Federal land is 
        contaminated with hazardous waste, the District shall be 
        responsible for remediation of the contamination on the Federal 
        land.

SEC. 409. WATER INFRASTRUCTURE CONVEYANCES FOR PUBLIC PURPOSES.

    (a) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Federal land.--The term ``Federal land'' means the 
        approximately 2,193 total acres of Federal land, as generally 
        depicted on the Map.
            (2) Map.--The term ``Map'' means the map entitled ``Water 
        Infrastructure Conveyances for Public Purposes'' and dated May 
        30, 2024.
            (3) Public water agency.--The term ``public water agency'' 
        means the Southern Nevada Water Authority or the Las Vegas 
        Valley Water District.
    (b) Authorization of Conveyance.--Notwithstanding the land use 
planning requirements of sections 202 and 203 of the Federal Land 
Policy and Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1712, 1713) and subject to 
valid existing rights, on receipt of a request from a public water 
agency that provides wholesale or retail water service in the County, 
the Secretary shall convey to a public water agency, without 
consideration, all right, title, and interest of the United States in 
and to the following parcels of Federal land for the construction, 
operation, and maintenance of water infrastructure to supply water to 
the communities serviced by the public water agency:
            (1) Alfred merritt smith water treatment facility, 
        associated intakes, pumping stations, aqueducts, and 
        forebays.--The approximately 974 acres of Federal land, which 
        includes the Alfred Merritt Smith Water Treatment Facility and 
        Intake Pumping Stations 1C and 2C, Aqueducts C1 and C2, Forebay 
        1A East and West, Pumping Plants 2A, 2B, 2C, Boulder City 
        Pumping Station 7, 7B, Forebay 7, Boulder City Pumping Station 
        4 and Forebay 4, as generally depicted on the Map as ``1. 
        Alfred Merit Smith Water Treatment Facility; 1. Boulder City 
        Pumping Station 4 and Forebay 4; 1. Boulder City Pumping 
        Stations 7B, 7 and Forebays 7; and Grant No. 07-07-30-L045, 
        8360-01-029, 05-07-30-L0430, 9-07-30-L0104''.
            (2) River mountains tunnel 1 and 2.--The approximately 259 
        acres of Federal land generally depicted on the Map as ``2. 
        River Mountains Tunnel 1 and 2''.
            (3) Foothills reservoir, pumping station, and forebays.--
        The approximately 162 acres of Federal land, as generally 
        depicted on the Map as ``3. Foothills Pumping Facility''.
            (4) River mountains lateral and raw water lateral.--The 
        approximately 155 acres of Federal land generally depicted on 
        the Map as ``4. River Mountains Lateral and Raw Water 
        Lateral''.
            (5) River mountains water treatment facility.--The 
        approximately 510 acres of Federal land generally depicted on 
        the Map as ``5. River Mountains Water Treatment Facility''.
            (6) Lamb reservoir pumping station.--The approximately 13 
        acres of Federal land generally depicted on the Map as ``6. 
        Lamb Reservoir Pumping Station''.
            (7) Log cabin reservoir.--The approximately 21 acres of 
        Federal land generally depicted on the Map as ``1. Log Cabin 
        Reservoir''.
            (8) Tropical reservoir, pumping station, and satellite 
        office.--The approximately 20 acres of Federal land generally 
        depicted on the Map as ``2. Tropical Reservoir, Pumping 
        Station, Satellite Office''.
            (9) Levi reservoir and pumping station.--The approximately 
        15 acres of Federal land generally depicted on the Map as ``3. 
        Levi Reservoir Pumping Station''.
            (10) Cougar reservoir and pumping station.--The 
        approximately 19 acres of Federal land generally depicted on 
        the Map as ``4. Cougar Reservoir Pumping Station''.
            (11) Bermuda reservoir and pumping station.--The 
        approximately 15 acres of Federal land, as generally depicted 
        on the Map as ``5. Bermuda Reservoir Pumping Station''.
            (12) South boulevard reservoir pumping station.--The 
        approximately 30 acres of Federal land generally depicted on 
        the Map as ``6. South Boulevard Reservoir Pumping Station''.
    (c) Map and Legal Description.--
            (1) In general.--As soon as practicable after the date of 
        enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall prepare final legal 
        descriptions of the parcels of Federal land to be conveyed 
        under subsection (b).
            (2) Corrections.--The Secretary may correct any minor 
        errors in the Map or legal descriptions prepared under 
        paragraph (1).
            (3) Availability.--The Map and legal descriptions prepared 
        under paragraph (1) shall be on file and available for public 
        inspection in the appropriate offices of the Bureau of Land 
        Management.
    (d) Reversion.--
            (1) In general.--If the Federal land conveyed under 
        subsection (b) ceases to be used for the public purpose for 
        which the Federal land was conveyed, the Federal land shall 
        revert to the United States, at the discretion of the 
        Secretary, if the Secretary determines that reversion is in the 
        best interest of the United States.
            (2) Responsibility of public water agency.--If the 
        Secretary determines under paragraph (1) that the Federal land 
        should revert to the United States and that the Federal land is 
        contaminated with hazardous waste, the public water agency 
        shall be responsible for remediation of the contamination of 
        the Federal land.
    (e) Effect of Section.--Nothing in this section--
            (1) permits any public water agency to obtain title to 
        Federal land for the purpose of constructing the groundwater 
        development project referred to in the right-of-way numbered N-
        78803; or
            (2) affects the right, interest, or authority of the 
        National Park Service to manage the Lake Mead National 
        Recreation Area.

SEC. 410. HENDERSON, NEVADA, CONVEYANCE TO SUPPORT PUBLIC RECREATION.

    (a) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) City.--The term ``City'' means the city of Henderson, 
        Nevada.
            (2) Federal land.--The term ``Federal land'' means the 
        approximately 1,527.01 acres of Federal land, as generally 
        depicted on the Map.
            (3) Map.--The term ``Map'' means the map entitled ``City of 
        Henderson, Nevada Conveyance to Support Public Recreation'' and 
        dated May 29, 2024.
    (b) Authorization of Conveyance.--Notwithstanding the land use 
planning requirements of sections 202 and 203 of the Federal Land 
Policy and Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1712, 1713), on request of 
the City, the Secretary shall convey to the City, without 
consideration, all right, title, and interest of the United States in 
and to the following parcels of Federal land, subject to the provisions 
of this section:
            (1) Mountain park north.--The approximately 608.11 acres of 
        Federal land generally depicted as ``Mountain Park North'' on 
        the Map, for public recreation and park facilities.
            (2) Mountain park south.--The approximately 563.64 acres of 
        Federal land generally depicted as ``Mountain Park South'' on 
        the Map, for public recreation and park facilities.
            (3) West henderson maintenance building.--The approximately 
        80 acres of Federal land generally depicted as ``West Henderson 
        Maintenance Building'' on the Map, for public facilities 
        maintenance.
            (4) Russell sports complex.--The approximately 35.26 acres 
        of Federal land generally depicted as ``Russell Sports 
        Complex'' on the Map, for public recreation and park 
        facilities.
            (5) Heritage park.--The approximately 160 acres of Federal 
        land generally depicted as ``Heritage Park'' on the Map, for 
        public recreation and park facilities.
            (6) West henderson park.--The approximately 80 acres of 
        Federal land generally depicted as ``West Henderson Park'' on 
        the Map, for public recreation and park facilities.
    (c) Payment of Costs.--As a condition of the conveyance under 
subsection (b), the City shall pay any costs relating to any land 
surveys and other associated costs of conveying the parcels of Federal 
land under that subsection.
    (d) Map and Legal Descriptions.--
            (1) In general.--As soon as practicable after the date of 
        enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall prepare legal 
        descriptions of the parcels of Federal land to be conveyed 
        under subsection (a).
            (2) Corrections.--The Secretary may correct any minor 
        errors in the Map or legal descriptions prepared under 
        paragraph (1).
            (3) Availability.--The Map and legal descriptions prepared 
        under paragraph (1) shall be on file and available for public 
        inspection in the appropriate offices of the Bureau of Land 
        Management.
    (e) Reversion.--
            (1) In general.--If any parcel of Federal land conveyed 
        under subsection (b) ceases to be used for the public purpose 
        for which the parcel of Federal land was conveyed, the parcel 
        of Federal land shall revert to the United States, at the 
        discretion of the Secretary, if the Secretary determines that 
        reversion is in the best interest of the United States.
            (2) Responsibility of city.--If the Secretary determines 
        under paragraph (1) that a parcel of Federal land should revert 
        to the United States and that the parcel of Federal land is 
        contaminated with hazardous waste, the City shall be 
        responsible for remediation of the contamination of the parcel 
        of Federal land.

SEC. 411. FLOOD CONTROL INFRASTRUCTURE CONVEYANCES FOR PUBLIC PURPOSES.

    (a) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Federal land.--The term ``Federal land'' means the 
        approximately 858 acres of Federal land, as generally depicted 
        on the Map.
            (2) Map.--The term ``Map'' means the map entitled ``Flood 
        Control Infrastructure Conveyances for Public Purposes'' and 
        dated May 29, 2024.
    (b) Authorization of Conveyance.--Notwithstanding the land use 
planning requirements of sections 202 and 203 of the Federal Land 
Policy and Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1712, 1713) and subject to 
valid existing rights, on receipt of a request from a unit of local 
government that owns and operates flood control facilities in the 
County, the Secretary shall convey, without consideration, all right, 
title, and interest of the United States in and to the following 
parcels of Federal land for the construction, operation, and 
maintenance of critical flood control infrastructure necessary to 
protect life and property:
            (1) R-4 detention basin.--The approximately 88 acres of 
        Federal land generally depicted as ``R-4 Detention Basin'' on 
        the Map, for flood control and protection of life and property.
            (2) Hiko springs wash detention basin.--The approximately 
        55 acres of Federal land generally depicted as ``Hiko Springs 
        Wash Detention Basin'' on the Map, for flood control and 
        protection of life and property.
            (3) Southwest pittman detention basin.--The approximately 
        142 acres of Federal land generally depicted as ``Southwest 
        Pittman Detention Basin'' on the Map, for flood control and 
        protection of life and property.
            (4) Southeast pittman detention basin.--The approximately 
        160 acres of Federal land generally depicted as ``Southeast 
        Pittman Detention Basin'' on the Map, for flood control and 
        protection of life and property.
            (5) Central duck creek detention basin.--The approximately 
        273 acres of Federal land generally depicted as ``Central Duck 
        Creek Detention Basin'' on the Map, for flood control and 
        protection of life and property.
            (6) North apex system 1 detention basin.--The approximately 
        140 acres of Federal land generally depicted as ``North Apex 
        System 1 Detention Basin'' on the Map, for flood control and 
        protection of life and property.
    (c) Map and Legal Description.--
            (1) In general.--As soon as practicable after the date of 
        enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall prepare final legal 
        descriptions of the parcels of Federal land to be conveyed 
        under subsection (b).
            (2) Corrections.--The Secretary may correct any minor 
        errors in the Map or legal descriptions prepared under 
        paragraph (1).
            (3) Availability.--The Map and legal descriptions prepared 
        under paragraph (1) shall be on file and available for public 
        inspection in the appropriate offices of the Bureau of Land 
        Management.
    (d) Reversion.--
            (1) In general.--If any parcel of Federal land conveyed 
        under subsection (b) ceases to be used for the public purpose 
        for which the parcel of Federal land was conveyed, the parcel 
        of Federal land shall revert to the United States, at the 
        discretion of the Secretary, if the Secretary determines that 
        reversion is in the best interest of the United States.
            (2) Responsibility of unit of local government.--If the 
        Secretary determines under paragraph (1) that a parcel of 
        Federal land should revert to the United States and that the 
        parcel of Federal land is contaminated with hazardous waste, 
        the unit of local government shall be responsible for 
        remediation of the contamination of the parcel of Federal land.

SEC. 412. LAS VEGAS, NEVADA, CONVEYANCE TO SUPPORT PUBLIC RECREATION.

    (a) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) City.--The term ``City'' means the city of Las Vegas, 
        Nevada.
            (2) Federal land.--The term ``Federal land'' means the 
        approximately 1,072 acres of Federal land, as generally 
        depicted on the Map.
            (3) Map.--The term ``Map'' means the map entitled ``City of 
        Las Vegas, Nevada Conveyance to Support Public Recreation'' and 
        dated May 29, 2024.
    (b) Authorization of Conveyance.--Notwithstanding the land use 
planning requirements of sections 202 and 203 of the Federal Land 
Policy and Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1712, 1713), on request of 
the City, the Secretary shall convey to the City, without 
consideration, all right, title, and interest of the United States in 
and to the following parcels of Federal land, subject to the provisions 
of this section:
            (1) Angel park.--The approximately 557 acres of Federal 
        land generally depicted as ``Angel Park'' on the Map, for 
        public recreation and park facilities.
            (2) West city service center.--The approximately 170 acres 
        of Federal land generally depicted as ``West City Service 
        Center'' on the Map, for public recreation, park facilities, 
        and maintenance facilities.
            (3) Kellogg zaher sports complex.--The approximately 157 
        acres of Federal land generally depicted as ``Kellogg Zaher 
        Sports Complex'' on the Map, for public recreation and park 
        facilities.
            (4) Durango hills golf/ymca/water.--The approximately 99 
        acres of Federal land generally depicted as ``Durango Hills/
        Golf/YMCA/Water'' on the Map, for public recreation, park 
        facilities, and public infrastructure.
            (5) Bette wilson soccer complex and annex.--The 
        approximately 58 acres of Federal land generally depicted as 
        ``Bette Wilson Soccer Complex and Annex'' on the Map, for 
        public recreation, park facilities, and maintenance facilities.
            (6) All american park.--The approximately 31 acres of 
        Federal land generally depicted as ``All American Park'' on the 
        Map, for public recreation and park facilities.
    (c) Payment of Costs.--As a condition of the conveyance under 
subsection (b), the City shall pay any costs relating to any land 
surveys and other associated costs of conveying the parcels of Federal 
land under that subsection.
    (d) Map and Legal Descriptions.--
            (1) In general.--As soon as practicable after the date of 
        enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall prepare legal 
        descriptions of the parcels of Federal land to be conveyed 
        under subsection (b).
            (2) Corrections.--The Secretary may correct any minor 
        errors in the Map or legal descriptions prepared under 
        paragraph (1).
            (3) Availability.--The Map and legal descriptions prepared 
        under paragraph (1) shall be on file and available for public 
        inspection in the appropriate offices of the Bureau of Land 
        Management.
    (e) Reversion.--
            (1) In general.--If any parcel of Federal land conveyed 
        under subsection (b) ceases to be used for the public purpose 
        for which the parcel of Federal land was conveyed, the parcel 
        of Federal land shall revert to the United States, at the 
        discretion of the Secretary, if the Secretary determines that 
        reversion is in the best interest of the United States.
            (2) Responsibility of city.--If the Secretary determines 
        under paragraph (1) that a parcel of Federal land should revert 
        to the United States and that the parcel of Federal land is 
        contaminated with hazardous waste, the City shall be 
        responsible for remediation of the contamination of the parcel 
        of Federal land.

SEC. 413. NORTH LAS VEGAS, NEVADA, CONVEYANCE TO SUPPORT PUBLIC 
              RECREATION.

    (a) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) City.--The term ``City'' means the city of North Las 
        Vegas, Nevada.
            (2) Federal land.--The term ``Federal land'' means the 
        approximately 209.65 acres of Federal land, as generally 
        depicted on the Map.
            (3) Map.--The term ``Map'' means the map entitled ``City of 
        North Las Vegas, Nevada Conveyance to Support Public 
        Recreation'' and dated May 29, 2024.
    (b) Authorization of Conveyance.--Notwithstanding the land use 
planning requirements of sections 202 and 203 of the Federal Land 
Policy and Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1712, 1713), on request of 
the City, the Secretary shall convey to the City, without 
consideration, all right, title, and interest of the United States in 
and to the following parcels of Federal land, subject to the provisions 
of this section:
            (1) Mccool park.--The approximately 163.08 acres of Federal 
        land generally depicted as ``McCool Park'' on the Map, for 
        public recreation and park facilities.
            (2) Skyview multi-generational park and center.--The 
        approximately 41.48 acres of Federal land generally depicted as 
        ``Skyview Multi-Generation Park and Center'' on the Map, for 
        public recreation and park facilities.
            (3) Police substation.--The approximately 5.09 acres of 
        Federal land generally depicted as ``Police Substation'' on the 
        Map, for public safety and public facilities.
    (c) Payment of Costs.--As a condition of the conveyance under 
subsection (b), the City shall pay any costs relating to any land 
surveys and other associated costs of conveying the parcels of Federal 
land under that subsection.
    (d) Map and Legal Descriptions.--
            (1) In general.--As soon as practicable after the date of 
        enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall prepare legal 
        descriptions of the parcels of Federal land to be conveyed 
        under subsection (b).
            (2) Corrections.--The Secretary may correct any minor 
        errors in the Map or legal descriptions prepared under 
        paragraph (1).
            (3) Availability.--The Map and legal descriptions prepared 
        under paragraph (1) shall be on file and available for public 
        inspection in the appropriate offices of the Bureau of Land 
        Management.
    (e) Reversion.--
            (1) In general.--If any parcel of Federal land conveyed 
        under subsection (b) ceases to be used for the public purpose 
        for which the parcel of Federal land was conveyed, the parcel 
        of Federal land shall revert to the United States, at the 
        discretion of the Secretary, if the Secretary determines that 
        reversion is in the best interest of the United States.
            (2) Responsibility of city.--If the Secretary determines 
        under paragraph (1) that a parcel of Federal land should revert 
        to the United States and that the parcel of Federal land is 
        contaminated with hazardous waste, the City shall be 
        responsible for remediation of the contamination of the parcel 
        of Federal land.

SEC. 414. MESQUITE, NEVADA, CONVEYANCE TO SUPPORT PUBLIC 
              INFRASTRUCTURE.

    (a) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) City.--The term ``City'' means the city of Mesquite, 
        Nevada.
            (2) Federal land.--The term ``Federal land'' means the 
        approximately 671.50 acres of Federal land, as generally 
        depicted on the Map.
            (3) Map.--The term ``Map'' means the map entitled ``City of 
        Mesquite, Nevada Conveyance to Support Public Recreation'' and 
        dated June 4, 2024.
    (b) Authorization of Conveyance.--Notwithstanding the land use 
planning requirements of sections 202 and 203 of the Federal Land 
Policy and Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1712, 1713), on request of 
the City, the Secretary shall convey to the City, without 
consideration, all right, title, and interest of the United States in 
and to the following parcels of Federal land, subject to the provisions 
of this section:
            (1) Special events complex.--The approximately 670 acres of 
        Federal land generally depicted as ``Special Events Complex'' 
        on the Map, for public recreation and public facilities.
            (2) Scenic tank communication tower.--The approximately 
        1.50 acres of Federal land generally depicted as ``Scenic Tank 
        Communication Tower'' on the Map, for public recreation and 
        public facilities.
    (c) Payment of Costs.--As a condition of the conveyance under 
subsection (b), the City shall pay any costs relating to any land 
surveys and other associated costs of conveying the parcels of Federal 
land under that subsection.
    (d) Map and Legal Descriptions.----
            (1) In general.--As soon as practicable after the date of 
        enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall prepare legal 
        descriptions of the parcels of Federal land to be conveyed 
        under subsection (b).
            (2) Corrections.--The Secretary may correct any minor 
        errors in the Map or legal descriptions prepared under 
        paragraph (1).
            (3) Availability.--The Map and legal descriptions prepared 
        under paragraph (1) shall be on file and available for public 
        inspection in the appropriate offices of the Bureau of Land 
        Management.
    (e) Reversion.--
            (1) In general.--If any parcel of Federal land conveyed 
        under subsection (b) ceases to be used for the public purpose 
        for which the parcel of Federal land was conveyed, the parcel 
        of Federal land shall revert to the United States, at the 
        discretion of the Secretary, if the Secretary determines that 
        reversion is in the best interest of the United States.
            (2) Responsibility of city.--If the Secretary determines 
        under paragraph (1) that a parcel of Federal land should revert 
        to the United States and that the parcel of Federal land is 
        contaminated with hazardous waste, the City shall be 
        responsible for remediation of the contamination of the parcel 
        of Federal land.

      TITLE V--IMPLEMENTATION OF LOWER VIRGIN RIVER WATERSHED PLAN

SEC. 501. IMPLEMENTATION OF LOWER VIRGIN RIVER WATERSHED PLAN.

    Section 3(d)(3) of Public Law 99-548 (commonly known as the 
``Mesquite Lands Act of 1988'') (100 Stat. 3061; 110 Stat. 3009-202; 
116 Stat. 2018) is amended--
            (1) by striking subparagraphs (A) and (B) and inserting the 
        following:
                    ``(A) for the development and implementation of a 
                watershed plan for the Lower Virgin River; and''; and
            (2) by redesignating subparagraph (C) as subparagraph (B).

           TITLE VI--SOUTHERN NEVADA LIMITED TRANSITION AREA

SEC. 601. SOUTHERN NEVADA LIMITED TRANSITION AREA.

    (a) Definition of Transition Area.--Section 2602(a) of the Omnibus 
Public Land Management Act of 2009 (Public Law 111-11; 123 Stat. 1117) 
is amended by striking paragraph (4) and inserting the following:
            ``(4) Transition area.--The term `Transition Area' means 
        the approximately 742 acres of Federal land located in 
        Henderson, Nevada, identified as `Subject Area' on the map 
        entitled `Limited Transition Area (LTA) 2023 Amendment' and 
        dated February 2, 2023, excluding the east 100 feet of the 
        NW\1/4\ sec. 21, T. 23 S., R. 61 E., identified on the map as 
        `NV Energy Utility Corridor'.''.
    (b) Use of Land for Nonresidential Development; Retention of Land 
by City.--Section 2602(b) of the Omnibus Public Land Management Act of 
2009 (Public Law 111-11; 123 Stat. 1117) is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (2)--
                    (A) by striking subparagraphs (A) and (B) and 
                inserting the following:
                    ``(A) Authorized uses.--After the conveyance to the 
                City under paragraph (1), the City may sell, lease, or 
                otherwise convey any portion of the Transition Area for 
                purposes of--
                            ``(i) nonresidential development; or
                            ``(ii) limited residential development 
                        that--
                                    ``(I) augments and integrates any 
                                nonresidential development under clause 
                                (i); and
                                    ``(II) is not freestanding.
                    ``(B) Fair market value.--Any land sold, leased, or 
                otherwise conveyed under subparagraph (A) shall be for 
                not less than fair market value.''; and
                    (B) in subparagraph (C), by inserting ``and 
                applicable State law'' before the period at the end;
            (2) by striking paragraph (3) and inserting the following:
            ``(3) Use of land for recreation or other public purposes; 
        retention by city.--The City may elect to retain parcels in the 
        Transition Area--
                    ``(A) for public recreation or other public 
                purposes consistent with the Act of June 14, 1926 
                (commonly known as the `Recreation and Public Purposes 
                Act') (43 U.S.C. 869 et seq.), by providing to the 
                Secretary written notice of the election; or
                    ``(B) for any other use by the City, by providing 
                to the Secretary--
                            ``(i) written notice of the election; and
                            ``(ii) consideration in an amount equal to 
                        the fair market value of the land retained, 
                        which shall be subject to disposition in 
                        accordance with paragraph (2)(D).''; and
            (3) in paragraph (5)(A), by striking ``or reserved for 
        recreation or other public purposes under paragraph (3)'' and 
        inserting ``, reserved for recreation or other public purposes 
        under paragraph (3)(A), or retained by the City under paragraph 
        (3)(B)''.

                  TITLE VII--MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS

SEC. 701. OFF-HIGHWAY VEHICLE RECREATION AREAS.

    (a) Establishment.--Subject to valid existing rights, and to 
rights-of-way for the construction, maintenance, and operation of Moapa 
Valley Water District facilities, as depicted on the map entitled 
``Moapa Valley Water District-Facilities and Land Conveyances'', and 
dated February 2, 2023, the following areas of Federal land 
administered by the Bureau of Land Management in the State are 
established as off-highway vehicle recreation areas:
            (1) Laughlin off-highway vehicle recreation area.--The 
        approximately 16,131 acres of Federal land, as generally 
        depicted on the map entitled ``Off-highway Vehicle Recreation 
        Areas'' and dated February 2, 2023, to be known as the 
        ``Laughlin Off-Highway Vehicle Recreation Area''.
            (2) Logandale trails off-highway vehicle recreation area.--
        The approximately 21,729 acres of Federal land, as generally 
        depicted on the map entitled ``Off-highway Vehicle Recreation 
        Areas'' and dated February 2, 2023, to be known as the 
        ``Logandale Trails Off-Highway Vehicle Recreation Area''.
            (3) Nelson hills off-highway vehicle recreation area.--The 
        approximately 43,775 acres of Federal land, as generally 
        depicted on the map entitled ``Off-highway Vehicle Recreation 
        Areas'' and dated February 2, 2023, to be known as the ``Nelson 
        Hills Off-Highway Recreation Area''.
            (4) Sandy valley off-highway vehicle recreation area.--The 
        approximately 39,022 acres of Federal land, as generally 
        depicted on the map entitled ``Off-highway Vehicle Recreation 
        Areas'' and dated February 2, 2023, to be known as the ``Sandy 
        Valley Off-Highway Vehicle Recreation Area''.
    (b) Purposes.--The purposes of each off-highway vehicle recreation 
area established by subsection (a) (referred to in this section as an 
``off-highway vehicle recreation area'') are to preserve, protect, and 
enhance for the benefit and enjoyment of present and future 
generations--
            (1) off-highway vehicle use;
            (2) other activities as the Secretary determines to be 
        appropriate; and
            (3) the scenic, watershed, habitat, cultural, historic, and 
        ecological resources of the off-highway vehicle recreation 
        areas.
    (c) Management Plans.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 2 years after the date of 
        enactment of this Act, in accordance with applicable law, the 
        Secretary shall develop a comprehensive plan for the long-term 
        management of each off-highway vehicle recreation area.
            (2) Consultation.--In developing the management plans under 
        paragraph (1), the Secretary shall consult with--
                    (A) appropriate State, Tribal, and local 
                governmental entities; and
                    (B) members of the public.
    (d) Management.--The Secretary shall manage the off-highway vehicle 
recreation areas--
            (1) to support the purposes described in subsection (b); 
        and
            (2) in accordance with--
                    (A) the Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 
                1976 (43 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.);
                    (B) this section; and
                    (C) any other applicable law (including 
                regulations).
    (e) Motorized Vehicles.--
            (1) In general.--Except as needed for administrative 
        purposes or to respond to an emergency, the use of motorized 
        vehicles in the off-highway vehicle recreation areas shall be 
        permitted only on roads and trails designated for the use of 
        motorized vehicles by the applicable management plan under 
        subsection (c).
            (2) Interim management.--During the period beginning on the 
        date of enactment of this Act and ending on the date on which 
        the management plan under subsection (c) for an off-highway 
        vehicle recreation area takes effect, the use of motorized 
        vehicles in the off-highway vehicle recreation areas shall be 
        permitted in accordance with applicable land management 
        requirements.
            (3) Effect of subsection.--Nothing in this subsection 
        prevents the Secretary from closing an existing road or trail 
        to protect natural resources or public safety, as the Secretary 
        determines to be appropriate.
    (f) Transportation and Utility Corridors.--Nothing in this 
section--
            (1) affects the existence, use, operation, maintenance, 
        repair, construction, reconfiguration, expansion, inspection, 
        renewal, reconstruction, alteration, addition, relocation 
        improvement funding, removal, or replacement of any utility 
        facility or appurtenant right-of-way within an existing 
        designated transportation and utility corridor within an off-
        highway vehicle recreation area;
            (2) precludes the Secretary from authorizing the 
        establishment of a new utility facility right-of-way within an 
        existing designated transportation and utility corridor within 
        an off-highway vehicle recreation area--
                    (A) in accordance with--
                            (i) the National Environmental Policy Act 
                        of 1969 (42 U.S.C. 4321 et seq.); and
                            (ii) any other applicable law; and
                    (B) subject to such terms and conditions as the 
                Secretary determines to be appropriate; or
            (3) prohibits access to, or the repair or replacement of, a 
        transmission line within a right-of-way grant within an off-
        highway vehicle recreation area issued before the date of 
        enactment of this Act.
    (g) Withdrawal.--Subject to valid existing rights, all Federal land 
within the boundaries of an off-highway vehicle recreation area, 
together with any land designated as the ``Nellis Dunes Off-Highway 
Vehicle Recreation Area'' under section 3092(j)(3)(A) of Public Law 
113-291 (16 U.S.C. 460aaaa(3)(A)), is withdrawn from--
            (1) all forms of appropriation or disposal under the public 
        land laws;
            (2) location, entry, and patent under the mining laws; and
            (3) operation of the mineral leasing, mineral materials, 
        and geothermal leasing laws.
    (h) Maps and Legal Descriptions.--
            (1) In general.--As soon as practicable after the date of 
        enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall finalize the legal 
        description of each off-highway vehicle recreation area.
            (2) Errors.--The Secretary may correct any minor error in--
                    (A) a map referred to in subsection (a); or
                    (B) a legal description under paragraph (1).
            (3) Treatment.--The maps and legal descriptions referred to 
        in paragraph (2) shall--
                    (A) be on file and available for public inspection 
                in the appropriate offices of the Bureau of Land 
                Management; and
                    (B) have the same force and effect as if included 
                in this Act, subject to paragraph (2).

SEC. 702. LOWER LAS VEGAS WASH WEIRS.

    (a) In General.--Subject to valid existing rights, the availability 
of appropriations, and all applicable laws, the Secretary shall 
complete construction of the 6 erosion control weirs on the lower Las 
Vegas Wash within the Lake Mead National Recreation Area that are 
unfinished as of the date of enactment of this Act, as identified in 
the study of the Federal Highway Administration entitled ``2010 Lower 
Las Vegas Wash Planning Study''.
    (b) Deadline.--It is the intent of Congress that the construction 
of the weirs described in subsection (a) be completed by the Secretary 
by not later than 8 years after the date of enactment of this Act.

SEC. 703. CRITICAL FLOOD CONTROL FACILITIES.

    The Secretary shall amend the Las Vegas Resource Management Plan 
dated 1998 to allow for the design and construction of flood control 
facilities in the Coyote Springs Desert Tortoise Area of Critical 
Environmental Concern, as described in the most-recent update of the 
Las Vegas Valley Master Plan for Flood Control Facilities developed by 
the Regional Flood Control District, as generally depicted on the map 
attached to that update entitled ``Regional Flood Control District 
Master Plan Facilities in the Coyote Springs Area of Critical 
Environmental Concern''.

SEC. 704. JURISDICTION OVER FISH AND WILDLIFE.

    Nothing in this Act affects the jurisdiction of the State with 
respect to the management of fish or wildlife on any Federal land 
located in the State.
                                 &lt;all&gt;
</pre></body></html>
