<html><body><pre>
[Congressional Bills 117th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[S. 567 Introduced in Senate (IS)]

&lt;DOC&gt;






117th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                 S. 567

 To provide for conservation and economic development in the State of 
                    Nevada, and for other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                   IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

                             March 3, 2021

 Ms. Cortez Masto (for herself and Ms. Rosen) introduced the following 
bill; which was read twice and referred to the Committee on Energy and 
                           Natural Resources

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
 To provide for conservation and economic development in the State of 
                    Nevada, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE; TABLE OF CONTENTS.

    (a) Short Title.--This Act may be cited as the ``Southern Nevada 
Economic Development and Conservation Act''.
    (b) Table of Contents.--The table of contents for this Act is as 
follows:

Sec. 1. Short title; table of contents.
Sec. 2. Definitions.
   TITLE I--MOAPA VALLEY TRIBAL EMPOWERMENT AND ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT

Sec. 101. Transfer of land to be held in trust for the Moapa Band of 
                            Paiutes.
Sec. 102. Tribal fee land to be held in trust.
                     TITLE II--CLARK COUNTY, NEVADA

Sec. 201. Definition of public park under the Red Rock Canyon National 
                            Conservation Area Protection and 
                            Enhancement Act of 2002.
Sec. 202. Boundary adjustment to the Red Rock Canyon National 
                            Conservation Area.
Sec. 203. Boundary adjustment to the Rainbow Gardens Area of Critical 
                            Environmental Concern.
Sec. 204. Land disposal and public purpose conveyances.
Sec. 205. Revocation of Ivanpah Area of Critical Environmental Concern 
                            and establishment of special management 
                            areas.
Sec. 206. Relationship to the Clark County Multiple Species Habitat 
                            Conservation Plan.
Sec. 207. Designation of Maude Frazier Mountain.
Sec. 208. Availability of special account.
Sec. 209. Nevada Cancer Institute land conveyance.
                         TITLE III--WILDERNESS

Sec. 301. Additions to the National Wilderness Preservation System.
   TITLE IV--LOCAL GOVERNMENT CONVEYANCES IN THE STATE OF NEVADA FOR 
                            PUBLIC PURPOSES

Sec. 401. City of Boulder City, Nevada, conveyance.
Sec. 402. City of Mesquite, Nevada, conveyance for the protection of 
                            the Virgin River watershed.
Sec. 403. Clark County, Nevada, conveyance to support public safety and 
                            wildfire response.
Sec. 404. Moapa Valley Water District, Nevada, conveyance to support 
                            access to rural water supply.
Sec. 405. City of North Las Vegas, Nevada, conveyance for fire training 
                            facility.
      TITLE V--IMPLEMENTATION OF LOWER VIRGIN RIVER WATERSHED PLAN

Sec. 501. Implementation of Lower Virgin River watershed plan.
           TITLE VI--SOUTHERN NEVADA LIMITED TRANSITION AREA

Sec. 601. Southern Nevada Limited Transition Area.
                  TITLE VII--MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS

Sec. 701. Off-highway vehicle recreation areas.
Sec. 702. Water infrastructure conveyances for public purposes.
Sec. 703. Lower Las Vegas Wash weirs.
Sec. 704. Critical flood control facilities.
Sec. 705. Maximizing education benefits.
Sec. 706. Jurisdiction over fish and wildlife.

SEC. 2. DEFINITIONS.

    In this Act:
            (1) County.--The term ``County'' means Clark County, 
        Nevada.
            (2) Federal incidental take permit.--The term ``Federal 
        incidental take permit'' means an incidental take permit issued 
        under section 10(a)(1)(B) of the Endangered Species Act of 1973 
        (16 U.S.C. 1539(a)(1)(B)) to--
                    (A) the Nevada Department of Transportation;
                    (B) the County; or
                    (C) any of the following cities in the State:
                            (i) Las Vegas.
                            (ii) North Las Vegas.
                            (iii) Henderson.
                            (iv) Boulder City.
                            (v) Mesquite.
            (3) Indian tribe.--The term ``Indian Tribe'' has the 
        meaning given the term in section 4 of the Indian Self-
        Determination and Education Assistance Act (25 U.S.C. 5304).
            (4) Regional governmental entity; special account; unit of 
        local government.--The terms ``regional governmental entity'', 
        ``special account'', and ``unit of local government'' have the 
        meanings given the terms in section 3 of the Southern Nevada 
        Public Land Management Act of 1998 (Public Law 105-263; 112 
        Stat. 2344).
            (5) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary 
        of the Interior.
            (6) State.--The term ``State'' means the State of Nevada.
            (7) Tribe.--The term ``Tribe'' means the Moapa Band of 
        Paiutes of the Moapa River Indian Reservation, Nevada.

   TITLE I--MOAPA VALLEY TRIBAL EMPOWERMENT AND ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT

SEC. 101. TRANSFER OF LAND TO BE HELD IN TRUST FOR THE MOAPA BAND OF 
              PAIUTES.

    (a) In General.--Subject to valid existing rights, including 
rights-of-way for construction, maintenance, and operation of the Moapa 
Valley Water District facilities, as depicted on the map entitled 
``Moapa Valley Water District-Facilities and Land Conveyances'' and 
dated November 13, 2019, and existing rights-of-way for electric 
generation, transmission, distribution, and supporting facilities, all 
right, title, and interest of the United States in and to the land 
described in subsection (b) shall be--
            (1) held in trust by the United States for the benefit of 
        the Tribe; and
            (2) part of the reservation of the Tribe.
    (b) Description of Land.--The land referred to in subsection (a) is 
the approximately 41,055 acres of land administered by the Bureau of 
Land Management and the Bureau of Reclamation, as generally depicted on 
the map entitled ``Southern Nevada Land Management'' and dated February 
22, 2021.
    (c) Survey.--Not later than 60 days after the date of enactment of 
this Act, the Secretary shall complete a survey of the boundary lines 
to establish the boundaries of the land taken into trust under 
subsection (a).
    (d) Gaming.--Land taken into trust under this section shall not be 
eligible, or considered to have been taken into trust, for class II 
gaming or class III gaming (as those terms are defined in section 4 of 
the Indian Gaming Regulatory Act (25 U.S.C. 2703)).
    (e) Water Rights.--
            (1) In general.--There shall not be Federal reserved rights 
        to surface water or groundwater for any land taken into trust 
        by the United States for the benefit of the Tribe under 
        subsection (a).
            (2) State water rights.--The Tribe shall retain any right 
        or claim to water under State law for any land taken into trust 
        by the United States for the benefit of the Tribe under 
        subsection (a).

SEC. 102. TRIBAL FEE LAND TO BE HELD IN TRUST.

    (a) In General.--All right, title, and interest of the Tribe in and 
to the land described in subsection (b) shall be--
            (1) held in trust by the United States for the benefit of 
        the Tribe; and
            (2) part of the reservation of the Tribe.
    (b) Description of Land.--The land referred to in subsection (a) is 
the approximately 200 acres of land held in fee by the Tribe as 
generally depicted on the map entitled ``General Land Status, Moapa 
Band of Paiutes'' and dated September 2012.
    (c) Survey.--Not later than 180 days after the date of enactment of 
this Act, the Secretary shall complete a survey of the boundary lines 
to establish the boundaries of the land taken into trust under 
subsection (a).

                     TITLE II--CLARK COUNTY, NEVADA

SEC. 201. DEFINITION OF PUBLIC PARK UNDER THE RED ROCK CANYON NATIONAL 
              CONSERVATION AREA PROTECTION AND ENHANCEMENT ACT OF 2002.

    Section 102 of the Red Rock Canyon National Conservation Area 
Protection and Enhancement Act of 2002 (16 U.S.C. 460ccc-4 note; Public 
Law 107-282) is amended--
            (1) by redesignating paragraphs (1), (2), and (3) as 
        paragraphs (2), (4), and (5), respectively;
            (2) by inserting before paragraph (2) (as so redesignated) 
        the following:
            ``(1) Associated supportive use.--The term `associated 
        supportive use' means a use that supports the overall function 
        and enjoyment of a public park.''; and
            (3) by inserting after paragraph (2) (as so redesignated) 
        the following:
            ``(3) Public park.--The term `public park' includes land 
        developed or managed by a partnership between Clark County, 
        Nevada, and a private entity for recreational uses and 
        associated supportive uses, including uses that require a fee 
        for admittance or use of property within the public park.''.

SEC. 202. BOUNDARY ADJUSTMENT TO THE RED ROCK CANYON NATIONAL 
              CONSERVATION AREA.

    Section 3(a) of the Red Rock Canyon National Conservation Area 
Establishment Act of 1990 (16 U.S.C. 460ccc-1(a)) is amended by 
striking paragraph (2) and inserting the following:
            ``(2) The conservation area shall consist of approximately 
        246,990 acres of land, as generally depicted on the map 
        entitled `Southern Nevada Land Management' and dated February 
        22, 2021.''.

SEC. 203. BOUNDARY ADJUSTMENT TO THE RAINBOW GARDENS AREA OF CRITICAL 
              ENVIRONMENTAL CONCERN.

    (a) In General.--The boundary of the Rainbow Gardens Area of 
Critical Environmental Concern, as amended under the Las Vegas Resource 
Management Plan of 1998, is modified to exclude approximately 390 acres 
of land, as generally depicted on the map entitled ``Rainbow Gardens 
ACEC Boundary Adjustment'' and dated November 13, 2019.
    (b) Availability of Map.--The map described in subsection (a) shall 
be on file and available for inspection in the appropriate offices of 
the Bureau of Land Management.

SEC. 204. LAND DISPOSAL AND PUBLIC PURPOSE CONVEYANCES.

    (a) Land Disposal.--
            (1) In general.--Section 4(a) of the Southern Nevada Public 
        Land Management Act of 1998 (Public Law 105-263; 112 Stat. 
        2344; 116 Stat. 2007; 127 Stat. 3872) is amended, in the first 
        sentence, by striking ``September 17, 2012'' and inserting 
        ``November 23, 2020''.
            (2) Mineral interests.--The following shall not constitute 
        the unauthorized use of sand or gravel for purposes of the 
        Southern Nevada Public Land Management Act of 1998 (Public Law 
        105-263; 112 Stat. 2343) or the Clark County Conservation of 
        Public Land and Natural Resources Act of 2002 (Public Law 107-
        282; 116 Stat. 1994):
                    (A) The movement of common varieties of sand and 
                gravel on a surface estate acquired under the Southern 
                Nevada Public Land Management Act of 1998 (Public Law 
                105-263; 112 Stat. 2343) or the Clark County 
                Conservation of Public Land and Natural Resources Act 
                of 2002 (Public Law 107-282; 116 Stat. 1994) by the 
                owner of the surface estate for purposes including 
                recontouring or balancing the surface estate or filling 
                utility trenches on the surface estate.
                    (B) The disposal of sand or gravel described in 
                subparagraph (A) at an off-site landfill.
    (b) Public Purpose Conveyances.--
            (1) Definitions.--In this subsection:
                    (A) Eligible entity.--The term ``eligible entity'' 
                means the State, a political subdivision of the State, 
                a unit of local government, or a regional governmental 
                entity in the County.
                    (B) Federal land.--The term ``Federal land'' means 
                any Federal land in the County--
                            (i) that is leased, patented, authorized as 
                        a right-of-way, or otherwise approved for use 
                        pursuant to the Act of June 14, 1926 (commonly 
                        known as the ``Recreation and Public Purposes 
                        Act'') (44 Stat. 741, chapter 578; 43 U.S.C. 
                        869 et seq.), the Federal Land Policy and 
                        Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1701 et 
                        seq.), the National Environmental Policy Act of 
                        1969 (42 U.S.C. 4321 et seq.), or any other 
                        applicable Federal law;
                            (ii) on which a permanent public facility 
                        has been or may be constructed; and
                            (iii) that is not--
                                    (I) under the jurisdiction of the 
                                National Park Service or the Department 
                                of Defense; or
                                    (II) managed as--
                                            (aa) a unit of the National 
                                        Wildlife Refuge System;
                                            (bb) a component of the 
                                        National Wilderness 
                                        Preservation System; or
                                            (cc) a component of the 
                                        National Landscape Conservation 
                                        System.
            (2) Authorization for conveyance.--Subject to valid 
        existing rights and paragraph (4), on request by an eligible 
        entity for the conveyance of a parcel of Federal land, the 
        Secretary shall convey to the eligible entity by quitclaim 
        deed, without consideration, terms, conditions, reservations, 
        or stipulations, all right, title, and interest of the United 
        States in and to the parcel of Federal land for any public 
        purpose.
            (3) Map and legal description.--
                    (A) In general.--Not later than 180 days after the 
                date of a request by an eligible entity for a 
                conveyance of Federal land under paragraph (2), the 
                Secretary shall file a map and legal description of the 
                parcel of Federal land to be conveyed under that 
                paragraph.
                    (B) Effect; availability.--Each map and legal 
                description filed under subparagraph (A) shall--
                            (i) have the same force and effect as if 
                        included in this Act; and
                            (ii) be on file and available for public 
                        inspection in the Las Vegas Field Office of the 
                        Bureau of Land Management.
                    (C) Errors.--The Secretary may correct any minor 
                error in a map or legal description filed under 
                subparagraph (A).
            (4) Reversion.--
                    (A) In general.--As a condition of a conveyance 
                under paragraph (2) and except as provided in 
                subparagraph (B), the Secretary shall require that, if 
                the parcel of the Federal land conveyed under that 
                paragraph is no longer used for any public purpose for 
                which the Federal land was conveyed, all right, title, 
                and interest in and to the parcel of Federal land 
                shall--
                            (i) revert to the United States; or
                            (ii) on authorization by the Secretary, be 
                        disposed of by the eligible entity through a 
                        sale, lease, or other conveyance, in accordance 
                        with subparagraph (C).
                    (B) Exception.--The removal of sediment or minerals 
                from a stormwater detention basin or from a parcel of 
                Federal land conveyed under paragraph (2) shall be 
                considered to be an authorized use.
                    (C) Requirements for sale, lease, or other 
                conveyance.--
                            (i) Fair market value.--The sale, lease, or 
                        other conveyance of a parcel of Federal land by 
                        an eligible entity under subparagraph (A)(ii) 
                        shall be for fair market value.
                            (ii) Disposition of proceeds.--Any gross 
                        proceeds received by an eligible entity from 
                        the sale, lease, or other conveyance of a 
                        parcel of Federal land under subparagraph 
                        (A)(ii) shall be deposited in the special 
                        account.
                    (D) Responsibility for remediation.--If a parcel of 
                Federal land reverts to the Secretary under 
                subparagraph (A) and the Secretary determines that the 
                Federal land is contaminated with hazardous waste, the 
                eligible entity to which the Federal land was conveyed 
                shall be responsible for remediation of the 
                contamination of the parcel of Federal land.
            (5) Applicable law.--Any lease, patent, or real estate 
        transaction for Federal land conveyed under paragraph (2) is 
        affirmed and validated as having been completed pursuant to, 
        and in compliance with, the Act of June 14, 1926 (commonly 
        known as the ``Recreation and Public Purposes Act'') (44 Stat. 
        741, chapter 578; 43 U.S.C. 869 et seq.), the Federal Land 
        Policy and Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.), and 
        the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 (42 U.S.C. 4321 
        et seq.), for the construction of public schools, fire 
        stations, parks, community centers, law enforcement facilities, 
        flood control facilities, and other public infrastructure.
            (6) Payment of costs.--The Secretary shall pay for any 
        administrative and real estate transfer costs incurred in 
        carrying out the conveyances of Federal land under paragraph 
        (2) using amounts from the special account.
    (c) Use of Public-Private Partnerships by Units of Local Government 
for Affordable Housing.--
            (1) Definitions.--In this subsection:
                    (A) Affordable housing.--The term ``affordable 
                housing'' means housing that serves individuals and 
                families with a household income that does not exceed 
                120 percent of the area median income, including--
                            (i) in the case of homes for sale, homes 
                        that retain affordability for future buyers 
                        through the use of perpetual resale or deed 
                        restrictions; and
                            (ii) a manufactured home community, if the 
                        manufactured home community is managed by--
                                    (I) a nonprofit organization; or
                                    (II) a resident-owned cooperative.
                    (B) Covered land.--The term ``covered land'' means 
                any parcel of Federal land in the County that is--
                            (i) acquired or conveyed by a unit of local 
                        government before, on, or after the date of 
                        enactment of this Act for public purposes; and
                            (ii) subject to reversion to the United 
                        States if the acquired or conveyed Federal land 
                        is no longer used for public purposes.
            (2) Use of covered land.--
                    (A) In general.--Any covered land may be developed, 
                financed, used, and maintained for public purposes, 
                including affordable housing, by any entity operating 
                in the County that has entered into a contract with the 
                applicable unit of local government providing for the 
                use of the covered land by the entity.
                    (B) Exemption from notice of realty action 
                requirement.--If an entity seeks to use covered land 
                for affordable housing purposes under subparagraph (A), 
                the entity--
                            (i) shall not be required to comply with 
                        notice of realty action requirements with 
                        respect to the covered land; but
                            (ii) before using the covered land for 
                        affordable housing purposes, shall provide, for 
                        a period of not less than 14 days, adequate 
                        public notice of the use of the covered land.
                    (C) Reversion.--If covered land that is used for 
                affordable housing purposes under subparagraph (A) 
                ceases to be used for affordable housing or any other 
                public purpose, all right, title, and interest in and 
                to the covered land shall, at the discretion of the 
                Secretary, revert to the United States.
            (3) Acquisition of covered land for affordable housing 
        purposes.--On submission of an application to the Secretary by 
        a unit of local government for the conveyance to the unit of 
        local government of covered land for affordable housing 
        purposes as authorized under section 7(b) of the Southern 
        Nevada Public Land Management Act of 1998 (Public Law 105-263; 
        111 Stat. 2349), not later than 90 days after the date of 
        receipt of the application, the Secretary shall convey to the 
        unit of local government, for consideration in an amount of not 
        more than $1, all right, title, and interest of the United 
        States in and to the covered land.

SEC. 205. REVOCATION OF IVANPAH AREA OF CRITICAL ENVIRONMENTAL CONCERN 
              AND ESTABLISHMENT OF SPECIAL MANAGEMENT AREAS.

    (a) Revocation of Ivanpah Area of Critical Environmental Concern.--
The designation by the Bureau of Land Management of the Ivanpah Area of 
Critical Environmental Concern in the State dated February 14, 2014, is 
revoked.
    (b) Establishment of Special Management Areas.--The following areas 
in the County are designated as special management areas:
            (1) Stump springs special management area.--Certain Federal 
        land in the County administered by the Bureau of Land 
        Management, comprising approximately 141,786 acres, as 
        generally depicted on the map entitled ``Southern Nevada Land 
        Management'' and dated February 22, 2021, which shall be known 
        as the ``Stump Springs Special Management Area''.
            (2) Bird springs valley special management area.--Certain 
        Federal land in the County administered by the Bureau of Land 
        Management, comprising approximately 39,282 acres, as generally 
        depicted on the map entitled ``Southern Nevada Land 
        Management'' and dated February 22, 2021, which shall be known 
        as the ``Bird Springs Valley Special Management Area''.
            (3) Desert tortoise protective corridor special management 
        area.--Certain Federal land in the County administered by the 
        Bureau of Land Management, comprising approximately 42,974 
        acres, as generally depicted on the map entitled ``Southern 
        Nevada Land Management'' and dated February 22, 2021, which 
        shall be known as the ``Desert Tortoise Protective Corridor 
        Special Management Area'', which shall take the place of and 
        serve the purposes of the Ivanpah Area of Critical 
        Environmental Concern revoked under subsection (a).
            (4) Jean lake special management area.--Certain Federal 
        land in the County administered by the Bureau of Land 
        Management, comprising approximately 2,669 acres, as generally 
        depicted on the map entitled ``Southern Nevada Land 
        Management'' and dated February 22, 2021, which shall be known 
        as the ``Jean Lake Special Management Area''.
            (5) Gale hills special management area.--Certain Federal 
        land in the County administered by the Bureau of Land 
        Management, comprising approximately 16,411 acres, as generally 
        depicted on the map entitled ``Southern Nevada Land 
        Management'' and dated February 22, 2021, which shall be known 
        as the ``Gale Hills Special Management Area''.
            (6) California wash special management area.--Certain 
        Federal land in the County administered by the Bureau of Land 
        Management, comprising approximately 8,203 acres, as generally 
        depicted on the map entitled ``Southern Nevada Land 
        Management'' and dated February 22, 2021, which shall be known 
        as the ``California Wash Special Management Area''.
            (7) Bitter springs special management area.--Certain 
        Federal land in the County administered by the Bureau of Land 
        Management, comprising approximately 61,711 acres, as generally 
        depicted on the map entitled ``Southern Nevada Land 
        Management'' and dated February 22, 2021, which shall be known 
        as the ``Bitter Springs Special Management Area''.
            (8) Muddy mountains special management area.--Certain 
        Federal land in the County administered by the Bureau of Land 
        Management, comprising approximately 32,250 acres, as generally 
        depicted on the map entitled ``Southern Nevada Land 
        Management'' and dated February 22, 2021, which shall be known 
        as the ``Muddy Mountains Special Management Area''.
            (9) Mesa milkvetch special management area.--Certain 
        Federal land in the County administered by the Bureau of Land 
        Management, comprising approximately 8,430 acres, as generally 
        depicted on the map entitled ``Southern Nevada Land 
        Management'' and dated February 22, 2021, which shall be known 
        as the ``Mesa Milkvetch Special Management Area''.
    (c) Purposes.--The purposes of a special management area designated 
by subsection (b) (referred to in this section as a ``Special 
Management Area'') are--
            (1) to provide for the conservation and recovery of the 
        diversity of natural habitats and native species of plants and 
        animals in the County covered by the Clark County Multiple 
        Species Habitat Conservation Plan (including any amendments to 
        the plan); and
            (2) to mitigate the impacts of--
                    (A) any amendment to the applicable Federal 
                incidental take permit, as required by sections 
                17.22(b)(1) and 17.32(b)(1) of title 50, Code of 
                Federal Regulations (or successor regulations); and
                    (B) any amendments to the Clark County Multiple 
                Species Habitat Conservation Plan under section 206.
    (d) Management of Special Management Areas.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary shall manage each Special 
        Management Area--
                    (A) in a manner that conserves, protects, and 
                enhances the purposes for which the Special Management 
                Area is established; and
                    (B) in accordance with--
                            (i) this section;
                            (ii) the Federal Land Policy and Management 
                        Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.); and
                            (iii) any other applicable law.
            (2) Uses.--The Secretary shall allow only uses of a Special 
        Management Area that are consistent with the purposes for which 
        the Special Management Area is established.
            (3) Motorized vehicles; new roads.--
                    (A) Motorized vehicles.--Except as needed for 
                emergency response or administrative purposes, the use 
                of motorized vehicles in the Special Management Areas 
                shall be permitted only on roads and motorized routes 
                designated for the use of motorized vehicles in the 
                management plan developed under subsection (i)(1)(A).
                    (B) New roads.--No new permanent or temporary roads 
                or other motorized vehicle routes shall be constructed 
                within the Special Management Areas after the date of 
                enactment of this Act.
    (e) Map and Legal Description.--
            (1) In general.--As soon as practicable after the date of 
        enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall prepare and submit 
        to the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources of the Senate 
        and the Committee on Natural Resources of the House of 
        Representatives a map and legal description of each Special 
        Management Area.
            (2) Effect.--A map or legal description filed under 
        paragraph (1) shall have the same force and effect as if 
        included in this Act.
            (3) Corrections.--The Secretary may correct minor errors in 
        a map or legal description filed under paragraph (1), if, 
        before making a proposed correction, the Secretary submits to 
        the County the proposed correction for review and approval.
            (4) Public availability.--A copy of each map and legal 
        description filed under paragraph (1) shall be on file and 
        available for public inspection in the Las Vegas Field Office 
        of the Bureau of Land Management.
    (f) Incorporation of Acquired Land and Interests.--Any land or 
interest in land that is acquired by the United States within a Special 
Management Area shall--
            (1) become part of the Special Management Area in which the 
        acquired land or interest in land is located;
            (2) be withdrawn in accordance with subsection (g); and
            (3) be managed in accordance with--
                    (A) this section;
                    (B) the Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 
                1976 (43 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.); and
                    (C) any other applicable law (including 
                regulations).
    (g) Withdrawal.--Subject to valid existing rights, and to rights-
of-way for construction, maintenance, and operation of the Moapa Valley 
Water District facilities depicted on the map entitled ``Moapa Valley 
Water District-Facilities and Land Conveyances'' and dated November 13, 
2019, all Federal land within the areas described in subsection (b) are 
withdrawn from--
            (1) all forms of entry, appropriation, and disposal under 
        the public land laws;
            (2) location, entry, and patent under the mining laws; and
            (3) operation of the mineral leasing, mineral materials, 
        and geothermal leasing laws.
    (h) Cooperative Management Agreement.--Not later than 1 year after 
the date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall enter into a 
cooperative management agreement with the County that provides for the 
joint management of the Special Management Areas by the Secretary and 
the County, in accordance with--
            (1) this section;
            (2) the Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 1976 (43 
        U.S.C. 1701 et seq.); and
            (3) any other applicable Federal law.
    (i) Management Plan.--
            (1) In general.--As soon as practicable, but not later than 
        1 year, after the date on which the County is issued an amended 
        Federal incidental take permit in accordance with section 206, 
        the Secretary and the County shall--
                    (A) develop a comprehensive cooperative management 
                plan for the long-term protection and management of the 
                Special Management Areas; and
                    (B) amend the 1998 Las Vegas Resource Management 
                Plan to incorporate the provisions of the management 
                plan for the Special Management Areas developed under 
                subparagraph (A).
            (2) Interim management.--During the period beginning on the 
        date of enactment of this Act and ending on the date on which 
        the management plan developed under paragraph (1)(A) and the 
        amendment to the 1998 Las Vegas Resource Management Plan 
        required under paragraph (1)(B) take effect, the Secretary 
        shall not authorize the use of the Federal land described in 
        subsection (b) for any activity contrary to the purposes 
        described in subsection (c), including--
                    (A) disposal;
                    (B) rights-of-way;
                    (C) leases, including utility-scale solar energy 
                facilities;
                    (D) livestock grazing;
                    (E) infrastructure development; and
                    (F) mineral entry.
    (j) Transportation and Utility Corridors.--
            (1) In general.--Consistent with this subsection, the 
        management plan for the Special Management Areas developed 
        under subsection (i)(1)(A) shall establish provisions, 
        including avoidance, minimization, and mitigation measures, for 
        ongoing maintenance of public utility and other rights-of-way 
        in existing designated transportation and utility corridors 
        within a Special Management Area.
            (2) Effect.--Nothing in this section--
                    (A) affects the existence, use, operation, 
                maintenance, repair, construction, reconfiguration, 
                expansion, inspection, renewal, reconstruction, 
                alteration, addition, relocation improvement funding, 
                removal, or replacement of any utility facility or 
                appurtenant right-of-way within an existing designated 
                transportation and utility corridor within a Special 
                Management Area;
                    (B) precludes the Secretary from authorizing the 
                establishment of a new utility facility right-of-way 
                within an existing designated transportation and 
                utility corridor within a Special Management Area--
                            (i) in accordance with--
                                    (I) the National Environmental 
                                Policy Act of 1969 (42 U.S.C. 4321 et 
                                seq.); and
                                    (II) any other applicable law; and
                            (ii) subject to such terms and conditions 
                        as the Secretary determines to be appropriate; 
                        or
                    (C) prohibits access to, or the repair or 
                replacement of, a transmission line within a right-of-
                way grant within a Special Management Area issued 
                before the date of enactment of this Act.
    (k) Effect.--Nothing in this section prevents or interferes with--
            (1) the construction or operation of the Ivanpah Valley 
        Airport authorized under the Ivanpah Valley Airport Public 
        Lands Transfer Act (Public Law 106-362; 114 Stat. 1404); or
            (2) the Airport Environs Overlay District authorized under 
        section 501(c) of the Clark County Conservation of Public Land 
        and Natural Resources Act of 2002 (Public Law 107-282; 116 
        Stat. 2008) and section 3092(i) of the Carl Levin and Howard P. 
        ``Buck'' McKeon National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
        Year 2015 (Public Law 113-291; 127 Stat. 3875).

SEC. 206. RELATIONSHIP TO THE CLARK COUNTY MULTIPLE SPECIES HABITAT 
              CONSERVATION PLAN.

    (a) Extension of Habitat Conservation Plan.--On receipt from the 
County of a complete application for an amendment to the applicable 
Federal incidental take permit, as required by sections 17.22(b)(1) and 
17.32(b)(1) of title 50, Code of Federal Regulations (or successor 
regulations), and an amended Clark County Multiple Species Habitat 
Conservation Plan which incorporates the Special Management Areas 
established by section 205(b) and the provisions of the management plan 
required under section 205(i)(1)(A), the Secretary shall, in accordance 
with this Act, the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 (42 U.S.C. 
4321 et seq.), the Endangered Species Act of 1973 (16 U.S.C. 1531 et 
seq.), and any other applicable Federal environmental laws--
            (1) credit approximately 353,716 acres of the land 
        conserved and designated as Special Management Areas under 
        section 205(b), as depicted on the map entitled ``Southern 
        Nevada Land Management'' and dated February 22, 2021, as 
        mitigation to fully or partially offset, as determined by the 
        Secretary using the best available scientific and commercial 
        information, additional incidental take impacts resulting from 
        development of additional land within the County covered under 
        the existing Clark County Multiple Species Habitat Conservation 
        Plan or to be covered through an amendment to the Clark County 
        Multiple Species Habitat Conservation Plan and Federal 
        incidental take permit; and
            (2) extend the Clark County Multiple Species Habitat 
        Conservation Plan and Federal incidental take permit for the 
        maximum authorized duration, as determined by the Secretary.
    (b) Federal Permit Issuance Criteria.--Before amending the Clark 
County Multiple Species Habitat Conservation Plan and extending the 
Federal incidental take permit under subsection (a), the Secretary 
shall ensure that the Federal incidental take permit issuance criteria 
required in sections 17.22(b)(2), 17.32(b)(2), and 222.307(c)(2) of 
title 50, Code of Federal Regulations (or successor regulations), are 
met.
    (c) Effect.--Nothing in this Act otherwise limits, alters, 
modifies, or amends the Clark County Multiple Species Habitat 
Conservation Plan.

SEC. 207. DESIGNATION OF MAUDE FRAZIER MOUNTAIN.

    (a) In General.--The peak of Frenchman Mountain in the State 
located at latitude 3610'45" N, by longitude 11459'52" W, shall be 
designated as ``Maude Frazier Mountain''.
    (b) References.--Any reference in a law, map, regulation, document, 
record, or other paper of the United States to the peak described in 
subsection (a) shall be considered to be a reference to ``Maude Frazier 
Mountain''.

SEC. 208. AVAILABILITY OF SPECIAL ACCOUNT.

    Section 4(e)(3)(A) of the Southern Nevada Public Land Management 
Act of 1998 (Public Law 105-263; 112 Stat. 2346; 120 Stat. 3045) is 
amended--
            (1) in clause (ii), by striking ``the Great Basin National 
        Park, and other areas'' and inserting ``the Great Basin 
        National Park, the Tule Springs Fossil Bed National Monument, 
        and other areas'';
            (2) in clause (x), by striking ``and'' at the end;
            (3) by redesignating clause (xi) as clause (xii); and
            (4) by inserting after clause (x) the following:
                            ``(xi) development and implementation of 
                        sustainability and climate initiatives in Clark 
                        County, Nevada, in accordance with a 
                        cooperative agreement with a unit of local 
                        government or regional governmental entity; 
                        and''.

SEC. 209. NEVADA CANCER INSTITUTE LAND CONVEYANCE.

     Section 2603(a)(3) of the Omnibus Public Land Management Act of 
2009 (Public Law 111-11; 123 Stat. 1118) is amended by inserting ``, or 
any successors in interest'' before the period at the end.

                         TITLE III--WILDERNESS

SEC. 301. ADDITIONS TO THE NATIONAL WILDERNESS PRESERVATION SYSTEM.

    (a) Designation.--Section 202(a) of the Clark County Conservation 
of Public Land and Natural Resources Act of 2002 (16 U.S.C. 1132 note; 
Public Law 107-282; 116 Stat. 1999) is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (3), by striking ``2002'' and inserting 
        ``2002, and the approximately 10,137 acres of Federal land 
        managed by the Bureau of Land Management, as generally depicted 
        on the map entitled `Southern Nevada Land Management' and dated 
        February 22, 2021'';
            (2) in paragraph (4), by striking ``2002'' and inserting 
        ``2002, and the approximately 3,878 acres of Federal land 
        managed by the Bureau of Land Management, as generally depicted 
        on the map entitled `Southern Nevada Land Management' and dated 
        February 22, 2021'';
            (3) in paragraph (5), by striking ``2002'' and inserting 
        ``2002, and the approximately 19,521 acres of Federal land 
        managed by the Bureau of Land Management, as generally depicted 
        on the map entitled `Southern Nevada Land Management' and dated 
        February 22, 2021'';
            (4) in paragraph (11), by striking ``2002'' and inserting 
        ``2002, and the approximately 44,942 acres of Federal land 
        managed by the Bureau of Land Management, as generally depicted 
        on the map entitled `Southern Nevada Land Management' and dated 
        February 22, 2021'';
            (5) in paragraph (12), by striking ``2002'' and inserting 
        ``2002, and the approximately 30,211 acres of Federal land 
        managed by the Bureau of Land Management, as generally depicted 
        on the map entitled `Southern Nevada Land Management' and dated 
        February 22, 2021'';
            (6) in paragraph (16), by striking ``2002'' and inserting 
        ``2002, and the approximately 31,120 acres of Federal land 
        managed by the Bureau of Land Management, as generally depicted 
        on the map entitled `Southern Nevada Land Management' and dated 
        February 22, 2021'';
            (7) in paragraph (17), by striking ``2002'' and inserting 
        ``2002, and the approximately 699 acres of Federal land managed 
        by the Bureau of Land Management, as generally depicted on the 
        map entitled `Southern Nevada Land Management' and dated 
        February 22, 2021''; and
            (8) by adding at the end the following:
            ``(19) Mount stirling wilderness.--Certain Federal land 
        managed by the Bureau of Land Management, comprising 
        approximately 73,011 acres, as generally depicted on the map 
        entitled `Southern Nevada Land Management' and dated February 
        22, 2021, which shall be known as the `Mount Stirling 
        Wilderness'.
            ``(20) Overton wilderness.--Certain Federal land managed by 
        the National Park Service, comprising approximately 23,227 
        acres, as generally depicted on the map entitled `Southern 
        Nevada Land Management' and dated February 22, 2021, which 
        shall be known as the `Overton Wilderness'.
            ``(21) Twin springs wilderness.--Certain Federal land 
        managed by the National Park Service, comprising approximately 
        9,684 acres, as generally depicted on the map entitled 
        `Southern Nevada Land Management' and dated February 22, 2021, 
        which shall be known as the `Twin Springs Wilderness'.
            ``(22) Scanlon wash wilderness.--Certain Federal land 
        managed by the National Park Service, comprising approximately 
        22,826 acres, as generally depicted on the map entitled 
        `Southern Nevada Land Management' and dated February 22, 2021, 
        which shall be known as the `Scanlon Wash Wilderness'.
            ``(23) Hiller mountains wilderness.--Certain Federal land 
        managed by the National Park Service, comprising approximately 
        14,832 acres, as generally depicted on the map entitled 
        `Southern Nevada Land Management' and dated February 22, 2021, 
        which shall be known as the `Hiller Mountains Wilderness'.
            ``(24) Hell's kitchen wilderness.--Certain Federal land 
        managed by the National Park Service, comprising approximately 
        12,439 acres, as generally depicted on the map entitled 
        `Southern Nevada Land Management' and dated February 22, 2021, 
        which shall be known as the `Hell's Kitchen Wilderness'.
            ``(25) South million hills wilderness.--Certain Federal 
        land managed by the National Park Service, comprising 
        approximately 8,955 acres, as generally depicted on the map 
        entitled `Southern Nevada Land Management' and dated February 
        22, 2021, which shall be known as the `South Million Hills 
        Wilderness'.
            ``(26) New york mountains wilderness.--Certain Federal land 
        managed by the Bureau of Land Management, comprising 
        approximately 14,114 acres, as generally depicted on the map 
        entitled `Southern Nevada Land Management' and dated February 
        22, 2021, which is incorporated in, and considered to be a part 
        of, the Mojave Wilderness designated by section 601(a)(3) of 
        the California Desert Protection Act of 1994 (16 U.S.C. 1132 
        note; Public Law 103-433; 108 Stat. 4496).
            ``(27) Piute mountains wilderness.--Certain Federal land 
        managed by the Bureau of Land Management, comprising 
        approximately 7,404 acres, as generally depicted on the map 
        entitled `Southern Nevada Land Management' and dated February 
        22, 2021, which is incorporated in, and considered to be a part 
        of, the Mojave Wilderness designated by section 601(a)(3) of 
        the California Desert Protection Act of 1994 (16 U.S.C. 1132 
        note; Public Law 103-13 433; 108 Stat. 4496).
            ``(28) Sheep range wilderness.--Certain Federal land 
        managed by the Director of the United States Fish and Wildlife 
        Service, comprising approximately 435,277 acres, as generally 
        depicted as `Sheep Range Wilderness' on the map entitled 
        `Southern Nevada Land Management' and dated February 22, 2021, 
        which shall be known as the `Sheep Range Wilderness'.
            ``(29) Las vegas range wilderness.--Certain Federal land 
        managed by the Director of the United States Fish and Wildlife 
        Service and the Director of the Bureau of Land Management, 
        comprising approximately 150,823 acres, as generally depicted 
        as `Las Vegas Range Wilderness' on the map entitled `Southern 
        Nevada Land Management' and dated February 22, 2021, which 
        shall be known as the `Las Vegas Range Wilderness'.
            ``(30) Gass peak wilderness.--Certain Federal land managed 
        by the Director of the United States Fish and Wildlife Service, 
        comprising approximately 33,424 acres, as generally depicted as 
        `Gass Peak Wilderness' on the map entitled `Southern Nevada 
        Land Management' and dated February 22, 2021, which shall be 
        known as the `Gass Peak Wilderness'.
            ``(31) Desert bighorn wilderness.--Certain Federal land 
        managed by the Director of the United States Fish and Wildlife 
        Service, comprising approximately 285,749 acres, as generally 
        depicted as `Desert Bighorn Wilderness' on the map entitled 
        `Southern Nevada Land Management' and dated February 22, 2021, 
        which shall be known as the `Desert Bighorn Wilderness'.
            ``(32) Pintwater-east desert-spotted range wilderness.--
        Certain Federal land managed by the Director of the United 
        States Fish and Wildlife Service, comprising approximately 
        268,698 acres, as generally depicted as `Pintwater-East Desert-
        Spotted Range Wilderness' on the map entitled `Southern Nevada 
        Land Management' and dated February 22, 2021, which shall be 
        known as the `Pintwater-East Desert-Spotted Range Wilderness'.
            ``(33) Hole-in-the-rock west wilderness.--Certain Federal 
        land managed by the Director of the United States Fish and 
        Wildlife Service, comprising approximately 91,533 acres, as 
        generally depicted as `Hole-In-The-Rock Wilderness' on the map 
        entitled `Southern Nevada Land Management' and dated February 
        22, 2021, which shall be known as the `Hole-In-The-Rock West 
        Wilderness'.
            ``(34) Hole-in-the-rock east wilderness.--Certain Federal 
        land managed by the Director of the United States Fish and 
        Wildlife Service, comprising approximately 13,412 acres, as 
        generally depicted as `Hole-In-The-Rock Wilderness' on the map 
        entitled `Southern Nevada Land Management' and dated February 
        22, 2021, which shall be known as the `Hole-In-The-Rock East 
        Wilderness'.
            ``(35) Desert range wilderness.--Certain Federal land 
        managed by the Director of the United States Fish and Wildlife 
        Service, comprising approximately 23,100 acres, as generally 
        depicted as `Desert Range Wilderness' on the map entitled 
        `Southern Nevada Land Management' and dated February 22, 2021, 
        which shall be known as the `Desert Range Wilderness'.
            ``(36) Lucy gray wilderness.--Certain Federal land managed 
        by the Bureau of Land Management, comprising approximately 
        9,717 acres, as generally depicted on the map entitled 
        `Southern Nevada Land Management' and dated February 22, 
        2021.''.
    (b) Applicable Law.--Subject to valid existing rights and 
notwithstanding section 203(a) of the Clark County Conservation of 
Public Land and Natural Resources Act of 2002 (16 U.S.C. 1132 note; 
Public Law 107-282; 116 Stat. 2002), any reference in the Wilderness 
Act (16 U.S.C. 1131 et seq.) to the effective date of that Act shall be 
considered to be a reference to the date of enactment of this Act for 
purposes of administering land designated as wilderness or a wilderness 
addition by an amendment to section 202(a) of the Clark County 
Conservation of Public Land and Natural Resources Act of 2002 (16 
U.S.C. 1132 note; Public Law 107-282; 116 Stat. 1999) made by 
subsection (a).

   TITLE IV--LOCAL GOVERNMENT CONVEYANCES IN THE STATE OF NEVADA FOR 
                            PUBLIC PURPOSES

SEC. 401. CITY OF BOULDER CITY, NEVADA, CONVEYANCE.

    (a) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) City.--The term ``City'' means the city of Boulder 
        City, Nevada.
            (2) Federal land.--The term ``Federal land'' means the 
        public land that was reserved to the United States, as 
        described in item 2 under exhibit B of Patent Nev-048100, which 
        was created pursuant to Public Law 85-339 (72 Stat. 31).
    (b) Authorization of Conveyance.--On request of the City, the 
Secretary shall convey to the City, without consideration, all right, 
title, and interest of the United States in and to the Federal land.
    (c) Administration of Acquired Land.--
            (1) In general.--The Federal land conveyed under subsection 
        (b) shall be subject to valid existing rights.
            (2) Administrative authority.--The Secretary shall continue 
        to have administrative authority over the Federal land conveyed 
        under subsection (b) after the date of the conveyance.
    (d) Reversion.--
            (1) In general.--If the Federal land conveyed under 
        subsection (b) ceases to be used for the public purpose for 
        which the Federal land was conveyed, the Federal land shall 
        revert to the United States, at the discretion of the 
        Secretary, if the Secretary determines that reversion is in the 
        best interest of the United States.
            (2) Responsibility of city.--If the Secretary determines 
        under paragraph (1) that the Federal land should revert to the 
        United States and that the Federal land is contaminated with 
        hazardous waste, the City shall be responsible for remediation 
        of the contamination of the Federal land.

SEC. 402. CITY OF MESQUITE, NEVADA, CONVEYANCE FOR THE PROTECTION OF 
              THE VIRGIN RIVER WATERSHED.

    (a) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) City.--The term ``City'' means the city of Mesquite, 
        Nevada.
            (2) Federal land.--The term ``Federal land'' means the 
        approximately 250 acres of Federal land, as generally depicted 
        on the Map.
            (3) Map.--The term ``Map'' means the map entitled ``City of 
        Mesquite, River Park'' and dated November 13, 2019.
    (b) Authorization of Conveyance.--Notwithstanding the land use 
planning requirements of sections 202 and 203 of the Federal Land 
Policy and Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1712, 1713), on request of 
the City, the Secretary shall convey to the City, without 
consideration, all right, title, and interest of the United States in 
and to the Federal land for use by the City in developing and 
implementing a watershed management plan for the Virgin River 
watershed, subject to the provisions of this section.
    (c) Map and Legal Descriptions.--
            (1) In general.--As soon as practicable after the date of 
        enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall prepare final legal 
        descriptions of the Federal land to be conveyed under 
        subsection (b).
            (2) Corrections.--The Secretary may correct any minor 
        errors in the Map or legal descriptions prepared under 
        paragraph (1).
            (3) Availability.--The Map and legal descriptions prepared 
        under paragraph (1) shall be on file and available for public 
        inspection in the Las Vegas Field Office of the Bureau of Land 
        Management.
    (d) Reversion.--
            (1) In general.--If the Federal land conveyed under 
        subsection (b) ceases to be used for the public purpose for 
        which the Federal land was conveyed, the Federal land shall 
        revert to the United States, at the discretion of the 
        Secretary, if the Secretary determines that reversion is in the 
        best interest of the United States.
            (2) Responsibility of city.--If the Secretary determines 
        under paragraph (1) that the Federal land should revert to the 
        United States and that the Federal land is contaminated with 
        hazardous waste, the City shall be responsible for the 
        remediation of the contamination of the Federal land.

SEC. 403. CLARK COUNTY, NEVADA, CONVEYANCE TO SUPPORT PUBLIC SAFETY AND 
              WILDFIRE RESPONSE.

    (a) Authorization of Conveyance.--Notwithstanding the land use 
planning requirements of sections 202 and 203 of the Federal Land 
Policy and Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1712, 1713), on request of 
the County, the Secretary shall convey to the County, without 
consideration, all right, title, and interest of the United States in 
and to the following parcels of Federal land, subject to the provisions 
of this section:
            (1) Mount charleston public safety complex.--The 
        approximately 16-acre parcel of Federal land generally depicted 
        as Parcel A on the map entitled ``Mount Charleston Public 
        Safety Complex'' and dated November 13, 2019, and the 1.5-acre 
        parcel of Federal land depicted on the map entitled ``Parcel 
        for Lee Canyon Fire Station'' and dated November 13, 2019, for 
        police and fire facilities.
            (2) Public safety training facilities.--The approximately 
        123 acres of Federal land, as generally depicted on the map 
        entitled ``Metro Parcels'' and dated November 13, 2019, for 
        public safety training facilities.
    (b) Payment of Costs.--As a condition of the conveyance under 
subsection (a), the County shall pay any costs relating to any land 
surveys and other associated costs of conveying the parcels of Federal 
land under subsection (a).
    (c) Map and Legal Descriptions.--
            (1) In general.--As soon as practicable after the date of 
        enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall prepare final legal 
        descriptions of the parcels of Federal land to be conveyed 
        under subsection (a).
            (2) Corrections.--The Secretary may correct any minor 
        errors in the maps described in subsection (a) or legal 
        descriptions prepared under paragraph (1).
            (3) Availability.--The maps described in subsection (a) and 
        legal descriptions prepared under paragraph (1) shall be on 
        file and available for public inspection in the appropriate 
        offices of the Bureau of Land Management.
    (d) Reversion.--
            (1) In general.--If any parcel of Federal land conveyed 
        under subsection (a) ceases to be used for the public purpose 
        for which the parcel of Federal land was conveyed, the parcel 
        of Federal land shall revert to the United States, at the 
        discretion of the Secretary, if the Secretary determines that 
        reversion is in the best interest of the United States.
            (2) Responsibility of county.--If the Secretary determines 
        under paragraph (1) that a parcel of Federal land should revert 
        to the United States and that the parcel of Federal land is 
        contaminated with hazardous waste, the County shall be 
        responsible for remediation of the contamination of the parcel 
        of Federal land.

SEC. 404. MOAPA VALLEY WATER DISTRICT, NEVADA, CONVEYANCE TO SUPPORT 
              ACCESS TO RURAL WATER SUPPLY.

    (a) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) District.--The term ``District'' means the Moapa Valley 
        Water District.
            (2) Federal land.--The term ``Federal land'' means the 
        approximately 121 acres of Federal land, as generally depicted 
        on the Map.
            (3) Map.--The term ``Map'' means the map entitled ``Moapa 
        Valley Water District-Facilities and Land Conveyances'' and 
        dated November 13, 2019.
    (b) Authorization of Conveyance.--
            (1) In general.--Notwithstanding the land use planning 
        requirements of sections 202 and 203 of the Federal Land Policy 
        and Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1712, 1713) and subject 
        to paragraph (2), on request of the District, the Secretary 
        shall convey to the District, without consideration, all right, 
        title, and interest of the United States in and to the Federal 
        land for the construction, operation, and maintenance of 
        critical water conveyance infrastructure necessary to supply 
        water to the communities of Logandale, Overton, Glendale, and 
        Moapa, Nevada.
            (2) Limitation.--If any parcel of Federal land authorized 
        for conveyance under paragraph (1) is subject to transfer for 
        the benefit of the Tribe under section 101(a), the interest in 
        the parcel of Federal land to be conveyed to the District under 
        paragraph (1) shall be in the form of a right-of-way for 
        construction, maintenance, and operation of critical water 
        conveyance infrastructure.
    (c) Map and Legal Descriptions.--
            (1) In general.--As soon as practicable after the date of 
        enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall prepare final legal 
        descriptions of the Federal land to be conveyed under 
        subsection (b).
            (2) Corrections.--The Secretary may correct any minor 
        errors in the Map or legal descriptions prepared under 
        paragraph (1).
            (3) Availability.--The Map and legal descriptions prepared 
        under paragraph (1) shall be on file and available for public 
        inspection in the appropriate offices of the Bureau of Land 
        Management.
    (d) Reversion.--
            (1) In general.--If the Federal land conveyed under 
        subsection (b) ceases to be used for the public purpose for 
        which the Federal land was conveyed, as described in subsection 
        (b), the Federal land shall revert to the United States, at the 
        discretion of the Secretary, if the Secretary determines that 
        reversion is in the best interest of the United States.
            (2) Responsibility of district.--If the Secretary 
        determines under paragraph (1) that the Federal land should 
        revert to the United States and that the Federal land is 
        contaminated with hazardous waste, the District shall be 
        responsible for remediation of the contamination of the Federal 
        land.

SEC. 405. CITY OF NORTH LAS VEGAS, NEVADA, CONVEYANCE FOR FIRE TRAINING 
              FACILITY.

    (a) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) City.--The term ``City'' means the City of North Las 
        Vegas, Nevada.
            (2) Federal land.--The term ``Federal land'' means the 
        approximately 10 acres of Federal land, as generally depicted 
        on the Map.
            (3) Map.--The term ``Map'' means the map entitled ``North 
        Las Vegas Fire Department Training Facility'' and dated 
        November 13, 2019.
    (b) Authorization of Conveyance.--Notwithstanding the land use 
planning requirements of sections 202 and 203 of the Federal Land 
Policy and Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1712, 1713), on request of 
the City, the Secretary shall convey to the City, without 
consideration, all right, title, and interest of the United States in 
and to the Federal land for the construction, operation, and 
maintenance of a training facility necessary to support public safety 
and fire response, subject to the provisions of this section.
    (c) Payment of Costs.--As a condition of the conveyance under 
subsection (b), the City shall pay any costs relating to any surveys 
and other associated costs of conveying the Federal land.
    (d) Map and Legal Descriptions.--
            (1) In general.--As soon as practicable after the date of 
        enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall prepare final legal 
        descriptions of the Federal land to be conveyed under 
        subsection (b).
            (2) Corrections.--The Secretary may correct any minor 
        errors in the Map or legal descriptions prepared under 
        paragraph (1).
            (3) Availability.--The Map and legal descriptions prepared 
        under paragraph (1) shall be on file and available for public 
        inspection in the appropriate offices of the Bureau of Land 
        Management.
    (e) Reversion.--
            (1) In general.--If the Federal land conveyed under 
        subsection (b) ceases to be used for the public purpose for 
        which the Federal land was conveyed, the Federal land shall 
        revert to the United States, at the discretion of the 
        Secretary, if the Secretary determines that reversion is in the 
        best interest of the United States.
            (2) Responsibility of city.--If the Secretary determines 
        under paragraph (1) that the Federal land should revert to the 
        United States and that the Federal land is contaminated with 
        hazardous waste, the City shall be responsible for remediation 
        of the contamination on the Federal land.

      TITLE V--IMPLEMENTATION OF LOWER VIRGIN RIVER WATERSHED PLAN

SEC. 501. IMPLEMENTATION OF LOWER VIRGIN RIVER WATERSHED PLAN.

    Section 3(d)(3) of Public Law 99-548 (commonly known as the 
``Mesquite Lands Act of 1988'') (100 Stat. 3061; 110 Stat. 3009-202; 
116 Stat. 2018) is amended--
            (1) by striking subparagraphs (A) and (B) and inserting the 
        following:
                    ``(A) for the development and implementation of a 
                watershed plan for the Lower Virgin River; and''; and
            (2) by redesignating subparagraph (C) as subparagraph (B).

           TITLE VI--SOUTHERN NEVADA LIMITED TRANSITION AREA

SEC. 601. SOUTHERN NEVADA LIMITED TRANSITION AREA.

    (a) Definition of Transition Area.--Section 2602(a) of the Omnibus 
Public Land Management Act of 2009 (Public Law 111-11; 123 Stat. 1117) 
is amended by striking paragraph (4) and inserting the following:
            ``(4) Transition area.--The term `Transition Area' means 
        the approximately 742 acres of Federal land located in 
        Henderson, Nevada, identified as `Subject Area' on the map 
        entitled `Limited Transition Area (LTA) 2020 Amendment' and 
        dated October 12, 2020, excluding the east 100 feet of the 
        NW\1/4\ sec. 21, T. 23 S., R. 61 E., identified on the map as 
        `NV Energy Utility Corridor'.''.
    (b) Use of Land for Nonresidential Development; Retention of Land 
by City.--Section 2602(b) of the Omnibus Public Land Management Act of 
2009 (Public Law 111-11; 123 Stat. 1117) is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (2)--
                    (A) by striking subparagraphs (A) and (B) and 
                inserting the following:
                    ``(A) Authorized uses.--After the conveyance to the 
                City under paragraph (1), the City may sell, lease, or 
                otherwise convey any portion of the Transition Area for 
                purposes of--
                            ``(i) nonresidential development; or
                            ``(ii) limited residential development 
                        that--
                                    ``(I) augments and integrates any 
                                nonresidential development under clause 
                                (i); and
                                    ``(II) is not freestanding.
                    ``(B) Fair market value.--Any land sold, leased, or 
                otherwise conveyed under subparagraph (A) shall be for 
                not less than fair market value.''; and
                    (B) in subparagraph (C), by inserting ``and 
                applicable State law'' before the period at the end;
            (2) by striking paragraph (3) and inserting the following:
            ``(3) Use of land for recreation or other public purposes; 
        retention by city.--The City may elect to retain parcels in the 
        Transition Area--
                    ``(A) for public recreation or other public 
                purposes consistent with the Act of June 14, 1926 
                (commonly known as the `Recreation and Public Purposes 
                Act') (43 U.S.C. 869 et seq.) by providing to the 
                Secretary written notice of the election; or
                    ``(B) for any other use by the City, by providing 
                to the Secretary--
                            ``(i) written notice of the election; and
                            ``(ii) consideration in an amount equal to 
                        the fair market value of the land retained, 
                        which shall be subject to disposition in 
                        accordance with paragraph (2)(D).''; and
            (3) in paragraph (5)(A), by striking ``or reserved for 
        recreation or other public purposes under paragraph (3)'' and 
        inserting ``, reserved for recreation or other public purposes 
        under paragraph (3)(A), or retained by the City under paragraph 
        (3)(B)''.

                  TITLE VII--MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS

SEC. 701. OFF-HIGHWAY VEHICLE RECREATION AREAS.

    (a) Establishment.--Subject to valid existing rights, and to 
rights-of-way for the construction, maintenance, and operation of Moapa 
Valley Water District facilities, as depicted on the map entitled 
``Moapa Valley Water District-Facilities and Land Conveyances'', the 
following areas of Federal land administered by the Bureau of Land 
Management in the State are established as off-highway vehicle 
recreation areas:
            (1) Laughlin off-highway vehicle recreation area.--The 
        approximately 18,304 acres of Federal land, as generally 
        depicted on the map entitled ``Southern Nevada Land 
        Management'' and dated February 22, 2021, to be known as the 
        ``Laughlin Off-Highway Vehicle Recreation Area''.
            (2) Logandale trails off-highway vehicle recreation area.--
        The approximately 21,756 acres of Federal land, as generally 
        depicted on the map entitled ``Southern Nevada Land 
        Management'' and dated February 22, 2021, to be known as the 
        ``Logandale Trails Off-Highway Vehicle Recreation Area''.
            (3) Nelson hills off-highway vehicle recreation area.--The 
        approximately 42,756 acres of Federal land, as generally 
        depicted on the map entitled ``Southern Nevada Land 
        Management'' and dated February 22, 2021, to be known as the 
        ``Nelson Hills Off-Highway Recreation Area''.
            (4) Sandy valley off-highway vehicle recreation area.--The 
        approximately 39,040 acres of Federal land, as generally 
        depicted on the map entitled ``Southern Nevada Land 
        Management'' and dated February 22, 2021, to be known as the 
        ``Sandy Valley Off-Highway Vehicle Recreation Area''.
    (b) Purposes.--The purposes of each off-highway vehicle recreation 
area established by subsection (a) (referred to in this section as an 
``off-highway vehicle recreation area'') are to preserve, protect, and 
enhance for the benefit and enjoyment of present and future 
generations--
            (1) off-highway vehicle use;
            (2) other activities as the Secretary determines to be 
        appropriate; and
            (3) the scenic, watershed, habitat, cultural, historic, and 
        ecological resources of the off-highway vehicle recreation 
        areas.
    (c) Management Plans.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 2 years after the date of 
        enactment of this Act, in accordance with applicable law, the 
        Secretary shall develop a comprehensive plan for the long-term 
        management of each off-highway vehicle recreation area.
            (2) Consultation.--In developing the management plans under 
        paragraph (1), the Secretary shall consult with--
                    (A) appropriate State, Tribal, and local 
                governmental entities; and
                    (B) members of the public.
    (d) Management.--The Secretary shall manage the off-highway vehicle 
recreation areas--
            (1) to support the purposes described in subsection (b); 
        and
            (2) in accordance with--
                    (A) the Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 
                1976 (43 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.);
                    (B) this section; and
                    (C) any other applicable law (including 
                regulations).
    (e) Motorized Vehicles.--
            (1) In general.--Except as needed for administrative 
        purposes or to respond to an emergency, the use of motorized 
        vehicles in the off-highway vehicle recreation areas shall be 
        permitted only on roads and trails designated for the use of 
        motorized vehicles by the applicable management plan under 
        subsection (c).
            (2) Interim management.--During the period beginning on the 
        date of enactment of this Act and ending on the date on which 
        the management plan under subsection (c) for an off-highway 
        vehicle recreation area takes effect, the use of motorized 
        vehicles in the off-highway vehicle recreation areas shall be 
        permitted in accordance with the applicable land use plan.
            (3) Effect of subsection.--Nothing in this subsection 
        prevents the Secretary from closing an existing road or trail 
        to protect natural resources or public safety, as the Secretary 
        determines to be appropriate.
    (f) Transportation and Utility Corridors.--Nothing in this 
section--
            (1) affects the existence, use, operation, maintenance, 
        repair, construction, reconfiguration, expansion, inspection, 
        renewal, reconstruction, alteration, addition, relocation 
        improvement funding, removal, or replacement of any utility 
        facility or appurtenant right-of-way within an existing 
        designated transportation and utility corridor within an off-
        highway vehicle recreation area;
            (2) precludes the Secretary from authorizing the 
        establishment of a new utility facility right-of-way within an 
        existing designated transportation and utility corridor within 
        an off-highway vehicle recreation area--
                    (A) in accordance with--
                            (i) the National Environmental Policy Act 
                        of 1969 (42 U.S.C. 4321 et seq.); and
                            (ii) any other applicable law; and
                    (B) subject to such terms and conditions as the 
                Secretary determines to be appropriate; or
            (3) prohibits access to, or the repair or replacement of, a 
        transmission line within a right-of-way grant within an off-
        highway vehicle recreation area issued before the date of 
        enactment of this Act.
    (g) Withdrawal.--Subject to valid existing rights, all Federal land 
within the boundaries of an off-highway vehicle recreation area, 
together with any land designated as the ``Nellis Dunes Off-Highway 
Vehicle Recreation Area'' under section 3092(j)(3)(A) of Public Law 
113-291 (16 U.S.C. 460aaaa(3)(A)), is withdrawn from--
            (1) all forms of appropriation or disposal under the public 
        land laws;
            (2) location, entry, and patent under the mining laws; and
            (3) operation of the mineral leasing, mineral materials, 
        and geothermal leasing laws.
    (h) Maps and Legal Descriptions.--
            (1) In general.--As soon as practicable after the date of 
        enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall finalize the legal 
        description of each off-highway vehicle recreation area.
            (2) Errors.--The Secretary may correct any minor error in--
                    (A) a map referred to in subsection (a); or
                    (B) a legal description under paragraph (1).
            (3) Treatment.--The maps and legal descriptions referred to 
        in paragraph (2) shall--
                    (A) be on file and available for public inspection 
                in the appropriate offices of the Bureau of Land 
                Management; and
                    (B) have the same force and effect as if included 
                in this Act, subject to paragraph (2).

SEC. 702. WATER INFRASTRUCTURE CONVEYANCES FOR PUBLIC PURPOSES.

    (a) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Federal land.--The term ``Federal land'' means the 
        approximately 2,495 acres of Federal land, as generally 
        depicted on the Map.
            (2) Map.--The term ``Map'' means the map entitled ``Section 
        702 Water Infrastructure Conveyances for Public Purposes'' and 
        dated December 3, 2020.
    (b) Authorization of Conveyance.--Notwithstanding section 203 of 
the Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1713) and 
subject to valid existing rights, on receipt of a request from a public 
water agency that provides wholesale or retail water service in the 
County, the Secretary shall convey to the public water agency, without 
consideration, all right, title, and interest of the United States in 
and to the Federal land for the construction, operation, and 
maintenance of critical water conveyance infrastructure necessary to 
supply water to the communities serviced by the public water agency.
    (c) Map and Legal Description.--
            (1) In general.--As soon as practicable after the date of 
        enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall prepare a final 
        legal description of the Federal land to be conveyed under 
        subsection (b).
            (2) Corrections.--The Secretary may correct any minor 
        errors in the Map or the legal description prepared under 
        paragraph (1).
            (3) Availability.--The Map and the legal description 
        prepared under paragraph (1) shall be on file and available for 
        public inspection in the appropriate offices of the Bureau of 
        Land Management.
    (d) Reversion.--
            (1) In general.--If the Federal land conveyed under 
        subsection (b) ceases to be used for the public purpose for 
        which the Federal land was conveyed, as described in subsection 
        (b), the Federal land shall revert to the United States, at the 
        discretion of the Secretary, if the Secretary determines that 
        reversion is in the best interest of the United States.
            (2) Responsibility of public water agency.--If the 
        Secretary determines under paragraph (1) that the Federal land 
        should revert to the United States and that the Federal land is 
        contaminated with hazardous waste, the public water agency 
        shall be responsible for remediation of the contamination of 
        the Federal land.
    (e) Effect of Section.--Nothing in this section--
            (1) permits any public water agency to obtain title to 
        Federal land for the purpose of constructing the groundwater 
        development project referred to in the right-of-way numbered N-
        78803; or
            (2) affects the right, interest, or authority of the 
        National Park Service to manage the Lake Mead National 
        Recreation Area.

SEC. 703. LOWER LAS VEGAS WASH WEIRS.

    (a) In General.--Subject to valid existing rights and all 
applicable laws, the Secretary shall complete construction of the 6 
erosion control weirs on the lower Las Vegas Wash within the Lake Mead 
National Recreation Area that are unfinished as of the date of 
enactment of this Act, as identified in the study of the Federal 
Highway Administration entitled ``2010 Lower Las Vegas Wash Planning 
Study''.
    (b) Deadline.--The Secretary shall complete construction of the 
weirs described in subsection (a) by not later than 8 years after the 
date of enactment of this Act.

SEC. 704. CRITICAL FLOOD CONTROL FACILITIES.

    The Secretary shall amend the Las Vegas Resource Management Plan 
dated 1998 to allow for the design and construction of flood control 
facilities in the Coyote Springs Desert Tortoise Area of Critical 
Environmental Concern, as described in the most-recent update of the 
Las Vegas Valley Master Plan for Flood Control Facilities developed by 
the Regional Flood Control District, as generally depicted on the map 
attached to that update entitled ``Regional Flood Control District 
Master Plan Facilities in the Coyote Springs Area of Critical 
Environmental Concern''.

SEC. 705. MAXIMIZING EDUCATION BENEFITS.

    (a) Nevada System of Higher Education.--Section 3092(h)(2) of 
Public Law 113-291 (127 Stat. 3874) is amended--
            (1) in subparagraph (B)(i)(II), by striking ``purposes; 
        and'' and inserting the following: ``purposes, subject to the 
        condition that the Board of Regents may--
                                            ``(aa) enter into 1 or more 
                                        public-private partnerships or 
                                        agreements (including a lease 
                                        or conveyance), with respect to 
                                        the Federal land, with any 
                                        individual or entity for the 
                                        commercial or residential 
                                        development of all, or any 
                                        portion of, the Federal land, 
                                        to the extent that the 
                                        development is consistent with 
                                        the educational and research 
                                        purposes of the System 
                                        (including any use intended to 
                                        generate financial support for 
                                        those purposes); and
                                            ``(bb) impose restrictions 
                                        on the Federal land in 
                                        accordance with those purposes; 
                                        and''; and
            (2) in subparagraph (C), by striking ``The System'' and 
        inserting ``Subject to subparagraph (B)(i)(II), the System''.
    (b) Nevada State College at Henderson.--Section 704(b)(3) of the 
Clark County Conservation of Public Land and Natural Resources Act of 
2002 (Public Law 107-282; 116 Stat. 2015) is amended by striking 
subparagraph (A) and inserting the following:
                    ``(A) In general.--The College and the City may--
                            ``(i) use the land conveyed under paragraph 
                        (1) for any purpose relating to the 
                        establishment, operation, growth, or 
                        maintenance of the College, including any use 
                        that may generate financial support for such a 
                        purpose; and
                            ``(ii)(I) enter into 1 or more public-
                        private partnerships or agreements (including a 
                        lease or conveyance), with respect to the 
                        conveyed land, with any individual or entity 
                        for the commercial or residential development 
                        of all, or any portion of, the land; and
                            ``(II) impose such other restrictions on 
                        the conveyed land as the College and the City 
                        determine to be appropriate.''.

SEC. 706. JURISDICTION OVER FISH AND WILDLIFE.

    Nothing in this Act affects the jurisdiction of the State with 
respect to the management of fish or wildlife on any Federal land 
located in the State.
                                 &lt;all&gt;
</pre></body></html>
