<html><body><pre>
[Congressional Bills 111th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.R. 980 Introduced in House (IH)]

111th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                H. R. 980

  To designate certain National Forest System lands and public lands 
 under the jurisdiction of the Secretary of the Interior in the States 
of Idaho, Montana, Oregon, Washington, and Wyoming as wilderness, wild 
 and scenic rivers, wildland recovery areas, and biological connecting 
                   corridors, and for other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                           February 11, 2009

 Mrs. Maloney (for herself, Mr. Grijalva, Mr. Baca, Ms. Bordallo, Mrs. 
    Capps, Mr. Carnahan, Mr. Carson of Indiana, Mr. Chandler, Mrs. 
  Christensen, Mr. Costa, Mr. Gutierrez, Mr. Hinchey, Ms. Hirono, Mr. 
     Inslee, Mr. Kucinich, Mr. Langevin, Mrs. Lowey, Mr. Markey of 
Massachusetts, Ms. McCollum, Mr. George Miller of California, Mr. Moore 
  of Kansas, Mr. Nadler of New York, Mrs. Napolitano, Mr. Rahall, Mr. 
 Scott of Georgia, Mr. Serrano, Mr. Waxman, Mr. Berman, Ms. Schwartz, 
 Mr. Jones, Mr. Meeks of New York, Mr. Stark, Ms. Waters, Mr. Sherman, 
 Mr. Ackerman, Ms. Corrine Brown of Florida, Mr. Cleaver, Ms. DeLauro, 
  Ms. Lee of California, Mr. Cummings, and Mr. Lance) introduced the 
    following bill; which was referred to the Committee on Natural 
                               Resources

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
  To designate certain National Forest System lands and public lands 
 under the jurisdiction of the Secretary of the Interior in the States 
of Idaho, Montana, Oregon, Washington, and Wyoming as wilderness, wild 
 and scenic rivers, wildland recovery areas, and biological connecting 
                   corridors, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE; TABLE OF CONTENTS.

    (a) Short Title.--This Act may be cited as the ``Northern Rockies 
Ecosystem Protection Act''.
    (b) Table of Contents.--The table of contents of this Act is as 
follows:

Sec. 1. Short title; table of contents.
Sec. 2. Findings.
Sec. 3. Purposes.
Sec. 4. Definitions.
                TITLE I--DESIGNATION OF WILDERNESS AREAS

Sec. 101. Designation of certain National Forest System lands, National 
                            Park System lands, and Bureau of Land 
                            Management lands as wilderness.
Sec. 102. Greater Glacier/Northern Continental Divide ecosystem.
Sec. 103. Greater Yellowstone ecosystem.
Sec. 104. Greater Salmon/Selway ecosystem.
Sec. 105. Greater Cabinet/Yaak/Selkirk ecosystem.
Sec. 106. Greater Hells Canyon ecosystem.
Sec. 107. Islands in the Sky Wilderness.
Sec. 108. Blackfeet Wilderness.
Sec. 109. Administration.
Sec. 110. Water.
               TITLE II--BIOLOGICAL CONNECTING CORRIDORS

Sec. 201. Findings.
Sec. 202. Designation of biological connecting corridors.
Sec. 203. Treatment of biological connecting corridors.
Sec. 204. Applicability of title.
Sec. 205. Cooperative agreements and land trades and acquisitions.
Sec. 206. Exemption of certain roads and highways.
             TITLE III--WILD AND SCENIC RIVERS DESIGNATIONS

Sec. 301. Designation of wild and scenic rivers in Idaho, Montana, and 
                            Wyoming.
      TITLE IV--NATIONAL WILDLAND RESTORATION AND RECOVERY SYSTEM

Sec. 401. Findings.
Sec. 402. Definitions.
Sec. 403. National Wildland Restoration and Recovery System.
Sec. 404. Management of Recovery System.
Sec. 405. National Wildland Recovery Corps.
                 TITLE V--IMPLEMENTATION AND MONITORING

Sec. 501. Implementation report.
Sec. 502. Interagency team.
Sec. 503. Roadless lands evaluation.
Sec. 504. Native American uses.
                    TITLE VI--RULES OF CONSTRUCTION

Sec. 601. Water rights.
Sec. 602. Indian tribes.

SEC. 2. FINDINGS.

    The Congress makes the following findings:
            (1) Many areas of undeveloped National Forest System lands, 
        National Park System lands, and public lands administered by 
        the Bureau of Land Management in the States of Idaho, Montana, 
        Oregon, Washington, and Wyoming possess outstanding natural 
        characteristics which give them high values as wilderness, 
        parks, and wild and scenic rivers and will, if properly 
        preserved, be an enduring resource of wilderness, wild land 
        areas, and biodiversity for the benefit of the American people.
            (2) The Northern Rockies Bioregion contains the most 
        diverse array of wild lands remaining south of Canada, 
        providing sanctuary for a host of species listed as threatened 
        or endangered under section 4(c) of the Endangered Species Act 
        of 1973 (16 U.S.C. 1533(c)). These national interest public 
        lands are among the most popular wild lands in the United 
        States, embracing greater ecosystems and national treasures 
        such as the Greater Yellowstone, Greater Glacier/Northern 
        Continental Divide, Greater Hells Canyon/Wallowa, Greater 
        Salmon/Selway, and Greater Cabinet/Yaak/Selkirk ecosystems.
            (3) The natural ecosystems in the Northern Rockies 
        Bioregion are largely dependent on National Forest System 
        lands, National Park System lands, and public lands 
        administered by the Bureau of Land Management, and the 
        ecological productivity and diversity of resources these 
        Federal public lands provide. Conservation of roadless areas on 
        these public lands, which produces clean water, protects native 
        fisheries and native flora and fauna, and provides scenic and 
        recreational qualities, also preserves options for sustainable 
        economics through activities such as hunting, fishing, and 
        wilderness-based recreation.
            (4) The headwaters of several major river systems, 
        including the Columbia, Snake, Green, Missouri and Saskatchewan 
        Rivers, originate in the Northern Rockies Bioregion, and these 
        rivers send their waters to three different oceans. These 
        waters are of tremendous economic importance to farming and 
        ranching operations, municipal water supplies, and water-based 
        recreation, including fishing and boating. Protection of this 
        world class water resource will enhance these uses, reduce 
        costs for water treatment and irrigation, and increase native 
        fish populations.
            (5) The wildlife treasures of the Northern Rockies are of 
        international significance and contain remarkably intact large 
        mammalian fauna and rare and unique plant life. Wildlife 
        habitat fragmentation due to roadbuilding, timber harvest, 
        mining, oil and gas exploration, lack of interagency 
        cooperation, and other activities has severe effects on the 
        wildlife populations (including those listed as threatened or 
        endangered under section 4(c) of the Endangered Species Act of 
        1973 (16 U.S.C. 1533(c))) and their habitat, the water quality, 
        the ancient forests, and the greater ecosystems of the Northern 
        Rockies Bioregion. The overemphasis on resource extraction from 
        National Forest System lands and public lands administered by 
        the Bureau of Land Management has compromised ecosystem 
        integrity and detracted from economic diversification 
        opportunities. Economic instability and high unemployment in 
        rural, resource-dependent communities is a common result of 
        overexploitation of these lands.
            (6) Continued fragmentation and development of the 
        remaining roadless and essentially roadless ecosystems and 
        biological connectors of the Northern Rockies would cause a 
        loss to the Nation of an entire wild land region and of the 
        only remaining areas south of Canada still pristine enough to 
        support populations of caribou, gray wolves, grizzly bears, 
        anadromous fish, and numerous other rare and endangered plant 
        and animal life all in one intact bioregion.
            (7) Since the 1936 roadless area inventory completed by Bob 
        Marshall, millions of acres of roadless wild lands have been 
        developed in the Northern Rockies. Extensive fragmentation of 
        wild lands and wildlife habitat has resulted in the listing of 
        several species as threatened or endangered and reduced the 
        numbers and range of many others, including anadromous fish.
            (8) The natural ecosystems of the Northern Rockies 
        Bioregion also serve as educational and research centers for 
        on-site studies in biology, geology, astronomy and other 
        sciences. The pristine nature of the National Forest System 
        lands, National Park System lands, and public lands 
        administered by the Bureau of Land Management in the Northern 
        Rockies Bioregion helps local communities attract new residents 
        and businesses based on local quality of life.
            (9) A review of the current situation in the Northern 
        Rockies has revealed the urgent need for an ecological reserve 
        system for the Northern Rockies Bioregion, which includes core 
        ecosystem reserve areas and biological connecting corridors 
        necessary to ensure wildlife movements and genetic interchange 
        between the core reserve areas. Wildlife freedom of movement 
        has always been essential to the survival of wildlife species, 
        and an increasing number of scientific studies have identified 
        movement corridors as a necessity for wildlife conservation in 
        a changing climate. Several foreign governments, including the 
        governments of Australia and Scotland, have announced plans for 
        corridors that would make wildlife movement possible as climate 
        pressures increase. The concept of connective corridors for 
        wildlife movement has been endorsed by governors of States in 
        the western United States, and is now widely recognized by 
        conservation and scientific organizations. For example, freedom 
        of movement for wildlife is basic to the emerging new science 
        of ``Movement Ecology'' described in a December 2008 
        Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences. This freedom 
        of wildlife movement was a fundamental reason for the Act's 
        development and introduction, and has become an increasingly 
        high profile issue in the climate and biological sciences
            (10) The economic value to the Nation of most of these 
        undeveloped areas, left in their natural state, greatly exceeds 
        any potential return to the Treasury of the United States from 
        timber harvest and development. If current Federal land 
        management in the Northern Rockies continues to result in the 
        development of roadless areas, the American public will be 
        using its tax dollars to fund permanent reductions in 
        wilderness, water quality, fish and wildlife habitat, and 
        species and biological diversity.
            (11) Instead, this Act provides opportunities for 
        employment in outdoor trades by establishing rehabilitation 
        zones on specific tracts of damaged Federal land where active 
        restoration work will occur. This Act will provide contracts 
        for local businesses and renew the intrinsic economic, social 
        and cultural benefits that result from productive land. Federal 
        land rehabilitation projects represent a direct benefit to the 
        local economy and reduce the loss to American taxpayers caused 
        by below-cost timber sales and other subsidized resource 
        extraction.
            (12) The congressional review of roadless areas within the 
        National Forest System, National Park System, and public lands 
        administered by the Bureau of Land Management in the States of 
        Idaho, Montana, Oregon, Washington, and Wyoming has identified 
        areas which, on the basis of their land form, ecosystem, 
        associated fish and wildlife, economic value, and location will 
        help to fulfill the role of the United States Forest Service, 
        National Park Service, and Bureau of Land Management to ensure 
        a quality National Wilderness Preservation System. The review 
        has identified other areas which may have outstanding values as 
        wild and scenic rivers. The review has also identified areas 
        which may not possess outstanding wilderness attributes and 
        should not now be designated as components of the National 
        Wilderness Preservation System, but which should be studied to 
        determine their role in maintaining biological diversity in the 
        Northern Rockies.
            (13) Many areas of National Forest System lands and public 
        lands administered by the Bureau of Land Management have been 
        damaged and their productivity reduced by unwise development 
        practices, which have also impaired ecosystem function and 
        biological diversity. The Island Park area adjacent to 
        Yellowstone National Park contains large clear-cut areas right 
        up to the park boundary. Efforts should be made to return these 
        areas to their former ecological health and native diversity by 
        designating them as components of a new National Wildland 
        Restoration and Recovery System. These efforts should seek to 
        ensure that vital ecosystem components are restored, especially 
        in areas where wildlife travel corridors and native fish and 
        wildlife populations have been damaged or eliminated. 
        Restoration efforts should seek to ensure and maintain genetic 
        interchange, biological diversity, and restoration of native 
        species diversity throughout the Northern Rockies Bioregion.
            (14) Backcountry areas of the National Park System have 
        been damaged by inappropriate management, despite policies that 
        require that recommended wilderness be administered as 
        wilderness. An emphasis on structures and motorized equipment, 
        and in some instances developed ``backcountry'' campsites, have 
        all detracted from and degraded the wilderness character of 
        these backcountry areas.
            (15) Federal agencies entrusted with managing the natural 
        resources of the Northern Rockies Bioregion operate under 
        contradictory congressional mandates, and thus are in 
        dissension over management policies which involve common 
        resources and greater ecosystems. Existing agency structures 
        and regulatory mechanisms have proven unsatisfactory for 
        responsible management of nationally important ecosystems on 
        public lands. Existing laws and regulations have not been 
        sufficient to establish and maintain agency accountability for 
        public resources.
            (16) This Act does not affect private existing rights.

SEC. 3. PURPOSES.

    (a) In General.--The purposes of this Act are--
            (1) to designate certain National Forest System lands, 
        certain National Park System lands, and certain public lands 
        administered by the Bureau of Land Management in the States of 
        Idaho, Montana, Oregon, Washington, and Wyoming as components 
        of the National Wilderness Preservation System;
            (2) to designate certain National Forest System lands, 
        public lands administered by the Bureau of Land Management, and 
        watercourses on these lands in the States of Montana, Idaho, 
        and Wyoming as components of the National Wild and Scenic 
        Rivers System;
            (3) to establish a pilot system of National Wildland 
        Restoration and Recovery Areas and a Wildlands Recovery Corps 
        to help restore biological diversity and native species; and
            (4) to establish a system of biological connecting 
        corridors between the core ecosystems in the Northern Rockies 
        Bioregion.
    (b) Purpose of Designations.--The designations made by this Act are 
made in order to--
            (1) promote, perpetuate, and preserve the wilderness 
        character of the area so designated;
            (2) protect water quality, watersheds, and wildlife 
        habitat, including that of species listed as threatened or 
        endangered under section 4(c) of the Endangered Species Act of 
        1973 (16 U.S.C. 1533(c));
            (3) protect the ecological integrity and contiguity of 
        major wild land ecosystems and their interconnecting corridors 
        identified by the United States Fish and Wildlife Service, and 
        other sources;
            (4) protect and maintain biological and native species 
        diversity and dispersal throughout the Northern Rockies 
        Bioregion;
            (5) promote and ensure interagency cooperation in the 
        implementation of integrated, holistic ecosystem management and 
        protection of the ecosystems and corridors covered by this Act 
        based upon principles from conservation biology;
            (6) preserve scenic, historic, and cultural resources;
            (7) promote scientific research, primitive recreation, 
        solitude, physical and mental challenge, and inspiration for 
        the benefit of all of the American people;
            (8) avoid the misinvestment of scarce capital in lands of 
        marginal timber value; and
            (9) promote ecologically and economically sustainable 
        management in the Northern Rockies Bioregion.

SEC. 4. DEFINITIONS.

    For purposes of this Act:
            (1) Development.--The term ``development'' means activities 
        that eliminate the roadless and wilderness characteristics of 
        the land and includes ski resort facilities and such activities 
        as roadbuilding, timber harvest, mining, and oil and gas 
        drilling.
            (2) Greater ecosystem.--The term ``greater ecosystem'', 
        when used in conjunction with the specific ecosystems protected 
        under this Act, means the ecological land units of sufficient 
        scale to support and maintain populations of large vertebrate 
        species and the other native plant and animal species of the 
        units. These units are comprised of lands which are similar in 
        regards to topography, climate, and plant and animal species. 
        The ecosystems in the Northern Rockies are also defined in 
        terms of the habitat of wildlife indicator species listed as 
        threatened or endangered under section 4(c) of the Endangered 
        Species Act of 1973 (16 U.S.C. 1533(c)), including grizzly 
        bear, gray wolf, bald eagle, and caribou, and have been 
        depicted on maps published by Federal agencies.
            (3) Northern rockies bioregion.--The term ``Northern 
        Rockies Bioregion'' means the portion of the Northern Rocky 
        Mountains in the States of Montana, Idaho, Wyoming, Oregon, and 
        Washington, so referred to on maps referred to in this Act.

                   TITLE I--DESIGNATION OF WILDERNESS

SEC. 101. DESIGNATION OF CERTAIN NATIONAL FOREST SYSTEM LANDS, NATIONAL 
              PARK SYSTEM LANDS, AND BUREAU OF LAND MANAGEMENT LANDS AS 
              WILDERNESS.

    In furtherance of the purpose of the Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1131 
et seq.), certain National Forest System lands, National Park System 
lands, and public lands administered by the Bureau of Land Management, 
as described in this title, in the States of Idaho, Montana, Oregon, 
Washington, and Wyoming are designated as wilderness and, therefore, as 
components of the National Wilderness Preservation System.

SEC. 102. GREATER GLACIER/NORTHERN CONTINENTAL DIVIDE ECOSYSTEM.

    (a) Findings.--The Congress makes the following findings:
            (1) The core of the Greater Glacier/Northern Continental 
        Divide ecosystem region is Glacier National Park and the Bob 
        Marshall Wilderness, which was the first wilderness designated 
        in the United States.
            (2) This ecosystem includes unique lands, such as the Rocky 
        Mountain Front, where grizzlies still roam the prairies and 
        America's largest herd of bighorn sheep scales the craggy 
        peaks.
            (3) The Swan and Mission mountain ranges contain some of 
        Montana's largest old growth forests and pristine bull trout 
        and westslope cutthroat trout spawning runs.
            (4) The Rocky Mountain Gray Wolf is making a comeback in 
        this ecosystem, and the ecosystem is home to one of only two 
        relatively large grizzly populations in the lower 48 States.
    (b) Designation.--In order to protect the unique Greater Glacier/
Northern Continental Divide ecosystem, the areas described in this 
section, which together comprise approximately 2,034,000 acres, as 
generally depicted on maps with titles corresponding to each area and 
dated ____, are hereby designated as wilderness. The land designated as 
wilderness by this section shall be incorporated into the wilderness 
indicated or, in the case of wilderness designated by subsection (h), 
shall be known by the name given the wilderness in that subsection. 
Each map shall be on file and available for public inspection in the 
Office of the Chief of the Forest Service, the Office of the Director 
of the Bureau of Land Management, or the Office of the Director of the 
National Park Service.
    (c) Bob Marshall Wilderness Additions.--The following areas, 
consisting of a total of approximately 547,000 acres, are incorporated 
into the Bob Marshall Wilderness:
            (1) Choteau Mountain/Teton High Peaks/Deep Creek areas, 
        consisting of approximately 106,000 acres of land administered 
        by the Lewis and Clark National Forest or the Bureau of Land 
        Management.
            (2) Renshaw area, consisting of approximately 47,000 acres 
        administered by the Lewis and Clark National Forest or the 
        Bureau of Land Management.
            (3) Swan Front area, consisting of approximately 169,000 
        acres administered by the Flathead or Lolo National Forest.
            (4) Swan Crest area, consisting of approximately 89,000 
        acres administered by the Flathead National Forest.
            (5) Limestone Caves/Lost Jack areas, consisting of 
        approximately 36,000 acres administered by the Flathead 
        National Forest.
            (6) Monture Creek area, consisting of approximately 99,000 
        acres administered by the Lolo National Forest.
    (d) Great Bear Wilderness Additions.--The following areas, 
consisting of a total of approximately 61,000 acres, are incorporated 
into the Great Bear Wilderness:
            (1) Middle Fork area, consisting of approximately 40,000 
        acres administered by the Flathead National Forest.
            (2) South Fork area, consisting of approximately 21,000 
        acres administered by the Flathead National Forest.
    (e) Scapegoat Wilderness Additions.--The following areas, 
consisting of a total of approximately 125,000 acres, are incorporated 
into the Scapegoat Wilderness:
            (1) Stonewall Mountain area, consisting of approximately 
        55,000 acres administered by the Helena National Forest.
            (2) Silver King/Falls Creek areas, consisting of 
        approximately 42,000 acres administered by the Lewis and Clark 
        or Helena National Forest.
            (3) Benchmark/Elk Creek areas, consisting of approximately 
        28,000 acres administered by the Lewis and Clark National 
        Forest.
    (f) Mission Mountains Wilderness Additions.--The following areas, 
consisting of a total of approximately 16,000 acres, are incorporated 
into the Mission Mountains Wilderness:
            (1) Mission additions, consisting of approximately 7,000 
        acres administered by the Flathead National Forest.
            (2) Marshall Peak area, consisting of approximately 9,000 
        acres administered by the Lolo National Forest.
    (g) Rattlesnake Wilderness Additions.--The Rattlesnake additions 
consisting of approximately 4,000 acres administered by the Lolo 
National Forest are incorporated into the Rattlesnake Wilderness.
    (h) New National Wilderness Preservation System Components.--The 
following areas are designated as new components of the National 
Wilderness Preservation System:
            (1) Glacier Wilderness, consisting of approximately 925,000 
        acres administered by Glacier National Park.
            (2) Sawtooth Ridge Wilderness, consisting of approximately 
        14,521 acres administered by the Lewis and Clark National 
        Forest.
            (3) Mt. Hefty/Tuchuck/Thompson-Seton Wilderness, consisting 
        of approximately 105,000 acres administered by the Flathead or 
        Kootenai National Forest.
            (4) Le Beau Wilderness, consisting of approximately 6,000 
        acres administered by the Flathead or Kootenai National Forest.
            (5) Ten Lakes Wilderness, consisting of approximately 
        48,000 acres administered by the Kootenai National Forest.
            (6) Deadhorse Ridge Wilderness, consisting of approximately 
        24,000 acres administered by the Flathead National Forest.
            (7) Standard Peak Wilderness, consisting of approximately 
        7,770 acres administered by the Flathead National Forest.
            (8) Coal Ridge Wilderness, consisting of approximately 
        16,000 acres administered by the Flathead National Forest.
            (9) Benchmark Wilderness, consisting of approximately 6,000 
        acres administered by the Flathead National Forest.
            (10) Lincoln Gulch Wilderness, consisting of approximately 
        9,000 acres administered by the Helena National Forest.
            (11) Anaconda Hill Wilderness, consisting of approximately 
        20,000 acres administered by the Helena National Forest.
            (12) Specimen Creek Wilderness, consisting of approximately 
        13,000 acres administered by the Helena National Forest.
            (13) Crater Mountain Wilderness, consisting of 
        approximately 10,000 acres administered by the Helena National 
        Forest.
            (14) Ogden Mountain Wilderness, consisting of approximately 
        12,000 acres administered by the Helena National Forest.
            (15) Nevada Mountain Wilderness, consisting of 
        approximately 54,000 acres administered by the Helena National 
        Forest.

SEC. 103. GREATER YELLOWSTONE ECOSYSTEM.

    (a) Findings.--The Congress makes the following findings:
            (1) The core of the greater Yellowstone region is 
        Yellowstone National Park, the Nation's first national park.
            (2) This world-famous region of geyser basins, towering 
        mountains, abundant wildlife, and vast forests contains the 
        headwaters for many of the Nation's most famous blue-ribbon 
        trout streams.
            (3) Small glaciers and permanent snowfields cloak the 
        rugged Teton and Beartooth mountains, which contain several 
        peaks greater than 12,000 feet.
            (4) Diverse habitat in the region ranges from cactus desert 
        lowlands to arctic tundra.
            (5) Wildlife in the region includes the threatened grizzly 
        bear, the Nation's last wild bison herd, trumpeter swans, and 
        nearly 35,000 elk.
    (b) Designation.--In order to protect the unique ecosystem of the 
greater Yellowstone region, the areas described in this section, which 
comprise approximately 6,514,000 acres, as generally depicted on maps 
with titles corresponding to each area and dated _____, are hereby 
designated as wilderness. The land designated as wilderness by this 
section shall be incorporated into the wilderness indicated or, in the 
case of wilderness designated by subsections (n) and (o), shall be 
known by the name given the wilderness in that subsection. Each map 
shall be on file and available for public inspection in the Office of 
the Chief of the Forest Service, the Office of the Director of the 
Bureau of Land Management, or the Office of the Director of the Park 
Service.
    (c) Absaroka-Beartooth Wilderness Additions.--The Absaroka-
Beartooth additions consisting of approximately 265,000 acres 
administered by the Gallatin, Custer, or Shoshone National Forest are 
incorporated into the Absaroka-Beartooth Wilderness.
    (d) North Absaroka Wilderness Additions.--The North Absaroka 
additions consisting of approximately 173,000 acres administered by the 
Shoshone or Gallatin National Forest are incorporated into the North 
Absaroka Wilderness.
    (e) Washakie Wilderness Additions.--The Washakie additions 
consisting of approximately 339,000 acres administered by the Shoshone 
National Forest or the Bureau of Land Management are incorporated into 
the Washakie Wilderness.
    (f) Fitzpatrick Wilderness Additions.--The following areas, 
consisting of a total of approximately 29,000 acres, are incorporated 
into the Fitzpatrick Wilderness:
            (1) Fitzpatrick additions consisting of approximately 
        14,000 acres administered by the Shoshone National Forest or 
        the Bureau of Land Management.
            (2) Bench Mark/Warm Springs area consisting of 
        approximately 15,000 acres administered by the Shoshone 
        National Forest.
    (g) Teton Wilderness Additions.--The Teton Corridor Trailheads 
additions consisting of approximately 24,000 acres administered by the 
Bridger-Teton National Forest are incorporated into the Teton 
Wilderness.
    (h) Gros Ventre Wilderness Additions.--The following areas, 
consisting of a total of approximately 106,000 acres, are incorporated 
into the Gros Ventre Wilderness:
            (1) Shoal Creek area, consisting of approximately 24,000 
        acres administered by the Bridger-Teton National Forest.
            (2) Gros Ventre additions, consisting of approximately 
        82,000 acres administered by the Bridger-Teton National Forest.
    (i) Bridger Wilderness Additions.--The Bridger additions consisting 
of approximately 230,000 acres administered by the Bridger-Teton 
National Forest or the Bureau of Land Management (Scab Creek) are 
incorporated into the Bridger Wilderness.
    (j) Popo Agie Wilderness Additions.--The Popo Agie additions 
consisting of approximately 60,000 acres administered by the Shoshone 
National Forest or the Bureau of Land Management are incorporated into 
the Popo Agie Wilderness.
    (k) Winegar Hole Wilderness Additions.--The Winegar Hole additions 
consisting of approximately 5,000 acres administered by the Caribou-
Targhee National Forest are incorporated into the Winegar Hole 
Wilderness.
    (l) Jedediah Smith Wilderness Additions.--The Jedediah Smith 
additions consisting of approximately 51,000 acres administered by the 
Bridger-Teton or Caribou-Targhee National Forest are incorporated into 
the Jedediah Smith Wilderness.
    (m) Lee Metcalf Wilderness Additions.--The following areas, 
consisting of a total of approximately 183,000 acres, are incorporated 
into the Lee Metcalf Wilderness:
            (1) Cowboys Heaven area, consisting of approximately 40,000 
        acres administered by the Gallatin or Beaverhead-Deerlodge 
        National Forests.
            (2) Lee Metcalf additions, consisting of approximately 
        143,000 acres administered by the Gallatin or Beaverhead-
        Deerlodge National Forests.
    (n) New National Wilderness Preservation System Components of the 
Gravelly Mountains Wildlands Complex.--The following areas within the 
Gravelly Wildlands Complex are designated as new components of the 
National Wilderness Preservation System:
            (1) Snowcrest Wilderness, consisting of approximately 
        105,000 acres administered by the Beaverhead-Deerlodge National 
        Forest or the Bureau of Land Management.
            (2) Antelope Basin Wilderness, consisting of approximately 
        70,000 acres administered by the Beaverhead-Deerlodge National 
        Forest.
            (3) Lone ButteWilderness, consisting of approximately 
        14,000 acres administered by the Beaverhead-Deerlodge National 
        Forest.
            (4) Black Butte, consisting of approximately 39,000 acres 
        administered by the Beaverhead-Deerlodge National Forest.
            (5) Big Horn Mountain Wilderness, consisting of 
        approximately 53,000 acres administered by the Beaverhead-
        Deerlodge National Forest.
            (6) Vigilante Wilderness, consisting of approximately 
        16,000 acres administered by the Beaverhead-Deerlodge National 
        Forest.
            (7) Cherry Lakes Wilderness, consisting of approximately 
        13,000 acres administered by the Beaverhead-Deerlodge National 
        Forest.
            (8) Sheep Mountain/Axolotl Wilderness, consisting of 
        approximately 35,000 acres administered by the Beaverhead-
        Deerlodge National Forest or the Bureau of Land Management.
            (9) Crockett Lake Wilderness, consisting of approximately 
        7,000 acres administered by the Beaverhead-Deerlodge National 
        Forest.
    (o) Other New National Wilderness Preservation System Components.--
The following areas are designated as new components of the National 
Wilderness Preservation System:
            (1) Yellowstone Wilderness, consisting of approximately 
        2,033,000 acres administered by Yellowstone National Park.
            (2) Grand Teton Wilderness, consisting of approximately 
        123,000 acres administered by Grand Teton National Park.
            (3) Gallatin Range Wilderness, consisting of approximately 
        221,000 acres administered by the Gallatin National Forest.
            (4) Chico Peak Wilderness, consisting of approximately 
        12,000 acres administered by the Gallatin National Forest.
            (5) Madison Wilderness, consisting of approximately 15,000 
        acres administered by the Gallatin National Forest.
            (6) Lionhead Wilderness, consisting of approximately 48,000 
        acres administered by the Gallatin or Caribou-Targhee National 
        Forests.
            (7) Line Creek Plateau/Deep Lake Wilderness, consisting of 
        approximately 90,000 acres administered by the Custer or 
        Shoshone National Forests.
            (8) Monument Ridge Wilderness, consisting of approximately 
        18,000 acres administered by the Bridger-Teton National Forest.
            (9) Munger Mountain Wilderness, consisting of approximately 
        13,000 acres administered by the Bridger-Teton National Forest.
            (10) Little Sheep Mountain Wilderness, consisting of 
        approximately 15,000 acres administered by the Bridger-Teton 
        National Forest.
            (11) Palisades Wilderness, consisting of approximately 
        224,000 acres administered by the Bridger-Teton or Caribou-
        Targhee National Forest.
            (12) Mt. Leidy Highlands Wilderness, consisting of 
        approximately 185,000 acres administered by the Bridger-Teton 
        National Forest.
            (13) Salt River Range Wilderness, consisting of 
        approximately 239,000 acres administered by the Bridger-Teton 
        National Forest.
            (14) Grayback Ridge Wilderness, consisting of approximately 
        283,000 acres administered by the Bridger-Teton National 
        Forest.
            (15) Commissary Ridge Wilderness, consisting of 
        approximately 178,000 acres administered by the Bridger-Teton 
        National Forest.
            (16) South Wyoming Range Wilderness, consisting of 
        approximately 86,000 acres administered by the Bridger-Teton 
        National Forest.
            (17) Gannett Hills/Spring Creek/Raymond Mountain 
        Wilderness, consisting of approximately 135,000 acres 
        administered by the Bridger-Teton or Caribout-Targhee National 
        Forest or the Bureau of Land Management.
            (18) Little Cottonwood Wilderness, consisting of 
        approximately 5,000 acres administered by the Bridger-Teton 
        National Forest.
            (19) North Mountain Wilderness, consisting of approximately 
        1,000 acres administered by the Bridger-Teton National Forest.
            (20) Grayback Ridge East Wilderness, consisting of 
        approximately 18,000 acres administered by the Bridger-Teton 
        National Forest.
            (21) Lake Mountain Wilderness, consisting of approximately 
        17,000 acres administered by the Bridger-Teton National Forest 
        or the Bureau of Land Management.
            (22) Garns Mountain Wilderness, consisting of approximately 
        104,000 acres administered by the Caribou-Targhee National 
        Forest.
            (23) Bald Mountain Wilderness, consisting of approximately 
        17,000 acres administered by the Caribou-Targhee National 
        Forest.
            (24) Bear Creek Wilderness, consisting of approximately 
        98,000 acres administered by the Caribou-Targhee National 
        Forest.
            (25) Stump Creek Wilderness, consisting of approximately 
        97,000 acres administered by the Caribou-Targhee National 
        Forest.
            (26) Caribou-Targhee Wilderness, consisting of 
        approximately 94,000 acres administered by the Caribou-Targhee 
        National Forest.
            (27) Poker Peak Wilderness, consisting of approximately 
        20,000 acres administered by the Caribou-Targhee National 
        Forest.
            (28) Pole Creek Wilderness, consisting of approximately 
        7,000 acres administered by the Caribou-Targhee National 
        Forest.
            (29) Schmid Peak Wilderness, consisting of approximately 
        20,000 acres administered by the Caribou-Targhee National 
        Forest.
            (30) Sage Creek Wilderness, consisting of approximately 
        13,000 acres administered by the Caribou-Targhee National 
        Forest.
            (31) Red Mountain Wilderness, consisting of approximately 
        14,000 acres administered by the Caribou-Targhee National 
        Forest.
            (32) Huckleberry Basin Wilderness, consisting of 
        approximately 20,000 acres administered by the Caribou-Targhee 
        National Forest.
            (33) Dry Ridge Wilderness, consisting of approximately 
        23,000 acres, administered by the Caribou-Targhee National 
        Forest.
            (34) Meade Peak Wilderness, consisting of approximately 
        45,000 acres administered by the Caribou-Targhee National 
        Forest.
            (35) Hell Hole Wilderness, consisting of approximately 
        5,132 acres administered by the Caribou-Targhee National 
        Forest.
            (36) Tobacco Root Mountains Wilderness, consisting of 
        approximately 97,000 acres administered by the Beaverhead-
        Deerlodge National Forest or the Bureau of Land Management.
            (37) Potosi Wilderness, consisting of approximately 5,000 
        acres administered by the Beaverhead-Deerlodge National Forest.
            (38) Madison Plateau Wilderness, consisting of 
        approximately 5,000 acres administered by the Gallatin National 
        Forest.
            (39) Pass Creek Wilderness, consisting of approximately 
        9,000 acres administered by the Shoshone National Forest.
            (40) Bayer Mountain Wilderness, consisting of approximately 
        9,000 acres administered by the Shoshone National Forest.
            (41) Little Popo Agie Canyon Wilderness, consisting of 
        approximately 9,000 acres administered by the Shoshone National 
        Forest or the Bureau of Land Management.
            (42) Clark Fork Wilderness, consisting of approximately 
        42,000 acres administered by the Shoshone National Forest.

SEC. 104. GREATER SALMON/SELWAY ECOSYSTEM.

    (a) Findings.--The Congress makes the following findings:
            (1) The Greater Salmon/Selway region is one of the most 
        rugged and wild areas in America, and one of the largest intact 
        forest ecosystems in the temperate zones of the Earth.
            (2) The core of the region is comprised of the Frank 
        Church-River of No Return and Selway-Bitterroot Wilderness 
        areas.
            (3) Swimming the Salmon and Clearwater river systems, 
        several species of salmon and sea-going trout still make the 
        900 mile spawning journey from the Pacific Ocean to small 
        tributaries in the high mountain country.
            (4) Biological and landscape diversity in the region is 
        great, ranging from rocky, dry canyon country to wet forests of 
        ancient cedars many feet in diameter in the Mallard-Larkins and 
        other areas.
            (5) A wide array of forest dwelling species reside in the 
        region, and the gray wolf is making a comeback.
    (b) Designation.--In order to protect the unique ecosystem of the 
Greater Salmon/Selway region, the areas described in this section, 
which comprise approximately 6,253,000 acres, as generally depicted on 
the maps with titles corresponding to each area and dated ______, are 
hereby designated as wilderness. The land designated as wilderness by 
this section shall be incorporated into the wilderness indicated or, in 
the case of wilderness designated by subsections (g), (h), and (i), 
shall be known by the name given the wilderness in that subsection. 
Each map shall be on file and available for public inspection in the 
Office of the Chief of the Forest Service and the Office of the 
Director of the Bureau of Land Management.
    (c) Frank Church-River of No Return Wilderness Additions.--The 
following areas, consisting of a total of approximately 754,000 acres, 
are incorporated into the Frank Church-River of No Return Wilderness:
            (1) Bluejoint area, consisting of approximately 70,000 
        acres administered by the Bitterroot or Salmon-Challis National 
        Forest.
            (2) Camas Creek area, consisting of approximately 109,000 
        acres administered by the Salmon-Challis National Forest.
            (3) Blue Bunch area, consisting of approximately 11,653 
        acres administered by the Salmon Challis or Boise National 
        Forest.
            (4) Loon Creek area, consisting of approximately 103,898 
        acres administered by the Challis or Sawtooth National Forest.
            (5) Carey Creek area, consisting of approximately 10,000 
        acres administered by the Payette National Forest or the Bureau 
        of Land Management.
            (6) Pinnacle Peak (Sugar Mountain) area, consisting of 
        approximately 10,000 acres administered by the Payette National 
        Forest.
            (7) Placer Creek area, consisting of approximately 7,000 
        acres administered by the Payette National Forest.
            (8) Smith Creek area, consisting of approximately 2,000 
        acres administered by the Payette National Forest.
            (9) Cottontail Point-Pilot Creek area, consisting of 
        approximately 93,000 acres administered by the Payette National 
        Forest.
            (10) Bernard area, consisting of approximately 21,000 acres 
        administered by the Boise National Forest.
            (11) Burnt Log area, consisting of approximately 24,000 
        acres administered by the Boise National Forest.
            (12) Whiskey area, consisting of approximately 5,000 acres 
        administered by the Boise National Forest.
            (13) Nameless Creek area, consisting of approximately 2,000 
        acres administered by the Boise National Forest.
            (14) Tennessee area, consisting of approximately 1,000 
        acres administered by the Boise National Forest.
            (15) Poker Meadows area, consisting of approximately 1,000 
        acres administered by the Boise National Forest.
            (16) Black Lake area, consisting of approximately 5,000 
        acres administered by the Boise National Forest.
            (17) Panther Creek area, consisting of approximately 33,000 
        acres administered by the Salmon-Challis National Forest.
            (18) McEleny area, consisting of approximately 3,000 acres 
        administered by the Salmon-Challis National Forest.
            (19) Little Horse area, consisting of approximately 7,000 
        acres administered by the Salmon-Challis National Forest.
            (20) Oreana area, consisting of approximately 8,000 acres 
        administered by the Salmon-Challis National Forest.
            (21) Duck Peak area, consisting of approximately 48,000 
        acres administered by the Salmon-Challis National Forest.
            (22) Long Tom area, consisting of approximately 20,000 
        acres administered by the Salmon-Challis National Forest.
            (23) Challis Creek area, consisting of approximately 44,000 
        acres administered by the Salmon-Challis National Forest.
            (24) Seafoam area, consisting of approximately 31,000 acres 
        administered by the Salmon-Challis National Forest.
            (25) Jersey-Jack area, consisting of approximately 64,000 
        acres administered by the Nez Perce National Forest.
            (26) Mallard area, consisting of approximately 20,000 acres 
        administered by the Nez Perce National Forest.
            (27) Marshall Mountain area, consisting of approximately 
        4,000 acres administered by the Coeur d'Alene District of the 
        Bureau of Land Management.
    (d) Gospel Hump Wilderness Additions.--The Gospel Hump additions 
consisting of approximately 55,000 acres administered by the Nez Perce 
National Forest are incorporated into the Gospel Hump Wilderness.
    (e) Selway-Bitterroot Wilderness Additions.--The following areas, 
consisting of a total of approximately 582,000 acres, are incorporated 
into the Selway-Bitterroot Wilderness:
            (1) Bitterroot additions, consisting of approximately 
        123,000 acres administered by the Bitterroot or Nez Perce 
        National Forest.
            (2) Lochsa Face area, consisting of approximately 76,000 
        acres administered by the Clearwater National Forest.
            (3) Elk Summit/Sneakfoot/North Fork Spruce area, consisting 
        of approximately 54,000 acres administered by the Clearwater 
        National Forest.
            (4) (East and West) Meadow Creek area, consisting of 
        approximately 215,000 acres administered by the Nez Perce 
        National Forest or the Bureau of Land Management.
            (5) Lolo Creek area, consisting of approximately 18,000 
        acres administered by the Lolo, Clearwater, or Bitterroot 
        National Forest.
            (6) Rackliff-Gedney area, consisting of approximately 
        90,000 acres administered by the Clearwater or Nez Perce 
        National Forest.
    (f) Sawtooth Wilderness Additions.--The Hansen Lakes, Huckleberry, 
Pettit, Smoky Mountains, Ten Mile, Black Warrior, South Boise, and Yuba 
additions consisting of approximately 540,000 acres administered by the 
Boise, Sawtooth, or Salmon-Challis National Forest are incorporated 
into the Sawtooth Wilderness.
    (g) New National Wilderness Preservation System Components of the 
Great Burn Wildlands Complex.--The following areas within the Great 
Burn Wildlands Complex are designated as new components of the National 
Wilderness Preservation System:
            (1) Great Burn (Hoodoo) area, consisting of approximately 
        255,000 acres administered by the Clearwater or Lolo National 
        Forest.
            (2) Meadow Creek/Upper North Fork/Rawhide area, consisting 
        of approximately 62,000 acres administered by the Idaho 
        Panhandle, Lolo, or Clearwater National Forest.
            (3) Sheep Mountain/State Line area, consisting of 
        approximately 68,000 acres administered by the Idaho Panhandle 
        or Lolo National Forest.
            (4) Mallard-Larkins area, consisting of approximately 
        260,000 acres administered by the Clearwater or Idaho Panhandle 
        National Forest.
            (5) Bighorn-Weitas area, consisting of approximately 
        260,000 acres administered by the Clearwater National Forest.
            (6) Eldorado area, consisting of approximately 7,000 acres 
        administered by the Clearwater National Forest.
            (7) Moose Mountain area, consisting of approximately 22,000 
        acres administered by the Clearwater National Forest.
            (8) North Lochsa Slope area, consisting of approximately 
        118,000 acres administered by the Clearwater National Forest.
            (9) Pot Mountain area, consisting of approximately 51,000 
        acres administered by the Clearwater National Forest.
            (10) Siwash area, consisting of approximately 9,000 acres 
        administered by the Clearwater National Forest.
            (11) Weir-Post Office area, consisting of approximately 
        22,000 acres administered by the Clearwater National Forest.
            (12) Mosquito Fly area, consisting of approximately 19,000 
        acres administered by the Idaho Panhandle National Forest.
            (13) Midget Peak area, consisting of approximately 7,000 
        acres administered by the Idaho Panhandle National Forest.
            (14) Stark Mountain area, consisting of approximately 
        13,000 acres administered by the Lolo National Forest.
    (h) New National Wilderness Preservation System Components of the 
Little Slate Creek Wildlands Complex.--The following areas within the 
Little Slate Creek Wildlands Complex are designated as new components 
of the National Wilderness Preservation System:
            (1) Little Slate Creek area, consisting of approximately 
        12,000 acres administered by the Nez Perce National Forest.
            (2) Little Slate Creek North area, consisting of 
        approximately 6,000 acres administered by the Nez Perce 
        National Forest.
    (i) Other New National Wilderness Preservation System Components.--
The following areas are designated as new components of the National 
Wilderness Preservation System:
            (1) French Creek/Patrick Butte area, consisting of 
        approximately 177,863 acres administered by the Payette 
        National Forest.
            (2) Crystal Mountain area, consisting of approximately 
        13,000 acres administered by the Payette National Forest.
            (3) Secesh area, consisting of approximately 260,000 acres 
        administered by the Payette National Forest.
            (4) Needles area, consisting of approximately 172,000 acres 
        administered by the Payette or Boise National Forest.
            (5) Caton Lake area, consisting of approximately 85,000 
        acres administered by the Payette or Boise National Forest.
            (6) Poison Creek area, consisting of approximately 5,232 
        acres administered by the the Payette or Boise National Forest.
            (7) Meadow Creek area, consisting of approximately 30,000 
        acres administered by the Payette or Boise National Forest.
            (8) Mount Heinen area, consisting of approximately 13,000 
        acres administered by the Boise National Forest.
            (9) Reeves Creek area, consisting of approximately 11,000 
        acres administered by the Boise National Forest.
            (10) Peace Rock area, consisting of approximately 192,000 
        acres administered by the Boise National Forest.
            (11) Deadwood area, consisting of approximately 52,000 
        acres administered by the Boise National Forest.
            (12) Whitehawk Mountain area, consisting of approximately 
        9,000 acres administered by the Boise National Forest.
            (13) Stony Meadows area, consisting of approximately 13,000 
        acres administered by the Boise National Forest.
            (14) Bear Wallow area, consisting of approximately 8,000 
        acres administered by the Boise National Forest.
            (15) Grimes Pass area, consisting of approximately 13,000 
        acres administered by the Boise National Forest.
            (16) Bald Mountain area, consisting of approximately 6,000 
        acres administered by the Boise National Forest.
            (17) Hawley Mountain area, consisting of approximately 
        8,000 acres administered by the Boise National Forest.
            (18) Red Mountain area, consisting of approximately 110,000 
        acres administered by the Boise National Forest.
            (19) Breadwinner area, consisting of approximately 20,000 
        acres administered by the Boise National Forest.
            (20) Elk Creek area, consisting of approximately 15,000 
        acres administered by the Boise National Forest.
            (21) Steel Mountain area, consisting of approximately 
        23,000 acres administered by the Boise National Forest.
            (22) Rainbow area, consisting of approximately 31,000 acres 
        administered by the Boise National Forest.
            (23) Grand Mountain area, consisting of approximately 
        14,000 acres administered by the Boise National Forest.
            (24) Sheep Creek area, consisting of approximately 70,000 
        acres administered by the Boise National Forest.
            (25) Snowbank area, consisting of approximately 34,000 
        acres administered by the Boise National Forest.
            (26) House Mountain area, consisting of approximately 
        26,000 acres administered by the Boise National Forest.
            (27) Danskin/South Fork Boise area, consisting of 
        approximately 30,000 acres administered by the Boise National 
        Forest.
            (28) Cow Creek area, consisting of approximately 15,000 
        acres administered by the Boise National Forest.
            (29) Wilson Peak area, consisting of approximately 8,000 
        acres administered by the Boise National Forest.
            (30) Lost Man Creek area, consisting of approximately 
        13,000 acres administered by the Boise National Forest.
            (31) Whiskey Jack area, consisting of approximately 7,000 
        acres administered by the Boise National Forest.
            (32) Cathedral Rocks area, consisting of approximately 
        8,000 acres administered by the Boise National Forest.
            (33) Lime Creek area, consisting of approximately 97,000 
        acres administered by the Boise or Sawtooth National Forest.
            (34) O'Hara Falls Creek area, consisting of approximately 
        33,000 acres administered by the Nez Perce National Forest.
            (35) Lick Point area, consisting of approximately 7,000 
        acres administered by the Nez Perce National Forest.
            (36) Clear Creek area, consisting of approximately 11,000 
        acres administered by the Nez Perce National Forest.
            (37) Silver Creek-Pilot Knob area, consisting of 
        approximately 21,000 acres administered by the Nez Perce 
        National Forest.
            (38) Dixie Summit-Nut Hill area, consisting of 
        approximately 6,000 acres administered by the Nez Perce 
        National Forest.
            (39) North Fork Slate Creek area, consisting of 
        approximately 11,000 acres administered by the Nez Perce 
        National Forest.
            (40) John Day area, consisting of approximately 10,000 
        acres administered by the Nez Perce National Forest.
            (41) Perreau Creek area, consisting of approximately 8,000 
        acres administered by the Salmon-Challis National Forest.
            (42) Napias area, consisting of approximately 9,000 acres 
        administered by the Salmon-Challis National Forest.
            (43) Napolean Ridge area, consisting of approximately 
        51,000 acres administered by the Salmon-Challis National 
        Forest.
            (44) Jesse Creek area, consisting of approximately 14,000 
        acres administered by the Salmon-Challis National Forest.
            (45) Haystack Mountain area, consisting of approximately 
        12,000 acres administered by the Salmon-Challis National 
        Forest.
            (46) Phelan area, consisting of approximately 13,000 acres 
        administered by the Salmon-Challis National Forest.
            (47) Sheepeater area, consisting of approximately 35,000 
        acres administered by the Salmon-Challis National Forest.
            (48) South Fork Deep Creek area, consisting of 
        approximately 13,000 acres administered by the Salmon-Challis 
        National Forest.
            (49) Deep Creek area, consisting of approximately 7,000 
        acres administered by the Salmon-Challis National Forest.
            (50) Jureano area, consisting of approximately 25,000 acres 
        administered by the Salmon-Challis National Forest.
            (51) South Panther area, consisting of approximately 6,000 
        acres administered by the Salmon-Challis National Forest.
            (52) Musgrove area, consisting of approximately 8,000 acres 
        administered by the Salmon-Challis National Forest.
            (53) Taylor Mountain area, consisting of approximately 
        60,000 acres administered by the Salmon-Challis National 
        Forest.
            (54) Martin Creek area, consisting of approximately 99,000 
        acres administered by the Salmon-Challis National Forest.
            (55) White Knob area, consisting of approximately 65,000 
        acres administered by the Salmon-Challis National Forest.
            (56) Porphyry Peak area, consisting of approximately 57,000 
        acres administered by the Salmon-Challis National Forest.
            (57) Greylock area, consisting of approximately 12,000 
        acres administered by the Salmon-Challis National Forest.
            (58) Copper Basin area, consisting of approximately 11,000 
        acres administered by the Salmon-Challis National Forest.
            (59) Cold Springs area, consisting of approximately 9,000 
        acres administered by the Salmon-Challis National Forest.
            (60) Pioneer Mountains area, consisting of approximately 
        308,000 acres administered by the Sawtooth or Salmon-Challis 
        National Forest.
            (61) Railroad Ridge area, consisting of approximately 
        51,000 acres administered by the Sawtooth or Salmon-Challis 
        National Forest.
            (62) Boulder/White Clouds area, consisting of approximately 
        463,000 acres administered by the Sawtooth or Salmon-Challis 
        National Forest or the Bureau of Land Management.
            (63) Buttercup Mountain area, consisting of approximately 
        57,000 acres administered by the Sawtooth National Forest.
            (64) Elk Ridge area, consisting of approximately 9,000 
        acres administered by the Sawtooth National Forest.
            (65) Grandmother Mountain area, consisting of approximately 
        35,000 acres administered by the Idaho Panhandle National 
        Forest or the Bureau of Land Management.
            (66) Pinchot Butte area, consisting of approximately 9,000 
        acres administered by the Idaho Panhandle National Forest or 
        the Bureau of Land Management.
            (67) Liberal Mountain area, consisting of approximately 
        11,000 acres administered by the Sawtooth National Forest.
            (68) Black Horse Creek area, consisting of approximately 
        10,969 acres administered by the Shoshone District of the 
        Bureau of Land Management.
            (69) Horse Heaven area, consisting of approximately 18,000 
        acres administered by the Payette or Boise National Forest.
            (70) Chimney Rock area, consisting of approximately 30,000 
        acres administered by the Payette Forest.

SEC. 105. GREATER CABINET/YAAK/SELKIRK ECOSYSTEM.

    (a) Findings.--The Congress makes the following findings:
            (1) The wettest part of the Northern Rockies, the Greater 
        Cabinet/Yaak/Selkirk ecosystem is a wild land region that 
        contains the last major stands of low elevation ancient forests 
        in the general region, including the Long Canyon area which 
        contains the oldest living cedars in the Nation.
            (2) The only caribou herd in the lower 48 States roams 
        these mountains, as do the grizzly and the gray wolf.
            (3) Towering mountains in the ecosystem include the 
        Cabinet, Selkirk, and Purcell ranges.
    (b) Designation.--In order to protect the unique, heavily 
fragmented, and endangered Greater Cabinet/Yaak/Selkirk ecosystem, the 
areas described in this section, which comprise approximately 1,038,000 
acres, as generally depicted on maps with titles corresponding to each 
area and dated ______, are hereby designated as wilderness. The land 
designated as wilderness by this section shall be incorporated into the 
wilderness indicated or, in the case of wilderness designated by 
subsection (e), shall be known by the name given the wilderness in that 
subsection. Each map shall be on file and available for public 
inspection in the Office of the Chief of the Forest Service.
    (c) Cabinet Mountains Wilderness Additions.--The Cabinet additions 
consisting of approximately 100,000 acres administered by the Kootenai 
National Forest are incorporated into the Cabinet Mountains Wilderness.
    (d) Salmo-Priest Wilderness Additions.--The Salmo-Priest additions 
consisting of approximately 47,000 acres administered by the Colville 
or the Idaho Panhandle National Forest are incorporated into the Salmo-
Priest Wilderness.
    (e) New National Wilderness Preservation System Components.--The 
following areas are designated as new components of the National 
Wilderness Preservation System:
            (1) Saddle Mountain area, consisting of approximately 
        15,000 acres administered by the Kootenai National Forest.
            (2) Galena Creek area, consisting of approximately 20,000 
        acres administered by the Kootenai National Forest.
            (3) Berray Mountain area, consisting of approximately 9,000 
        acres administered by the Kootenai National Forest.
            (4) Lone Cliff-Smeads area, consisting of approximately 
        10,000 acres administered by the Kootenai National Forest.
            (5) McNeeley area, consisting of approximately 7,000 acres 
        administered by the Kootenai National Forest.
            (6) Northwest Peaks area, consisting of approximately 
        15,000 acres administered by the Kootenai National Forest.
            (7) Roderick area, consisting of approximately 30,000 acres 
        administered by the Kootenai National Forest.
            (8) Grizzly Peak area, consisting of approximately 7,000 
        acres administered by the Kootenai National Forest.
            (9) West Fork Yaak area, consisting of approximately 9,000 
        acres administered by the Kootenai National Forest.
            (10) Mt. Henry area, consisting of approximately 14,000 
        acres administered by the Kootenai National Forest.
            (11) Alexander Creek area, consisting of approximately 
        7,000 acres administered by the Kootenai National Forest.
            (12) Robinson Mountain area, consisting of approximately 
        7,000 acres administered by the Kootenai National Forest.
            (13) Devil's Gap area, consisting of approximately 5,000 
        acres administered by the Kootenai National Forest.
            (14) Lone Cliff West area, consisting of approximately 
        5,000 acres administered by the Kootenai National Forest.
            (15) Allen Peak area, consisting of approximately 30,000 
        acres administered by the Kootenai National Forest.
            (16) Huckleberry Mountain area, consisting of approximately 
        9,000 acres administered by the Kootenai National Forest.
            (17) Cataract Peak area, consisting of approximately 39,000 
        acres administered by the Kootenai or Lolo National Forest.
            (18) Cube Iron-Silcox area, consisting of approximately 
        39,000 acres administered by the Kootenai or Lolo National 
        Forest.
            (19) Sundance Ridge area, consisting of approximately 8,000 
        acres administered by the Lolo National Forest.
            (20) Teepee-Spring Creek area, consisting of approximately 
        14,000 acres administered by the Lolo National Forest.
            (21) Baldy Mountain area, consisting of approximately 6,000 
        acres administered by the Lolo National Forest.
            (22) Scotchman's Peak area, consisting of approximately 
        88,000 acres administered by the Kootenai or Idaho Panhandle 
        National Forest.
            (23) Buckhorn Ridge area, consisting of approximately 
        36,000 acres administered by the Kootenai or Idaho Panhandle 
        National Forest.
            (24) Grassy Top/Hall Mountain area, consisting of 
        approximately 24,000 acres administered by the Colville or 
        Idaho Panhandle National Forest.
            (25) Abercrombie-Hooknose area, consisting of approximately 
        40,000 acres administered by the Colville National Forest.
            (26) Exposure area, consisting of approximately 8,000 acres 
        administered by the Colville National Forest.
            (27) Harvey Creek/Bunchgrass area, consisting of 
        approximately 11,000 acres administered by the Colville 
        National Forest.
            (28) South Fork Mountain area, consisting of approximately 
        6,000 acres administered by the Colville or Idaho Panhandle 
        National Forests.
            (29) Lost Creek area, consisting of approximately 7,000 
        acres administered by the Colville National Forest.
            (30) Quartzite area, consisting of approximately 5,000 
        acres administered by the Colville National Forest.
            (31) South Fork Hungry Mountain area, consisting of 
        approximately 9,000 acres administered by the Idaho Panhandle 
        or Colville National Forests.
            (32) Continental Mountain area, consisting of approximately 
        8,000 acres administered by the Idaho Panhandle National 
        Forest.
            (33) Skitwish Ridge area, consisting of approximately 5,000 
        acres administered by the Idaho Panhandle National Forest.
            (34) White Mountain area, consisting of approximately 8,000 
        acres administered by the Idaho Panhandle National Forest.
            (35) Shafer Peak area, consisting of approximately 6,000 
        acres administered by the Idaho Panhandle National Forest.
            (36) Upper Priest Lake area, consisting of approximately 
        13,000 acres administered by the Idaho Panhandle National 
        Forest.
            (37) Long Canyon/Selkirk Crest area, consisting of 
        approximately 105,000 acres administered by the Idaho Panhandle 
        National Forest or the Bureau of Land Management.
            (38) Saddle Mountain area, consisting of approximately 
        8,000 acres administered by the Idaho Panhandle National 
        Forest.
            (39) Mt. Willard/Lake Estelle Roberts area, consisting of 
        approximately 79,000 acres administered by the Idaho Panhandle 
        or Kootenai National Forests.
            (40) Trestle Peak area, consisting of approximately 7,000 
        acres administered by the Idaho Panhandle or Kootenai National 
        Forests.
            (41) Beetop area, consisting of approximately 12,000 acres 
        administered by the Idaho Panhandle National Forest.
            (42) Packsaddle area, consisting of approximately 19,000 
        acres administered by the Idaho Panhandle National Forest.
            (43) Blacktail Mountain area, consisting of approximately 
        5,000 acres administered by the Idaho Panhandle National 
        Forest.
            (44) Magee area, consisting of approximately 35,000 acres 
        administered by the Idaho Panhandle National Forest.
            (45) Tepee Creek area, consisting of approximately 5,000 
        acres administered by the Idaho Panhandle National Forest.
            (46) Trouble Creek area, consisting of approximately 6,000 
        acres administered by the Idaho Panhandle National Forest.
            (47) Graham Coal area, consisting of approximately 10,000 
        acres administered by the Idaho Panhandle National Forest.
            (48) Hellroaring area, consisting of approximately 10,000 
        acres administered by the Idaho Panhandle National Forest.
            (49) Kootenai Peak area, consisting of approximately 5,000 
        acres administered by the Idaho Panhandle National Forest.
            (50) Katka area, consisting of approximately 10,000 acres 
        administered by the Idaho Panhandle National Forest.

SEC. 106. GREATER HELLS CANYON ECOSYSTEM.

    (a) Findings.--The Congress makes the following findings:
            (1) The ecological diversity of the Hells Canyon/Wallowa 
        Mountain Region is unique and its central proximity to other 
        ecologically intact or relatively intact areas makes it a 
        critical passageway for genetic interchange of native plants 
        and animals throughout the northwestern United States.
            (2) The deepest river-carved canyon in the world at over 
        8,000 feet deep, Hells Canyon of the Snake River forms the 
        centerpiece of the rugged Greater Hells Canyon/Wallowa Mountain 
        Region.
            (3) The ancestral home of the Nez Perce Indians and their 
        famous leaders, Old Chief Joseph, Young Chief Joseph, and 
        Ollokot, the region is historically significant and remains 
        spiritually and culturally important to Indian tribes, whose 
        treaty rights guarantee their sovereignty and continued use of 
        the land.
            (4) The region abounds in cultural and archaeological 
        sites, the remnants of the Nez Perce Tribe and other aboriginal 
        cultures.
            (5) Breathtaking scenery in the region includes the 
        snowcapped peaks of the Wallowa and Seven Devils Mountains, 
        ancient boreal forests composed of many tree species, semi-arid 
        desert environments, rare, intact remnants of native Columbia 
        Basin grasslands, and unique geology and numerous dramatic 
        rimrock canyons.
            (6) Endangered Chinook salmon, rare or threatened species, 
        such as goshawk, pine marten, and bighorn sheep, the largest 
        free-roaming elk herd in the United States, and a variety of 
        other wildlife species inhabit the region.
    (b) Designation.--In order to protect the unique and endangered 
Greater Hells Canyon ecosystem, the areas described in this section, 
which comprise approximately 519,000 acres, as generally depicted on 
the maps with titles corresponding to each area and dated ______, are 
hereby designated as wilderness. The land designated as wilderness by 
this section shall be incorporated into the wilderness indicated or, in 
the case of wilderness designated by subsection (e), shall be known by 
the name given the wilderness in that subsection. Each map shall be on 
file and available for public inspection in the Office of the Chief of 
the Forest Service.
    (c) Hells Canyon Wilderness Additions.--The following areas, 
consisting of a total of approximately 394,000 acres, are incorporated 
into the Hells Canyon Wilderness:
            (1) Rapid River area, consisting of approximately 76,000 
        acres administered by the Payette or Nez Perce National Forest.
            (2) Salmon Face area, consisting of approximately 19,000 
        acres administered by the Nez Perce National Forest.
            (3) Klopton Cree/Corral Creek area, consisting of 
        approximately 21,000 acres administered by the Nez Perce 
        National Forest.
            (4) Big Canyon area, consisting of approximately 14,000 
        acres administered by the Nez Perce National Forest.
            (5) Other Hells Canyon additions, consisting of 
        approximately 264,000 acres administered by the Wallowa-Whitman 
        National Forest.
    (d) Eagle Cap Wilderness Additions.--The Eagle Cap additions 
consisting of approximately 100,000 acres administered by the Wallowa-
Whitman National Forest are incorporated into the Eagle Cap Wilderness.
    (e) New National Wilderness Preservation System Components.--The 
following areas are designated as new components of the National 
Wilderness Preservation System:
            (1) Lake Fork, consisting of approximately 12,000 acres 
        administered by the Wallowa-Whitman National Forest.
            (2) Castle Ridge, consisting of approximately 7,000 acres 
        administered by the Wallowa-Whitman National Forest.
            (3) Homestead, consisting of approximately 6,000 acres 
        administered by the Wallowa-Whitman National Forest.

SEC. 107. ISLANDS IN THE SKY WILDERNESS.

    (a) Findings.--The Congress makes the following findings:
            (1) There are several mountain ranges in the Northern 
        Rockies Bioregion that are separated from other mountains by 
        the intervening prairies.
            (2) These mountain ranges, including the Bighorn, Big 
        Snowy, Pryor, Elkhorn, and Caribou Mountains, are known as 
        island mountain ranges.
            (3) These wild and beautiful mountains are home to an 
        abundant array of native wildlife and birds and are 
        representative of a unique ecological complex.
    (b) Designation.--In order to protect the unique and increasingly 
isolated ecological treasure of island mountain ranges in the Northern 
Rockies Bioregion, the areas described in this section, which comprise 
approximately 2,614,000 acres, as generally depicted on the maps with 
titles corresponding to each area and dated _______, are hereby 
designated as wilderness. The land designated as wilderness by this 
section shall be incorporated into the wilderness indicated or, in the 
case of wilderness designated by subsections (f), (g), (h), and (i), 
shall be known by the name given the wildernss in that subsection. Each 
map shall be on file and available for public inspection in the Office 
of the Chief of the Forest Service and the Office of the Director of 
the Bureau of Land Management.
    (c) Wenaha-Tucannon Wilderness Additions.--The following areas, 
consisting of a total of approximately 20,000 acres, are incorporated 
into the Wenaha-Tucannon Wilderness:
            (1) Upper Tucannon area, consisting of approximately 13,000 
        acres administered by the Umatilla National Forest.
            (2) W-T Three area, consisting of approximately 22,000 
        acres administered by the Umatilla National Forest.
            (3) Meadow Creek area, consisting of approximately 5,000 
        acres administered by the Umatilla National Forest.
    (d) North Fork John Day Wilderness Additions.--The following areas, 
consisting of a total of approximately 104,000 acres, are incorporated 
into the Wenaha-Tucannon Wilderness:
            (1) Greenhorn Mountain area, consisting of approximately 
        35,000 acres administered by the Umatilla, the Malheur, or the 
        Wallowa-Whitman National Forest.
            (2) Jumpoff Joe area, consisting of approximately 10,000 
        acres administered by the Umatilla or the Malheur National 
        Forest.
            (3) Twin Mountain area, consisting of approximately 59,000 
        acres administered by the Wallowa-Whitman National Forest.
    (e) Cloud Peak Wilderness Additions.--The Cloud Peak additions, 
consisting of approximately 203,000 acres administered by the Bighorn 
National Forest and the Bureau of Land Management (Paint Rock Creek 
Canyon), are incorporated into the Cloud Peak Wilderness.
    (f) New National Wilderness Preservation System Components in the 
Kettle Mountains.--The following areas within the Kettle Mountains are 
designated as new components of the National Wilderness Preservation 
System:
            (1) Thirteen Mile area, consisting of approximately 14,000 
        acres administered by the Colville National Forest.
            (2) Bald Snow area, consisting of approximately 12,000 
        acres administered by the Colville National Forest.
            (3) Copper/Kettle area, consisting of approximately 81,000 
        acres administered by the Colville National Forest.
            (4) Huckleberry South area, consisting of approximately 
        10,000 acres administered by the Colville National Forest.
            (5) Cougar Mountain area, consisting of approximately 6,000 
        acres administered by the Colville National Forest.
            (6) Owl Mountain area, consisting of approximately 15,000 
        acres administered by the Colville National Forest.
            (7) Deer Creek area, consisting of approximately 9,000 
        acres administered by the Colville National Forest.
            (8) Jacknife area, consisting of approximately 9,000 acres 
        administered by the Colville National Forest.
            (9) Paradise area, consisting of approximately 9,000 acres 
        administered by the Colville National Forest.
            (10) Bulldog Mountain area, consisting of approximately 
        7,000 acres administered by the Colville National Forest.
    (g) New National Wilderness Preservation System Components in the 
Big Horn Mountains.--The following areas within the Big Horn Mountains 
are designated as new components of the National Wilderness 
Preservation System:
            (1) Little Bighorn area, consisting of approximately 
        120,000 acres administered by the Bighorn National Forest.
            (2) Walker Prairie area, consisting of approximately 51,000 
        acres administered by the Bighorn National Forest.
            (3) Devil's Canyon area, consisting of approximately 32,000 
        acres administered by the Bighorn National Forest.
            (4) Hideout Creek area, consisting of approximately 9,000 
        acres administered by the Bighorn National Forest.
            (5) Bear Rocks area, consisting of approximately 25,000 
        acres administered by the Bighorn National Forest.
            (6) Horse Creek Mesa area, consisting of approximately 
        42,000 acres administered by the Bighorn National Forest.
            (7) Petes Hole area, consisting of approximately 20,000 
        acres administered by the Bighorn National Forest.
            (8) Grommund Creek area, consisting of approximately 6,000 
        acres administered by the Bighorn National Forest.
            (9) Hazelton Peaks area, consisting of approximately 9,000 
        acres administered by the Bighorn National Forest.
            (10) Leigh Creek area, consisting of approximately 7,000 
        acres administered by the Bighorn National Forest.
            (11) Medicine Lodge area, consisting of approximately 
        23,000 acres administered by the Bighorn National Forest or the 
        Bureau of Land Management.
            (12) Alkali Creek area, consisting of approximately 17,000 
        acres administered by the Bureau of Land Management.
            (13) Trapper Creek Canyon area, consisting of approximately 
        17,000 acres administered by the Bureau of Land Management.
            (14) North Fork Powder River area, consisting of 
        approximately 15,000 acres administered by the Bureau of Land 
        Management.
            (15) Garder Mountain area, consisting of approximately 
        18,000 acres administered by the Bureau of Land Management.
            (16) Honeycombs area, consisting of approximately 53,000 
        acres administered by the Bureau of Land Management.
            (17) Buffalo Creek area, consisting of approximately 27,000 
        acres administered by the Bureau of Land Management.
            (18) Lysite Mountain area, consisting of approximately 
        10,000 acres administered by the Bureau of Land Management.
    (h) New National Wilderness Preservation System Components in the 
Pryor Mountains.--The following areas within the Pryor Mountains are 
designated as components of the National Wilderness Preservation 
System:
            (1) Lost Water Canyon area, consisting of approximately 
        63,000 acres administered by the Custer National Forest, 
        Bighorn National Recreation Area, or the Bureau of Land 
        Management.
            (2) Big Pryor Mountain area, consisting of approximately 
        39,000 acres administered by the Custer National Forest.
    (i) Other New National Wilderness Preservation System Components.--
The following areas are designated as new components of the National 
Wilderness Preservation System:
            (1) Willow Springs area, consisting of approximately 10,000 
        acres administered by the Umatilla National Forest.
            (2) Asotin Creek area, consisting of approximately 18,000 
        acres administered by the Umatilla National Forest.
            (3) Spangler area, consisting of approximately 6,000 acres 
        administered by the Umatilla National Forest.
            (4) Wenatchee Creek area, consisting of approximately 
        15,000 acres administered by the Umatilla National Forest.
            (5) Mill Creek area, consisting of approximately 25,000 
        acres administered by the Umatilla National Forest.
            (6) Walla Walla area, consisting of approximately 34,000 
        acres administered by the Umatilla National Forest.
            (7) Jassaud area, consisting of approximately 6,000 acres 
        administered by the Umatilla National Forest.
            (8) Grande Ronde area, consisting of approximately 21,000 
        acres administered by the Umatilla National Forest.
            (9) Texas Butte area, consisting of approximately 8,000 
        acres administered by the Umatilla National Forest.
            (10) Skookum area, consisting of approximately 8,000 acres 
        administered by the Umatilla National Forest.
            (11) Potamus area, consisting of approximately 6,000 acres 
        administered by the Umatilla National Forest.
            (12) South Fork-Tower area, consisting of approximately 
        17,000 acres administered by the Umatilla National Forest.
            (13) East John Day area, consisting of approximately 7,000 
        acres administered by the Umatilla National Forest.
            (14) Horseshoe Ridge area, consisting of approximately 
        6,000 acres administered by the Umatilla National Forest.
            (15) Hellhole/Mount Emily area, consisting of approximately 
        69,000 acres administered by the Umatilla or Wallowa-Whitman 
        National Forest.
            (16) North Mount Emily area, consisting of approximately 
        6,000 acres administered by the Umatilla or Wallowa-Whitman 
        National Forest.
            (17) Beaver Creek area, consisting of approximately 13,000 
        acres administered by the Wallowa-Whitman National Forest.
            (18) Upper Grande Ronde area, consisting of approximately 
        12,000 acres administered by the Wallowa-Whitman National 
        Forest.
            (19) Marble Point area, consisting of approximately 7,000 
        acres administered by the Wallowa-Whitman National Forest.
            (20) Joeseph Canyon area, consisting of approximately 
        24,000 acres administered by the Wallowa-Whitman National 
        Forest.
            (21) Tope Creek area, consisting of approximately 9,000 
        acres administered by the Wallowa-Whitman National Forest.
            (22) Baldy Mountain area, consisting of approximately 6,000 
        acres administered by the Malheur National Forest.
            (23) Dixie Butte area, consisting of approximately 13,000 
        acres administered by the Malheur National Forest.
            (24) Murderers Creek area, consisting of approximately 
        25,000 acres administered by the Malheur National Forest.
            (25) Flag Creek area, consisting of approximately 7,000 
        acres administered by the Malheur National Forest.
            (26) Fox Creek area, consisting of approximately 6,000 
        acres administered by the Malheur National Forest.
            (27) Glacier Mountain area, consisting of approximately 
        25,000 acres administered by the Malheur National Forest.
            (28) Malheur River area, consisting of approximately 13,000 
        acres administered by the Malheur National Forest.
            (29) McClellan Mountain area, consisting of approximately 
        22,000 acres administered by the Malheur National Forest.
            (30) Myrtle-Silvies area, consisting of approximately 
        11,000 acres administered by the Malheur National Forest.
            (31) Nipple Butte area, consisting of approximately 12,000 
        acres administered by the Malheur National Forest.
            (32) North Fork Malheur River area, consisting of 
        approximately 25,000 acres administered by the Malheur National 
        Forest.
            (33) Pine Creek area, consisting of approximately 14,000 
        acres administered by the Malheur National Forest.
            (34) Shaketable area, consisting of approximately 7,000 
        acres administered by the Malheur National Forest.
            (35) Utley Butte area, consisting of approximately 11,000 
        acres administered by the Malheur National Forest.
            (36) Monument Rock area, consisting of approximately 5,000 
        acres administered by the Malheur National Forest.
            (37) Flint Range/Dolus/Lost Creek area, consisting of 
        approximately 73,000 acres administered by the Beaverhead-
        Deerlodge National Forest.
            (38) Fred Burr area, consisting of approximately 6,000 
        acres administered by the Beaverhead-Deerlodge National Forest.
            (39) Elkhorn Mountains area, consisting of approximately 
        88,000 acres administered by the Helena National Forest.
            (40) Cache Peak area, consisting of approximately 27,000 
        acres administered by the Sawtooth National Forest.
            (41) Sublett area, consisting of approximately 7,000 acres 
        administered by the Sawtooth National Forest.
            (42) Burnt Basin/Black Pine area, consisting of 
        approximately 44,000 acres administered by the Sawtooth 
        National Forest.
            (43) Mount Harrison area, consisting of approximately 
        30,000 acres administered by the Sawtooth National Forest.
            (44) Fifth Fork Rock Creek area, consisting of 
        approximately 17,000 acres administered by the Sawtooth 
        National Forest.
            (45) Third Fork Rock Creek area, consisting of 
        approximately 14,000 acres administered by the Sawtooth 
        National Forest.
            (46) Cottonwood area, consisting of approximately 11,000 
        acres administered by the Sawtooth National Forest.
            (47) Mohogany Butte area, consisting of approximately 
        21,000 acres administered by the Sawtooth National Forest.
            (48) Thorobred area, consisting of approximately 6,000 
        acres administered by the Sawtooth National Forest.
            (49) Mount Naomi area, consisting of approximately 28,000 
        acres administered by the Caribou National Forest.
            (50) Worm Creek area, consisting of approximately 42,000 
        acres administered by the Caribou National Forest.
            (51) Swan Creek Mountain area, consisting of approximately 
        7,000 acres administered by the Caribou National Forest.
            (52) Gibson area, consisting of approximately 8,000 acres 
        administered by the Caribou National Forest.
            (53) Paris Peak area, consisting of approximately 9,000 
        acres administered by the Caribou-Targhee National Forest.
            (54) Station Creek area, consisting of approximately 9,000 
        acres administered by the Caribou-Targhee National Forest.
            (55) Mink Creek area, consisting of approximately 16,000 
        acres administered by the Caribou-Targhee National Forest.
            (56) Liberty Creek area, consisting of approximately 15,000 
        acres administered by the Caribou-Targhee National Forest.
            (57) Williams Creek area, consisting of approximately 
        10,000 acres administered by the Caribou-Targhee National 
        Forest.
            (58) Stauffer Creek area, consisting of approximately 6,000 
        acres administered by the Caribou-Targhee National Forest.
            (59) Sherman Peak area, consisting of approximately 8,000 
        acres administered by the Caribou-Targhee National Forest.
            (60) Soda Point area, consisting of approximately 23,000 
        acres administered by the Caribou-Targhee National Forest.
            (61) Clarkston Mountain area, consisting of approximately 
        16,000 acres administered by the Caribou-Targhee National 
        Forest.
            (62) Deep Creek area, consisting of approximately 7,000 
        acres administered by the Caribou-Targhee National Forest.
            (63) Oxford Mountain area, consisting of approximately 
        41,000 acres administered by the Caribou-Targhee National 
        Forest.
            (64) Elkhorn Mountain area, consisting of approximately 
        42,000 acres administered by the Caribou-Targhee National 
        Forest.
            (65) Bonneville Peak area, consisting of approximately 
        32,000 acres administered by the Caribou-Targhee National 
        Forest.
            (66) North Pebble area, consisting of approximately 5,000 
        acres administered by the Caribou-Targhee National Forest.
            (67) Toponce area, consisting of approximately 18,000 acres 
        administered by the Caribou-Targhee National Forest.
            (68) Scout Mountain area, consisting of approximately 
        25,000 acres administered by the Caribou-Targhee National 
        Forest.
            (69) West Mink area, consisting of approximately 20,000 
        acres administered by the Caribou-Targhee National Forest.
            (70) Cuddy Mountain area, consisting of approximately 
        41,000 acres administered by the Payette National Forest.
            (71) Council Mountain area, consisting of approximately 
        17,000 acres administered by the Payette National Forest.
            (72) McCullough Peaks area, consisting of approximately 
        38,000 acres administered by the Bureau of Land Management.
            (73) Sheep Mountain area, consisting of approximately 
        25,000 acres administered by the Bureau of Land Management.
            (74) Red Butte area, consisting of approximately 24,000 
        acres administered by the Bureau of Land Management.
            (75) Bobcat Draw Badlands area, consisting of approximately 
        30,000 acres administered by the Bureau of Land Management.
            (76) Cedar Mountain area, consisting of approximately 
        39,000 acres administered by the Bureau of Land Management.
            (77) Copper Mountain area, consisting of approximately 
        7,000 acres administered by the Wyoming Bureau of Land 
        Management.
            (78) Fuller Peak area, consisting of approximately 10,000 
        acres administered by the Bureau of Land Management.
            (79) Lysite Badlands area, consisting of approximately 
        14,000 acres administered by the Bureau of Land Management.
            (80) Hoodoo Mountain, consisting of approximately 11,000 
        acres administered by the Missoula Field Office of the Bureau 
        of Land Management.
            (81) Wales, consisting of approximately 12,000 acres 
        administered by the Missoula Field Office of the Bureau of Land 
        Management.

SEC. 108. BLACKFEET WILDERNESS.

    (a) Designation.--In furtherance of the purposes of the Wilderness 
Act, the preservation of Blackfeet religious lands, and Blackfeet 
treaty rights, certain lands within the Lewis and Clark National Forest 
comprising approximately 129,000 acres and known as the Badger-Two 
Medicine Area, as depicted on the map dated January 2003, and entitled 
``Blackfeet Wilderness'', are hereby designated as the Blackfeet 
Wilderness and therefore as a component of the National Wilderness 
Preservation System.
    (b) Treaty Rights.--The Congress recognizes that the Blackfeet 
Nation retains treaty rights in the lands designated as the Blackfeet 
Wilderness, as provided for in the 1896 treaty with the United States 
Government.
    (c) Review.--The Secretary of Agriculture shall conduct a review of 
the Blackfeet Wilderness in accordance with the Wilderness Act. Not 
later than three years after the date of enactment of this Act, the 
Secretary shall submit to Congress a report containing the results of 
the review.
    (d) Review Committee.--
            (1) Appointment.--The Secretary shall establish a committee 
        composed of the following:
                    (A) Representatives of the Blackfeet Tribal 
                Business Council.
                    (B) Blackfeet Tribal Traditionalists selected in a 
                manner consistent with the historic Cultural Law of the 
                Tribe, independently of the Business Council. The 
                Secretary shall give careful consideration to the 
                Blackfeet Language community and its views.
                    (C) The National Park Service.
                    (D) The State of Montana.
                    (E) Representatives of the public who use the lands 
                designated as wilderness by this section, including 
                environmental groups previously appropriately involved 
                in the area.
            (2) Advisory role.--The committee shall regularly advise 
        the Secretary during the preparation of the review required by 
        subsection (c). The committee shall submit its findings to 
        Congress concurrently with the submission of the report 
        required by that subsection.
    (e) Management Plan.--The Secretary shall instruct the committee to 
develop a wilderness management plan for the Blackfeet Wilderness that 
ensures that Blackfeet religious and treaty rights to lands in the 
wilderness are recognized and honored.
    (f) Considerations.--In carrying out their duties under this 
section, the Secretary and the committee shall give special 
consideration to the religious, wilderness, and wildlife uses of the 
Blackfeet Wilderness, taking into account treaties the United States 
has entered into with the Blackfeet Nation.
    (g) Withdrawal.--The Blackfeet Wilderness is hereby withdrawn from 
all forms of entry, appropriation, the disposal under the mining laws, 
and from disposition under the geothermal and mineral leasing laws.

SEC. 109. ADMINISTRATION.

    (a) Administration.--Subject to valid existing rights, lands 
designated as wilderness by this title shall be administered in 
accordance with the provisions of the Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1131 et 
seq.), except that, with respect to such lands, any reference to the 
effective date of the Wilderness Act or any similar reference shall be 
deemed to be a reference to the date of the enactment of this Act.
    (b) Map and Description.--As soon as practicable after the date of 
the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Agriculture, in the case of 
National Forest System lands designated as wilderness by this title, 
and the Secretary of the Interior, in the case of National Park System 
and public lands administered by the Bureau of Land Management 
designated as wilderness by this title, shall file a map and legal 
description of such lands with the Committee on Energy and Natural 
Resources of the Senate and the Committee on Natural Resources of the 
House of Representatives. Each map and legal description shall have the 
same force and effect as if included in this Act, except that the 
Secretary concerned may correct clerical and typographical errors in 
the maps and legal descriptions. Each map and legal description shall 
be on file and available for public inspection in the Office of the 
Chief of the Forest Service, the Office of the Director of the Bureau 
of Land Management, or the Office of the Director of the Park Service.

SEC. 110. WATER.

    (a) Reservation.--With respect to the lands designated as 
wilderness by this title, the Congress hereby reserves a quantity of 
water sufficient to fulfill the purposes for which the lands are 
designated as wilderness. The priority date of such reserved rights 
shall be the date of enactment of this Act.
    (b) Implementation.--The Secretary of Agriculture, the Secretary of 
the Interior, and all other officers of the United States shall take 
all steps necessary to protect the rights reserved by subsection (a), 
including the filing of claims for quantification of such rights in any 
present or future appropriate stream adjudication, in a court of the 
State of Idaho, Montana, Wyoming, Oregon, or Washington, in which the 
United States has been or is properly joined in accordance with section 
208 of the Act of July 10, 1952 (43 U.S.C. 666; commonly referred to as 
the McCarran Amendment).

               TITLE II--BIOLOGICAL CONNECTING CORRIDORS

SEC. 201. FINDINGS.

    The Congress makes the following findings:
            (1) The most recent scientific information on ecological 
        reserve design and function, including recent scientific 
        information on species dispersal in response to a changing 
        climate, points out the critical need for biological connecting 
        corridors between the larger core ecosystem areas.
            (2) While none of the remaining major wild land ecosystems 
        of the Northern Rockies Bioregion appears to be of sufficient 
        size to perpetuate the full complement of self-sustaining 
        viable populations of native wildlife, biological diversity, 
        and full range of ecological processes on its own, it appears 
        that an effective reserve system can be achieved if biological 
        connecting corridors between the ecosystems are identified and 
        protected.
            (3) The wild land areas addressed by this title are located 
        between the major core ecosystems of the region and are 
        essential for wildlife and plant migration and genetic 
        interchange.
            (4) These areas are some of the most beautiful and wild 
        mountain ranges in the United States, including the Bitterroot, 
        Sapphire, Lost River, Lemhi, and Bridger mountain ranges.

SEC. 202. DESIGNATION OF BIOLOGICAL CONNECTING CORRIDORS.

    (a) Designation.--To protect the life flow of the Northern Rockies 
Bioregion, the areas described in this section, which comprise 
approximately 7,791,000 acres as generally depicted on the maps with 
titles corresponding to each area and dated ______, are hereby 
designated as biological connecting corridors. The designated 
biological connecting corridors are of two types, areas designated as 
components of the National Wilderness Preservation System and areas 
subject to special corridor management requirements under section 203. 
Each biological connecting corridor shall be known by the name given it 
in the subsection establishing it. Each map shall be on file and 
available for public inspection in the Office of the Chief of the 
Forest Service and the Office of the Director of the Bureau of Land 
Management.
    (b) Sapphire Mountains/Continental Divide Corridors.--The following 
areas, consisting of a total of approximately 599,000 acres, of which 
479,000 acres are incorporated into the National Wilderness 
Preservation System and 120,000 acres are subject to the special 
corridor management requirements under section 203, are designated as 
the Sapphire Mountains/Continental Divide Biological Connecting 
Corridors:
            (1) Welcome Creek Addition area, consisting of 
        approximately 1,000 acres administered by the Lolo National 
        Forest.
            (2) Anaconda Pintlar Additions area, consisting of--
                    (A) the original Anaconda Pintler Additions area of 
                approximately 80,000 acres administered by the 
                Bitterroot or Beaverhead-Deerlodge National Forest; and
                    (B) the Sapphire area of approximately 114,000 
                acres administered by the Bitterroot or Beaverhead-
                Deerlodge National Forest.
            (3) Stony Mountain area, consisting of approximately 
        120,000 acres administered by the Lolo or Beaverhead-Deerlodge 
        National Forest.
            (4) Quigg Peak area, consisting of approximately 77,000 
        acres administered by the Lolo or Beaverhead-Deerlodge National 
        Forest.
            (5) Silver King area, consisting of approximately 50,000 
        acres administered by the Lolo or Beaverhead-Deerlodge National 
        Forest.
            (6) Emerine area, consisting of approximately 15,000 acres 
        administered by the Beaverhead-Deerlodge National Forest.
            (7) Sleeping Child area, consisting of approximately 21,000 
        acres administered by the Bitterroot National Forest.
    (c) Jocko Mountains/Cabinet Mountains Corridor.--The following 
areas, consisting of a total of approximately 274,000 acres, of which 
145,000 acres are incorporated into the National Wilderness 
Preservation System and 129,000 acres are subject to the special 
corridor management requirements under section 203, are designated as 
the Jocko Mountains/Cabinet Mountains Biological Connecting Corridors:
            (1) Mount Bushnell area, consisting of approximately 42,000 
        acres administered by the Lolo National Forest.
            (2) Cherry Peak area, consisting of approximately 38,000 
        acres administered by the Lolo National Forest.
            (3) Patrick's Knob/North Cutoff area, consisting of 
        approximately 17,000 acres administered by the Lolo National 
        Forest.
            (4) South Siegel/South Cutoff area, consisting of 
        approximately 14,000 acres administered by the Lolo National 
        Forest.
            (5) North Siegel area, consisting of approximately 9,000 
        acres administered by the Lolo National Forest.
            (6) Reservation Divide area, consisting of approximately 
        25,000 acres administered by the Lolo National Forest.
    (d) Nine Mile/Great Burn Corridors.--The following areas, 
consisting of a total of approximately 119,000 acres, of which 46,000 
acres are incorporated into the National Wilderness Preservation System 
and 73,000 acres are subject to the special corridor management 
requirements under section 203, are designated as the Nine Mile/Great 
Burn Corridor Biological Connecting Corridors:
            (1) Burdette area, consisting of approximately 16,000 acres 
        administered by the Lolo National Forest.
            (2) Petty Mountain area, consisting of approximately 16,000 
        acres administered by the Lolo National Forest.
            (3) Garden Point area, consisting of approximately 6,000 
        acres administered by the Lolo National Forest.
            (4) Deep Creek area, consisting of approximately 8,000 
        acres administered by the Lolo National Forest.
    (e) Anaconda-Pintlar-Divide Corridors.--The following areas, 
consisting of a total of approximately 373,000 acres, of which 113,000 
acres are incorporated into the National Wilderness Preservation System 
and 260,000 acres are subject to the special corridor management 
requirements under section 203, are designated as the Anaconda-Pintlar-
Divide Biological Connecting Corridors:
            (1) Fleecer area, consisting of approximately 36,000 acres 
        administered by the Beaverhead-Deerlodge National Forest.
            (2) Highlands area, consisting of approximately 21,000 
        acres administered by the Beaverhead-Deerlodge National Forest.
            (3) Basin Creek area, consisting of approximately 9,000 
        acres administered by the Beaverhead-Deerlodge National Forest.
            (4) Granulated Mountains area, consisting of approximately 
        14,000 acres administered by the Beaverhead-Deerlodge National 
        Forest.
            (5) Lower Boulder area, consisting of approximately 6,000 
        acres administered by the Bureau of Land Management.
            (6) Ruby Range area, consisting of approximately 27,000 
        acres administered by the Bureau of Land Management.
            (7) Humbug Spires area, consisting of approximately 12,000 
        acres administered by the Bureau of Land Management.
            (8) Elevation Mountain area, consisting of approximately 
        13,000 acres administered by the Bureau of Land Management.
    (f) Ten Lakes/Cabinet/Yaak Corridors.--The following areas, 
consisting of a total of approximately 349,000 acres, of which 39,000 
acres are incorporated into the National Wilderness Preservation System 
and 310,000 acres are subject to the special corridor management 
requirements under section 203, are designated as the Ten Lakes/
Cabinet/Yaak Biological Connecting Corridors:
            (1) Gold Hill area, consisting of approximately 6,000 acres 
        administered by the Kootenai National Forest.
            (2) Gold Hill West area, consisting of approximately 16,000 
        acres administered by the Kootenai National Forest.
            (3) Zula Creek area, consisting of approximately 10,000 
        acres administered by the Kootenai National Forest.
            (4) Big Creek area, consisting of approximately 8,000 acres 
        administered by the Kootenai National Forest.
    (g) Cabinet/Yaak/Great Burn Complex Corridor.--The following areas, 
consisting of a total of approximately 531,000 acres, of which 326,000 
acres are incorporated into the National Wilderness Preservation System 
and 205,000 acres are subject to the special corridor management 
requirements under section 203, are designated as the Cabinet/Yaak/
Great Burn Complex Biological Connecting Corridors:
            (1) Maple Peak area, consisting of approximately 19,000 
        acres administered by the Lolo, Idaho Panhandle, or Kootenai 
        National Forest.
            (2) Storm Creek area, consisting of approximately 8,000 
        acres administered by the Idaho Panhandle National Forest.
            (3) Hammond Creek area, consisting of approximately 17,000 
        acres administered by the Idaho Panhandle National Forest.
            (4) North Fork area, consisting of approximately 31,000 
        acres administered by the Idaho Panhandle National Forest.
            (5) Big Creek area, consisting of approximately 76,000 
        acres administered by the Idaho Panhandle National Forest.
            (6) Kootenai Peak area, consisting of approximately 10,000 
        acres administered by the Idaho Panhandle National Forest.
            (7) Lost Creek area, consisting of approximately 11,537 
        acres administered by the Idaho Panhandle National Forest.
            (8) East Cathedral Peak area, consisting of approximately 
        22,000 acres administered by the Idaho Panhandle National 
        Forest.
            (9) East Fork Elk, consisting of approximately 7,000 acres 
        administered by the Idaho Panhandle of Kootenai National 
        Forest.
            (10) West Fork Elk, consisting of approximately 5,000 acres 
        administered by the Idaho Kootenai National Forest.
            (11) Spion Kop area, consisting of approximately 22,000 
        acres administered by the Idaho Panhandle National Forest.
            (12) Roland Point area, consisting of approximately 6,000 
        acres administered by the Idaho Panhandle National Forest.
            (13) Trout Creek area, consisting of approximately 39,000 
        acres administered by the Idaho Panhandle or Kootenai National 
        Forest.
            (14) Wonderful Peak area, consisting of approximately 6,000 
        acres administered by the Idaho Panhandle or Lolo National 
        Forest.
            (15) Stevens Peak area, consisting of approximately 5,000 
        acres administered by the Idaho Panhandle or Lolo National 
        Forest.
            (16) Evans Gulch area, consisting of approximately 8,000 
        acres administered by the Lolo National Forest.
            (17) Gilt Edge-Silver Creek area, consisting of 
        approximately 10,000 acres administered by the Lolo National 
        Forest.
            (18) Ward Eagle area, consisting of approximately 9,000 
        acres administered by the Lolo National Forest.
            (19) Marble Point area, consisting of approximately 13,000 
        acres administered by the Lolo National Forest.
            (20) Clear Creek area, consisting of approximately 6,000 
        acres administered by the Lolo National Forest.
    (h) Cabinet/Yaak/Selkirk Corridors.--Lands consisting of 
approximately 96,000 acres administered by the Idaho Panhandle, 
Kootenai, or Colville National Forest are designated as the Cabinet/
Yaak/Selkirk Biological Connecting Corridors and shall be subject to 
the special corridor management requirements under section 203.
    (i) Cabinet/Yaak/Canada Corridors.--Lands consisting of 
approximately 41,000 acres administered by the Idaho Panhandle or 
Kootenai National Forest are designated as the Cabinet/Yaak/Canada 
Biological Connecting Corridors and shall be subject to the special 
corridor management requirements under section 203.
    (j) Anaconda-Pintlar/Bitterroot Mountains Corridors.--The following 
areas, consisting of a total of approximately 556,000 acres, of which 
409,000 acres are incorporated into the National Wilderness 
Preservation System and 147,000 acres are subject to the special 
corridor management requirements under section 203, are designated as 
the Anaconda-Pintlar/Bitterroot Mountains Biological Connecting 
Corridors:
            (1) West Pioneers area, consisting of approximately 230,000 
        acres administered by the Beaverhead-Deerlodge National Forest.
            (2) Cattle Gulch Ridge area, consisting of approximately 
        19,000 acres administered by the Beaverhead-Deerlodge National 
        Forest.
            (3) East Pioneers/Call Mountain area, consisting of 
        approximately 160,000 acres administered by the Beaverhead-
        Deerlodge National Forest or the Bureau of Land Management.
    (k) Frank Church/Greater Yellowstone Corridors.--The following 
areas, consisting of a total of approximately 1,840,000 acres, of which 
1,198,000 acres are incorporated into the National Wilderness 
Preservation System and 642,000 acres are subject to the special 
corridor management requirements under section 203, are designated as 
the Frank Church/Greater Yellowstone Biological Connecting Corridors:
            (1) Tolan Creek area, consisting of approximately 7,000 
        acres administered by the Bitterroot National Forest.
            (2) Allan Mountain area, consisting of approximately 
        151,000 acres administered by the Bitterroot or Salmon-Challis 
        National Forest.
            (3) Anderson Mountain area, consisting of approximately 
        49,000 acres administered by the Beaverhead or Salmon-Challis 
        National Forest.
            (4) West Big Hole area, consisting of approximately 21,000 
        acres administered by the Beaverhead or Salmon-Challis National 
        Forest.
            (5) Goat Mountain area, consisting of approximately 45,000 
        acres administered by the Beaverhead or Salmon-Challis National 
        Forest.
            (6) Italian Peaks/Eighteen Mile/Maiden area, consisting of 
        approximately 305,000 acres administered by the Beaverhead, 
        Salmon, or Caribou-Targhee National Forest or the Bureau of 
        Land Management.
            (7) Garfield Mountain area, consisting of approximately 
        92,000 acres administered by the Beaverhead or Caribou-Targhee 
        National Forest.
            (8) Four Eyes Canyon area, consisting of approximately 
        8,000 acres administered by the Beaverhead-Deerlodge National 
        Forest.
            (9) Tendoy Mountains area (Sourdough, Timber Butte, 
        McKenzie, Limekiln, and Hidden Pasture), consisting of 
        approximately 83,000 acres administered by the Beaverhead-
        Deerlodge National Forest or the Bureau of Land Management.
            (10) Henneberry Ridge area, consisting of approximately 
        12,000 acres administered by the Bureau of Land Management.
            (11) Black Tail Moutains area, consisting of approximately 
        15,000 acres administered by the Bureau of Land Management.
            (12) Saginaw Creek area, consisting of approximately 9,000 
        acres administered by the Beaverhead-Deerlodge National Forest.
            (13) Tash Peak area, consisting of approximately 53,000 
        acres administered by the Beaverhead-Deerlodge National Forest.
            (14) Beaver Lakes area, consisting of approximately 7,000 
        acres administered by the Beaverhead-Deerlodge National Forest.
            (15) Agency Creek area, consisting of approximately 6,000 
        acres administered by the Salmon-Challis National Forest.
            (16) Freezeout/Raynolds Pass area, consisting of 
        approximately 37,000 acres administered by the Caribou-Targhee 
        National Forest.
            (17) Two Top area, consisting of approximately 7,000 acres 
        administered by the Caribou-Targhee National Forest.
            (18) Mount Jefferson/Centennials area, consisting of 
        approximately 88,000 acres administered by the Caribou-Targhee 
        or Beaverhead-Deerlodge National Forest or the Bureau of Land 
        Management.
            (19) Bear Creek area, consisting of approximately 7,000 
        acres administered by the Beaverhead-Deerlodge National Forest.
    (l) French Creek/Hells Canyon Corridors.--Lands consisting of 
approximately 3,000 acres administered by the Payette or Nez Perce 
National Forest or the Bureau of Land Management are designated as the 
French Creek/Hells Canyon Biological Connecting Corridors and shall be 
subject to the special corridor management requirements under section 
203.
    (m) Lemhi Mountains Corridors.--The following areas, consisting of 
a total of approximately 604,000 acres, of which 516,000 acres are 
incorporated into the National Wilderness Preservation System and 
88,000 acres are subject to the special corridor management 
requirements under section 203, are designated as the Lemhi Mountains 
Biological Connecting Corridors:
            (1) North Lemhi Mountains area, consisting of approximately 
        309,000 acres administered by the Salmon-Challis National 
        Forest.
            (2) Diamond Peak/Black Canyon area, consisting of 
        approximately 173,000 acres administered by the Salmon- 
        Challis, or Caribou-Targhee National Forest or Idaho Falls 
        District of the Bureau of Land Management.
            (3) Warm Canyon area, consisting of approximately 7,000 
        acres administered by the Salmon-Challis National Forest.
            (4) Goldbug Ridge area, consisting of approximately 13,000 
        acres administered by the Salmon-Challis National Forest.
            (5) Sal Mountain area, consisting of approximately 14,000 
        acres administered by the Salmon-Challis National Forest.
    (n) Lost River Range Corridors.--The following areas, consisting of 
a total of approximately 464,000 acres, of which 400,000 acres are 
incorporated into the National Wilderness Preservation System and 
64,000 acres are subject to the special corridor management 
requirements under section 203, are designated as the Lost River Range 
Biological Connecting Corridors:
            (1) Borah Peak area, consisting of approximately 155,000 
        acres administered by the Salmon-Challis National Forest or the 
        Salmon District of the Bureau of Land Management.
            (2) King Mountain area, consisting of approximately 87,000 
        acres administered by the Salmon-Challis National Forest.
            (3) Grouse Peak area, consisting of approximately 9,000 
        acres administered by the Salmon-Challis National Forest.
            (4) Red Hill area, consisting of approximately 15,000 acres 
        administered by the Salmon-Challis National Forest.
            (5) Jumpoff Mountain area, consisting of approximately 
        14,000 acres administered by the Salmon-Challis National 
        Forest.
            (6) Wood Canyon area, consisting of approximately 8,000 
        acres administered by the Salmon-Challis National Forest.
            (7) Pahsimeroi area, consisting of approximately 73,000 
        acres administered by the Salmon-Challis National Forest.
            (8) Burnt Creek area, consisting of approximately 22,000 
        acres administered by the Salmon or the Idaho Falls District of 
        the Bureau of Land Management.
            (9) Hawley Mountain area, consisting of approximately 
        17,000 acres administered by the Idaho Falls District of the 
        Bureau of Land Management.
    (o) Frank Church Complex/Lemhi Range Corridors.--Lands consisting 
of approximately 3,000 acres administered by the Salmon-Challis 
National Forest or the Bureau of Land Management are designated as the 
Frank Church Complex/Lemhi Range Biological Connecting Corridors and 
shall be subject to the special corridor management requirements under 
section 203.
    (p) Boulder/White Clouds/Lost River Range Corridors.--The following 
areas, consisting of a total of approximately 233,000 acres, of which 
145,000 acres are incorporated into the National Wilderness 
Preservation System and 88,000 acres are subject to the special 
corridor management requirements under section 203, are designated as 
the Boulder/White Clouds/Lost River Range Biological Connecting 
Corridors:
            (1) Jerry Peak area, consisting of approximately 28,000 
        acres administered by the Salmon District of the Bureau of Land 
        Management.
            (2) Jerry Peak West area, consisting of approximately 
        12,000 acres administered by the Salmon District of the Bureau 
        of Land Management.
            (3) Corral-Horse Basin area, consisting of approximately 
        69,000 acres administered by the Salmon District of the Bureau 
        of Land Management.
            (4) Appendicitis Hill area, consisting of approximately 
        26,000 acres administered by the Idaho Falls District of the 
        Bureau of Land Management.
            (5) White-Knob Mountains area, consisting of approximately 
        10,000 acres administered by the Idaho Falls District of the 
        Bureau of Land Management.
    (q) Bitterroot/Lemhi Corridors.--Lands consisting of approximately 
20,000 acres administered by the Salmon-Challis National Forest or the 
Bureau of Land Management are designated as the Bitterroot/Lemhi 
Biological Connecting Corridors and shall be subject to the special 
corridor management requirements under section 203.
    (r) Greater Glacier/Greater Yellowstone Corridors.--The following 
areas, consisting of a total of approximately 1,705,000 acres, of which 
1,163,000 acres are incorporated into the National Wilderness 
Preservation System and 542,000 acres are subject to the special 
corridor management requirements under section 203, are designated as 
the Greater Glacier/Greater Yellowstone Biological Connecting 
Corridors:
            (1) Tenderfoot/Deep Creek area, consisting of approximately 
        105,000 acres administered by the Lewis and Clark National 
        Forest.
            (2) Middle Fork Judith area, consisting of approximately 
        84,000 acres administered by the Lewis and Clark National 
        Forest.
            (3) Pilgrim Creek area, consisting of approximately 47,000 
        acres administered by the Lewis and Clark National Forest.
            (4) Paine Gulch area, consisting of approximately 8,000 
        acres administered by the Lewis and Clark National Forest.
            (5) Sawmill Gulch area, consisting of approximately 12,000 
        acres administered by the Lewis and Clark National Forest.
            (6) Spring Creek area, consisting of approximately 18,000 
        acres administered by the Lewis and Clark National Forest.
            (7) TW Mountain area, consisting of approximately 8,000 
        acres administered by the Lewis and Clark National Forest.
            (8) Big Baldy area, consisting of approximately 43,000 
        acres administered by the Lewis and Clark National Forest.
            (9) Granite Mountain area, consisting of approximately 
        10,000 acres administered by the Lewis and Clark National 
        Forest.
            (10) Tollgate-Sheep area, consisting of approximately 
        25,000 acres administered by the Lewis and Clark National 
        Forest.
            (11) Mount High area, consisting of approximately 33,000 
        acres administered by the Lewis and Clark National Forest.
            (12) Bluff Mountain area, consisting of approximately 
        37,000 acres administered by the Lewis and Clark National 
        Forest.
            (13) North Fork Smith area, consisting of approximately 
        9,000 acres administered by the Lewis and Clark National 
        Forest.
            (14) Big Snowies area, consisting of approximately 105,000 
        acres administered by the Lewis and Clark National Forest or 
        Bureau of Land Management.
            (15) Highwoods area, consisting of approximately 25,000 
        acres administered by the Lewis and Clark National Forest.
            (16) Highwood Baldy area, consisting of approximately 
        16,000 acres administered by the Lewis and Clark National 
        Forest.
            (17) Calf Creek area, consisting of approximately 10,000 
        acres administered by the Lewis and Clark National Forest.
            (18) Eagle Creek area, consisting of approximately 6,000 
        acres administered by the Lewis and Clark National Forest.
            (19) Castle Mountains area, consisting of approximately 
        28,000 acres administered by the Lewis and Clark National 
        Forest.
            (20) Box Canyon area, consisting of approximately 15,000 
        acres administered by the Lewis and Clark National Forest.
            (21) Crazy Mountains area, consisting of approximately 
        159,000 acres administered by the Lewis and Clark or Gallatin 
        National Forest.
            (22) Gates of Mountains additions, consisting of 
        approximately 20,000 acres administered by the Helena National 
        Forest, which shall be incorporated into the Gates of the 
        Mountain Wilderness.
            (23) Lazyman Gulch area, consisting of approximately 11,000 
        acres administered by the Helena National Forest.
            (24) Mt. Baldy area, consisting of approximately 19,000 
        acres administered by the Helena National Forest.
            (25) Camas Creek area, consisting of approximately 27,000 
        acres administered by the Helena National Forest.
            (26) Jericho Mountain area, consisting of approximately 
        12,000 acres administered by the Helena National Forest.
            (27) Irish Gulch area, consisting of approximately 7,000 
        acres administered by the Helena National Forest.
            (28) Grassy Mountain area, consisting of approximately 
        7,000 acres administered by the Helena National Forest.
            (29) Middleman/Hedges Mountain area, consisting of 
        approximately 34,000 acres administered by the Helena National 
        Forest.
            (30) Hellgate Gulch area, consisting of approximately 
        17,000 acres administered by the Helena National Forest.
            (31) Cayuse Mountain area, consisting of approximately 
        22,000 acres administered by the Helena National Forest.
            (32) Electric Peak/Little Blackfoot Meadows area, 
        consisting of approximately 53,000 acres administered by the 
        Helena or Beaverhead-Deerlodge National Forest.
            (33) Whitetail-Haystack area, consisting of approximately 
        73,000 acres administered by the Beaverhead-Deerlodge National 
        Forest.
            (34) O'Neil Creek area, consisting of approximately 7,000 
        acres administered by the Beaverhead-Deerlodge National Forest.
            (35) Bridger area, consisting of approximately 51,000 acres 
        administered by the Gallatin National Forest.
    (s) Mt. Leidy Highlands/Wind River Range Corridors.--Lands 
consisting of a total of approximately 69,000 acres are designated as 
the Mt. Leidy Highlands/Wind River Range Biological Connecting 
Corridor, of which--
            (1) approximately 7,000 acres known as the Fish Lake 
        Mountain Wilderness are incorporated into the National 
        Wilderness Preservation System; and
            (2) approximately 62,000 acres are subject to the special 
        corridor management requirements under section 203.

SEC. 203. TREATMENT OF BIOLOGICAL CONNECTING CORRIDORS.

    (a) Roadless Lands Designated as Wilderness.--The roadless areas 
identified as part of a biological connecting corridor on the maps 
referred to by name in section 202 are hereby designated as wilderness 
and as components of the National Wilderness Preservation System.
    (b) Special Corridor Management Areas.--Those portions of the 
biological connecting corridors designated by section 202 that are not 
covered by subsection (a) are hereby designated as special corridor 
management areas and shall be managed according to the Multiple-Use 
Sustained-Yield Act of 1960 (16 U.S.C. 528 et seq.) and other 
applicable laws, and in the following manner:
            (1) The practice of even-aged silvicultural management and 
        timber harvesting is prohibited within the special corridor 
        management areas.
            (2) Subject to valid existing rights, mining, oil, and gas 
        exploration and development and new road construction or 
        reconstruction is prohibited within the special corridor 
        management areas.
            (3) The Federal land management agency responsible for the 
        administration of a special corridor management area or portion 
        thereof shall take immediate steps to ensure that road 
        densities within the biological connecting corridor approach, 
        as nearly as possible, zero miles of road per square mile of 
        land area. Such road density shall not exceed 0.25 miles per 
        square mile, using the method known as the ``moving window'' 
        method.

SEC. 204. APPLICABILITY OF TITLE.

    (a) Federal Land Management Agencies.--This title shall apply only 
to National Forest System lands and lands under the jurisdiction of the 
the Bureau of Land Management and the United States Fish and Wildlife 
Service.
    (b) Private Land and Landowners.--Private lands are not affected by 
this title. No private landowner whose lands are adjacent to the 
designated connecting corridors shall be compelled, under any 
circumstances, to comply with this title. However, private landowners 
may enter into cooperative agreements with the Federal Government on a 
willing participant or willing seller basis to include their land in a 
biological connecting corridor.

SEC. 205. COOPERATIVE AGREEMENTS AND LAND TRADES AND ACQUISITIONS.

    (a) Cooperative Agreements.--The Secretary of the Interior and the 
Secretary of Agriculture shall seek to enter into cooperative 
agreements with private, State, and corporate landowners and sovereign 
Indian tribes whose lands are adjacent to the designated connecting 
corridors, when such agreements would benefit the ecological integrity 
and function of the designated corridor.
    (b) Land Trades and Acquisitions.--The Secretary of Agriculture and 
the Secretary of the Interior may undertake land trades or acquisitions 
in order to accomplish the purposes of this title when the Secretary 
concerned considers such action to be appropriate.
    (c) Report.--As part of the report required by section 501, the 
Secretary of Agriculture and the Secretary of the Interior shall 
describe the progress of cooperative agreements, acquisitions, and 
proposed land exchanges sought pursuant to this section.

SEC. 206. EXEMPTION OF CERTAIN ROADS AND HIGHWAYS.

    (a) Exemption.--The roads and highways referred to in subsection 
(b) are expressly exempted from the provisions of this title. In the 
event that any county, State, Federal, or private road has been 
mistakenly omitted from this list, it is deemed to be incorporated by 
reference.
    (b) Description.--The roads and highways referred to in subsection 
(a) the following:
            (1) United States Highways 2, 10, 12, 20, 89, 91, 93, 95, 
        and 287.
            (2) Interstate Highways 15 and 90.
            (3) Idaho State Highways 3, 28, 29, and 87.
            (4) Montana State Highways 2, 37, 38, 41, 43, 56, 58, 83, 
        87, 135, 200, 278, 287, 293, 294, 298, and 324.
            (5) Montana Secondary Roads 92, 278, 279, 294, 298, 324, 
        411, and 508.
            (6) The Thompson Pass Road, Montana-Idaho.
            (7) The Moyie Springs to East Port Road, Idaho.
            (8) The Red Rock Pass Road, Montana.
            (9) Boundary County, Idaho, Routes 3, 18, 34, and 47.
            (10) Lolo National Forest Route 102.
            (11) Gallatin National Forest Route 259.
            (12) Kelly Canyon and Middle Fork Canyon Roads, Gallatin 
        National Forest.
            (13) Lewis and Clark County, Montana, Roads 4, 164, 280, 
        287, and 291.
            (14) The Beaverhead-Deerlodge to Basin Road, Montana.
            (15) The Marysville to Avon Road, Montana.
            (16) The Pahsimeroi Road, Butte County, Idaho.

             TITLE III--WILD AND SCENIC RIVERS DESIGNATIONS

SEC. 301. DESIGNATION OF WILD AND SCENIC RIVERS IN IDAHO, MONTANA, AND 
              WYOMING.

    Section 3(a) of the Wild and Scenic Rivers Act (16 U.S.C. 1274(a)) 
is amended by adding at the end the following new paragraphs:
    ``(170) South Fork Payette, Idaho.--The segment within the Boise 
and Sawtooth National Forests from the Sawtooth Wilderness Boundary 
downstream approximately 54 miles to confluence with the Middle Fork 
and then downstream on the main stem to the confluence with the North 
Fork, as generally depicted on the boundary map entitled `South Fork 
Payette Wild River' and dated January 2003, which shall be administered 
by the Secretary of Agriculture as a wild river.
    ``(171) Middle Fork Payette, Idaho.--The segment within the Boise 
National Forest from Railroad Pass downstream approximately 17.9 miles 
to Boiling Springs, as generally depicted on the boundary map entitled 
`Middle Fork Payette Wild and Recreational River' and dated January 
2003, which shall be administered by the Secretary of Agriculture as a 
wild river and the segment within the Boise National Forest from 
Boiling Springs downstream approximately 14.7 miles to the national 
forest boundary, as generally depicted on such map, which shall be 
administered by the Secretary of Agriculture as a recreational river.
    ``(172) Deadwood, Idaho.--The segment within the Boise National 
Forest comprising approximately 21.3 miles as generally depicted on the 
boundary map entitled `Deadwood Wild and Scenic River' and dated 
January 2003, which shall be administered by the Secretary of 
Agriculture, the 12.8 mile segment from Threemile Creek to Julie Creek, 
as a wild river, and the 8.9 mile segment from Julie Creek to the South 
Fork of the Payette, as a scenic river.
    ``(173) Upper Priest, Idaho.--The segment within the Panhandle 
National Forest from the Canadian border downstream approximately 18.5 
miles to Upper Priest Lake, as generally depicted on the boundary map 
entitled `Upper Priest Wild River' and dated January 2003, which shall 
be administered by the Secretary of Agriculture as a wild river.
    ``(174) Coeur d'Alene, Idaho.--The segment within the Panhandle 
National Forest from the headwaters downstream approximately 110.4 
miles as generally depicted on the boundary map entitled `Coeur d'Alene 
Wild and Recreational River' and dated January 2003, which shall be 
administered by the Secretary of Agriculture, the 8.5 miles from the 
headwaters downstream to Beaver Creek as a recreational river, the 15.2 
miles from Road No. 3099 to Teepee Creek as a wild river, the 52 miles 
from the South Fork to Teepee Creek as a recreational river, the 7.7 
miles from Mission Creek to the South Fork as a recreational river, and 
the 27 miles from Mission Creek to Lake Coeur d'Alene as a recreational 
river.
    ``(175) Little North Fork Clearwater, Idaho.--The segments within 
the Panhandle National Forest and Coeur d'Alene Field Office BLM from 
the headwaters to to Cedar Creek, as generally depicted on the boundary 
map entitled `Little North Fork Clearwater Wild and Scenic River' and 
dated January 2003, which shall be administered by the Secretary of 
Agriculture, the segment from the headwaters to the 1925 road as a wild 
river, the segment from the 1925 road downstream to Adair Creek as a 
scenic river and the segment from Adair Creek downstream to Cedar Creek 
as a wild river.
    ``(176) Kelly Creek, Idaho.--The segment, including all 
tributaries, within the Clearwater National Forest from its headwaters 
downstream approximately 19 miles to the forest service work station, 
as generally depicted on the boundary map entitled `Kelly Creek Wild 
and Recreational River' and dated January 2003, which shall be 
administered by the Secretary of Agriculture as a wild river and the 
12-mile segment from USFS Road No. 581 to the North Fork of the 
Clearwater River to be administered by the Secretary of Agriculture as 
a recreational river.
    ``(177) Cayuse Creek, Idaho.--The segment within the Clearwater 
National Forest from its headwaters downstream approximately 39 miles 
to its mouth, except to small segments where it crosses road 581, as 
generally depicted on the boundary map entitled `Cayuse Creek Wild and 
Scenic River' and dated ___, which shall be administered by the 
Secretary of Agriculture as a wild river, the two segments where road 
581 crosses and parallels the creek (including the landing meadow), as 
generally depicted on the boundary map entitled `Cayuse Creek Wild and 
Scenic River', which shall be administered by the Secretary of 
Agriculture as a scenic river.
    ``(178) Bargamin Creek, Idaho.--The segment within the Nez Perce 
National Forest comprising approximately 21 miles, as generally 
depicted on the boundary map entitled `Bargamin Creek Wild River' and 
dated January 2003, which shall be administered by the Secretary of 
Agriculture as a wild river.
    ``(179) Lake Creek, Idaho.--The segment within the Nez Perce 
National Forest from the wilderness boundary downstream approximately 
10 miles to Crooked Creek, as generally depicted on the boundary map 
entitled `Lake Creek Wild River' and dated January 2003, which shall be 
administered by the Secretary of Agriculture as a wild river.
    ``(180) Meadow Creek, Idaho.--The segment within the Nez Perce 
National Forest from its headwaters downstream approximately 34 miles 
to Selway River, as generally depicted on the boundary map entitled 
`Meadow Creek Recreational River' and dated January 2003, which shall 
be administered by the Secretary of Agriculture as a wild river, except 
for the 1-mile segment above the confluence with the Selway River which 
shall be administered as a recreational river.
    ``(181) Running Creek, Idaho.--The segment within the Nez Perce 
National Forest comprising approximately 14 miles, as generally 
depicted on the boundary map entitled `Running Creek Scenic River' and 
dated January 2003, which shall be administered by the Secretary of 
Agriculture as a wild river.
    ``(182) Salmon, Idaho.--The segment within the Salmon and Sawtooth 
National Forests from its source downstream approximately 177 miles to 
North Fork, Idaho, excluding that part in the town of Salmon, and the 
segment from Vinegar Creek to the Little Salmon River, approximately 25 
miles within the Nez Perce and Payette National Forests and other 
public lands, as generally depicted on the boundary map entitled 
`Salmon Wild and Recreational River' and dated ___, which shall be 
administered by the Secretary of Agriculture, as a recreational river, 
and the segment Hammer Creek, approximately 45 miles downstream miles 
to its mouth within public lands managed by the Bureau of Land 
Management, as generally depicted on the boundary map entitled Salmon 
Wild and Scenic River and dated ___ shall be administered by the 
Secretary of Interior as a wild river.
    ``(183) East Fork Salmon, Idaho.--The segment within the Salmon and 
Sawtooth National Forests from the Sawtooth NRA boundary downstream 
approximately 20 miles to its confluence with the main stem, as 
generally depicted on the boundary map entitled `East Fork Salmon 
Recreational River' and dated January 2003, which shall be administered 
by the Secretary of Agriculture, as a recreational river.
    ``(184) North Fork Clearwater, Idaho.--The segment within the 
Clearwater National Forest from the headwaters approximately 70 miles 
to the slackwater in Dworshak Reservoir, as generally depicted on the 
boundary map entitled `North Fork Clearwater Scenic and Wild River' and 
dated ___, which shall be administered by the Secretary of Agriculture, 
the segment from the headwaters downstream to the Route No. 250 Bridge 
as a wild river, the segment from Route No. 250 Bridge downstream to 
the slackwater as a recreational river.
    ``(185) North Fork Coeur d'Alene, Idaho.--The segment within the 
Panhandle National Forest from its headwaters south of Honey Mountain 
downstream approximately 32.5 miles to its confluence with the Coeur 
d'Alene River, as generally depicted on the boundary map entitled 
`North Fork Coeur d'Alene Recreational River' and dated January 2003, 
which shall be administered by the Secretary of Agriculture as a 
recreational river.
    ``(186) Pack, Idaho.--The segment within the Panhandle National 
Forest from Harrison Lake downstream approximately 14 miles to the 
national forest boundary, as generally depicted on the boundary map 
entitled `Pack Recreational River' and dated January 2003, which shall 
be administered by the Secretary of Agriculture as a recreational 
river.
    ``(187) Henry's Fork, Idaho.--The segment within the National 
Forest from Big Springs downstream approximately 28 miles to the 
Osborne Bridge, except for Island Park Reservoir, as generally depicted 
on the boundary map entitled `Henry's Fork Wild and Scenic River' and 
dated January 2003, which shall be administered by the Secretary of 
Agriculture as a scenic river, and the segment from Osborne Bridge to 
the confluence of the Warm River, which shall be administered as a wild 
river.
    ``(188) Falls River, Idaho.--The segment within the Caribou-Targhee 
National Forest from Yellowstone National Park downstream approximately 
13 miles to the National Forest Boundary, as generally depicted on the 
boundary map entitled `Falls Wild River' and dated January 2003, which 
shall be administered by the Secretary of Agriculture as a wild river.
    ``(189) Lochsa River Watershed, Idaho.--(A) The segment of the 
Lochsa River from its source (confluence of Colt Killed Creek and 
Crooked Fork) to the beginning of the Lochsa Recreational River, within 
the Clearwater National Forest, comprising approximatley 2 miles, as 
generally depcited on the boundary map entitled `Lochsa Recreational 
River Addition' and dated ___, which shall be administered by the 
Secretary of Agriculture as a Recreational River.
    ``(B) The segments of Colt Killed Creek, from its source to its 
confluence with Beaver Creek, within the Clearwater National Forest, 
excepting a short segment near Colt Killed Creek Cabin, comprising 
approximately 20.3 miles, as generally depicted on the boundary map 
entitled `Colt Killed Creek Wild, Scenic and Recreational River' and 
dated ___, which shall be administered by the Secretary of Agriculture 
as a wild river, the segment of Colt Killed Creek near Colt Killed 
Cabin, comprising approximately .5 miles, as generally depicted on the 
boundary map entitled `Colt Killed Creek Wild, Scenic and Recreational 
River' and dated ___, which shall be administered by the Secretary of 
Agriculture as a scenic river, and the segment of Colt Killed Creek, 
from its confluence with Beaver Creek to the confluence with Crooked 
Fork, within the Clearwater National Forest, comprising approximately 
.3 miles, as generally depicted on the boundary map entitled `Colt 
Killed Creek Wild, Scenic and Recreational River' and dated ___, which 
shall be administered by the Secretary of Agriculture as a recreational 
river.
    ``(190) Selway River Watershed, Idaho.--(A) The segments of the 
Moose Creek complex, from its sources to its confluence with the Selway 
River, within the Nez Perce National Forest, comprising approximately 
83.5 miles, as generally depicted on the boundary map entitled `Moose 
Creek Segments Wild River' and dated ___, which shall be administered 
by the Secretary of Agriculture as a wild river.
    ``(B) The segments of the Bear Creek complex, from its sources to 
its confluence with the Selway River, within the Nez Perce National 
Forest, comprising approximately 70.6 miles, as generally depicted on 
the boundary map entitled `Bear Creek Segments Wild River' and dated 
___, which shall be administered by the Secretary of Agriculture as a 
wild river.
    ``(C) The segments of the Three Links Creek complex, from its 
sources to its confluence with the Selway River, within the Nez Perce 
National Forest, comprising approximately 23.5 miles, as generally 
depicted on the boundary map entitled `Three Links Creek Segments Wild 
River' and dated ___, which shall be administered by the Secretary of 
Agriculture as a wild river.
    ``(D) The segment of Gedney Creek/West Fork Gedney Creek, from its 
source to its entering the recreational river corridor on the Selway 
River, within the Nez Perce National Forest, comprising approximately 
14.5 miles, as generally depicted on the boundary map entitled `Gedney/
West Fork Gedney Creek Wild River' and dated ___, which shall be 
administered by the Secretary of Agriculture as a wild river.
    ``(191) South Fork Clearwater, Idaho.--The segment within the Nez 
Perce National Forest from the confluence of the Red and American 
Rivers downstream to the Forest boundary, comprising approximately 40 
miles as generally depicted on the boundary map entitled `South Fork 
Clearwater River Recreational River' and dated ___, which shall be 
administered by the Secretary of Agriculture as a recreational river.
    ``(192) Johns Creek, Idaho.--The segment within the Nez Perce 
National Forest from the source to its confluence with the South Fork 
Clearwater, as generally depicted on the boundary map entitled `Johns 
Creek Wild River' and dated ___, which shall be administered by the 
Secretary of Agriculture as a wild river.
    ``(193) Slate Creek, Idaho.--The segment within the Nez Perce 
National Forest from the source to the Gospel Hump Wilderness Boundary, 
as generally depicted on the boundary map entitled `Slate Creek 
Recreational and Wild River' and dated ___, comprising approximately 5 
miles, which shall be administered by the Secretary of Agriculture as a 
wild river, the segment within the Nez Perce National Forest, as 
generally depicted on the boundary map entitled `Slate Creek 
Recreational and Wild River' and dated ___, from the Gospel Hump 
Wilderness Boundary to the Forest Boundary, comprising approximatety 10 
miles, which shall be administered by the Secretary of Agriculture as a 
recreational river.
    ``(194) South Fork Two Medicine River, Montana.--The segment within 
the Lewis and Clark National Forest from its headwaters downstream 
approximately 10 miles to the Sawmill Flat Trailhead, as generally 
depicted on the boundary map entitled `South Fork Two Medicine Wild 
River' and dated January 2003, which shall be administered by the 
Secretary of Agriculture, as a wild river.
    ``(195) Badger Creek, Including the South and North Forks, 
Montana.--The segment within the Lewis and Clark National Forest from 
its headwaters downstream to the national forest boundary, comprising 
approximately 23.8 miles, as generally depicted on the boundary map 
entitled `Badger Creek Wild River' and dated January 2003, which shall 
be administered by the Secretary of Agriculture, as a wild river.
    ``(196) Dearborn, Montana.--The segment within the Lewis and Clark 
National Forest downstream approximately 18.1 miles to the national 
forest boundary, as generally depicted on the boundary map entitled 
`Dearborn Wild River' and dated January 2003, which shall be 
administered by the Secretary of Agriculture, as a wild river.
    ``(197) North Fork Birch Creek, Montana.--The segment within the 
Lewis and Clark National Forest from its headwaters downstream 
approximately 6.6 miles to the national forest boundary, as generally 
depicted on the boundary map entitled `North Fork Birch Creek Wild 
River' and dated January 2003, which shall be administered by the 
Secretary of Agriculture, as a wild river.
    ``(198) South Fork Sun, Montana.--The segment within the Lewis and 
Clark National Forest from its headwaters at Sun Lake downstream 
approximately 25.5 miles to its confluence with the North Fork, as 
generally depicted on the boundary map entitled `South Fork Sun Wild 
River' and dated January 2003, which shall be administered by the 
Secretary of Agriculture, as a wild river.
    ``(199) North Fork Sun, Montana.--The segment comprising 
approximately 26.7 miles within the Lewis and Clark National Forest 
from the confluence of Open Creek and Fool Creek downstream 
approximately 25.4 miles to the Bob Marshall Wilderness boundary, as 
generally depicted on the boundary map entitled `North Fork Sun Wild 
and Recreational River' and dated January 2003, which shall be 
administered by the Secretary of Agriculture, as a wild river and the 
segment from the Bob Marshall Wilderness boundary downstream 
approximately 1.3 miles to its confluence with the South Fork, which 
shall be administered by the Secretary of Agriculture, as a 
recreational river.
    ``(200) Tenderfoot Creek, Montana.--The segment within the Lewis 
and Clark National Forest from The Falls downstream approximately 4.6 
miles to the Smith River, as generally depicted on the boundary map 
entitled `Tenderfoot Creek Wild River' and dated January 2003, which 
shall be administered by the Secretary of Agriculture, as a wild river.
    ``(201) Green Fork Straight Creek, Montana.--The segment within the 
Lewis and Clark National Forest from its headwaters downstream 
approximately 4.5 miles to Straight Creek, as generally depicted on the 
boundary map entitled `Green Fork Straight Creek Wild River' and dated 
January 2003, which shall be administered by the Secretary of 
Agriculture, as a wild river.
    ``(202) Yaak River, Montana.--The segment within the Kootenai 
National Forest from the junction of the East and West Forks downstream 
38 miles to the Yaak Falls, as generally depicted on the boundary map 
entitled `Yaak River Wild and Recreational River' and dated January 
2003, which shall be administered by the Secretary of Agriculture as a 
recreational river and the segment from the Yaak Falls downstream 8 
miles to the mouth of the Yaak River at the junction of the Kootenai 
River, as a wild river.
    ``(203) Kootenai River, Montana.--The segment within the Kootenai 
National Forest from the junction of the Fisher River (3 miles below 
Libby Dam) downstream for 46 miles to the State line, as generally 
depicted on the boundary map entitled `Kootenai River Recreational 
River' and dated January 2003, which shall be administered by the 
Secretary of Agriculture as a recreational river.
    ``(204) Bull River, Montana.--The segment within the Kootenai 
National Forest from the junction of the North and South Forks 
downstream 21 miles to the Cabinet Gorge Reservoir, as generally 
depicted on the boundary map entitled `Bull River Recreational River' 
and dated January 2003, which shall be administered by the Secretary of 
Agriculture as a recreational river.
    ``(205) Vermillion River, Montana.--The segment within the Kootenai 
National Forest from the junction of Willow Creek, downstream 12 miles 
to the Noxon Reservoir, as generally depicted on the boundary map 
entitled `Vermillion Recreational River' and dated January 2003, which 
shall be administered by the Secretary of Agriculture as a recreational 
river.
    ``(206) West Fork Madison, Montana.--The segment within the 
Beaverhead-Deerlodge National Forest from approximately the midpoint of 
Section 28, R. 2 W., T. 12 S., downstream approximately 6 miles to 
Landon Camp, and from Section 32, R. 1 W., T. 12 S. downstream 
approximately 5.2 miles to Shakelford Cow Camp, as generally depicted 
on the boundary map entitled `West Fork Madison Wild River' and dated 
January 2003, which shall be administered by the Secretary of 
Agriculture, as a wild river and the segment from Miner Creek (Section 
30, R. 2 W., T. 12 S.) downstream approximately 2.5 miles to the 
midpoint of Section 28, and the segment from Landon Camp downstream 
approximately 1.5 miles to the boundary of Sections 32 and 33, R. 1 W., 
T. 12 S. and from Shakelford Cow Camp downstream approximately 1.5 
miles to Sloan Cow Camp, and from Sloan Cow Camp downstream 
approximately .75 miles to Partridge Cow Camp, and from Partridge Cow 
Camp downstream approximately 3.75 miles to the northeast corner of 
Section 4, R. 1 E., T. 12 S., as generally depicted on the boundary map 
entitled `West Fork Madison Scenic River' and dated January 2003, which 
shall be administered by the Secretary of Agriculture, as a scenic 
river and the segment from the northeast corner of Section 4, R. 1 E., 
T. 12 S. downstream approximately 6.5 miles to the West Fork Rest Area, 
as generally depicted on the boundary map entitled `West Fork Madison 
Scenic River' and dated January 2003, which shall be administered by 
the Secretary of Agriculture as a scenic river.
    ``(207) Elk River, Montana.--The segment within the Beaverhead-
Deerlodge National Forest in the southeast corner of Section 16, R. 2 
W., T. 11 S., downstream approximately 12.2 miles to the southeast 
corner of Section 3, R. 1 W., T. 12 S. including the headwaters 
(Barnett Creek and all other tributaries), as generally depicted on the 
boundary map entitled `Elk Wild River' and dated January 2003, which 
shall be administered by the Secretary of Agriculture, as a wild river; 
and the segment from the southeast corner of Section 3, R. 1 W., T. 12 
S., downstream approximately 5.2 miles to the confluence with the West 
Fork of the Madison River, as generally depicted on the boundary map 
entitled `Elk Scenic River' and dated January 2003, which shall be 
administered by the Secretary of Agriculture, as a scenic river.
    ``(208) Browns Creek, Montana.--The segment within the Beaverhead-
Deerlodge National Forest from the west central part of Section 1, R. 
14 W., T. 8 S., downstream approximately 4.3 miles to the forest 
boundary, as generally depicted on the boundary map entitled `Browns 
Creek Wild River' and dated January 2003, which shall be administered 
by the Secretary of Agriculture as a wild river.
    ``(209) Canyon Creek, Montana.--The segment within the Beaverhead-
Deerlodge National Forest from Canyon Lake downstream approximately 4 
miles to the Canyon Creek Campground, and the Lion Creek tributary 
(approximately 2.5 miles), as generally depicted on the boundary map 
entitled `Canyon Creek Wild River' and dated January 2003, which shall 
be administered by the Secretary of Agriculture as a wild river.
    ``(210) Deadman Creek, Montana.--The segment within the Beaverhead-
Deerlodge National Forest from its source downstream approximately 10.2 
miles to the forest boundary, as generally depicted on the boundary map 
entitled `Deadman Creek Wild River' and dated January 2003, which shall 
be administered by the Secretary of Agriculture as a wild river.
    ``(211) Smith River, Montana.--The segment within the Lewis and 
Clark National Forest from Tenderfoot Creek downstream to Deep Creek, 
comprising approximately 11.8 miles, as generally depicted on the 
boundary map entitled `Smith Wild River' and dated January 2003, which 
shall be administered by the Secretary of Agriculture as a wild river.
    ``(212) Middle Fork Judith River, Montana.--The segment within the 
Lewis and Clark National Forest from Arch Coulee Junction downstream to 
the national forest boundary, comprising approximately 4.8 miles, as 
generally depicted on the boundary map entitled `Middle Fork Judith 
Wild River', and dated January 2003, which shall be administered by the 
Secretary of Agriculture as a wild river.
    ``(213) Rock Creek Watershed, Montana.--(A) The segment of the main 
fork of Rock Creek within the Lolo and Beaverhead-Deerlodge National 
Forests from the mouth of Juno Gulch downstream to the mouth of Rickard 
Gulch, comprising approximately 30 miles, as generally depicted on the 
boundary map entitled `Rock Creek Scenic River' and dated January 2003, 
which shall be administered by the Secretary of Agriculture as a scenic 
river.
    ``(B) The segment of Ranch Creek, from its source to the boundary 
of the Lolo National Forest, within the Lolo National Forest, 
comprising approximately 5 miles, as generally depicted on the boundary 
map entitled `Ranch Creek Wild River' and dated January 2003, which 
shall be administered by the Secretary of Agriculture as a wild river.
    ``(C) The entire segment of Welcome Creek, from its source to its 
confluence with the main fork of Rock Creek, within the Lolo National 
Forest, comprising approximately 7 miles, as generally depicted on the 
boundary map entitled `Welcome Creek Wild River' and dated January 
2003, which shall be administered by the Secretary of Agriculture as a 
wild river.
    ``(D) The entire segment of Alder Creek, from its source to its 
confluence with the main fork of Rock Creek, within the Lolo National 
Forest, comprising approximately 5 miles, as generally depicted on the 
boundary map entitled `Alder Creek Wild River' and dated January 2003, 
which shall be administered by the Secretary of Agriculture as a wild 
river.
    ``(E) The entire segment of Hogback Creek, from its source to its 
confluence with the main fork of Rock Creek, within the Lolo National 
Forest, comprising approximately 6 miles, as generally depicted on the 
boundary map entitled `Hogback Wild River' and dated January 2003, 
which shall be administered by the Secretary of Agriculture as a wild 
river.
    ``(F) The entire segment of Wyman Gulch, from its source to its 
confluence with the main fork of Rock Creek, within the Lolo National 
Forest, comprising approximately 5 miles, as generally depicted on the 
boundary map entitled `Wyman Gulch Wild River' and dated January 2003, 
which shall be administered by the Secretary of Agriculture as a wild 
river.
    ``(G) The segment of Stony Creek from its source at Stony Lake to 
the mouth of Little Stony Creek, within the Beaverhead-Deerlodge 
National Forest, comprising approximately 4 miles, as generally 
depicted on the boundary map entitled `Stony Creek Wild and Scenic 
River' and dated January 2003, which shall be administered by the 
Secretary of Agriculture as a wild river; the segment of Stony Creek 
from the mouth of Little Stony Creek to its confluence with the main 
fork of Rock Creek, comprising approximately 6 miles, which shall be 
administered by the Secretary of Agriculture as a scenic river.
    ``(H) The segment of the West Fork of Rock Creek from its source to 
the Beaverhead-Deerlodge National Forest boundary, within the 
Beaverhead-Deerlodge National Forest, comprising approximately 15 
miles, as generally depicted on the boundary map as `West Fork of Rock 
Creek Scenic River' and dated January 2003, which shall be administered 
by the Secretary of Agriculture as a scenic river.
    ``(I) The segment of the Ross Fork of Rock Creek, from its source 
to the mouth of Elk Creek, within the Beaverhead-Deerlodge National 
Forest, comprising approximately 10 miles, as generally depicted on the 
boundary map entitled `Ross Fork Wild River', which shall be 
administered by the Secretary of Agriculture as a wild river.
    ``(J) The segment of Copper Creek, from its source to the boundary 
of the mouth of Lutz Creek, within the Beaverhead-Deerlodge National 
Forest, comprising approximately 9 miles, as generally depicted on the 
boundary map entitled `Copper Creek Wild and Scenic River' and dated 
January 2003, which shall be administered by the Secretary of 
Agriculture as a wild river; the segment of Copper Creek from the mouth 
of Lutz Creek to its confluence with the Middle Fork of Rock Creek, 
comprising approximately 5 miles, which shall be administered by the 
Secretary of Agriculture as a scenic river.
    ``(K) The segment of the Middle Fork of Rock Creek, from its source 
to the mouth of Senate Creek, within the Beaverhead-Deerlodge National 
Forest, comprising approximately 5 miles, as generally depicted on the 
boundary map entitled `Middle Fork Wild and Scenic River' and dated 
January 2003, which shall be administered by the Secretary of 
Agriculture as a wild river; the segment of the Middle Fork of Rock 
Creek, from the mouth of Senate Creek to the confluence with Copper 
Creek, comprising approximately 6 miles, which shall be administered by 
the Secretary of Agriculture as a scenic river.
    ``(L) The segment of Carpp Creek, from its source to its confluence 
with the Middle Fork of Rock Creek, within the Beaverhead-Deerlodge 
National Forest, comprising approximately 6 miles, as generally 
depicted on the boundary map entitled `Carpp Creek Wild River' and 
dated January 2003, which shall be administered by the Secretary of 
Agriculture as a wild river.
    ``(M) The segment of the East Fork of Rock Creek, from its source 
to its confluence with the head of the East Fork Reservoir, within the 
Beaverhead-Deerlodge National Forest, comprising approximately 10 
miles, as generally depicted on the boundary map entitled `East Fork 
Wild River' and dated January 2003, which shall be administered by the 
Secretary of Agriculture as a wild river.
    ``(214) Salt River, Wyoming.--The segment within the Bridger-Teton 
National Forest from the source downstream approximately 12 miles to 
forest road 10072, as generally depicted on the boundary map entitled 
`Salt Wild River' and dated January 2003, which shall be administered 
by the Secretary of Agriculture as a wild river.
    ``(215) Swift Creek, Wyoming.--The segment within the Bridger-Teton 
National Forest from the source downstream approximately 8 miles to 
Periodic Spring, as generally depicted on the boundary map entitled 
`Swift Creek Wild River' and dated January 2003, which shall be 
administered by the Secretary of Agriculture as a wild river.
    ``(216) Hoback River, Wyoming.--The segment within the Bridger-
Teton National Forest from the source downstream approximately 10 miles 
to the end of forest road 30710, as generally depicted on the boundary 
map entitled `Hoback Wild River' and dated January 2003, which shall be 
administered by the Secretary of Agriculture as a wild river.
    ``(217) Willow Creek, Wyoming.--The segment within the Bridger-
Teton National Forest from the source downstream approximately 20 miles 
to the confluence with the Hoback River, as generally depicted on the 
boundary map entitled `Willow Creek Wild River' and dated January 2003, 
which shall be administered by the Secretary of Agriculture as a wild 
river.
    ``(218) Gros Ventre, Wyoming.--The segment within the Bridger-Teton 
National Forest from the source downstream approximately 12 miles to 
Horn Ranch, as generally depicted on the boundary map entitled `Gros 
Ventre Wild River' and dated January 2003, which shall be administered 
by the Secretary of Agriculture as a wild river, and the segment from 
Horn Ranch downstream approximately 28 miles to the forest boundary, as 
generally depicted on the boundary map entitled `Gros Ventre Scenic 
River' and dated January 2003, which shall be administered by the 
Secretary of Agriculture as a scenic river.
    ``(219) Crystal Creek, Wyoming.--The segment within the Bridger-
Teton National Forest from the source downstream approximately 12 miles 
to the Gros Ventre Wilderness boundary, as generally depicted on the 
boundary map entitled `Crystal Creek Wild River' and dated January 
2003, which shall be administered by the Secretary of Agriculture as a 
wild river; and the segment from the end of the road downstream 
approximately 3 miles to the confluence with the Gros Ventre River, as 
generally depicted on the boundary map entitled `Crystal Creek Scenic 
River' and dated January 2003, which shall be administered by the 
Secretary of Agriculture as a scenic river.
    ``(220) Pacific Creek, Wyoming.--The segment within the Bridger-
Teton National Forest from the source downstream approximately 25 miles 
to the Teton Wilderness Boundary, as generally depicted on the boundary 
map entitled `Pacific Creek Wild River' and dated January 2003, which 
shall be administered by the Secretary of Agriculture as a wild river; 
and the segment from the wilderness boundary downstream approximately 8 
miles to the confluence with the Snake River, as generally depicted on 
the boundary map entitled `Pacific Creek Scenic River' and dated 
January 2003, which shall be administered by the Secretary of 
Agriculture as a scenic river.
    ``(221) Buffalo Fork, Wyoming.--The segment within the Bridger-
Teton National Forest upstream from Turpin Meadows for approximately 68 
miles, as generally depicted on the boundary map entitled `Buffalo Fork 
Wild River' and dated January 2003, which shall be administered by the 
Secretary of Agriculture as a wild river; and the segment from Turpin 
Meadows downstream approximately 16 miles to the boundary of Grand 
Teton National Park, as generally depicted on the boundary map entitled 
`Buffalo Fork Scenic River' and dated January 2003, which shall be 
administered by the Secretary of Agriculture as a scenic river.
    ``(222) Snake, Wyoming.--The segment within the Bridger-Teton 
National Forest from the source downstream approximately 7 miles to the 
boundary of Yellowstone National Park, as generally depicted on the 
boundary map entitled `Snake Wild River' and dated January 2003, which 
shall be administered by the Secretary of Agriculture as a wild river.
    ``(223) Thorofare, Wyoming.--The segment of the main stem within 
the Bridger-Teton National Forest from the source downstream 
approximately 25 miles to the confluence with the Yellowstone River, 
and the source of Open Creek downstream 10 miles to the confluence with 
the main stem, as generally depicted on the boundary map entitled 
`Thorofare Wild River' and dated January 2003, which shall be 
administered by the Secretary of Agriculture as a wild river.
    ``(224) Atlantic Creek, Wyoming.--The segment within the Bridger-
Teton National Forest from the Parting of the Waters downstream 
approximately 10 miles to the confluence with the Yellowstone River, as 
generally depicted on the boundary map entitled `Atlantic Creek Wild 
River' and dated January 2003, which shall be administered by the 
Secretary of Agriculture as a wild river.
    ``(225) Yellowstone, Wyoming.--The segment within the Bridger-Teton 
National Forest from the source downstream approximately 28 miles to 
the boundary of Yellowstone National Park, as generally depicted on the 
boundary map entitled `Yellowstone Wild River' and dated January 2003, 
which shall be administered by the Secretary of Agriculture as a wild 
river.
    ``(226) Yellowstone River, Wyoming and Montana.--The segment within 
the Gallatin National Forest and Yellowstone National Park from the 
southern boundary of Yellowstone National Park to the confluence with 
Yellowstone Lake, and from the Fishing Bridge downstream to the mouth 
of Yankee Jim Canyon comprising approximately 102 miles, as generally 
depicted on the boundary map entitled `Yellowstone Wild and Scenic 
River, and dated January 2003, which shall be administered by the 
Secretaries of the Interior and Agriculture as a wild river with the 
exception of the segment from the north boundary of Yellowstone 
National Park to the mouth of Yankee Jim Canyon, which shall be 
administered as a scenic river.''.

      TITLE IV--NATIONAL WILDLAND RESTORATION AND RECOVERY SYSTEM

SEC. 401. FINDINGS.

    The Congress makes the following findings:
            (1) Certain National Forest System lands and surrounding 
        areas have been damaged by unwise resource extraction and 
        development activities and practices, and the productive 
        potential of the lands and waters of these areas, including the 
        potential for the dispersal of species in response to climate 
        change, has been reduced by development activities.
            (2) Recovery activities are required to reverse severe 
        damage to native fish and wildlife populations and water 
        quality in these areas and to facilitate the dispersal of 
        species in response to climate change.
            (3) Recovery work associated with these areas will create 
        new job opportunities for local communities, assist in the 
        economic transition ongoing in the region, and contribute to 
        the economic sustainability of these rural areas by restoring 
        the productive capability of the land.

SEC. 402. DEFINITIONS.

    In this title:
            (1) Recovery.--The term ``recovery'' means the restoration 
        of lands damaged by land management activities to a natural 
        untrammeled condition and the restoration of the undeveloped 
        roadless character of such land.
            (2) Recovery system.--The term ``Recovery System'' means 
        the National Wildland Restoration and Recovery System.

SEC. 403. NATIONAL WILDLAND RESTORATION AND RECOVERY SYSTEM.

    (a) Establishment.--There is hereby established the National 
Wildland Restoration and Recovery System.
    (b) Components.--The following areas, consisting of a total of 
approximately 1,023,000 acres, as depicted on the maps dated January 
2003 and entitled ``National Wildland Restoration and Recovery Area'', 
are designated as wildland recovery areas and components of the 
National Wildland Recovery and Restoration System:
            (1) Skyland area, consisting of approximately 10,000 acres 
        administered by the Flathead National Forest.
            (2) Hungry Horse area (except Hungry Horse Dam and 
        Reservoir), consisting of approximately 205,000 acres 
        administered by the Flathead National Forest.
            (3) Lolo Creek area, consisting of approximately 59,000 
        acres administered by the Lolo or Clearwater National Forest.
            (4) Yellowstone West area, consisting of approximately 
        164,000 acres administered by the Caribou-Targhee National 
        Forest.
            (5) Mt. Leidy area, consisting of approximately 70,000 
        acres administered by the Bridger-Teton National Forest.
            (6) Cabinet/Yaak area, consisting of approximately 100,000 
        acres administered by the Kootenai National Forest.
            (7) Lightning Creek area, consisting of approximately 
        31,000 acres administered by the Panhandle National Forest.
            (8) Coeur d'Alene River area, consisting of approximately 
        372,000 acres administered by the Panhandle National Forest.
            (9) Magruder Corridor area, consisting of approximately 
        12,000 acres administered by the Nez Perce or Bitterroot 
        National Forest.

SEC. 404. MANAGEMENT OF RECOVERY SYSTEM.

    (a) Management During Recovery.--
            (1) Restoration.--All lands within the Recovery System 
        shall be managed so as to restore their native vegetative cover 
        and reduce or eliminate invasive non-native species, facilitate 
        native species diversity to the extent possible with climate 
        change, stabilize slopes and soils to prevent or reduce further 
        erosion, recontour slopes to their original contours, remove 
        barriers to natural fish spawning runs, and generally restore 
        such lands in their entirety to a natural roadless and wild 
        condition.
            (2) Water quality restoration.--In the management of the 
        Recovery System, special consideration shall be given to 
        restoration of water quality in the Recovery System.
            (3) Management methods.--Recovery System lands shall be 
        managed using methods such as road obliteration, planting of 
        trees and other vegetation native to the lands, and removal of 
        sediment from streambeds. Existing methods developed by the 
        Forest Service, the National Park Service, and other persons 
        shall be considered and, when appropriate, applied to the lands 
        within the Recovery System. To the extent practicable, the 
        Secretary of Agriculture shall carry out this section using 
        existing, available equipment. When renting or leasing heavy 
        equipment necessary for recovery efforts pursuant to this 
        section, the Secretary shall use, to the extent practicable, 
        experienced or qualified local contractors.
    (b) Post Recovery Management.--When recovery is achieved for a 
component of the Recovery System, the Forest Service shall evaluate the 
suitability of such component for inclusion in the National Wilderness 
Preservation System or for other uses consistent with the purposes of 
this Act. The Forest Service shall make a recommendation concerning the 
future management status of the component, and shall submit the 
recommendation and an evaluation to the Congress. The evaluation shall 
be conducted in the same manner as, and subject to the same 
requirements that apply to, the preparation of an environmental impact 
statement under section 102(2)(C) of the National Environmental Policy 
Act of 1969 (42 U.S.C. 4332(2)(C)). The evaluation shall include 
documentation of the component's values as wilderness and as wildlife 
habitat, its role in maintaining water quality and native biodiversity, 
its role in the forest reserve system, a list of alternative 
designations for the component consistent with the purposes of this 
Act, and a roadless inventory for the component. No provision of this 
subsection shall be construed to diminish the responsibilities of the 
Secretary of Agriculture with respect to land and resource management 
plans under section 6 of the Forest and Rangeland Renewable Resources 
Planning Act of 1974 (16 U.S.C. 1604).

SEC. 405. NATIONAL WILDLAND RECOVERY CORPS.

    (a) Establishment.--There is hereby established a special unit of 
the Forest Service, to be known as the National Wildland Recovery 
Corps. The National Wildland Recovery Corps shall hire the necessary 
personnel and purchase the necessary equipment to carry out its land 
recovery responsibilities under this title.
    (b) Recovery Plans.--Not later than three years after the date of 
the enactment of this Act, the National Wildland Recovery Corps shall 
develop a wildland recovery plan for each area of the Recovery System. 
Each recovery plan shall detail necessary work and funding requirements 
needed to implement the management direction established under section 
404. Each recovery plan shall take into account the specific conditions 
of an area in the Recovery System, including soil type, slope, native 
species composition, road densities, forest cover, the number of road 
crossings and culverts, and when possible, predevelopment conditions. 
Each recovery plan shall set forth definite timelines for expected 
recovery of the area to which the plan applies, including a list of 
management activities planned each year, with projected dates for 
recovery. Each recovery plan shall map out the portion, within the area 
of the Recovery System to which the plan applies, which will be 
recovered using active management efforts, as well as the portion of 
such area in which natural recovery will occur. Upon completion, a 
recovery plan shall become an amendment to the land and resource 
management plan for the unit of the National Forest System to which the 
plan applies.
    (c) Evaluation.--The National Wildland Recovery Corps shall use 
measurable criteria to judge the success of recovery efforts taken 
pursuant to this section. Such criteria shall include the results of 
sediment monitoring, reductions in open and total road densities, 
percent forest cover, increase in stream mileage available to native 
fish migrations, the results of hydrological measurements to determine 
water flow rates for key watersheds, and the abundance of management 
indicator species that are indicative of ecosystem health.

                 TITLE V--IMPLEMENTATION AND MONITORING

SEC. 501. IMPLEMENTATION REPORT.

    (a) Report Required.--Within three years after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Agriculture and the Secretary 
of the Interior shall jointly submit to the Committee on Energy and 
Natural Resources of the Senate and the Committee on Natural Resources 
of the House of Representatives a report that details the 
implementation of this Act. The report shall also detail any additional 
work and funding requirements necessary to achieve the purposes of this 
Act.
    (b) Preparation.--The report shall be produced by a panel of 
independent scientists appointed by the National Academy of Sciences, 
in consultation with the Society for Conservation Biology.

SEC. 502. INTERAGENCY TEAM.

    (a) Establishment.--The Secretary of Agriculture and Secretary of 
the Interior shall jointly establish an interagency team, containing 
equal numbers of participants from the public and private sectors, to 
monitor, evaluate, and make recommendations to ensure long-term results 
required by this Act.
    (b) Geographic Information System.--
            (1) Development.--The interagency team shall develop a 
        geographic information system for monitoring the Northern 
        Rockies Bioregion. The geographic information system shall be 
        based on satellite-gathered data and shall include 
        comprehensive maps and databases to assist in the detection of 
        changes in the Northern Rockies Bioregion.
            (2) Types of information.--The maps and databases included 
        in the geographic information system shall be updated 
        periodically to record the following:
                    (A) Vegetation cover (with species occurrence and 
                densities).
                    (B) Human impacts.
                    (C) Water and air quality.
                    (D) Activities that bear on forest husbandry and 
                restoration.
            (3) Status reports.--The geographic information system 
        shall include status reports on the progress of ecosystem 
        protection, corridor consolidation, and forest recovery efforts 
        and reports on the status of threatened and endangered species 
        which are primary indicators of ecosystem health.
    (c) Wildlife Movements.--The interagency team shall assess the 
potential for facilitating wildlife movements across or under major 
highways and rail lines within the biological corridors established in 
title II. This assessment shall identify major crossing points and 
identify possible management actions to enhance the suitability of such 
crossing points as movement corridors, including underpasses, 
overpasses, and other methods for reducing the danger to native 
wildlife while facilitating movements within the Northern Rockies 
Bioregion.

SEC. 503. ROADLESS LANDS EVALUATION.

    (a) Evaluation Required.--Roadless lands greater than 1,000 acres 
in size, that are located within the National Forest System in the Wild 
Rockies Bioregion in Idaho, Montana, Oregon, Washington, or Wyoming, 
and that are not designated as components of the National Wilderness 
Preservation System (under this Act or any other law) shall be 
identified and evaluated by the panel of independent scientists 
appointed under section 501. In identifying and evaluating these lands, 
the panel shall make use of existing satellite information and 
Geographic Information System data developed by the Forest Service, the 
Bureau of Land Management, and the United States Fish and Wildlife 
Service, in addition to other information sources. The panel shall 
study the role of such lands in maintaining biological diversity in the 
Northern Rockies and as part of the overall forest reserve system. The 
panel shall make recommendations regarding the management of the lands, 
and shall include the recommendations in the report required by section 
501.
    (b) Prohibition.--After completion of the evaluation required by 
subsection (a), until Congress enacts a law based upon the 
recommendations included in the report required by section 501, no new 
road construction or reconstruction, or timber harvest (except firewood 
gathering) shall be allowed in the lands described in subsection (a). 
In addition, subject to valid existing rights, no oil or gas leasing, 
mining, or other development which impairs the natural and roadless 
qualities of these lands shall be allowed on the lands.

SEC. 504. NATIVE AMERICAN USES.

    (a) Definition.--For purposes of this section and section 505, the 
term ``protected areas'' means land designated by this Act as 
wilderness, wildland recovery areas, wild and scenic rivers, and 
biological corridors.
    (b) Nonexclusive Access.--In recognition of the past use of 
portions of the protected areas by Native Americans for traditional 
cultural and religious purposes, the Secretary of Agriculture and the 
Secretary of the Interior shall ensure nonexclusive access to these 
protected areas by native people for such traditional cultural and 
religious purposes. Such access shall be consistent with the purpose 
and intent of Public Law 95-341 (42 U.S.C. 1996; commonly known as the 
American Indian Religious Freedom Act), and, in the case of land 
designated as wilderness by this Act, the Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 
1121 et seq.). The Secretaries, in accordance with such laws, upon 
request of an Indian tribe, may from time-to-time temporarily close to 
the general public use of one or more specific portions of these 
protected areas in order to protect the privacy of religious activities 
and cultural uses in such portions by an Indian people. As part of the 
preparation of general management plans for the protected areas, the 
Secretaries shall request that the chief executive officers of 
appropriate Indian tribes make recommendations with respect to assuring 
access to important sites, enhancing the privacy of traditional 
cultural and religious activities, and protecting cultural and 
religious sites.
    (c) Cooperative Agreement.--The Forest Service and Bureau of Land 
Management shall enter into cooperative management agreements with the 
appropriate Indian tribes to assure protection of religious, burial, 
and gathering sites in the protected areas, and shall work 
cooperatively on the management of all uses in the protected areas that 
impact Indian lands and people.

                    TITLE VI--RULES OF CONSTRUCTION

SEC. 601. WATER RIGHTS.

    Nothing in this Act may be construed as a relinquishment or 
reduction of any water rights reserved, appropriated, or otherwise 
secured by the United States in the State of Idaho, Montana, Wyoming, 
Oregon, or Washington on or before the date of enactment of this Act.

SEC. 602. INDIAN TRIBES.

    Nothing in this Act may be construed to affect or modify any treaty 
or other right of an Indian tribe.
                                 &lt;all&gt;
</pre></body></html>
