<html><body><pre>
[Congressional Bills 112th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H.R. 1388 Introduced in House (IH)]

112th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                H. R. 1388

 To reestablish a competitive domestic rare earths minerals production 
industry; a domestic rare earth processing, refining, purification, and 
   metals production industry; a domestic rare earth metals alloying 
 industry; and a domestic rare-earth-based magnet production industry 
 and supply chain in the Defense Logistics Agency of the Department of 
                                Defense.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                             April 6, 2011

   Mr. Coffman of Colorado (for himself, Mr. Peters, Mr. Latta, Mrs. 
Lummis, and Mrs. McMorris Rodgers) introduced the following bill; which 
was referred to the Committee on Science, Space, and Technology, and in 
addition to the Committees on Natural Resources and Armed Services, for 
a period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
consideration of such provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the 
                          committee concerned

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
 To reestablish a competitive domestic rare earths minerals production 
industry; a domestic rare earth processing, refining, purification, and 
   metals production industry; a domestic rare earth metals alloying 
 industry; and a domestic rare-earth-based magnet production industry 
 and supply chain in the Defense Logistics Agency of the Department of 
                                Defense.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE; TABLE OF CONTENTS.

    (a) Short Title.--This Act may be cited as the ``Rare Earths Supply 
Chain Technology and Resources Transformation Act of 2011'' or the 
``RESTART Act''.
    (b) Table of Contents.--The table of contents for this Act is as 
follows:

Sec. 1. Short title; table of contents.
Sec. 2. Findings.
Sec. 3. Actions to promote rare earth development.
Sec. 4. Requirement to establish executive agents for rare earth 
                            related matters.
Sec. 5. Rare earth materials loan guarantee program.
Sec. 6. Establishment of a rare earth alloy and magnet program.
Sec. 7. Rare earth materials program.
Sec. 8. Amendments to National Materials and Minerals Policy, Research 
                            and Development Act of 1980.
Sec. 9. Definitions.

SEC. 2. FINDINGS.

    Congress makes the following findings:
            (1) Significant quantities of rare earths are used in the 
        production of clean energy technologies, including advanced 
        automotive propulsion batteries, electric motors, high-
        efficiency light bulbs, solar panels, and wind turbines. These 
        technologies are used to advance the United States energy 
        policy of reducing dependence on foreign oil and decreasing 
        greenhouse gas emissions through expansion of cleaner sources 
        of energy.
            (2) Many modern defense technologies such as radar and 
        sonar systems, precision-guided weapons, cruise missiles, and 
        lasers cannot be built, as designed and specified, without the 
        use of rare earths and materials produced from them.
            (3) Rare earths also provide core functionality to a 
        variety of high technology applications in computing, pollution 
        abatement, power generation, water treatment, oil refining, 
        metal alloying, communications, health care, agriculture, and 
        other sectors.
            (4) Though at least 40 percent of the world's rare earth 
        reserves are located within the United States and its ally 
        nations, our country now depends upon imports for nearly 100 
        percent of its rare earth needs.
            (5) Furthermore, the United States has limited rare earth 
        production, remains nearly entirely dependent on overseas 
        refineries for further elemental and alloy processing, and does 
        not currently maintain a ``strategic reserve'' of rare earth 
        compounds, metals, or alloys.
            (6) By way of contrast, more than 97 percent of all rare 
        earths for world consumption is produced in China. The 
        ability--and willingness--of China to export these rare earths 
        is eroding due to its growing domestic demand, its enforcement 
        of environmental law on current producers, and its mandate to 
        consolidate the industry by decreasing its number of mining 
        permits. In fact, China has taken several steps recently that 
        have caused significant market perturbations.
            (7) For example, the Chinese Ministry of Industry and 
        Information Technology draft rare earths plan for 2009 to 2015 
        proposed an immediate ban on the export of dysprosium, terbium, 
        thulium, lutetium, and yttrium, the so-called ``heavy'' rare 
        earths, and a restriction on the exports of all other, light, 
        rare earth metals to a level well below that sufficient to 
        satisfy the 2008 demand of Japan alone for such metals.
            (8) More recently, in July 2010, China decreased their 
        export quota allocations on rare earth oxides and metals by 
        over 70 percent, causing price increases of threefold to 
        eightfold and causing supply shortages of some materials.
            (9) In September 2010, the Chinese Government reportedly 
        restricted export of all rare earth oxide and metal to Japan 
        over a diplomatic incident.
            (10) Most recently, in October 2010, the Chinese Government 
        reportedly restricted export of all rare earth oxide and metal 
        to the United States and Europe, essentially cutting off the 
        global community from supplies of rare earth material.
            (11) Given that Chinese dominance of the rare earths market 
        has adversely impacted the supply stability and endangers the 
        United States and its allies' assured access to key materials, 
        rare earths should qualify as materials either strategic or 
        critical to national security. As such, there is an urgent need 
        to identify the current global market situation regarding rare 
        earth materials, the strategic value placed on them by foreign 
        nations including China, and the Department of Defense's and 
        domestic manufacturing industry's supply-chain vulnerability 
        related to rare earths and end items containing rare earths 
        such as neodymium iron boron and other specialty magnets, and 
        rare earth ``doped'' lasers.
            (12) The United States Government should facilitate the 
        reintroduction of a globally competitive non-Chinese rare earth 
        industry with multiple sources of mining, processing, alloying, 
        and manufacturing.
            (13) This self-sufficiency requires an uninterrupted supply 
        of strategic materials critical to national security and 
        innovative commercial product development, including rare 
        earths, to support the clean energy and defense supply chains.
            (14) The United States currently cannot reclaim valuable 
        rare earths and permanent magnets and such capability should be 
        explored using appropriate research and development projects.

SEC. 3. ACTIONS TO PROMOTE RARE EARTH DEVELOPMENT.

    (a) Sense of Congress.--It is the sense of Congress that the United 
States should take any and all actions necessary to ensure the 
reintroduction of a competitive domestic and ally nation rare earth 
supply chain, to include the reintroduction of the capacity to conduct 
mining, refining/processing, alloying and manufacturing operations 
using domestic and ally nation suppliers to provide a secure source of 
rare earth materials as a vital component of national security and 
economic policy.
    (b) Policy.--Each Federal agency shall take appropriate actions, to 
the extent consistent with applicable law, to expedite permitting and 
projects that will increase exploration for, and development of, 
domestic rare earths.
    (c) Rare Earth Policy Task Force.--
            (1) Establishment.--There is established within the 
        Department of the Interior a task force to be known as the 
        ``Rare Earth Policy Task Force'' (referred to in this section 
        as the ``Task Force''), which shall report to the President 
        through the Secretary of the Interior.
            (2) Composition.--The Task Force shall be composed of the 
        following:
                    (A) The Secretary of the Interior (or a designee of 
                such Secretary), who shall serve as chair of the Task 
                Force.
                    (B) The Secretary of Energy (or a designee of such 
                Secretary).
                    (C) The Secretary of Agriculture (or a designee of 
                such Secretary).
                    (D) The Secretary of Defense (or a designee of such 
                Secretary).
                    (E) The Secretary of Commerce (or a designee of 
                such Secretary).
                    (F) The Secretary of State (or a designee of such 
                Secretary).
                    (G) The Director of the Office of Management and 
                Budget (or a designee of the Director).
                    (H) The Chairman of the Council on Environmental 
                Quality (or a designee of the Chairman).
                    (I) Such other members as the Secretary of the 
                Interior considers appropriate.
    (d) Duties.--The Task Force shall--
            (1) monitor and assist Federal agencies in expediting the 
        review and approval of permits or other actions, as necessary, 
        to accelerate the completion of projects that will increase 
        investment in, exploration for, and development of domestic 
        rare earths pursuant to the Federal Land Policy and Management 
        Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.), the Act of June 4, 1897 
        (commonly known as the ``Organic Act of 1897'' (16 U.S.C. 473-
        482, 551), the National Forest Management Act of 1976 (16 
        U.S.C. 1600 et seq.), and any other applicable statutory 
        authorities related to domestic mining operations;
            (2) assist Federal agencies in reviewing laws (including 
        regulations) and policies that discourage investment in, 
        exploration for, and development of domestic rare earths 
        pursuant to Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 1976, the 
        Act of June 4, 1897, the National Forest Management Act of 
        1976, and any other applicable statutory authorities related to 
        domestic mining operations; and
            (3) take such other actions to otherwise increase 
        investment in, exploration for, and development of domestic 
        rare earths as the Task Force considers appropriate.
    (e) Annual Reports.--At least once each year, the Task Force shall 
submit to the President, the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources 
of the Senate, the Committee on Energy and Commerce of the House of 
Representatives, and the Committee on Natural Resources of the House of 
Representatives a report setting forth the following:
            (1) A description of the results of the coordinated and 
        expedited review of permits or other actions to promote 
        investment in, exploration for, and development of domestic 
        rare earths, and an identification of the procedures and 
        actions that have proven to be the most useful and appropriate 
        in coordinating and expediting the review of projects that will 
        increase investment in, exploration for, and development of 
        domestic rare earths.
            (2) An identification of the substantive and procedural 
        requirements of Federal, State, tribal, and local laws 
        (including regulations) and Executive orders that are 
        inconsistent with, duplicative of, or structured so as to 
        restrict effective implementation of the projects described in 
        paragraph (1).
            (3) Such recommendations as the Task Force considers 
        appropriate to advance the policy set forth in subsection (b).
    (f) Termination.--The Task Force shall terminate 10 years after the 
date of the enactment of this Act.
    (g) Judicial Review.--
            (1) In general.--Nothing in this section shall be construed 
        to affect any judicial review of an agency action under any 
        other provision of law.
            (2) Construction.--This section--
                    (A) is intended to improve the internal management 
                of the Federal Government; and
                    (B) does not create any right or benefit, 
                substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or equity 
                by a party against the United States (including an 
                agency, instrumentality, officer, or employee of the 
                United States) or any other person.

SEC. 4. REQUIREMENT TO ESTABLISH EXECUTIVE AGENTS FOR RARE EARTH 
              RELATED MATTERS.

    No later than 30 days after the enactment of this Act the 
Secretaries of Commerce, Defense, Energy, the Interior, and State shall 
each appoint an Executive Agent, at the Assistant Secretary level of 
each affected agency, to serve as a representative on an interagency 
working group for the purposes of reestablishing a competitive domestic 
rare earth supply chain.

SEC. 5. RARE EARTH MATERIALS LOAN GUARANTEE PROGRAM.

    (a) Amendment.--Title XVII of the Energy Policy Act of 2005 (42 
U.S.C. 16511 et seq.) is amended by adding at the end the following new 
section:

``SEC. 1706. TEMPORARY PROGRAM FOR RARE EARTH MATERIALS REVITALIZATION.

    ``(a) In General.--The Secretary is authorized, only to the extent 
provided in advance in a subsequent appropriations act, to make 
guarantees under this title for the commercial application of new or 
significantly improved technologies (compared to technologies currently 
in use in the United States at the time the guarantee is issued) for 
the following categories of projects:
            ``(1) The separation and recovery of rare earth materials 
        from ores or other sources.
            ``(2) The preparation of rare earth materials in oxide, 
        metal, alloy, or other forms needed for national security, 
        economic well-being, or industrial production purposes.
            ``(3) The application of rare earth materials in the 
        production of improved--
                    ``(A) magnets;
                    ``(B) batteries;
                    ``(C) refrigeration systems;
                    ``(D) optical systems;
                    ``(E) electronics; and
                    ``(F) catalysis.
            ``(4) The application of rare earth materials in other 
        uses, as determined by the Secretary.
    ``(b) Timeliness.--The Secretary shall seek to minimize delay in 
approving loan guarantee applications, consistent with appropriate 
protection of taxpayer interests.
    ``(c) Cooperation.--To the maximum extent practicable, the 
Secretary shall cooperate with appropriate private sector participants 
to achieve a complete rare earth materials production capability in the 
United States or ally nations within 5 years after the date of 
enactment of the Rare Earths Supply Chain Technology and Resources 
Transformation Act of 2011.
    ``(d) Limitation.--The Secretary is authorized to make a guarantee 
for a project under this section only if the project, due to technical 
or financial uncertainly, is not--
            ``(1) currently being undertaken by the private sector; or
            ``(2) likely to be undertaken by the private sector.
    ``(e) Sunset.--The authority to enter into guarantees under this 
section shall expire on September 30, 2015.''.
    (b) Table of Contents Amendment.--The table of contents of the 
Energy Policy Act of 2005 is amended by inserting after the item 
relating to section 1705 the following new item:

``Sec. 1706. Temporary program for rare earth materials 
                            revitalization.''.

SEC. 6. ESTABLISHMENT OF A RARE EARTH ALLOY AND MAGNET PROGRAM.

    (a) Findings.--Congress finds the following:
            (1) While the capability to produce rare earth materials, 
        including neodymium iron boron magnets (in this subsection 
        referred to as ``neo magnets''), is the backbone of the defense 
        supply chain, the United States lacks sufficient capability to 
        produce such materials.
            (2) Sintered neo magnets are irreplaceable components of 
        critical military equipment, ranging from precision guided 
        munitions to stealth technology to electric drive ship 
        programs, and they allow systems within aircraft, tanks and 
        other vehicles, missile systems, and command and control 
        centers to withstand vibration, impact, and G-forces.
            (3) Yet despite the essential nature of these magnets to 
        United States national security, the United States is 
        completely reliant on unreliable foreign sources that are 
        subject to interruption and disruption, based on actions or 
        events outside the control of the Federal Government.
            (4) In addition, industry officials have noted that it will 
        take 3 to 5 years to develop a domestic neo magnet 
        manufacturing capability for the commercial market.
            (5) In light of these facts, there is a clear national 
        security imperative to lay the groundwork immediately for 
        developing a supply chain in the United States that allows for 
        ready access to neodymium iron boron magnet alloys, dysprosium 
        iron alloys, and sintered neodymium iron boron magnets.
    (b) Requirement To Establish an Inventory.--
            (1) Establishment.--In accordance with section 15 of the 
        Strategic and Critical Materials Stock Piling Act (50 U.S.C. 
        98h-6), using funds from the sale of excess materials in the 
        National Defense Stockpile, the President, acting through the 
        Secretary of Defense, shall establish a neodymium iron boron 
        magnet alloy and dysprosium iron alloy inventory to be managed 
        by the Administrator of the Defense Logistics Agency Strategic 
        Materials.
            (2) Sustaining the inventory.--In carrying out paragraph 
        (1), not later than one year after the date of the enactment of 
        this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall--
                    (A) commence creating an inventory of domestic or 
                ally nation neodymium iron boron magnet alloys and 
                dysprosium iron alloys; and
                    (B) make such inventory accessible, including by 
                purchase, to producers of domestic neodymium iron boron 
                magnets, the Defense Logistics Agency of the Department 
                of Defense, or other entities requiring such material 
                to support national defense requirements.
            (3) Amount of materials.--
                    (A) Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
                enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall 
                determine the amount of neodymium iron boron magnet 
                alloys and dysprosium iron alloys required for the 
                inventory established under paragraph (1).
                    (B) In making the determination regarding neodymium 
                iron boron magnet alloys and dysprosium iron alloys 
                under subparagraph (A), the Secretary of Defense shall 
                determine--
                            (i) the aggregate demand for such magnets 
                        for national defense purposes; and
                            (ii) domestic and ally nation sources 
                        considered by the Secretary to be reliable, 
                        including an analysis of the viability of such 
                        sources for the near-term production of 
                        military-specific sintered neodymium iron boron 
                        magnet alloys and magnets.
                    (C) If the Secretary of Defense cannot determine 
                the aggregate demand for neodymium iron boron magnet 
                alloys and dysprosium iron alloys under subparagraph 
                (B)(i), the Secretary shall establish an inventory of 
                not less than 200 metric tons of neodymium iron boron 
                magnet alloy and 50 metric tons of dysprosium iron 
                alloy.
    (c) Requirement To Encourage a Domestic Manufacturing Capability.--
            (1) Encouragement.--In accordance with section 15 of the 
        Strategic and Critical Materials Stock Piling Act (50 U.S.C. 
        98h-6), not later than one year after the date of the enactment 
        of this Act, the President, acting through the Secretary of 
        Defense, shall encourage the development of a domestic 
        neodymium iron boron magnet manufacturing capability by seeking 
        to enter into long-term supply contracts for the delivery of 
        necessary grades of domestic neodymium iron boron magnets to 
        meet the demand of the Department of Defense.
            (2) Requirements.--In carrying out paragraph (1), the 
        Secretary of Defense shall--
                    (A) identify one or more reliable producers, 
                potential producers, or past producers of sintered 
                neodymium iron boron magnets and seek to enter into a 
                long-term supply contract with such producer of such 
                magnets to support the national defense needs of the 
                United States;
                    (B) ensure that a sintered neodymium iron boron 
                magnet producer who is awarded any such long-term 
                contract establishes manufacturing capability for only 
                military-use magnets for sale to the National Defense 
                Stockpile;
                    (C) include all appropriate language in any such 
                contract to indemnify the producers regarding 
                intellectual property issues; and
                    (D) require the Administrator of the Defense 
                Logistics Agency Strategic Materials to make available 
                such magnets for purchase by Federal Government 
                contractors until the date on which the Secretary 
                determines that an alternate qualified domestic 
                supplier of sintered neodymium iron boron magnets 
                exists.
    (d) Termination.--The authority under subsection (b) and the 
authority to enter into a long-term supply contract under subsection 
(c) shall terminate on the earlier of the following dates:
            (1) The date on which the Secretary of Defense determines 
        that an alternate qualified domestic supplier of neodymium iron 
        boron magnet alloy and dysprosium iron alloy exists.
            (2) October 1, 2018.

SEC. 7. RARE EARTH MATERIALS PROGRAM.

    (a) In General.--There is established in the United States 
Geological Survey a program of research, development, demonstration, 
and commercial application to ensure the long-term, secure, and 
sustainable supply of rare earth materials sufficient to satisfy the 
national security, economic well-being, and industrial production needs 
of the United States.
    (b) Program Activities.--The program described in subsection (a) 
shall support activities to--
            (1) better characterize and quantify virgin stocks of rare 
        earth materials using theoretical geochemical research;
            (2) explore, discover, and recover rare earth materials 
        using advanced science and technology;
            (3) improve methods for the extraction, processing, use, 
        recovery, and recycling of rare earth materials;
            (4) improve the understanding of the performance, 
        processing, and adaptability in engineering designs of rare 
        earth materials;
            (5) identify and test alternative materials that can be 
        substituted for rare earth materials in particular 
        applications;
            (6) engineer and test applications that--
                    (A) use recycled rare earth materials;
                    (B) use alternative materials; or
                    (C) seek to minimize rare earth materials content;
            (7) collect, catalogue, archive, and disseminate 
        information on rare earth materials, including scientific and 
        technical data generated by the research and development 
        activities supported under this section, and assist scientists 
        and engineers in making the fullest possible use of the data 
        holdings; and
            (8) facilitate information sharing and collaboration among 
        program participants and stakeholders.
    (c) Improved Processes and Technologies.--To the maximum extent 
practicable, the Secretary of the Interior shall support new or 
significantly improved processes and technologies as compared to those 
currently in use in the rare earth materials industry.
    (d) Expanding Participation.--The Secretary of the Interior shall 
encourage--
            (1) multidisciplinary collaborations among program 
        participants; and
            (2) extensive opportunities for students at institutions of 
        higher education, including institutions listed under section 
        371(a) of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 
        1067q(a)).
    (e) Consistency.--The program shall be consistent with the policies 
and programs in the National Materials and Minerals Policy, Research 
and Development Act of 1980 (30 U.S.C. 1601 et seq.).
    (f) International Collaboration.--In carrying out the program, the 
Secretary of the Interior may collaborate, to the extent practicable, 
on activities of mutual interest with the relevant agencies of foreign 
countries with interests relating to rare earth materials.
    (g) Plan.--
            (1) In general.--Within 180 days after the date of 
        enactment of this Act and biennially thereafter, the Secretary 
        of the Interior shall prepare and submit to the appropriate 
        congressional committees a plan to carry out the program 
        established under subsection (a).
            (2) Specific requirements.--The plan shall include a 
        description of--
                    (A) the research and development activities to be 
                carried out by the program during the subsequent 2 
                years;
                    (B) the expected contributions of the program to 
                the creation of innovative methods and technologies for 
                the efficient and sustainable provision of rare earth 
                materials to the domestic economy;
                    (C) how the program is promoting the broadest 
                possible participation by academic, industrial, and 
                other contributors; and
                    (D) actions taken or proposed that reflect 
                recommendations from the assessment conducted under 
                subsection (h) or the Secretary's rationale for not 
                taking action pursuant to any recommendation from such 
                assessment for plans submitted following the completion 
                of the assessment under such subsection.
            (3) Consultation.--In preparing each plan under paragraph 
        (1), the Secretary of the Interior shall consult with 
        appropriate representatives of industry, institutions of higher 
        education, Department of Energy national laboratories, 
        professional and technical societies, and other entities, as 
        determined by the Secretary.

SEC. 8. AMENDMENTS TO NATIONAL MATERIALS AND MINERALS POLICY, RESEARCH 
              AND DEVELOPMENT ACT OF 1980.

    (a) Program Plan.--Section 5 of the National Materials and Minerals 
Policy, Research and Development Act of 1980 (30 U.S.C. 1604) is 
amended--
            (1) by striking ``date of enactment of this Act'' each 
        place it appears and inserting ``date of enactment of the Rare 
        Earths Supply Chain Technology and Resources Transformation Act 
        of 2011'';
            (2) in subsection (b), by striking ``Federal Coordinating 
        Council for Science, Engineering, and Technology'' and 
        inserting ``National Science and Technology Council,'';
            (3) in subsection (c)--
                    (A) by striking ``the Federal Emergency'' and all 
                that follows through ``Agency, and'';
                    (B) by striking ``appropriate shall'' and inserting 
                ``appropriate, shall'';
                    (C) by striking paragraph (1);
                    (D) in paragraph (2), by striking ``in the case'' 
                and all that follows through ``subsection,'';
                    (E) by redesignating paragraph (2) as paragraph 
                (1); and
                    (F) by striking paragraph (3) and inserting the 
                following:
            ``(2) assess the adequacy, accessibility, and stability of 
        the supply of materials necessary to maintain national 
        security, economic well-being, and industrial production.'';
            (4) by striking subsections (d) and (e); and
            (5) by redesignating subsection (f) as subsection (d).
    (b) Policy.--Section 3 of such Act (30 U.S.C. 1602) is amended--
            (1) by striking ``The Congress declares that it'' and 
        inserting ``It''; and
            (2) by striking ``The Congress further declares that 
        implementation'' and inserting ``Implementation''.
    (c) Implementation.--Section 4 of such Act (30 U.S.C. 1603) is 
amended--
            (1) by striking ``For the purpose'' and all that follows 
        through ``declares that the'' and inserting ``The''; and
            (2) by striking ``departments and agencies,'' and inserting 
        ``departments and agencies to implement the policies set forth 
        in section 3''.

SEC. 9. DEFINITIONS.

    In this Act:
            (1) Alloy.--The terms ``alloy'' means a partial or complete 
        solid solution of one or more elements in a metallic matrix.
            (2) Alloying.--The term ``alloying'' means the melting of 
        metal to create a metallic matrix.
            (3) Appropriate congressional committees.--The term 
        ``appropriate congressional committees'' means the Committee on 
        Natural Resources of the House of Representatives and the 
        Committee Energy and Natural Resources of the Senate.
            (4) Process.--The term ``process'', in the case of a rare 
        earth oxide, means the conversion of the oxide into usable rare 
        earth metals and specialty alloys and powders for domestic 
        magnet and other manufacturing.
            (5) Rare earth.--The term ``rare earth'' means any of the 
        following chemical elements in any of their physical forms or 
        chemical combinations:
                    (A) Scandium.
                    (B) Yttrium.
                    (C) Lanthanum.
                    (D) Cerium.
                    (E) Praseodymium.
                    (F) Neodymium.
                    (G) Promethium.
                    (H) Samarium.
                    (I) Europium.
                    (J) Gadolinium.
                    (K) Terbium.
                    (L) Dysprosium.
                    (M) Holmium.
                    (N) Erbium.
                    (O) Thulium.
                    (P) Ytterbium.
                    (Q) Lutetium.
                                 &lt;all&gt;
</pre></body></html>
