<html><body><pre>
[Congressional Bills 115th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[S. 3799 Introduced in Senate (IS)]

&lt;DOC&gt;






115th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                S. 3799

    To authorize the programs of the National Aeronautics and Space 
                Administration, and for other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                   IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

                           December 19, 2018

   Mr. Cruz (for himself, Mr. Nelson, Mr. Markey, Mr. Rubio, and Mr. 
    Cornyn) introduced the following bill; which was read twice and 
   referred to the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
    To authorize the programs of the National Aeronautics and Space 
                Administration, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE; TABLE OF CONTENTS.

    (a) Short Title.--This Act may be cited as the ``National 
Aeronautics and Space Administration Authorization Act of 2018''.
    (b) Table of Contents.--The table of contents of this Act is as 
follows:

Sec. 1. Short title; table of contents.
Sec. 2. Definitions.
                TITLE I--AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS

Sec. 101. Fiscal year 2019.
              TITLE II--HUMAN SPACE FLIGHT AND EXPLORATION

Sec. 201. Value of ISS and capabilities in low-Earth orbit.
Sec. 202. Continuation of the ISS.
Sec. 203. Review of and report on DOD activities on the ISS.
Sec. 204. Low-Earth orbit commercialization.
Sec. 205. Low-Earth orbit commercialization program.
Sec. 206. Stepping stone approach to exploration.
Sec. 207. Space Launch System configurations.
Sec. 208. Advanced space suits.
Sec. 209. Acquisition of space transportation services.
Sec. 210. 21st century space launch infrastructure.
Sec. 211. Indian River Bridge.
Sec. 212. ISS national laboratory; property rights in inventions.
Sec. 213. Data first produced during non-NASA scientific utilization of 
                            the ISS national laboratory.
Sec. 214. Royalties and other payments received for designated 
                            activities.
                           TITLE III--SCIENCE

Sec. 301. Science priorities.
Sec. 302. Lunar discovery program.
Sec. 303. Search for life.
Sec. 304. James Webb Space Telescope.
Sec. 305. Wide-Field Infrared Survey Telescope.
Sec. 306. Sense of Congress regarding small satellite science.
Sec. 307. Study on satellite servicing for science missions.
Sec. 308. Earth science.
                         TITLE IV--AERONAUTICS

Sec. 401. Short title.
Sec. 402. Definitions.
Sec. 403. Experimental aircraft projects.
Sec. 404. On-demand air transportation.
Sec. 405. Unmanned aircraft systems.
Sec. 406. 21st Century Aeronautics Research Capabilities Initiative.
Sec. 407. Hypersonic technology research projects.
                       TITLE V--SPACE TECHNOLOGY

Sec. 501. Space Technology Mission Directorate.
Sec. 502. Flight opportunities program.
                       TITLE VI--STEM ENGAGEMENT

Sec. 601. Sense of Congress.
Sec. 602. STEM engagement activities.
                        TITLE VII--MISCELLANEOUS

Sec. 701. Protect certain technical data from public disclosure.
Sec. 702. Protecting certain voluntarily provided, safety-related 
                            information from public disclosure.
Sec. 703. Small satellite launch services program.
Sec. 704. Limitations on cooperation with the People's Republic of 
                            China.
Sec. 705. Cybersecurity.

SEC. 2. DEFINITIONS.

    In this Act:
            (1) Administration.--The term ``Administration'' means the 
        National Aeronautics and Space Administration.
            (2) Administrator.--The term ``Administrator'' means the 
        Administrator of the National Aeronautics and Space 
        Administration.
            (3) Appropriate committees of congress.--Except as 
        otherwise expressly provided, the term ``appropriate committees 
        of Congress'' means--
                    (A) the Committee on Commerce, Science, and 
                Transportation of the Senate; and
                    (B) the Committee on Science, Space, and Technology 
                of the House of Representatives.
            (4) Cis-lunar space.--The term ``cis-lunar space'' means 
        the region of space beyond low-Earth orbit out to and including 
        the region around the surface of the Moon.
            (5) Deep space.--The term ``deep space'' means the region 
        of space beyond low-Earth orbit, to include cis-lunar space.
            (6) ISS.--The term ``ISS'' means the International Space 
        Station.
            (7) ISS management entity.--The term ``ISS management 
        entity'' means the organization with which the Administrator 
        has a cooperative agreement under section 504(a) of the 
        National Aeronautics and Space Administration Authorization Act 
        of 2010 (42 U.S.C. 18354(a)).
            (8) NASA.--The term ``NASA'' means the National Aeronautics 
        and Space Administration.
            (9) OSTP.--The term ``OSTP'' means the Office of Science 
        and Technology Policy.

                TITLE I--AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS

SEC. 101. FISCAL YEAR 2019.

    There are authorized to be appropriated to NASA for fiscal year 
2019, $21,545,740,000, as follows:
            (1) For Exploration, $5,338,700,000.
            (2) For Space Operations, $4,639,100,000.
            (3) For Science, $6,400,300,000.
            (4) For Aeronautics, $725,000,000.
            (5) For Space Technology, $1,002,700,000.
            (6) For Education, $100,000,000.
            (7) For Safety, Security, and Mission Services, 
        $2,850,000,000.
            (8) For Construction and Environmental Compliance and 
        Restoration, $450,640,000.
            (9) For Inspector General, $39,300,000.

              TITLE II--HUMAN SPACE FLIGHT AND EXPLORATION

SEC. 201. VALUE OF ISS AND CAPABILITIES IN LOW-EARTH ORBIT.

    (a) Sense of Congress.--It is the sense of Congress that--
            (1) it is in the national and economic security interests 
        of the United States to maintain a continuous human presence in 
        low-Earth orbit; and
            (2) low-Earth orbit should be utilized as a testbed to 
        advance human space exploration and scientific discoveries.
    (b) Human Presence Requirement.--NASA shall continuously maintain 
the capability for a continuous human presence in low-Earth orbit 
through and beyond the useful life of the ISS.

SEC. 202. CONTINUATION OF THE ISS.

    (a) Continuation of the ISS.--Section 501(a) of the National 
Aeronautics and Space Administration Authorization Act of 2010 (42 
U.S.C. 18351(a)) is amended by striking ``2024'' and inserting 
``2030''.
    (b) Maintenance of the United States Segment and Assurance of 
Continued Operations of the ISS.--Section 503(a) of the National 
Aeronautics and Space Administration Authorization Act of 2010 (42 
U.S.C. 18353(a)) is amended by striking ``2024'' and inserting 
``2030''.
    (c) Research Capacity Allocation and Integration of Research 
Payloads.--Section 504(d) of the National Aeronautics and Space 
Administration Authorization Act of 2010 (42 U.S.C. 18354(d)) is 
amended--
            (1) in paragraph (1)--
                    (A) by striking ``As soon as practicable after the 
                date of the enactment of this Act, but not later than 
                October 1, 2011,'' and inserting ``The''; and
                    (B) by striking ``2024'' and inserting ``2030''; 
                and
            (2) in paragraph (2), by striking ``2024'' and inserting 
        ``2030''.
    (d) Maintaining Use Through at Least 2030.--Section 70907 of title 
51, United States Code, is amended--
            (1) in the heading, by striking ``2024'' and inserting 
        ``2030''; and
            (2) in subsections (a) and (b)(3), by striking ``2024'' and 
        inserting ``2030''.
    (e) ISS Transition Plan.--Section 50111(c)(2) of title 51, United 
States Code--
            (1) in the matter preceding subparagraph (A), by striking 
        ``2023'' and inserting ``2028''; and
            (2) in subparagraph (J), by striking ``2028'' and inserting 
        ``2030''.

SEC. 203. REVIEW OF AND REPORT ON DOD ACTIVITIES ON THE ISS.

    (a) In General.--Not later than March 1, 2019, the Secretary of 
Defense shall--
            (1) identify and review each activity, program, and project 
        of the Department of Defense completed, being carried out, or 
        planned to be carried out on the ISS as of the date of the 
        review; and
            (2) submit to the appropriate committees of Congress a 
        report that describes the results of the review under paragraph 
        (1).
    (b) Appropriate Committees of Congress Defined.--In this section, 
the term ``appropriate committees of Congress'' includes--
            (1) the Committee on Armed Services of the Senate;
            (2) the Committee on Armed Services of the House of 
        Representatives; and
            (3) the Committee on Energy and Commerce of the House of 
        Representatives.

SEC. 204. LOW-EARTH ORBIT COMMERCIALIZATION.

    (a) Policy.--It is the policy of the United States to encourage the 
development of a healthy and robust United States commercial sector in 
low-Earth orbit.
    (b) Preference for United States Commercial Products and 
Services.--The Administrator shall continue to increase the usage of 
assets, products, and services of the private sector of the United 
States to fulfill the requirements of the Administration.
    (c) Noncompetition.--The Administrator may not offer a space flight 
product or service related to the ISS to a foreign person or foreign 
government, except a signatory government to the Intergovernmental 
Agreement Concerning Cooperation on the Civil International Space 
Station, signed at Washington January 29, 1998 (TIAS 12927), if the 
space flight product or service, as applicable, would compete with a 
commercial space flight product or service offered by the private 
sector of the United States.

SEC. 205. LOW-EARTH ORBIT COMMERCIALIZATION PROGRAM.

    (a) Program Authorization.--The Administrator may establish a low-
Earth orbit commercialization program to encourage the fullest 
commercial use and development of space by the private sector of the 
United States.
    (b) Contents.--The program under subsection (a) may include--
            (1) activities to stimulate demand for human space flight 
        products and services in low-Earth orbit;
            (2) activities to improve the capability of the ISS to 
        accommodate commercial users; and
            (3) subject to subsection (c), activities to accelerate the 
        development of commercial space stations or commercial space 
        habitats.
    (c) Conditions.--
            (1) Cost share.--The Administration shall give priority to 
        each activity under subsection (b)(3) in which the private 
        sector entity conducting the activity provides a share of the 
        costs to develop and operate the activity.
            (2) Commercial space habitat.--The Administration may not 
        engage in an activity under subsection (b)(3) until after the 
        date that the Administrator awards a contract for the use of a 
        docking port on the ISS.
    (d) Reports.--Not later than 30 days after the date that an award 
or agreement is made under subsection (b)(3), the Administrator shall 
submit to the appropriate committees of Congress a report on the 
development of the commercial space station or commercial space 
habitat, as applicable, including a business plan for how the activity 
will--
            (1) meet NASA's future requirements for low-Earth orbit 
        human space flight services; and
            (2) satisfy the non-Federal funding requirement under 
        subsection (c)(1).

SEC. 206. STEPPING STONE APPROACH TO EXPLORATION.

    (a) In General.--Section 70504 of title 51, United States Code, is 
amended to read as follows:
``Sec. 70504. Stepping stone approach to exploration
    ``(a) In General.--The Administrator may conduct missions to 
intermediate destinations in sustainable steps in accordance with 
section 20302(b) of this title, and on a timetable determined by the 
availability of funding, in order to achieve the objective of human 
exploration of Mars specified in section 202(b)(5) of the National 
Aeronautics and Space Administration Authorization Act of 2010 (42 
U.S.C. 18312(b)(5)), if the Administrator--
            ``(1) determines that each such mission demonstrates or 
        advances a technology or operational concept that will enable 
        human missions to Mars; and
            ``(2) incorporates each such mission into the human 
        exploration roadmap under section 432 of the National 
        Aeronautics and Space Administration Transition Authorization 
        Act of 2017 (Public Law 115-10; 131 Stat. 18).
    ``(b) Cis-Lunar Space Exploration Activities.--In conducting a 
mission under subsection (a), the Administrator--
            ``(1) shall utilize a mix of launches of the Space Launch 
        System and space transportation services from United States 
        commercial providers, as appropriate for the mission;
            ``(2) beginning after the first successful crewed launch of 
        Orion on the Space Launch System, shall plan for not less than 
        1 Space Launch System launch annually; and
            ``(3) may establish an outpost in orbit around the Moon 
        that--
                    ``(A) demonstrates technologies, systems, and 
                operational concepts directly applicable to the space 
                vehicle that will be used to transport humans to Mars;
                    ``(B) has the capability for periodic human 
                habitation; and
                    ``(C) can function as a point of departure, return, 
                or staging for NASA, commercial, or international 
                partner missions to the lunar surface or other 
                destinations.
    ``(c) Cost-Effectiveness.--In order to maximize the cost-
effectiveness of the long-term space exploration and utilization 
activities of the United States, the Administrator shall take all 
necessary steps, including engaging international, academic, and 
industry partners, to ensure that activities in the Administration's 
human space exploration program balance how those activities might also 
help meet the requirements of future exploration and utilization 
activities leading to human habitation on the surface of Mars.
    ``(d) Completion.--Within budgetary considerations, once an 
exploration-related project enters its development phase, the 
Administrator shall seek, to the maximum extent practicable, to 
complete that project without undue delays.
    ``(e) International Participation.--In order to achieve the goal of 
successfully conducting a crewed mission to the surface of Mars, the 
President may invite the United States partners in the ISS program and 
other nations, as appropriate, to participate in an international 
initiative under the leadership of the United States.''.
    (b) Definition of Cis-Lunar Space.--Section 10101 of title 51, 
United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following:
            ``(3) Cis-lunar space.--The term `cis-lunar space' means 
        the region of space beyond low-Earth orbit out to and including 
        the region around the surface of the Moon.''.
    (c) Technical and Conforming Amendments.--Section 3 of the National 
Aeronautics and Space Administration Authorization Act of 2010 (42 
U.S.C. 18302) is amended by striking paragraphs (2) and (3) and 
inserting the following:
            ``(2) Appropriate committees of congress.--The term 
        `appropriate committees of Congress' means--
                    ``(A) the Committee on Commerce, Science, and 
                Transportation of the Senate; and
                    ``(B) the Committee on Science, Space, and 
                Technology of the House of Representatives.
            ``(3) Cis-lunar space.--The term `cis-lunar space' means 
        the region of space beyond low-Earth orbit out to and including 
        the region around the surface of the Moon.''.

SEC. 207. SPACE LAUNCH SYSTEM CONFIGURATIONS.

    (a) Mobile Launch Platform.--The Administrator is authorized to 
maintain 2 operational mobile launch platforms to enable the launch of 
multiple configurations of the Space Launch System.
    (b) Enhanced Upper Stage.--In order to meet the capability 
requirements under section 302(c)(2) of the National Aeronautics and 
Space Administration Authorization Act of 2010 (42 U.S.C. 18322 
(c)(2)), the Administrator shall continue development of the enhanced 
upper stage for the Space Launch System with a scheduled availability 
date of not later than the third flight of the Space Launch System.
    (c) Briefing.--Not later than 90 days after the date of enactment 
of this Act, the Administrator shall brief the appropriate committees 
of Congress on the development and scheduled availability of the 
enhanced upper stage.

SEC. 208. ADVANCED SPACE SUITS.

    (a) Sense of Congress.--It is the sense of Congress that--
            (1) next-generation advanced space suits are a critical 
        technology for human space exploration beyond low-Earth orbit, 
        including exploration of cis-lunar space, the surface of the 
        Moon, and Mars;
            (2) NASA should establish a detailed plan to develop 
        advanced space suits consistent with its deep space exploration 
        goals and timetables; and
            (3) throughout the operational life of the ISS, NASA should 
        fully utilize the ISS for testing advanced space suits.
    (b) Prior Investments.--In developing an advanced space suit, NASA 
shall leverage prior and existing investments in advanced space suit 
technologies to the greatest extent practicable in order to maximize 
the benefits of such investments and technologies.

SEC. 209. ACQUISITION OF SPACE TRANSPORTATION SERVICES.

    Section 50131 of title 51, United States Code, is amended by adding 
at the end the following:
    ``(f) Applicability.--This section shall apply to all acquisitions 
of space transportation services by the Federal Government, including 
acquisitions of such services for International Space Station cargo and 
crew.''.

SEC. 210. 21ST CENTURY SPACE LAUNCH INFRASTRUCTURE.

    (a) In General.--The Administrator shall carry out a program to 
modernize launch infrastructure at NASA facilities to enhance safety 
and to advance Government and commercial space transportation and 
exploration.
    (b) Projects.--Projects funded under the program under subsection 
(a) may include--
            (1) infrastructure related to commodities;
            (2) standard interfaces for multiple payload and launch 
        vehicle processing customer needs;
            (3) enhancements to range capacity and flexibility; and
            (4) such other projects as the Administrator determines 
        meet the goals described in subsection (a).
    (c) Requirements.--In carrying out the program under subsection 
(a), the Administrator shall--
            (1) prioritize investments in projects that can be used by 
        multiple users and launch vehicles, including non-NASA users 
        and launch vehicles; and
            (2) limit investments to projects that would not otherwise 
        be funded by a NASA program, such as an institutional or 
        programmatic infrastructure program.
    (d) Savings Clause.--Nothing in this section shall preclude a NASA 
program, including the Space Launch System and Orion, from utilizing 
the modernized launch infrastructure under the program under subsection 
(a).

SEC. 211. INDIAN RIVER BRIDGE.

    (a) In General.--NASA shall continue to ensure the Indian River 
Bridge continues to provide access to the Eastern Range for national 
security, civil, and commercial space operations.
    (b) Transfer of Funds.--In accordance with section 20113 of title 
51, United States Code, the Administrator is authorized to accept money 
from other Federal agencies to upgrade the Indian River Bridge.

SEC. 212. ISS NATIONAL LABORATORY; PROPERTY RIGHTS IN INVENTIONS.

    (a) In General.--Subchapter III of chapter 201 of title 51, United 
States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following:
``Sec. 20150. Property rights in designated inventions
    ``(a) Exclusive Property Rights.--Notwithstanding section 3710a of 
title 15, chapter 18 of title 35, section 20135 of this title, or any 
other provision of law to the contrary, a designated invention shall be 
the exclusive property of a user, and shall not be subject to a 
Government-purpose license, if--
            ``(1) the Administration is reimbursed under the terms of 
        the contract for the total cost of any contribution by the 
        Government of the use of Government facilities, equipment, 
        materials, information proprietary to the Government, or 
        services of a Government employee during working hours, 
        including the cost for the Administration to carry out its 
        responsibilities under paragraphs (1) and (4) of section 504(d) 
        of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration 
        Authorization Act of 2010 (42 U.S.C. 18354(d));
            ``(2) no Government funds are transferred to the user under 
        the contract; and
            ``(3) the invention was made--
                    ``(A) solely by the user; or
                    ``(B) by the user with the services of a Government 
                employee under the terms of the contract and the 
                Government is reimbursed for such services under 
                paragraph (1).
    ``(b) Rule of Construction.--Nothing in this section may be 
construed to affect the rights of the Federal Government, including 
property rights in inventions, under any contract, except for a written 
contract with the Administration or ISS management entity for the 
performance of designated activities.
    ``(c) Definitions.--In this section--
            ``(1) Contract.--The term `contract' has the meaning giving 
        the term in section 20135(a).
            ``(2) Designated activities.--The term `designated 
        activities' means any non-NASA scientific utilization of the 
        ISS national laboratory as described in section 504 of the 
        National Aeronautics and Space Administration Authorization Act 
        of 2010 (42 U.S.C. 18354).
            ``(3) Designated invention.--The term `designated 
        invention' means any invention or class of inventions made or 
        that may be made by any person in the performance of designated 
        activities under a written contract with the Administration or 
        the ISS management entity.
            ``(4) Government-purpose license.--The term `Government-
        purpose license' means a reservation by the Government of an 
        irrevocable, nonexclusive, nontransferable, royalty-free 
        license for the practice of an invention throughout the world 
        by or on behalf of the United States or any foreign government 
        pursuant to any treaty or agreement with the United States.
            ``(5) ISS management entity.--The term `ISS management 
        entity' means the organization with which the Administrator 
        enters into a cooperative agreement under section 504(a) of the 
        National Aeronautics and Space Administration Authorization Act 
        of 2010 (42 U.S.C. 18354(a)).
            ``(6) Made.--The term `made' has the meaning given the term 
        in section 20135(a).
            ``(7) Nonprofit organization.--The term `nonprofit 
        organization' has the meaning given the term in section 201 of 
        title 35.
            ``(8) Small business firm.--The term `small business firm' 
        has the meaning given the term in section 201 of title 35.
            ``(9) User.--The term `user' means a person (as defined in 
        section 1 of title 1), including a nonprofit organization or 
        small business firm, or class of persons that enters into a 
        written contract with the Administration or the ISS management 
        entity for the performance of designated activities.''.
    (b) Table of Contents.--The table of contents for chapter 201 of 
title 51, United States Code, is amended by inserting after the item 
relating to section 20149 the following:

``20150. Property rights in designated inventions.''.

SEC. 213. DATA FIRST PRODUCED DURING NON-NASA SCIENTIFIC UTILIZATION OF 
              THE ISS NATIONAL LABORATORY.

    (a) Data Rights.--Subchapter III of chapter 201 of title 51, United 
States Code, as amended by section 212 of this Act, is further amended 
by adding at the end the following:
``Sec. 20151. Data rights
    ``(a) Non-NASA Scientific Utilization of the ISS National 
Laboratory.--The Federal Government may not use or reproduce, or 
disclose outside of the Government, any data first produced in the 
performance of designated activities under a written contract with the 
Administration or the ISS management entity, unless--
            ``(1) otherwise agreed under the terms of the contract with 
        the Administration or the ISS management entity, as applicable;
            ``(2) any funding for the designated activities is from a 
        Federal source;
            ``(3) disclosure is required by law;
            ``(4) the Government has rights in the data under another 
        Federal contract, grant, cooperative agreement, or other 
        transaction;
            ``(5) otherwise lawfully acquired by the Government;
            ``(6) related to the health and safety of personnel on the 
        ISS; or
            ``(7) essential to the performance of work by the ISS 
        management entity or NASA personnel.
    ``(b) Definitions.--In this section:
            ``(1) Contract.--The term `contract' has the meaning given 
        the term under section 20135(a).
            ``(2) Data.--
                    ``(A) In general.--The term `data' means recorded 
                information, regardless of form or the media on which 
                it may be recorded.
                    ``(B) Inclusions.--The term `data' includes 
                technical data and computer software.
                    ``(C) Exclusions.--The term `data' does not include 
                information incidental to contract administration, such 
                as financial, administrative, cost or pricing, or 
                management information.
            ``(3) Designated activities.--The term `designated 
        activities' has the meaning given the term under section 20150.
            ``(4) ISS management entity.--The term `ISS management 
        entity' has the meaning given the term under section 20150.''.
    (b) Special Handling of Trade Secrets or Confidential 
Information.--Section 20131(b)(2) of title 51, United States Code, is 
amended to read as follows:
            ``(2) Information described.--
                    ``(A) Activities under agreement.--Information 
                referred to in paragraph (1) is information that 
                results from activities conducted under an agreement 
                entered into under subsections (e) and (f) of section 
                20113 of this title, and that would be a trade secret 
                or commercial or financial information that is 
                privileged or confidential under the meaning of section 
                552(b)(4) of title 5 if the information had been 
                obtained from a non-Federal party participating in such 
                an agreement.
                    ``(B) Certain data.--Information referred to in 
                paragraph (1) includes data first produced by the 
                Administration in the performance of any designated 
                activities (as defined in section 20150 of this title), 
                and that would be a trade secret or commercial or 
                financial information that is privileged or 
                confidential under the meaning of section 552(b)(4) of 
                title 5 if the data had been obtained from a non-
                Federal party. In this subparagraph, the term `data' 
                has the meaning given the term under section 20151.''.
    (c) Table of Contents.--The table of contents for chapter 201 of 
title 51, United States Code, as amended by section 212 of this Act, is 
further amended by inserting after the item relating to section 20150 
the following:

``20151. Data rights.''.

SEC. 214. ROYALTIES AND OTHER PAYMENTS RECEIVED FOR DESIGNATED 
              ACTIVITIES.

    (a) Sense of Congress.--It is the sense of Congress that NASA 
should determine a threshold for which it may be appropriate for NASA 
to recuperate the costs of supporting the creation of invention aboard 
the ISS, through the negotiation of royalties, similar to agreements 
made by other Federal agencies that support private sector innovation.
    (b) In General.--Subchapter III of chapter 201 of title 51, United 
States Code, as amended by section 213 of this Act, is further amended 
by adding at the end the following:
``Sec. 20152. Royalties and other payments received for designated 
              activities
    ``(a) Designated Inventions Made With Federal Assistance.--If the 
Administration is required to provide, unreimbursed, the total cost of 
any contribution by the Government of the use of Government facilities, 
equipment, materials, information proprietary to the Government, or 
services of a Government employee during working hours, including the 
cost for the Administration to carry out its responsibilities under 
paragraphs (1) and (4) of section 504(d) of the National Aeronautics 
and Space Administration Authorization Act of 2010 (42 U.S.C. 
18354(d)), under the terms of any written contract for the performance 
of designated activities, the Administrator, notwithstanding any other 
law to the contrary, shall negotiate and agree upon the terms and rates 
of royalty payments with respect to any invention or class of 
inventions made or which may be made by any person or class of persons 
in the performance of such designated activities.
    ``(b) Licensing and Assignment of Inventions.--Notwithstanding 
sections 3710a and 3710c of title 15, or any other provision of law to 
the contrary, the balance of any royalties or other payments received 
by the Administrator or ISS management entity from licensing and 
assignment of inventions under a written contract with the 
Administration or ISS management entity for the performance of 
designated activities, after payment in accordance with section 
3710c(a)(1)(A)(i) to the inventors who have directly assigned their 
interests in such inventions to the Government, shall be paid to the 
Space Exploration Fund by the Administrator or ISS management entity, 
as applicable.
    ``(c) Space Exploration Fund.--
            ``(1) Establishment.--There is established in the Treasury 
        a fund to be known as the Space Exploration Fund, to be 
        administered by the Administrator, to be available without 
        fiscal year limitation and without further appropriation, for 
        carrying out Administration-related space exploration 
        activities under section 20302 of this title.
            ``(2) Deposits.--There shall be deposited in the Space 
        Exploration Fund--
                    ``(A) amounts appropriated to the fund;
                    ``(B) fees and royalties collected by the 
                Administrator or ISS management entity under 
                subsections (a) and (b) of this section; and
                    ``(C) donations or contributions accepted by the 
                Administrator to support authorized activities.
            ``(3) Rule of construction.--Any amount under this 
        subsection shall be in addition to amounts otherwise made 
        available for the purpose described in paragraph (1).
    ``(d) Definitions.--The terms used in this section have the 
meanings given the terms in section 20150.''.
    (c) Table of Contents.--The table of contents for chapter 201 of 
title 51, United States Code, as amended by section 213 of this Act, is 
further amended by inserting after the item relating to section 20151 
the following:

``20152. Royalties and other payments received for designated 
                            activities.''.

                           TITLE III--SCIENCE

SEC. 301. SCIENCE PRIORITIES.

    (a) Reaffirmation.--Congress reaffirms the sense of Congress under 
section 501 of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration 
Transition Authorization Act of 2017 (Public Law 115-10; 131 Stat. 18) 
that--
            (1) a balanced and adequately funded set of activities, 
        consisting of research and analysis grant programs, technology 
        development, suborbital research activities, and small, medium, 
        and large space missions, contributes to a robust and 
        productive science program and serves as a catalyst for 
        innovation and discovery; and
            (2) the Administrator should set science priorities by 
        following the guidance provided by the scientific community 
        through the National Academies of Sciences, Engineering, and 
        Medicine's decadal surveys.
    (b) Decadal Results.--Section 805 of the National Aeronautics and 
Space Administration Authorization Act of 2010 (42 U.S.C. 18384) is 
amended--
            (1) by inserting ``(a) In General.--'' before ``NASA''; and
            (2) by adding at the end the following:
    ``(b) Priority Changes.--If scientific discoveries or external 
factors compel NASA to reassess decadal survey priorities, NASA shall, 
to the greatest extent practicable, consult with the relevant National 
Academies committees.''.

SEC. 302. LUNAR DISCOVERY PROGRAM.

    (a) In General.--The Administrator may carry out a program to 
conduct lunar science research, including missions to the surface of 
the Moon, if that program contributes materially to the objective 
described in section 20102(d)(1) of title 51, United States Code.
    (b) Commercial Landers.--In carrying out the program under 
subsection (a), the Administrator shall procure the services of 
commercial landers developed primarily by United States industry to 
land science payloads on the lunar services.
    (c) National Academies.--Lunar science research funded by the 
program carried out under subsection (a) shall be consistent with 
recommendations made by the National Academies.
    (d) Authorization of Appropriations.--There are authorized to be 
appropriated to carry out this section--
            (1) $218,000,000 for fiscal year 2019, of which $18,000,000 
        shall be made available for the operation of the Lunar 
        Reconnaissance Orbiter; and
            (2) $218,000,000 for each fiscal year thereafter, of which 
        $18,000,000 shall be made available, in each fiscal year that 
        the Lunar Reconnaissance Orbiter is operational, for the 
        operation of the Lunar Reconnaissance Orbiter.

SEC. 303. SEARCH FOR LIFE.

    (a) Sense of Congress.--It is the sense of Congress that the 2018 
National Academies Astrobiology Strategy for the Search for Life in the 
Universe outlines the key scientific questions and methods for 
fulfilling NASA's objective to search for life's origin, evolution, 
distribution, and future in the universe.
    (b) Program Authorized.--
            (1) In general.--In support of the objective described in 
        section 20102(d)(10) of title 51, United States Code, the 
        Administrator shall continue to implement a collaborative, 
        multidisciplinary science and technology development program to 
        search for proof of the existence or historical existence of 
        life beyond Earth.
            (2) Contents.--The program under paragraph (1) shall 
        include astronomy, biology, geology, and planetary science.
            (3) Technosignatures.--In carrying out the program under 
        paragraph (1), the Administrator may fund activities to search 
        for and analyze technosignatures.

SEC. 304. JAMES WEBB SPACE TELESCOPE.

    (a) Sense of Congress.--It is the sense of Congress that--
            (1) the James Webb Space Telescope will be the next premier 
        observatory in space and has a great potential to help to 
        further scientific study and assist scientists in making new 
        discoveries in the field of astronomy;
            (2) the James Webb Space Telescope was developed as an 
        ambitious project with a scope that was not fully defined at 
        inception and with risk that was not fully known or understood;
            (3) despite the major technology development and innovation 
        that was needed to construct the James Webb Space Telescope, 
        major negative impacts to the cost and schedule of the James 
        Webb Space Telescope resulted from poor program management and 
        poor contractor performance;
            (4) the Administrator should take into account the lessons 
        learned from the cost and schedule issues realized in 
        developing the James Webb Space Telescope when making decisions 
        regarding the scope of and the technologies needed for future 
        scientific missions;
            (5) the Administrator should take into account the impact 
        large programs that overrun cost and schedule may have on other 
        NASA programs in earlier phases of development when selecting 
        future scientific missions; and
            (6) the Administration should continue to develop the James 
        Webb Space Telescope with a development cost (as defined in 
        section 30104 of title 51, United States Code) of no more than 
        $9,000,000,000 as estimated by the James Webb Space Telescope 
        Independent Review Board report released in May 2018.
    (b) Requirements.--
            (1) In general.--The Administrator shall continue--
                    (A) to closely observe the performance of the James 
                Webb Space Telescope project; and
                    (B) to improve the reliability of cost estimates 
                and contractor performance data throughout the 
                development of the James Webb Space Telescope.
            (2) Key program objective.--The Administrator shall 
        continue to develop the James Webb Space Telescope on a 
        schedule to meet the objective of safely launching the James 
        Webb Space Telescope before March 31, 2021.

SEC. 305. WIDE-FIELD INFRARED SURVEY TELESCOPE.

    (a) Sense of Congress.--It is the sense of Congress that--
            (1) a major cost growth in astrophysics Discovery class 
        missions has been harmful to the overall portfolio balance; and
            (2) the Administrator should continue to develop the Wide-
        Field Infrared Survey Telescope with a development cost (as 
        defined in section 30104 of title 51, United States Code) of no 
        more than $3,200,000,000.
    (b) Requirements.--The Administrator shall continue to develop the 
Wide-Field Infrared Survey Telescope to meet the objectives outlined in 
the 2010 National Academies' Astronomy and Astrophysics Decadal Survey 
in a way that maximizes the scientific productivity of meeting those 
objectives for the resources invested.

SEC. 306. SENSE OF CONGRESS REGARDING SMALL SATELLITE SCIENCE.

    It is the sense of Congress that--
            (1) small satellites are increasingly robust, effective, 
        and affordable platforms for carrying out space science 
        missions;
            (2) small satellites can work in tandem with or augment 
        NASA's larger spacecraft to support NASA's high-priority 
        science missions;
            (3) small satellites are cost-effective solutions that may 
        allow NASA to continue collecting legacy observations while 
        developing next generation science missions; and
            (4) NASA should continue to support small satellite 
        research, development, technologies, and programs.

SEC. 307. STUDY ON SATELLITE SERVICING FOR SCIENCE MISSIONS.

    (a) Feasibility Study.--Not later than 1 year after the date of 
enactment of this Act, the Administrator shall--
            (1) study the feasibility of using in-space robotic 
        refueling, repair, or refurbishment capabilities to extend the 
        useful life of telescopes and other science missions currently 
        operational or in development; and
            (2) submit to the appropriate committees of Congress and 
        the National Academies Space Studies Board, for its 
        consideration during formulation of upcoming decadal surveys, a 
        report on the study.
    (b) Contents.--The study shall include the projected cost of such 
activities, including the cost of extended operations for refurbished 
science missions.

SEC. 308. EARTH SCIENCE.

    (a) Sense of Congress.--It is the sense of Congress that NASA's 
Earth Science Division plays an important role in national efforts to 
collect and use Earth observations in service to society and to 
understand global change.
    (b) Earth Science Program.--The Administrator shall, to the extent 
practicable, follow the recommendations and guidance provided by the 
scientific community through the National Academies of Sciences, 
Engineering, and Medicine decadal survey for Earth Science, including 
the following:
            (1) The science priorities established by the decadal 
        survey.
            (2) The execution of the series of existing or previously 
        planned observations, known as the program of record.
            (3) The development of cost-capped medium- and large-size 
        missions.
            (4) Opportunities for a mid-size principal investigator-
        led, competitively selected explorer class missions.
            (5) The development of the Venture-continuity class of 
        small satellite missions in order to provide opportunity for 
        low-cost sustained observations.

                         TITLE IV--AERONAUTICS

SEC. 401. SHORT TITLE.

    This title may be cited as the ``Aeronautics Innovation Act''.

SEC. 402. DEFINITIONS.

    In this title:
            (1) Aeronautics strategic implementation plan.--The term 
        ``Aeronautics Strategic Implementation Plan'' means the 
        Aeronautics Strategic Implementation Plan issued by the NASA 
        Aeronautics Research Mission Directorate.
            (2) Unmanned aircraft system; unmanned aircraft.--The terms 
        ``unmanned aircraft system'' and ``unmanned aircraft'' have the 
        meanings given those terms in section 44801 of title 49, United 
        States Code.
            (3) X-plane.--The term ``X-plane'' means an experimental 
        aircraft that--
                    (A) is used to test and evaluate a new technology 
                or aerodynamic concept; and
                    (B) is operated by NASA or the Air Force.

SEC. 403. EXPERIMENTAL AIRCRAFT PROJECTS.

    (a) Sense of Congress.--It is the sense of Congress that--
            (1) developing high-risk, precompetitive aerospace 
        technologies for which there is not yet a profit rationale is a 
        fundamental NASA role;
            (2) large-scale piloted flight test experimentation and 
        validation are necessary for--
                    (A) transitioning new technologies and materials, 
                including associated manufacturing processes, for 
                general aviation, commercial aviation, and military 
                aeronautics use; and
                    (B) capturing the full extent of benefits from the 
                Aeronautics Research Mission Directorate's investments 
                in priority programs called for in--
                            (i) the National Aeronautics Research and 
                        Development Plan issued by the National Science 
                        and Technology Council in February 2010;
                            (ii) the NASA 2014 Strategic Plan;
                            (iii) the Aeronautics Strategic 
                        Implementation Plan; and
                            (iv) any updates to the programs called for 
                        in the plans described in clauses (i) through 
                        (iii); and
            (3) a level of funding that adequately supports large-scale 
        piloted flight test experimentation and validation, including 
        related infrastructure, must be assured over a sustained period 
        of time to restore NASA's capacity to see legacy priority 
        programs through to completion and achieve national economic 
        and security objectives.
    (b) Policy.--It is the policy of the United States--
            (1) to maintain world leadership in military and civilian 
        aeronautical science and technology, global air power 
        projection, and industrialization; and
            (2) to maintain as a fundamental objective of NASA 
        aeronautics research the steady progression and expansion of 
        flight research and capabilities, including the science and 
        technology of critical underlying disciplines and competencies, 
        such as--
                    (A) computational-based analytical and predictive 
                tools and methodologies;
                    (B) aerothermodynamics;
                    (C) propulsion;
                    (D) advanced materials and manufacturing processes; 
                high-temperature structures and materials; and
                    (E) flight controls.
    (c) Establishment of X-Plane Projects.--
            (1) In general.--Consistent with the roadmap for supersonic 
        research under section 604(b) of the National Aeronautics and 
        Space Administration Transition Authorization Act of 2017 
        (Public Law 115-10; 131 Stat. 18), the Administrator shall 
        establish the following projects:
                    (A) A low-boom supersonic aircraft project to 
                demonstrate supersonic aircraft designs and 
                technologies that--
                            (i) reduce sonic boom noise; and
                            (ii) assist the Administrator of the 
                        Federal Aviation Administration in enabling the 
                        safe commercial deployment of civil supersonic 
                        aircraft technology and the safe and efficient 
                        operation of civil supersonic aircraft.
                    (B) A series of large-scale X-plane demonstrators 
                that--
                            (i) are developed sequentially or in 
                        parallel; and
                            (ii) are each based on a set of new 
                        configuration concepts or technologies 
                        determined by the Administrator--
                                    (I) to demonstrate aircraft and 
                                propulsion concepts and technologies 
                                and related advances in alternative 
                                propulsion and energy;
                                    (II) to enable significant 
                                increases in energy efficiency and 
                                reduced life cycle emissions in the 
                                aviation system while reducing noise 
                                emissions; and
                                    (III) to demonstrate flight 
                                propulsion concepts and technologies.
            (2) Project elements.--For each project under paragraph 
        (1), the Administrator shall--
                    (A) include the development of X-planes and all 
                necessary supporting flight test assets;
                    (B) pursue a robust technology maturation and 
                flight test validation effort;
                    (C) improve necessary facilities, flight testing 
                capabilities, and computational tools to support the 
                project;
                    (D) award primary contracts for design, 
                procurement, and manufacturing to United States 
                persons, consistent with international obligations and 
                commitments;
                    (E) coordinate research and flight test 
                demonstration activities with other Federal agencies, 
                as appropriate, and the United States aviation 
                community; and
                    (F) ensure that the project is aligned with the 
                Aeronautics Strategic Implementation Plan, and any 
                updates to the Aeronautics Strategic Implementation 
                Plan.
    (d) Advanced Materials and Manufacturing Technology Program.--
            (1) In general.--The Administrator may establish an 
        advanced materials and manufacturing technology program that--
                    (A) consists of new material developments, from 
                base material formulation through full-scale structural 
                validation and manufacture;
                    (B) will develop advanced materials and 
                manufacturing processes to reduce the cost of 
                manufacturing scale-up and certification for use in 
                general aviation, commercial aviation, and military 
                aeronautics;
                    (C) will reduce the time it takes to design, 
                industrialize, and certify advanced materials and 
                manufacturing processes, including manufacturing; and
                    (D) will address global cost competitiveness for 
                United States aeronautical industries and technological 
                leadership in advanced materials and manufacturing 
                technology.
            (2) Contents.--In carrying out the program under paragraph 
        (1), the Administrator shall--
                    (A) build on work that was carried out by the 
                Advanced Composites Project of NASA;
                    (B) partner with the private and academic sector, 
                including members of the Advanced Composites 
                Consortium, as appropriate;
                    (C) coordinate with advanced manufacturing and 
                composites initiatives in other NASA mission 
                directorates, as the Administrator considers 
                appropriate; and
                    (D) comply with existing Federal Aviation 
                Administration regulations for use within programs in 
                general aviation, commercial aviation, and military 
                aeronautics.

SEC. 404. ON-DEMAND AIR TRANSPORTATION.

    It is the sense of Congress that--
            (1) greater use of high-speed air transportation, small 
        airports, helipads, vertical flight infrastructure, and other 
        aviation-related infrastructure can alleviate surface 
        transportation congestion and support economic growth within 
        cities;
            (2) NASA should continue--
                    (A) to conduct research focused on concepts, 
                technologies, and design tools; and
                    (B) to support the evaluation of advanced 
                technologies and operational concepts that can be 
                leveraged by--
                            (i) industry to develop future vehicles and 
                        systems; and
                            (ii) the Federal Aviation Administration to 
                        support vehicle safety and operational 
                        certification; and
            (3) NASA should leverage ongoing efforts to develop 
        advanced technologies to actively support the research needed 
        for on-demand air transportation.

SEC. 405. UNMANNED AIRCRAFT SYSTEMS.

    (a) Unmanned Aircraft Systems Operation Program.--The Administrator 
shall--
            (1) research, develop, and test capabilities and concepts, 
        including unmanned aircraft systems communications and 
        spectrum-related resources, for integrating unmanned aircraft 
        systems into the national airspace system;
            (2) leverage NASA's partnership with industry focused on 
        the advancement of technologies for future air traffic 
        management systems for unmanned aircraft systems; and
            (3) continue to align NASA's research and testing portfolio 
        to inform unmanned aircraft system integration consistent with 
        public safety and national security objectives.
    (b) Coordination With the Federal Aviation Administration.--It is 
the sense of Congress that--
            (1) NASA should continue--
                    (A) to coordinate with the Federal Aviation 
                Administration on research on air traffic management 
                systems for unmanned aircraft systems; and
                    (B) to assist the Federal Aviation Administration 
                in the integration of unmanned aircraft systems traffic 
                management systems in the national airspace system; and
            (2) the test ranges (as defined in section 44801 of title 
        49, United States Code) should continue to be leveraged to 
        research unmanned aircraft system integration and unmanned 
        aircraft systems traffic management.

SEC. 406. 21ST CENTURY AERONAUTICS RESEARCH CAPABILITIES INITIATIVE.

    (a) Establishment.--The Administrator may establish a 21st Century 
Aeronautics Capabilities Initiative, within the Construction and 
Environmental Compliance and Restoration Account, to ensure that NASA 
possesses the infrastructure and capabilities necessary to conduct 
proposed flight demonstration projects across the range of NASA 
aeronautics interests.
    (b) Activities.--As part of the 21st Century Aeronautics 
Capabilities Initiative, the Administrator may carry out the following 
activities:
            (1) Any investments the Administrator considers necessary 
        to upgrade and create facilities for civil and national 
        security aeronautics research to support advancements in long-
        term foundational science and technology, advanced aircraft 
        systems, air traffic management systems, fuel efficiency and 
        electric propulsion technologies, system-wide safety assurance, 
        autonomous aviation, and supersonic and hypersonic aircraft 
        design and development.
            (2) Any measures the Administrator considers necessary to 
        support flight testing activities, including--
                    (A) continuous refinement and development of free-
                flight test techniques and methodologies;
                    (B) upgrades and improvements to real-time tracking 
                and data acquisition; and
                    (C) such other measures related to aeronautics 
                research support and modernization as the Administrator 
                considers appropriate to carry out the scientific study 
                of the problems of flight, with a view to their 
                practical solutions.

SEC. 407. HYPERSONIC TECHNOLOGY RESEARCH PROJECTS.

    It is the sense of Congress that--
            (1) hypersonic technology is critical to the development of 
        advanced high-speed aerospace vehicles for both civilian and 
        national security purposes;
            (2) for hypersonic vehicles to be realized, research is 
        needed to overcome technical challenges, including in 
        propulsion, advanced materials, and entry, descent, and 
        landing;
            (3) NASA plays a critical role in supporting fundamental 
        hypersonic research and testing;
            (4) NASA research efforts in hypersonic technology 
        complement research supported by the Department of Defense and 
        contributions from both agencies working in partnership with 
        universities and industry are necessary to overcome key 
        technical challenges;
            (5) previous coordinated research programs between NASA and 
        the Department of Defense enabled important progress on 
        hypersonic technology;
            (6) the commercial sector could provide flight platforms 
        and other capabilities that can host and support NASA 
        hypersonic technology research projects; and
            (7) in carrying out hypersonic technology research 
        projects, the Administrator should--
                    (A) focus research and development efforts on high-
                speed propulsion systems, reusable vehicle 
                technologies, high-temperature materials, and systems 
                analysis;
                    (B) coordinate with the Department of Defense to 
                prevent duplication of efforts and of investments;
                    (C) include partnerships with universities and 
                industry to accomplish research goals; and
                    (D) maximize public-private utilization of 
                commercially available platforms for hosting research 
                and development flight projects.

                       TITLE V--SPACE TECHNOLOGY

SEC. 501. SPACE TECHNOLOGY MISSION DIRECTORATE.

    (a) Sense of Congress.--It is the sense of Congress that an 
independent Space Technology Mission Directorate is critical to 
ensuring continued investments in the development of technologies for 
missions across NASA's portfolio, including science and human 
exploration.
    (b) Requirement.--NASA shall maintain a Space Technology Mission 
Directorate consistent with section 702 of the National Aeronautics and 
Space Administration Transition Authorization Act of 2017 (51 U.S.C. 
20301 note).

SEC. 502. FLIGHT OPPORTUNITIES PROGRAM.

    Congress reaffirms that the Administrator should provide flight 
opportunities for payloads to microgravity environments and suborbital 
altitudes as authorized by section 907 of the National Aeronautics and 
Space Administration Authorization Act of 2010 (42 U.S.C. 18405).

                       TITLE VI--STEM ENGAGEMENT

SEC. 601. SENSE OF CONGRESS.

    It is the sense of Congress that--
            (1) NASA serves as a source of inspiration to many United 
        States citizens and is uniquely positioned to help increase 
        United States students' interest in science, technology, 
        engineering, and math;
            (2) engaging students in science, technology, engineering, 
        and math and providing hands-on experience at an early age are 
        important aspects of ensuring and promoting United States 
        leadership in innovation; and
            (3) NASA should strive to use its unique position--
                    (A) to increase K-12 involvement in NASA projects;
                    (B) to enhance higher education in the United 
                States; and
                    (C) to support underrepresented populations, such 
                as women, underrepresented minorities, and persons in 
                rural areas, in the fields of science, technology, 
                engineering, and math.

SEC. 602. STEM ENGAGEMENT ACTIVITIES.

    (a) In General.--The Administrator shall continue to carry out 
opportunities for both formal and informal STEM engagement activities 
either within the Office of STEM Engagement or within other 
directorates, including the following:
            (1) Established Program to Stimulate Competitive Research.
            (2) Minority University Research and Education Project.
            (3) National Space Grant College and Fellowship Program.
    (b) Briefing.--Not later than 1 year after the date of enactment of 
this Act, the Administrator shall brief the appropriate committees of 
Congress on--
            (1) the status of the programs listed under subsection (a); 
        and
            (2) how all other STEM engagement activities at NASA are 
        organized and funded.
    (c) Definition of STEM.--In this section, the term ``STEM'' means 
science, technology, engineering, and mathematics, including computer 
science.

                        TITLE VII--MISCELLANEOUS

SEC. 701. PROTECT CERTAIN TECHNICAL DATA FROM PUBLIC DISCLOSURE.

    Section 20131 of title 51, United States Code, as amended in 
section 213 of this Act, is further amended--
            (1) by redesignating subsection (c) as subsection (d);
            (2) in subsection (a)(3), by striking ``subsection (b)'' 
        and inserting ``subsection (b) or subsection (c)'';
            (3) by inserting after subsection (b) the following:
    ``(c) Special Handling of Certain Technical Data.--
            ``(1) In general.--The Administrator may provide 
        appropriate protections against the dissemination of certain 
        technical data, including exemption from subchapter II of 
        chapter 5 of title 5.
            ``(2) Definitions.--In this subsection:
                    ``(A) Certain technical data.--The term `certain 
                technical data' means technical data that may not be 
                exported lawfully outside the United States without 
                approval, authorization, or license under--
                            ``(i) the Export Control Reform Act of 2018 
                        (Public Law 115-232; 132 Stat. 2208); or
                            ``(ii) the International Security 
                        Assistance and Arms Export Control Act of 1976 
                        (Public Law 94-329; 90 Stat. 729).
                    ``(B) Technical data.--The term `technical data' 
                means any blueprint, drawing, photograph, plan, 
                instruction, computer software, or documentation, or 
                other technical information that is required to design, 
                develop, engineer, produce, manufacture, assemble, 
                operate, repair, test, maintain, overhaul, modify, or 
                reproduce any aeronautical, space, or other export 
                controlled item, including any related subsystem, 
                component, or part therefor, or technology.'';
            (4) in subsection (d), as redesignated, by inserting ``, 
        including any data,'' after ``information''; and
            (5) by adding at the end the following:
    ``(e) Section 552 of Title 5.--For purposes of section 552 of title 
5, this section shall be considered a statute described in subsection 
(b)(3)(B) of that section.''.

SEC. 702. PROTECTING CERTAIN VOLUNTARILY PROVIDED, SAFETY-RELATED 
              INFORMATION FROM PUBLIC DISCLOSURE.

    (a) In General.--Whenever the Administrator collects safety-related 
information as part of a mishap investigation, under the NASA Safety 
Reporting System or as part of an organizational safety assessment, the 
Administration, the Administration shall provide appropriate 
protections against the dissemination of safety-related information if 
the Administrator determines that--
            (1) disclosure of the information would inhibit the 
        voluntary provision of that type of information; and
            (2)(A) receipt of that information aids in improving the 
        safety of NASA's programs and NASA's research related to 
        aeronautics and space; or
            (B) withholding such information from disclosure is 
        consistent with improving the safety of NASA's programs and 
        NASA's research related to aeronautics and space.
    (b) Other Federal Agencies.--If the Administrator provides to the 
head of another Federal agency safety-related information described in 
subsection (a) with respect to which the Administrator has made a 
determination described in that subsection, the head of that Federal 
agency shall (notwithstanding any other provision of law) withhold the 
information from public disclosure.
    (c) Transparency.--Each determination of the Administration under 
subsection (a) shall be made in writing and accompanied by a statement 
of the basis for the determination. All such determinations and 
statements of basis shall be available to the public, upon request.
    (d) Regulations.--The Administrator shall issue regulations to 
carry out this section.
    (e) Section 552 of Title 5.--For purposes of section 552 of title 
5, this section shall be considered a statute described in subsection 
(b)(3)(B) of that section.

SEC. 703. SMALL SATELLITE LAUNCH SERVICES PROGRAM.

    (a) In General.--The Administrator shall continue to procure 
dedicated launch services for cubesats and small satellites for the 
purpose of conducting science and technology missions that further the 
agency's goals.
    (b) Requirements.--In carrying out the program under subsection 
(a), the Administrator shall--
            (1) engage with the academic community to maximize 
        awareness and utilization of these dedicated small satellite 
        launch opportunities; and
            (2) to the maximum extent practicable, utilize secondary 
        payload of procured launch services for cubesats.

SEC. 704. LIMITATIONS ON COOPERATION WITH THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF 
              CHINA.

    (a) Limitations.--NASA, OSTP, and the National Space Council, are 
prohibited from--
            (1) developing, designing, planning, promulgating, 
        implementing, or executing a bilateral policy, program, order, 
        or contract of any kind to participate, collaborate, or 
        coordinate bilaterally in any way with the People's Republic of 
        China, or any company owned by the People's Republic of China 
        or incorporated under the laws of the People's Republic of 
        China, unless such activities are specifically authorized by a 
        law enacted after the date of enactment of this Act; and
            (2) hosting official visitors from the People's Republic of 
        China at facilities belonging to or utilized by NASA.
    (b) Exceptions.--The limitations described in subsection (a) shall 
not apply to activities which the head of NASA, OSTP, or the National 
Space Council certifies--
            (1) will pose no risk of resulting in the transfer of 
        technology, data, or other information with national security 
        or economic security implications to the People's Republic of 
        China, or to any company owned by the People's Republic of 
        China or incorporated under the laws of the People's Republic 
        of China; and
            (2) will not involve knowing interactions with officials 
        who have been determined by the United States to have direct 
        involvement with violations of human rights.
    (c) Submission to Congress.--Not later than 30 days after the date 
that a certification is made under subsection (b), the head of NASA, 
OSTP, or the National Space Council, as applicable, shall transmit the 
certification to the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation 
and the Committee on Appropriations of the Senate and the Committee on 
Science, Space, and Technology and the Committee on Appropriations of 
the House of Representatives.

SEC. 705. CYBERSECURITY.

    (a) Space Cybersecurity.--Section 20301 of title 51 is amended by 
adding at the end the following:
    ``(c) Cybersecurity.--The Administrator shall update and improve, 
as necessary, the cybersecurity of the space assets and supporting 
infrastructure within the Administration's domain.''.
    (b) Security Operations Center.--
            (1) In general.--The Administrator shall maintain a 
        Security Operations Center to identify and respond to 
        cybersecurity threats to NASA information technology systems, 
        including, when appropriate, institutional systems and mission 
        systems.
            (2) Inspector general of nasa recommendations.--Not later 
        than 18 months after the date of enactment of this Act, in 
        carrying out paragraph (1), the Administrator shall implement 
        each of the recommendations of the Inspector General of NASA in 
        the report issued May 23, 2018 (IG-18-020), including the 
        following:
                    (A) Developing a charter and set of authorities 
                approved by the Administrator that addresses the 
                Security Operation's Center organizational placement, 
                purpose, authority, and responsibilities.
                    (B) Establishing Operational Level Agreements with 
                NASA Centers, Mission Directorates, and other divisions 
                to direct the roles and data visibility Administration-
                wide.
                    (C) Developing initiatives to improve 
                Administration-wide visibility.
                    (D) Identifying and reducing unnecessary 
                duplication to incident monitoring, detection, and 
                response capabilities.
    (c) GAO Priority Recommendations.--Not later than 18 months after 
the date of enactment of this Act, the Administrator shall implement 
the priority recommendations of the Comptroller General of the United 
States in the report issued May 18, 2016 (GAO-16-501), pertaining to 
information security controls over select high-impact systems, 
including--
            (1) re-evaluating security control assessments; and
            (2) specifying metrics to be used as part of the 
        Administration's continuous monitoring strategy.
                                 &lt;all&gt;
</pre></body></html>
