<html><body><pre>
[Congressional Bills 111th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.R. 192 Introduced in House (IH)]

111th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                H. R. 192

To authorize various land conveyances involving National Forest System 
 lands and Bureau of Land Management lands in central Idaho to promote 
 economic development and recreational activities in the area, to add 
  certain National Forest System lands and Bureau of Land Management 
lands in central Idaho to the National Wilderness Preservation System, 
to provide special management requirements for certain National Forest 
System lands and Bureau of Land Management lands in central Idaho, and 
                          for other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                            January 6, 2009

  Mr. Simpson (for himself and Mr. Minnick) introduced the following 
     bill; which was referred to the Committee on Natural Resources

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
To authorize various land conveyances involving National Forest System 
 lands and Bureau of Land Management lands in central Idaho to promote 
 economic development and recreational activities in the area, to add 
  certain National Forest System lands and Bureau of Land Management 
lands in central Idaho to the National Wilderness Preservation System, 
to provide special management requirements for certain National Forest 
System lands and Bureau of Land Management lands in central Idaho, and 
                          for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE AND TABLE OF CONTENTS.

    (a) Short Title.--This Act may be cited as the ``Central Idaho 
National Forest and Public Land Management Act''.
    (b) Table of Contents.--The table of contents for this Act is as 
follows:

Sec. 1. Short title and table of contents.
  TITLE I--CENTRAL IDAHO ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT AND RECREATION PROMOTION

Sec. 101. Land conveyance, designated Sawtooth National Forest and BLM 
                            land to Blaine County, Idaho.
Sec. 102. Land conveyance, designated National Forest System land to 
                            City of Stanley, Idaho.
Sec. 103. Land conveyance, designated BLM land to City of Clayton, 
                            Idaho.
Sec. 104. Land conveyance, designated BLM land to City of Mackay, 
                            Idaho.
Sec. 105. Land conveyance, designated BLM land to City of Challis, 
                            Idaho.
Sec. 106. Land conveyance, designated BLM land to Custer County, Idaho.
Sec. 107. Land conveyance authority, support for motorized and bicycle 
                            recreation, public land in Idaho.
Sec. 108. Treatment of existing roads and trails.
Sec. 109. Stanley-Redfish Lake bike and snowmobile trail and related 
                            parking lot.
Sec. 110. Support for outfitter and guide activities.
Sec. 111. Grants to support sustainable economic development and 
                            recreation.
                TITLE II--CENTRAL IDAHO WILDERNESS AREAS

Sec. 201. Additions to National Wilderness Preservation System.
Sec. 202. General administration of wilderness areas.
Sec. 203. Acquisition of mineral interests and lands from willing 
                            sellers.
Sec. 204. Adjacent management.
Sec. 205. Water rights.
Sec. 206. Wildlife management.
Sec. 207. Native American cultural and religious uses.
Sec. 208. Military overflights.
Sec. 209. Wilderness review.
                     TITLE III--GENERAL PROVISIONS

Sec. 301. Management of non-wilderness lands in Challis and Sawtooth 
                            National Forests, Sawtooth National 
                            Recreation Area, and Challis Bureau Of Land 
                            Management District.
Sec. 302. Big Wood Backcountry Trail system study and authorization.
Sec. 303. Support and use of Idaho Off Road Motor Vehicle Program.
Sec. 304. Management of Railroad Ridge area, Sawtooth National Forest.
Sec. 305. Livestock grazing.
Sec. 306. Land acquisition authority.

  TITLE I--CENTRAL IDAHO ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT AND RECREATION PROMOTION

SEC. 101. LAND CONVEYANCE, DESIGNATED SAWTOOTH NATIONAL FOREST AND BLM 
              LAND TO BLAINE COUNTY, IDAHO.

    (a) Conveyance Required.--The Secretary of Agriculture, acting 
through the Chief of the Forest Service, and the Secretary of the 
Interior, acting through the Director of the Bureau of Land Management, 
shall convey, without consideration, to Blaine County, Idaho (in this 
section referred to as the ``County''), all right, title, and interest 
of the United States in and to the parcels of Federal land in the 
Sawtooth National Forest and Sawtooth National Recreation Area and 
Bureau of Land Management land identified for conveyance under this 
section on the following maps:
            (1) A map entitled ``Blaine County Conveyance-Smiley 
        Creek'' and dated October 1, 2006.
            (2) A map entitled ``Blaine County Conveyance-Sawtooth City 
        Well'' and dated October 1, 2006.
            (3) A map entitled ``Blaine County Conveyance-Eagle Creek'' 
        and dated October 1, 2006.
            (4) A map entitled ``Blaine County Conveyances, Map #1'' 
        and dated September 13, 2006, except that the conveyance is 
        limited to the parcels A, B, and C depicted on that map.
            (5) A map entitled ``Blaine County Conveyances, Map #2'' 
        and dated April 23, 2008, except that the conveyance is limited 
        to the parcels A, B, and C depicted on that map.
    (b) Survey.--The exact acreage and legal description of the land to 
be conveyed under subsection (a) shall be determined by a survey 
satisfactory to the Secretary concerned. The cost of the survey shall 
be borne by the Secretary concerned.
    (c) Additional Term and Conditions.--The Secretary concerned may 
require such additional terms and conditions in connection with the 
conveyance under subsection (a) as the Secretary considers appropriate 
to protect the interests of the United States.

SEC. 102. LAND CONVEYANCE, DESIGNATED NATIONAL FOREST SYSTEM LAND TO 
              CITY OF STANLEY, IDAHO.

    (a) Conveyance Required.--The Secretary of Agriculture, acting 
through the Chief of the Forest Service, shall convey to the City of 
Stanley, Idaho (in this section referred to as the ``City''), all 
right, title, and interest of the United States in and to National 
Forest System land consisting of a parcel containing a total of 
approximately 68 acres, including roads and improvements, adjoining the 
northeastern boundary of the City, respectively, and identified as 
Parcel C on the map entitled ``Custer County and City of Stanley 
Conveyances'' and dated October 1, 2006.
    (b) Authorized Uses.--Parcel C may be used--
            (1) to provide housing for persons working within the 
        Sawtooth National Recreation Area and public employees; and
            (2) for other public purposes, including use as the site 
        for a park, cemetery, community center, or educational facility
    (c) Survey and Legal Description.--The exact acreage and legal 
description of the land to be conveyed under subsection (a) shall be 
determined by a survey satisfactory to the Secretary. The cost of the 
survey shall be borne by the Secretary. The legal description shall be 
prepared as soon as practicable after the date of the enactment of this 
Act.
    (d) Conservation Easement and Rights-of-Way.--In making the 
conveyance under subsection (a), the Secretary shall reserve to the 
United States a conservation easement and rights-of-way for the parcel 
of land identified as Parcel C on the map referred to in subsection 
(a).
    (e) Enforcement.--The Secretary of Agriculture shall have the 
authority to enforce the terms and conditions set forth in the 
conservation easements reserved under subsection (d) and to ensure that 
public access is maintained on the rights-of-way reserved under such 
subsection. This authority is in addition to such other enforcement 
authority as may be provided in the conservation easements and rights-
of-way.
    (f) Reversionary Interest.--If the Secretary determines at any time 
that the City or any subsequent owner of any portion of land conveyed 
under subsection (a) is acting in violation of the conditions set forth 
in the applicable conservation easement or rights-of-way reserved under 
subsection (d) and has failed to restore the property so as to comply 
with such conditions within a reasonable time, all right, title, and 
interest in and to the portion of the land on which the violation 
occurred, including any improvements thereon, shall revert to the 
United States. Any determination of the Secretary under this subsection 
shall be made on the record after an opportunity for a hearing.
    (g) Additional Term and Conditions.--The Secretary may require such 
additional terms and conditions in connection with the conveyance under 
subsection (a) as the Secretary considers appropriate to protect the 
interests of the United States.

SEC. 103. LAND CONVEYANCE, DESIGNATED BLM LAND TO CITY OF CLAYTON, 
              IDAHO.

    (a) Conveyance Required.--The Secretary of the Interior, acting 
through the Director of the Bureau of Land Management, shall convey, 
without consideration, to the City of Clayton, Idaho (in this section 
referred to as the ``City''), all right, title, and interest of the 
United States in and to parcels of Bureau of Land Management land, 
including roads thereon, identified as parcels A, B, C, and D on the 
map entitled ``City of Clayton Conveyances'' and dated September 13, 
2006.
    (b) Authorized Uses.--The land to be conveyed under subsection (a) 
may be used only for public purposes.
    (c) Survey.--The exact acreage and legal description of the land to 
be conveyed under subsection (a) shall be determined by a survey 
satisfactory to the Secretary. The cost of the survey shall be borne by 
the Secretary.
    (d) Road Access.--In making the conveyance under subsection (a) to 
the City, the Secretary shall include a deed restriction requiring that 
the roads referred to in such subsection shall remain open to the 
public to provide access to adjacent Federal land and private property.
    (e) Right-of-Way.--The Secretary shall grant, without 
consideration, to the City a 25-foot right-of-way connecting parcels C 
and D referred to in subsection (a) and crossing the Salmon River for 
purposes related to parcel D.
    (f) Additional Term and Conditions.--The Secretary may require such 
additional terms and conditions in connection with the conveyance under 
subsection (a) as the Secretary considers appropriate to protect the 
interests of the United States.

SEC. 104. LAND CONVEYANCE, DESIGNATED BLM LAND TO CITY OF MACKAY, 
              IDAHO.

    (a) Conveyance Required.--The Secretary of the Interior, acting 
through the Director of the Bureau of Land Management, shall convey, 
without consideration, to the City of Mackay, Idaho (in this section 
referred to as the ``City''), all right, title, and interest of the 
United States in and to a parcel of Bureau of Land Management land, 
including roads thereon, identified as parcel D on the map entitled 
``Custer County and City of Mackay Conveyances'' and dated September 
13, 2006.
    (b) Authorized Uses.--The land to be conveyed under subsection (a) 
may be used only for public purposes.
    (c) Survey.--The exact acreage and legal description of the land to 
be conveyed under subsection (a) shall be determined by a survey 
satisfactory to the Secretary. The cost of the survey shall be borne by 
the Secretary.
    (d) Road Access.--In making the conveyance under subsection (a) to 
the City, the Secretary shall include a deed restriction requiring that 
the roads referred to in such subsection shall remain open to the 
public to provide access to adjacent Federal land and private property.
    (e) Additional Term and Conditions.--The Secretary may require such 
additional terms and conditions in connection with the conveyance under 
subsection (a) as the Secretary considers appropriate to protect the 
interests of the United States.

SEC. 105. LAND CONVEYANCE, DESIGNATED BLM LAND TO CITY OF CHALLIS, 
              IDAHO.

    (a) Conveyance Required.--The Secretary of the Interior, acting 
through the Director of the Bureau of Land Management, shall convey, 
without consideration, to the City of Challis, Idaho (in this section 
referred to as the ``City''), all right, title, and interest of the 
United States in and to parcels of Bureau of Land Management land, 
including roads thereon, identified as parcels B and E on the map 
entitled ``Custer County and City of Challis Conveyances'' and dated 
September 13, 2006.
    (b) Authorized Uses.--The land to be conveyed under subsection (a) 
may be used only for public purposes.
    (c) Survey.--The exact acreage and legal description of the land to 
be conveyed under subsection (a) shall be determined by a survey 
satisfactory to the Secretary. The cost of the survey shall be borne by 
the Secretary.
    (d) Road Access.--In making the conveyance under subsection (a) to 
the City, the Secretary shall include a deed restriction requiring that 
the roads referred to in such subsection shall remain open to the 
public to provide access to adjacent Federal land and private property.
    (e) Additional Term and Conditions.--The Secretary may require such 
additional terms and conditions in connection with the conveyance under 
subsection (a) as the Secretary considers appropriate to protect the 
interests of the United States.

SEC. 106. LAND CONVEYANCE, DESIGNATED BLM LAND TO CUSTER COUNTY, IDAHO.

    (a) Conveyance Required.--The Secretary of the Interior, acting 
through the Director of the Bureau of Land Management, shall convey, 
without consideration, to the Custer County, Idaho (in this section 
referred to as the ``County''), all right, title, and interest of the 
United States in and to parcels of Bureau of Land Management land, 
including roads thereon, identified as follows:
            (1) Parcels A, C, D, and F on the map entitled ``Custer 
        County and City of Challis Conveyances'' and dated September 
        13, 2006.
            (2) Parcels A, B, C, E, and F on the map entitled ``Custer 
        County and City of Mackay Conveyances'' and dated September 13, 
        2006.
    (b) Authorized Uses.--The land to be conveyed under subsection (a) 
may be used only for public purposes.
    (c) Survey.--The exact acreage and legal description of the land to 
be conveyed under subsection (a) shall be determined by a survey 
satisfactory to the Secretary. The cost of the survey shall be borne by 
the Secretary.
    (d) Road Access.--In making the conveyance under subsection (a) to 
the County, the Secretary shall include a deed restriction requiring 
that the roads referred to in such subsection shall remain open to the 
public to provide access to adjacent Federal land and private property.
    (e) Term and Conditions.--The Secretary may require such additional 
terms and conditions in connection with the conveyance under subsection 
(a) as the Secretary considers appropriate to protect the interests of 
the United States.

SEC. 107. LAND CONVEYANCE AUTHORITY, SUPPORT FOR MOTORIZED AND BICYCLE 
              RECREATION, PUBLIC LAND IN IDAHO.

    (a) Motorized Recreation Park.--Subject to subsection (b), the 
Secretary of the Interior shall convey, without consideration, to the 
State of Idaho (in this section referred to as the ``State'') all 
right, title, and interest of the United States in and to a parcel or 
parcels of Bureau of Land Management land, including roads thereon, 
consisting of approximately 1000 acres near Boise, Idaho, and 
identified for conveyance under this section on the map entitled 
``STATE OF IDAHO--Boise Motorized Park Conveyance'' and dated November 
1, 2006, for the purpose of permitting the State to establish a 
motorized recreation park on the land. As a condition of the conveyance 
of the land, the State shall agree to include a beginner track as part 
of the recreation park to be used to teach safe, responsible riding 
techniques and to establish areas for riders with different levels of 
skills.
    (b) Reservation of Portion for Mountain Bike Use.--As a condition 
of the conveyance of the land under subsection (a), the State shall 
reserve 20 acres of the conveyed land for the use of mountain bikes.
    (c) Survey.--The exact acreage and legal description of the land to 
be conveyed under this section shall be determined by a survey 
satisfactory to the Secretary. The cost of the survey shall be borne by 
the State.
    (d) Road Access.--In making a conveyance under subsection (a) to 
the State, the Secretary shall include a deed restriction requiring 
that the roads referred to in such subsection shall remain open to the 
public to provide access to adjacent Federal land and private property.
    (e) Additional Term and Conditions.--The Secretary concerned may 
require such additional terms and conditions in connection with the 
conveyance under this section as the Secretary considers appropriate to 
protect the interests of the United States.

SEC. 108. TREATMENT OF EXISTING ROADS AND TRAILS.

    In making the conveyances required by this title, the Secretary of 
Agriculture and the Secretary of the Interior shall include deed 
restrictions to ensure that any roads and trails located on the 
conveyed land remain open to public use notwithstanding any subsequent 
conveyance of the land by the recipient of the land.

SEC. 109. STANLEY-REDFISH LAKE BIKE AND SNOWMOBILE TRAIL AND RELATED 
              PARKING LOT.

    (a) Development of Trail.--The Secretary of Agriculture shall 
design, construct, and maintain a hardened surface trail between the 
City of Stanley, Idaho, and Redfish Lake that is designated for use--
            (1) by pedestrians and non-motorized vehicles generally; 
        and
            (2) as a snowmobile route when there is adequate snow 
        cover.
    (b) Acquisition From Willing Sellers.--Any land or interests in 
land to be acquired by the Secretary for construction of the paved 
trail required by subsection (a) shall be acquired only by donation or 
by purchase from willing sellers.
    (c) Assistance for Construction of Parking Lot.--The Secretary may 
make a grant to the City of Stanley, Idaho, to assist the City in 
constructing a parking lot on City property at the north end of the 
trail required by subsection (a) for use for snowmobile and general 
parking and for other purposes related to the trail.
    (d) Assistance for Construction of Community Amphitheater.--The 
Secretary may make a grant to the City of Stanley, Idaho to assist the 
City in constructing a community amphitheater.
    (e) Authorization of Appropriations.--
            (1) In general.--There is authorized to be appropriated to 
        the Secretary--
                    (A) $400,000 for the design, construction, and 
                maintenance of the trail required by subsection (a) and 
                for land acquisition associated with the construction 
                of the trail;
                    (B) $100,000 for the grant under subsection (c); 
                and
                    (C) $200,000 for the grant under subsection (d).
            (2) Availability.--Amounts appropriated pursuant to the 
        authorization of appropriations contained in paragraph (1) 
        shall remain available until expended.

SEC. 110. SUPPORT FOR OUTFITTER AND GUIDE ACTIVITIES.

    (a) Existing Operating Permits.--
            (1) Extension.--Before the end of the one-year period 
        beginning on the date of the enactment of this Act, the 
        Secretary of Agriculture and the Secretary of the Interior 
        shall grant a 10-year extension for each guide or outfitter 
        operating permit in effect as of the date of the enactment of 
        this Act that authorizes activities on lands included in a 
        wilderness area designated by title II or covered by section 
        301. The Secretary concerned may require the modification of 
        the extended permit as necessary to comply with the 
        requirements of this Act.
            (2) Exception.--The Secretary of Agriculture or the 
        Secretary of the Interior may refuse to grant the extension of 
        a permit under paragraph (1) only if the Secretary concerned 
        determines that the permittee has not operated in a 
        satisfactory manner in compliance with the terms and conditions 
        of the permit.
    (b) Future Outfitter and Guide Activities.--Future extensions of 
outfitter and guide activities and permits for outfitters on lands 
included in a wilderness area designated by title II or lands provided 
for in title III shall be administered in accordance with applicable 
Federal laws and resource management plans. No person shall conduct 
outfitter and guide activities on such Federal land except as 
authorized by the Secretary concerned.

SEC. 111. GRANTS TO SUPPORT SUSTAINABLE ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT AND 
              RECREATION.

    (a) Grant to Custer County, Idaho.--
            (1) Grant required.--The Secretary of Agriculture shall 
        make a grant of $3,000,000 to Custer County, Idaho, for the 
        purpose of assisting the County in supporting sustainable 
        economic development or for other purposes in the County.
            (2) Offset.--
                    (A) Estimated payments; interest on amount of 
                underpayment.--Section 111(j) of the Federal Oil and 
                Gas Royalty Management Act of 1982 (30 U.S.C. 1721(j)) 
                is amended by striking ``If the estimated payment 
                exceeds the actual royalties due, interest is owed on 
                the overpayment.''.
                    (B) Overpayments.--Section 111 of the Federal Oil 
                and Gas Royalty Management Act of 1982 (30 U.S.C. 1721) 
                is amended by striking subsections (h) and (i).
                    (C) Effective date.--The amendments made by this 
                paragraph shall take effect one year after the date of 
                enactment of this Act.
    (b) Additional Grant to Custer County, Idaho.--In addition to the 
grant required by subsection (a), the Secretary of Agriculture and the 
Secretary of Energy may make grants to Custer County, Idaho, for the 
purpose of assisting the County in supporting sustainable economic 
development or for other purposes in the County.
    (c) Grant to State of Idaho.--The Secretary of Agriculture may make 
a grant to the State of Idaho Parks and Recreation Department for the 
purpose of assisting the State in acquiring and developing Bayhorse 
Campground for use as a State park.
    (d) Authorization of Appropriations.--There is authorized to be 
appropriated to the Secretary of Agriculture--
            (1) $5,100,000 to make grants under subsection (b); and
            (2) $500,000 to make the grant under subsection (c).

                TITLE II--CENTRAL IDAHO WILDERNESS AREAS

SEC. 201. ADDITIONS TO NATIONAL WILDERNESS PRESERVATION SYSTEM.

    (a) Additions.--Congress has determined that the following lands in 
central Idaho shall be designated as wilderness and managed as 
components of the National Wilderness Preservation System:
            (1) Hemingway-boulders wilderness.--Certain Federal land in 
        the Sawtooth and Challis National Forests, comprising 
        approximately 110,438 acres, as generally depicted on the map 
        entitled ``Hemingway-Boulders Proposed Wilderness'' and dated 
        October 20, 2008, which shall be known as the ``Hemingway-
        Boulders Wilderness''.
            (2) White clouds wilderness.--Certain Federal land in the 
        Sawtooth and Challis National Forests, comprising approximately 
        76,657 acres, as generally depicted on the map entitled ``White 
        Clouds Proposed Wilderness'' and dated October 20, 2008, which 
        shall be known as the ``White Clouds Wilderness''.
            (3) Jerry peak wilderness.--Certain Federal land in the 
        Challis National Forest and Challis District of the Bureau of 
        Land Management, comprising approximately 131,670 acres, as 
        generally depicted on the map entitled ``Jerry Peak 
        Wilderness'' and dated August 30, 2006, which shall be known as 
        the ``Jerry Peak Wilderness''. In the case of the Bureau of 
        Land Management land designated as wilderness by this 
        paragraph, the land is included in the National Landscape 
        Conservation System.
    (b) Maps and Legal Description.--
            (1) In general.--As soon as practicable after the date of 
        enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Agriculture, in the 
        case of the wilderness areas designated by paragraphs (1) and 
        (2) of subsection (a) and the National Forest System land 
        designated as wilderness by paragraph (3) of such subsection, 
        and the Secretary of the Interior, in the case of the Bureau of 
        Land Management land designated as wilderness by paragraph (3) 
        of such subsection, in this title referred to as the 
        ``Secretary concerned'', shall file a map and legal description 
        of the wilderness areas designated by such subsection with the 
        Committee on Resources of the House of Representatives and the 
        Committee on Energy and Natural Resources of the Senate.
            (2) Effect.--Each map and legal description shall have the 
        same force and effect as if included in this title, except that 
        the Secretary concerned may correct clerical and typographical 
        errors in the map or legal description.
            (3) Availability.--Each map and legal description shall be 
        on file and available for public inspection in the appropriate 
        offices of the Bureau of Land Management or the Forest Service.
    (c) Withdrawal.--Subject to valid existing rights, the wilderness 
areas designated in subsection (a) are withdrawn from all forms of 
entry, appropriation, and disposal under the public land laws, 
location, entry, and patent under the mining laws, and operation of the 
mineral leasing, mineral materials, and geothermal leasing laws.

SEC. 202. GENERAL ADMINISTRATION OF WILDERNESS AREAS.

    (a) Application of Wilderness Act.--Subject to valid existing 
rights, the wilderness areas designated by section 201 shall be managed 
by the Secretary concerned in accordance with the Wilderness Act (16 
U.S.C. 1131 et seq.) and this title. With respect to the wilderness 
areas, any reference in the Wilderness Act to the effective date of the 
Wilderness Act shall be deemed to be a reference to the date of the 
enactment of this Act, and any reference in the Wilderness Act to the 
Secretary of Agriculture shall be deemed to be a reference to the 
Secretary concerned.
    (b) Consistent Interpretation to the Public.--Although the 
wilderness areas designated by section 201 consist of National Forest 
System land under the jurisdiction of the Secretary of Agriculture and 
public land under the jurisdiction of the Secretary of the Interior, 
the Secretary of Agriculture and the Secretary of the Interior shall 
collaborate to assure that the wilderness areas are interpreted to the 
public as an overall complex tied together by common location in the 
Boulder-White Cloud Mountains and common identity with the natural and 
cultural history of the State of Idaho and its Native American and 
pioneer heritage.
    (c) Comprehensive Wilderness Management Plan.--Not later than three 
years after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of 
Agriculture and Secretary of the Interior shall collaborate to develop 
a comprehensive wilderness management plan for the wilderness areas 
designated by section 201. The completed management plan shall be 
submitted to the Committee on Resources of the House of Representatives 
and the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources of the Senate.
    (d) Fire, Insects, and Diseases.--Within the wilderness area 
designated by section 201, the Secretary concerned may take such 
measures as the Secretary concerned determines to be necessary for the 
control of fire, insects, and diseases in accordance with--
            (1) section 4(d)(1) of the Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 
        1133(d)(1)); and
            (2) House Report No. 98-40 of the 98th Congress.
    (e) Wilderness Trails and Trailheads.--
            (1) Construction of new trailhead.--The Secretary concerned 
        shall construct a new trailhead for nonmotorized users and 
        improve access to the Big Boulder Trailhead to separate 
        motorized users from nonmotorized users.
            (2) Inclusion of accessible trail.--The Secretary concerned 
        shall upgrade the first mile of the Murdock Creek Trail in the 
        Hemingway-Boulders wilderness area designated by section 201 to 
        a primitive, non-paved, and wheelchair accessible standard.
    (f) Treatment of Existing Claims and Private Lands.--Nothing in 
this title is intended to affect the rights or interests in real 
property, patented mining claims, or valid claims or prevent reasonable 
access to private property or for the development and use of valid 
mineral rights. The Secretary concerned may enter into negotiations 
with the holder of a patented claim or valid claim located in a 
wilderness area designated by section 201 for the voluntary 
relinquishment of the claim.
    (g) Grazing.--Grazing of livestock in a wilderness area designated 
by section 201, where established before the date of the enactment of 
this Act, shall be administered in accordance with the provisions of 
section 4(d)(4) of the Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1133(d)(4)), section 
108 of Public Law 96-560, and section 101(f) of Public Law 101-628, and 
in accordance with the guidelines set forth in Appendix A of House 
Report 96-617 of the 96th Congress and House Report 101-405 of the 
101st Congress.
    (h) Outfitting and Guide Activities.--Consistent with section 
4(d)(5) of the Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1133(d)(4)), commercial 
services (including authorized outfitting and guide activities) are 
authorized in wilderness areas designated by section 201 to the extent 
necessary for activities that fulfill the recreational or other 
wilderness purposes of the areas.

SEC. 203. ACQUISITION OF MINERAL INTERESTS AND LANDS FROM WILLING 
              SELLERS.

    (a) Acquisition.--Within the boundaries of the wilderness areas 
designated by section 201, the Secretary concerned may acquire, through 
purchase from willing sellers or donation from willing owners, all 
right, title, and interest in all mineral interests, claims, and 
parcels of land that have been patented on or before January 1, 2002 
under the Act of May 10, 1872 (30 U.S.C. 22 et seq.; commonly known as 
the Mining Act of 1872).
    (b) Consideration.--In exercising the authority provided by 
subsection (a) to acquire lands and interests, the Secretary concerned 
may offer the owners of record of each patent, who voluntarily wish to 
sell up to $20,000 as compensation for the acquisition of these 
interests.
    (c) Incorporation in Wilderness Area.--Any land or interest in land 
located inside the boundaries of a wilderness area designated by 
section 201 that is acquired by the United States after the date of the 
enactment of this Act shall be added to and administered as part of 
that wilderness area.

SEC. 204. ADJACENT MANAGEMENT.

    (a) No Protective Perimeters or Buffer Zones.--Congress does not 
intend for the designation of the wilderness areas by section 201 to 
lead to the creation of protective perimeters or buffer zones around 
any such wilderness area.
    (b) Nonwilderness Activities.--The fact that nonwilderness 
activities or uses outside of a wilderness area designated by section 
201 can be seen or heard from inside of the wilderness area shall not 
preclude the conduct of those activities or uses outside the boundaries 
of the wilderness area.

SEC. 205. WATER RIGHTS.

    (a) Findings.--Congress finds the following:
            (1) The lands designated as wilderness areas by section 201 
        are located at the headwaters of the streams and rivers on 
        those lands, with few, if any, actual or proposed water 
        resource facilities located upstream from such lands and few, 
        if any, opportunities for diversion, storage, or other uses of 
        water occurring outside such lands that would adversely affect 
        the wilderness values of such lands.
            (2) The lands designated as wilderness areas by section 201 
        are not suitable for use for development of new water resource 
        facilities or for the expansion of existing facilities.
            (3) Therefore, it is possible to provide for proper 
        management and protection of the wilderness value of the lands 
        designated as wilderness areas by section 201 in ways different 
        from the ways utilized in other laws designating wilderness 
        areas.
    (b) Purpose.--The purpose of this section is to protect the 
wilderness values of the lands designated as wilderness areas by 
section 201 by means other than a federally reserved water right.
    (c) Statutory Construction.--Nothing in this title--
            (1) shall constitute, or be construed to constitute, either 
        an express or implied reservation by the United States of any 
        water or water rights with respect to the wilderness areas 
        designated by section 201;
            (2) shall affect any water rights in the State of Idaho 
        existing on the date of the enactment of this Act, including 
        any water rights held by the United States;
            (3) shall be construed as establishing a precedent with 
        regard to any future wilderness designations;
            (4) shall be construed as limiting, altering, modifying, or 
        amending any of the interstate compacts or equitable 
        apportionment decrees that apportion water among and between 
        the State of Idaho and other States; and
            (5) shall be construed as limiting, altering, modifying, or 
        amending provisions of Public Law 92-400, which established the 
        Sawtooth National Recreation Area (16 U.S.C. 460aa et seq.).
    (d) Idaho Water Law.--The Secretary concerned shall follow the 
procedural and substantive requirements of the law of the State of 
Idaho when seeking to establish any water rights, not in existence on 
the date of the enactment of this Act, with respect to the wilderness 
areas designated by section 201.
    (e) New Projects.--
            (1) Prohibition.--Except as otherwise provided in this Act, 
        on and after the date of the enactment of this Act, neither the 
        President nor any other officer, employee, or agent of the 
        United States shall fund, assist, authorize, or issue a license 
        or permit for the development of any new water resource 
        facility inside any of the wilderness areas designated by 
        section 201.
            (2) Definition.--In this subsection, the term ``water 
        resource facility'' means irrigation and pumping facilities, 
        reservoirs, water conservation works, aqueducts, canals, 
        ditches, pipelines, wells, hydropower projects, and 
        transmission and other ancillary facilities, and other water 
        diversion, storage, and carriage structures.

SEC. 206. WILDLIFE MANAGEMENT.

    (a) State Jurisdiction.--In accordance with section 4(d)(7) of the 
Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1133(d)(7)), nothing in this title affects or 
diminishes the jurisdiction of the State of Idaho with respect to fish 
and wildlife management, including the regulation of hunting, fishing, 
and trapping, in the wilderness areas designated by section 201.
    (b) Management Activities.--In furtherance of the purposes and 
principles of the Wilderness Act, management activities to maintain or 
restore fish and wildlife populations and the habitats to support such 
populations may be carried out within wilderness areas designated by 
section 201 where consistent with relevant wilderness management plans, 
in accordance with appropriate policies such as those set forth in 
Appendix B of House Report 101-405 of the 101st Congress, including the 
occasional and temporary use of motorized vehicles, if such use, as 
determined by the Secretary concerned would promote healthy, viable, 
and more naturally distributed wildlife populations that would enhance 
wilderness values and accomplish those purposes using the minimum tool 
necessary to reasonably accomplish the task.
    (c) Use of Aircraft.--Consistent with section 4(d)(1) of the 
Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1133(d)) and in accordance with appropriate 
policies such as those set forth in Appendix B of House Report 101-405 
of the 101st Congress, the State of Idaho may continue to use aircraft, 
including helicopters, to survey, capture, transplant, monitor, and 
manage elk, deer, bighorn sheep, mountain goats, wolves, grizzly bears, 
and other wildlife and fish.
    (d) Hunting, Fishing, and Trapping.--Nothing in this title shall 
affect hunting, fishing, and trapping, under applicable State and 
Federal laws and regulations, in the wilderness areas designated by 
section 201. The Secretary concerned may designate, by regulation in 
consultation with the appropriate State agency (except in emergencies), 
areas in which, and establish periods during which, for reasons of 
public safety, administration, or compliance with applicable laws, no 
hunting, fishing, or trapping will be permitted in the wilderness 
areas.

SEC. 207. NATIVE AMERICAN CULTURAL AND RELIGIOUS USES.

    Nothing in this title shall be construed to diminish the rights of 
any Indian tribe. Nothing in this title shall be construed to diminish 
tribal rights regarding access to Federal lands for tribal activities, 
including spiritual, cultural, and traditional food-gathering 
activities.

SEC. 208. MILITARY OVERFLIGHTS.

    Nothing in this title restricts or precludes--
            (1) low-level overflights of military aircraft over the 
        wilderness areas designated by section 201, including military 
        overflights that can be seen or heard within the wilderness 
        areas;
            (2) flight testing and evaluation; or
            (3) the designation or creation of new units of special use 
        airspace, or the establishment of military flight training 
        routes, over the wilderness areas.

SEC. 209. WILDERNESS REVIEW.

    (a) National Forests.--Section 5 of Public Law 92-400 (16 U.S.C. 
460aa-4), which required a review of the undeveloped and unimproved 
portion or portions of the Sawtooth National Recreation Area 
established by that Act as to suitability or nonsuitability for 
preservation as part of the National Wilderness Preservation System, is 
repealed.
    (b) Public Lands.--
            (1) Finding.--Congress finds that, for the purpose of 
        section 603 of the Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 
        1976 (43 U.S.C. 1782), the public land administered by the 
        Bureau of Land Management in the following areas have been 
        adequately studied for wilderness designation:
                    (A) The Jerry Peak Wilderness Study Area.
                    (B) The Jerry Peak West Wilderness Study Area.
                    (C) The Corral-Horse Basin Wilderness Study Area.
                    (D) The Boulder Creek Wilderness Study Area.
            (2) Release.--Any public land described in paragraph (1) 
        that is not designated as wilderness by this title--
                    (A) is no longer subject to section 603(c) of the 
                Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 1976 (43 
                U.S.C. 1782(c)); and
                    (B) shall be managed in accordance with land 
                management plans adopted under section 202 of that Act 
                (43 U.S.C. 1712).

                     TITLE III--GENERAL PROVISIONS

SEC. 301. MANAGEMENT OF NON-WILDERNESS LANDS IN CHALLIS AND SAWTOOTH 
              NATIONAL FORESTS, SAWTOOTH NATIONAL RECREATION AREA, AND 
              CHALLIS BUREAU OF LAND MANAGEMENT DISTRICT.

    (a) Covered Lands and Special Management Requirements.--Lands in 
the Challis National Forest, the Sawtooth National Forest, the Sawtooth 
National Recreation Area, and the Challis District of the Bureau of 
Land Management that lie within the perimeter of the boundary shown on 
the map entitled ``Boulder White Clouds Travel Plan'' and dated October 
20, 2008, and which are not designated as wilderness by section 201 or 
previous laws, shall be administered in accordance with this section 
and the laws and regulations generally applicable to the National 
Forest System and the Bureau of Land Management, respectively.
    (b) Effect on Grazing.--Nothing in this section shall be construed 
to prohibit, or change the administration of, the grazing of livestock 
within the area described in subsection (a).
    (c) Travel Plan for BLM Lands.--
            (1) Plan required.--Not later than three years after the 
        date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of the 
        Interior shall develop and implement a travel plan for the 
        lands within the Challis District of the Bureau of Land 
        Management included within the area described in subsection 
        (a).
            (2) Elements.--The travel plan shall be developed in 
        accordance with the laws and regulations generally applicable 
        to the existing management plan for the Challis District of the 
        Bureau of Land Management. Motorized and bicycle travel 
        authorized in the travel plan shall be managed in accordance 
        with the plan and laws and regulations generally applicable to 
        the public lands, and not as otherwise provided for in this 
        section. The Secretary of the Interior shall include a map as 
        part of the travel plan.
    (d) Motorized Travel.--Motorized travel shall be permitted on 
National Forest System lands included within the area described in 
subsection (a) only on those established trails, routes, and snowmobile 
areas in existence as of September 1, 2003, on which such travel was 
permitted as of such date, except that other trails and routes may be 
used where necessary for administrative purposes or to respond to an 
emergency. No later than one year after the date of enactment of this 
Act, the Secretary of Agriculture shall identify such routes and trails 
and shall prepare and make available to the public a map showing such 
routes and trails. Nothing in this subsection shall be construed as 
precluding the Secretary from closing any trail or route from use for 
purposes of resource protection or public safety.
    (e) Road Closures; Winter Exceptions.--The following roads or 
trails shall be closed to motorized and mechanized trail use, except 
when there is adequate snowcover to permit snowmobile use:
            (1) Forest Service Trail 109 between the Phyllis Lake 
        turnoff to 4th of July Lake and the south side of Washington 
        Lake.
            (2) Forest Service Trail 671 up Warm Springs Creek from 
        Trail 104 to the wilderness boundary.
    (f) Prohibition on New Roads and Trails; Exceptions.--No new roads 
or trails shall be established on National Forest System lands included 
in the area described in subsection (a), except those which the 
Secretary of Agriculture shall establish as follows:
            (1) Roads and trails established by the Secretary of 
        Agriculture to replace roads or trails of the same character 
        and scope which have become nonserviceable through reasons 
        other than nonuse.
            (2) Nonpermanent roads established by the Secretary of 
        Agriculture as needed for hazardous fuels reduction or other 
        control of fire, insect or disease control projects, or other 
        management purposes.
            (3) A trail between the Phyllis Lake Road (USFS Road #053) 
        and Phyllis Lake, which shall be primitive and non-paved, but 
        wheelchair accessible, and open only to nonmotorized travel.
            (4) The primitive and nonpaved, but wheelchair accessible, 
        trail along Murdock Creek in the Hemingway-Boulders wilderness 
        area required by section 202(e)(2).
            (5) The Big Wood Backcountry Trail System required by 
        section 302.
    (g) Trail Maintenance.--
            (1) Authorization of appropriations.--There is authorized 
        to be appropriated to the Secretary of Agriculture and the 
        Secretary of the Interior $650,000 for trail construction and 
        maintenance and for other improvements related to outfitting, 
        guiding, hiking, and horseback use within the lands designated 
        as wilderness in title II and Federal lands within the area 
        described in subsection (a). Amounts appropriated pursuant to 
        this authorization of appropriations shall remain available 
        until expended.
            (2) Set-aside.--Of the amounts appropriated pursuant to the 
        authorization of appropriations in paragraph (1), $150,000 
        shall be available for the construction of the trails provided 
        for in paragraphs (3) and (4) of subsection (f).
    (h) Special Rules for Spar Canyon, Herd Lake, and Road Creek 
Routes.--Notwithstanding the status of any other road or trail under 
this section, motorized and bicycle travel shall continue to be allowed 
on the Spar Canyon, Herd Lake, and Road Creek routes in the described 
in subsection (a).

SEC. 302. BIG WOOD BACKCOUNTRY TRAIL SYSTEM STUDY AND AUTHORIZATION.

     (a) Study.--Not later than three years after funds are first made 
available for this purpose, the Secretary of Agriculture, in 
consultation with interested parties, shall complete a study of the 
suitability and feasibility of establishing the Big Wood Backcountry 
Trail system for mechanized and other nonmotorized recreation on a 
lower portion of the Rip and Tear Trail inside the Sawtooth National 
Recreation Area, as shown on a map entitled ``Galena Trails Planning 
Area''.
    (b) Establishment.--If the results of the study required by 
subsection (a) indicate that establishment of such trails would be 
suitable and feasible, the Secretary of Agriculture shall establish the 
trail system in a manner consistent with the purposes of section 301.

SEC. 303. SUPPORT AND USE OF IDAHO OFF ROAD MOTOR VEHICLE PROGRAM.

    (a) Grant to Program.--There is authorized to be appropriated to 
the Secretary of Agriculture not more than $1,000,000, which shall be 
used by the Secretary to make a grant to the State of Idaho in the full 
amount so appropriated for deposit with the Off Road Motor Vehicle 
Program of the Idaho Department of State Parks and Recreation, which is 
used to support the improvement, repair, maintenance, furnishing, and 
equipping of off-road motor vehicle facilities and sites, to groom 
snowmobile trails, and for enforcement activities and the 
rehabilitation of land damaged by off-road vehicle users. As a 
condition of the grant, the State must maintain the grant funds as a 
separate account of the Off Road Motor Vehicle Program and may not use 
the funds except as provided by this section.
    (b) Use of Grant Funds.--If the Secretary of Agriculture determines 
that additional funds are required to carry out the activities 
described in subsection (a) in the perimeter of the area described in 
section 301(a), the Secretary may apply for funds from the Off Road 
Motor Vehicle Program. Funds received under this subsection shall be 
used only in the Challis National Forest, the Sawtooth National Forest, 
the Sawtooth National Recreation Area, or the Challis District of the 
Bureau of Land Management or in connection with the Boise motorized 
recreation park authorized by section 107.
    (c) Consultation and Recommendations.--Before funds are provided 
under subsection (b), the Off Road Motor Vehicle Program shall consider 
any recommendations regarding the use of the funds made by the advisory 
committee established as part of the program as well as public 
comments.
    (d) Relation to Other Laws.--Any action undertaken using funds 
obtained under subsection (b) shall conform to the applicable travel 
plan of the Challis National Forest, the Sawtooth National Forest, the 
Sawtooth National Recreation Area, or the Challis District of the 
Bureau of Land Management.

SEC. 304. MANAGEMENT OF RAILROAD RIDGE AREA, SAWTOOTH NATIONAL FOREST.

    (a) Findings.--Congress finds the following:
            (1) The Railroad Ridge area of the Sawtooth National Forest 
        is host to several extremely rare and sensitive plant species.
            (2) The area supports some of the most unique and well-
        developed alpine plant communities in Idaho, and is more 
        botanically diverse than most alpine communities in North 
        America.
            (3) The area is currently closed to off road cross-country 
        motorized travel.
    (b) Enhanced Awareness and Conservation.--There is authorized to be 
appropriated to the Secretary of Agriculture $50,000 for the 
development of educational materials and signage to raise the awareness 
of users of the Railroad Ridge area of the uniqueness of the area and 
to promote the conservation of the area.

SEC. 305. LIVESTOCK GRAZING.

    (a) Continuation of Grazing.--With respect to the lands designated 
as wilderness in section 201 or included in the area described in 
section 301(a), the grazing of livestock in areas in which grazing is 
established as of the date of enactment of this Act shall be allowed to 
continue, subject to such reasonable regulations, policies, and 
practices as the Secretary of Agriculture or the Secretary of the 
Interior, as the case may be, considers necessary. Grazing of livestock 
in wilderness shall be consistent with section 4(d)(4) of the 
Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1133(d)(4)) and the guidelines described in 
Appendix A of House Report 101-405.
    (b) Inventory.--Not later than one year after the date of enactment 
of this Act, the Secretary of Agriculture and the Secretary of the 
Interior shall conduct an inventory of existing facilities and 
improvements associated with grazing activities on the lands designated 
as wilderness in section 201 or included in the area described in 
section 301(a).
    (c) Fencing.--The Secretary of Agriculture or the Secretary of the 
Interior may construct and maintain fencing around wilderness areas 
designated by section 201 and under the jurisdiction of that Secretary 
as the Secretary determines to be appropriate to enhance wilderness 
values.
    (d) Donation of Grazing Permits or Leases.--
            (1) Acceptance by secretary.--The Secretary of Agriculture 
        or the Secretary of the Interior shall accept the donation of 
        any valid existing permits or leases authorizing grazing on 
        public land, all or a portion of which is within a wilderness 
        area designated by section 201 or in the area described in 
        section 301(a).
            (2) Termination.--With respect to each permit or lease 
        donated under paragraph (1), the Secretary receiving the 
        donation shall--
                    (A) terminate the grazing permit or lease; and
                    (B) except as provided in paragraph (3), ensure a 
                permanent end to grazing on the land covered by the 
                permit or lease.
            (3) Common allotments.--
                    (A) In general.--If the land covered by a permit or 
                lease donated under paragraph (1) is also covered by 
                another valid existing permit or lease that is not 
                donated under paragraph (1), the Secretary receiving 
                the donation shall reduce the authorized grazing level 
                on the land covered by the permit or lease to reflect 
                the donation of the permit or lease under paragraph 
                (1).
                    (B) Authorized level.--To ensure that there is a 
                permanent reduction in the level of grazing on the land 
                covered by a permit or lease donated under paragraph 
                (1), the Secretary of Agriculture and the Secretary of 
                the Interior shall not allow grazing use to exceed the 
                authorized level established under subparagraph (A).
            (4) Partial donation.--
                    (A) In general.--If a person holding a valid 
                grazing permit or lease donates less than the full 
                amount of grazing use authorized under the permit or 
                lease, the Secretary receiving the donation shall--
                            (i) reduce the authorized grazing level to 
                        reflect the donation; and
                            (ii) modify the permit or lease to reflect 
                        the revised level of use.
                    (B) Authorized level.--To ensure that there is a 
                permanent reduction in the authorized level of grazing 
                on the land covered by a permit or lease donated under 
                subparagraph (A), the Secretary of Agriculture and the 
                Secretary of the Interior shall not allow grazing use 
                to exceed the authorized level established under that 
                subparagraph.

SEC. 306. LAND ACQUISITION AUTHORITY.

    (a) Land Acquisition.--The Secretary of Agriculture and the 
Secretary of the Interior may acquire, by donation or purchase from 
willing sellers, lands and interests in lands--
            (1) located inside the boundaries of the area described in 
        section 301(a); or
            (2) located adjacent to the area to provide easements for 
        additional public access to the area.
    (b) Limitation on Use of Condemnation.--No lands or interests in 
lands may be acquired by condemnation for inclusion in the area or to 
provide access to the area, except as provided for by Public Law 92-400 
(16 U.S.C. 460aa et seq.) and regulations, in effect as of the date of 
the enactment of this Act, for the use of private land in the Sawtooth 
National Recreation Area (sections 36 292.14-292.16 of title 36, Code 
of Federal Regulations).
    (c) Authorization of Appropriations.--There is authorized to be 
appropriated not more than $5,000,000 to carry out this section. 
Amounts appropriated pursuant to this authorization of appropriations 
shall remain available until expended.
                                 &lt;all&gt;
</pre></body></html>
