<html><body><pre>
[Congressional Bills 116th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H.R. 7738 Introduced in House (IH)]

&lt;DOC&gt;






116th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                H. R. 7738

 To require the integration of climate-resilience considerations into 
   all development work of the United States, and for other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                             July 23, 2020

 Mr. Cartwright (for himself, Mr. Rooney of Florida, Ms. Barragan, Mr. 
 Cardenas, Ms. Moore, Mr. Grijalva, Mr. Morelle, Mr. San Nicolas, Mr. 
 Case, Mr. Trone, and Mr. Cohen) introduced the following bill; which 
 was referred to the Committee on Foreign Affairs, and in addition to 
 the Committee on Financial Services, for a period to be subsequently 
   determined by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of such 
 provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the committee concerned

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
 To require the integration of climate-resilience considerations into 
   all development work of the United States, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Climate-Resilient International 
Development Optimization Act''.

SEC. 2. CLIMATE-RESILIENT INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT.

    (a) Incorporating Climate Resilience Into International 
Development.--
            (1) Direct international development programs and 
        investments.--The head of each agency with direct international 
        development programs and investments shall carry out the 
        following:
                    (A) Incorporate climate resilience considerations 
                into agency decision making to--
                            (i) assess and evaluate climate-related 
                        risks to and vulnerabilities in agency 
                        strategies, planning, programs, projects, 
                        investments, overseas facilities, and related 
                        funding decisions, using best-available 
                        climate-change data, tools, and information, 
                        including such data, tools, and information 
                        identified or developed by the Working Group 
                        established under subsection (b)(1); and
                            (ii) adjust strategies, planning, programs, 
                        projects, investments, and related funding 
                        decisions of the agency, including the planning 
                        for and management of overseas facilities, 
                        based on the assessments and evaluations 
                        referred to in clause (i).
                    (B) Collaborate with the heads of other agencies 
                with direct international development programs and 
                investments, as appropriate, to share knowledge, data, 
                tools, information, frameworks, and lessons learned in 
                incorporating climate-resilience considerations into 
                agency strategy, planning, programs, projects, 
                investments, and related funding decisions, including 
                the planning for and management of overseas facilities.
                    (C) Work with other countries, as appropriate, to--
                            (i) identify climate-related risks;
                            (ii) incorporate climate-resilience 
                        considerations into international development 
                        assistance efforts performed by the agency; and
                            (iii) identify knowledge, practices, tools, 
                        and data of such other countries and 
                        multilateral organizations that can be used by 
                        the United States to improve the activities 
                        described in clauses (i) and (ii).
                    (D) Support the efforts of countries that are 
                recipients of international development assistance, 
                especially those vulnerable to climatic, weather, and 
                other forms of disruption caused by global climate 
                change, to integrate climate-resilience considerations 
                regarding how to use resources (including the 
                countries' own national resources and those provided by 
                the United States, other countries, and multilateral 
                entities) into national, regional, and sectoral 
                development planning and action.
                    (E) Support the efforts of multilateral entities 
                and other countries in developing and receiving access 
                to knowledge, practices, tools, and data related to 
                identifying climate-related risks and incorporating 
                climate-resilience considerations into development 
                programs.
                    (F) Monitor the implementation of subparagraphs (A) 
                through (E).
            (2) Development through multilateral entity participation 
        or representation.--The head of each agency that participates 
        in a multilateral entity shall, as appropriate, carry out the 
        following:
                    (A) Encourage the multilateral entity to--
                            (i) assess and evaluate climate-related 
                        risks to and vulnerabilities in the strategies, 
                        planning, programs, projects, investments, and 
                        related funding decisions of the entity, using 
                        best-available climate-change data, tools, and 
                        information, including such data, tools, and 
                        information identified or developed by the 
                        Working Group; and
                            (ii) adjust the strategies, planning, 
                        programs, projects, investments, and related 
                        funding decisions of the entity, as 
                        appropriate, based on the assessments and 
                        evaluations referred to in clause (i).
                    (B) Collaborate with the multilateral entity and 
                share with the agencies represented on the Working 
                Group under subsection (b)(3)(B) and other stakeholders 
                the knowledge, data, tools, information, frameworks, 
                and lessons learned from the entity in incorporating 
                the climate-resilience considerations into strategies, 
                planning, programs, projects, investments, and related 
                funding decisions.
                    (C) Encourage the multilateral entity--
                            (i) to support the efforts of countries to 
                        integrate climate-resilience considerations 
                        into national, regional, and sectoral 
                        development planning and actions; and
                            (ii) to promote the development of and 
                        access to knowledge, practices, tools, and data 
                        needed for such efforts.
                    (D) Learn from the skills, practices, data, and 
                tools of the multilateral entity and other countries 
                and incorporate such lessons into United States-led 
                development missions.
                    (E) Monitor the implementation of subparagraphs (A) 
                through (D).
    (b) Working Group on Climate-Resilient International Development.--
            (1) Establishment.--There is established in the Department 
        of the Treasury a Working Group on Climate-Resilient 
        International Development (in this section referred to as 
        ``Working Group'').
            (2) Mission and duties.--The Working Group shall carry out 
        the following:
                    (A) Support each agency with direct international 
                development programs and investments by--
                            (i) identifying, as appropriate, the need 
                        for new data, tools, and information from the 
                        data, tools, and information described in 
                        subsection (a)(1)(A)(i) to be developed by the 
                        agency working with a science and security 
                        agency or entity to advance the development of 
                        such agency;
                            (ii) identifying approaches for adjusting 
                        strategies, planning, programs, projects, 
                        investments, and related funding decisions 
                        described in clause (ii) of subsection 
                        (a)(1)(A) in response to the findings of 
                        climate-risk assessments described in clause 
                        (i) of such subsection;
                            (iii) facilitating the exchange of 
                        knowledge, data, tools, information, 
                        frameworks, and lessons learned in assessing 
                        climate risks to and incorporating climate-
                        resilience considerations into strategies, 
                        planning, programs, projects, investments, and 
                        related funding decisions of the agency 
                        described in subsection (a)(1)(A); and
                            (iv) developing methods for tracking and 
                        reporting on actions to institutionalize 
                        climate-resilient development approaches, 
                        including performance metrics and methodologies 
                        for assessing climate-related risks and making 
                        cost-benefit analysis.
                    (B) Support each agency with direct international 
                development programs and investments by identifying 
                ways each such agency may work with multilateral 
                entities and other countries to receive, share, and 
                review best practices to facilitate advancement of 
                climate-resilient development policies.
                    (C) Support each agency with direct international 
                development programs and investments by identifying 
                ways each such agency may share with multilateral 
                entities and other countries, as appropriate, and make 
                publicly available to the extent possible, data, tools, 
                and information used pursuant to subsection 
                (a)(2)(A)(i).
                    (D) Promote interagency collaboration, including 
                through joint training.
                    (E) Identify and develop, as appropriate, 
                guidelines for incorporating considerations of climate-
                change risks and climate resilience into agency 
                strategies, plans, programs, projects, investments, and 
                related funding decisions described in subsection 
                (a)(1)(A).
                    (F) Identify and assess, as appropriate, existing 
                climate-change data, decision-support tools, and 
                information described in subsection (a)(1)(A)(i) to--
                            (i) help the Working Group assess climate 
                        risks and make decisions that incorporate 
                        climate-resilience considerations, including 
                        project screening; and
                            (ii) allow the screening for and 
                        incorporation of considerations of climate-
                        change risks and vulnerabilities by the Working 
                        Group in strategies, plans, programs, projects, 
                        investments, and related funding decisions.
                    (G) Coordinate efforts, including efforts pursuant 
                to Executive Order 13653 (78 Fed. Reg. 66817) as in 
                effect on November 1, 2013, between representatives of 
                the Working Group with decision makers in multilateral 
                entities, donor countries, and recipient countries to--
                            (i) share data, tools, and information 
                        described in subparagraph (F); and
                            (ii) increase information on climate-change 
                        impacts for providers and users.
                    (H) Work with the heads of agencies with direct 
                international development programs and investments and 
                the heads of agencies that participate in a 
                multilateral entities to provide, not later than 2 
                years after the date of the enactment of this Act, 
                training for personnel of such agencies with respect to 
                integrating climate-resilience considerations into 
                international development assistance efforts performed 
                by such agencies (and the heads of such agencies shall 
                cooperate with the Working Group in providing such 
                training).
            (3) Membership.--
                    (A) Co-chairs.--The Working Group shall be co-
                chaired by the following:
                            (i) The Secretary of the Treasury, or the 
                        Secretary's designee.
                            (ii) The Administrator of the United States 
                        Agency for International Development, or the 
                        Administrator's designee.
                    (B) Representatives.--
                            (i) In general.--The Working Group shall be 
                        composed of one representative from--
                                    (I) each agency that participates 
                                in a multilateral entity, including 
                                each agency or entity determined by the 
                                co-chairs of the Working Group pursuant 
                                to subsection (f)(2)(C);
                                    (II) each agency with direct 
                                international development programs and 
                                investments, including each agency or 
                                entity determined by the co-chairs of 
                                the Working Group pursuant to 
                                subsection (f)(3)(H);
                                    (III) each science and security 
                                agency or entity, including each agency 
                                or entity determined by the co-chairs 
                                of the Working Group pursuant to 
                                subsection (f)(7)(H); and
                                    (IV) the Council on Environmental 
                                Quality or another agency or office in 
                                the Executive Office of the President, 
                                as determined by the President.
                            (ii) Agencies with multiple placements.--
                        The head of any agency that is represented on 
                        the Working Group as described in more than one 
                        category listed in clause (i) may decide--
                                    (I) to be represented by a separate 
                                representative for each such category; 
                                or
                                    (II) to be represented by a single 
                                representative for two or more such 
                                categories.
                            (iii) Qualification and appointment.--Each 
                        representative of an agency or office under 
                        clause (i) shall be a senior official of such 
                        agency or office, to be appointed by the head 
                        of the agency or office.
    (c) Implementation and Reporting of Progress.--
            (1) Implementation.--To promote implementation by each 
        agency or entity with representation in the Working Group, the 
        Working Group shall carry out the following:
                    (A) Establish a 2-year timeline to implement 
                subsection (b)(2), including biannual objectives for 
                each agency or entity.
                    (B) Analyze, at least annually, the Working Group's 
                progress in implementing this section and provide 
                recommendations for priority areas for further 
                implementation to the following:
                            (i) The Office of Management and Budget.
                            (ii) The National Security Council.
                            (iii) The Council on Environmental Quality.
                            (iv) The Office of Science and Technology 
                        Policy.
                            (v) Other agencies, offices, and entities, 
                        as the Working Group determines appropriate.
            (2) Reporting.--
                    (A) Agency with direct international development 
                programs and investments.--
                            (i) In general.--Not later than 1 year 
                        after the date of the enactment of this Act, 
                        and annually thereafter, the head of each 
                        agency with direct international development 
                        programs and investments shall submit to the 
                        Working Group a report that includes the 
                        following information:
                                    (I) The progress of the agency in 
                                achieving the requirements specified in 
                                subparagraphs (A) through (E) of 
                                subsection (a)(1).
                                    (II) The planned and accomplished 
                                biennial objectives referred to in 
                                paragraph (1)(A) for the agency with 
                                direct international development 
                                programs and investments.
                            (ii) Metrics.--Not later than 1 year after 
                        the date on which the Working Group develops 
                        methods as required by subsection 
                        (b)(2)(A)(iv), the head of each agency with 
                        direct international development programs and 
                        investments shall include in the report under 
                        clause (i) an estimate of the following:
                                    (I) The proportion of the direct 
                                international development programs and 
                                investments for which the agency 
                                conducted climate-risk assessments.
                                    (II) The proportion of the programs 
                                and investments for which climate risk 
                                was identified and acted upon.
                                    (III) Any other metrics the co-
                                chairs determine to be relevant.
                    (B) Agency that participates in a multilateral 
                entity.--
                            (i) In general.--Not later than 2 years 
                        after the date of enactment of this Act, and 
                        annually thereafter, and except as provided in 
                        clause (ii), the head of each agency that 
                        participates in a multilateral entity shall 
                        submit to the Working Group a report on the 
                        progress of the agency achieving the 
                        requirements of subparagraphs (A) through (D) 
                        of subsection (a)(2).
                            (ii) Multiple agencies.--In the case in 
                        which more than one agency participates in a 
                        multilateral entity, the co-chairs of the 
                        Working Group shall designate one agency to be 
                        responsible for submitting the report required 
                        by clause (i).
                    (C) Federal agency planning process.--An agency 
                described in subparagraphs (A) and (B) shall report 
                through the Federal Agency Planning process under 
                section 5 of Executive Order 13653 (78 Fed. Reg. 66817) 
                as in effect on November 1, 2013.
            (3) Working group reporting.--Not later than 1 year after 
        the date of the enactment of this Act, and annually thereafter, 
        the Working Group shall submit to Congress and make publicly 
        available a report on its mission and duties under subsection 
        (b)(2) and which includes a summary and analysis of all reports 
        submitted to the Working Group under subparagraphs (A) and (B) 
        of paragraph (2).
    (d) Rule of Construction.--This Act shall be implemented consistent 
with the obligations of the United States under international 
agreements and applicable United States law.
    (e) Authorization of Appropriations.--There is authorized to be 
appropriated to carry out this Act such sums as may be necessary for 
each of fiscal years 2021 to 2030.
    (f) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Adaptation.--The term ``adaption'' means an adjustment 
        in natural or human systems in anticipation of or response to a 
        changing environment in a way that effectively uses beneficial 
        opportunities or reduces negative effects.
            (2) Agency that participates in a multilateral entity.--The 
        term ``agency that participates in a multilateral entity'' 
        means--
                    (A) the Department of State;
                    (B) the Department of the Treasury; and
                    (C) any other Federal agency or entity that 
                participates in a multilateral entity, as determined by 
                the co-chairs of the Working Group.
            (3) Agency with direct international development programs 
        and investments.--The term ``agency with direct international 
        development programs and investments'' means--
                    (A) the Department of Agriculture;
                    (B) the Department of the Interior;
                    (C) the Department of State;
                    (D) the Millennium Challenge Corporation;
                    (E) the United States International Development 
                Finance Corporation, or any successor thereto;
                    (F) the United States Agency for International 
                Development;
                    (G) the United States Trade and Development Agency; 
                and
                    (H) any other agency or entity with direct 
                international development programs and investments, as 
                determined by the co-chairs of the Working Group.
            (4) Climate resilience.--
                    (A) In general.--The terms ``climate resilience'', 
                ``climate-resilience'', and ``climate-resilient'' refer 
                to policies that promote the resilience of a community 
                to the sudden and gradual impacts associated with 
                climate change that can reasonably be anticipated, 
                using the best available science, to be at risk of 
                occurring over the life of the project or program, 
                including physical and social effects and also direct 
                and compound effects of climate change.
                    (B) Resilience.--In subparagraph (A), the term 
                ``resilience'' means the ability to anticipate, prepare 
                for, and adapt to changing conditions and withstand, 
                respond to, and recover rapidly from disruptions.
                    (C) Life of the project or program.--In 
                subparagraph (A), the term ``life of the project or 
                program'' means, with respect to any project or program 
                for construction or repair of infrastructure, the 
                expected life of such infrastructure.
            (5) Direct international development programs and 
        investments.--The term ``direct international development 
        programs and investments'' means--
                    (A) bilateral, regional, and multilateral 
                international development programs and investments over 
                which agencies have primary programmatic and financial 
                management responsibilities; or
                    (B) the bilateral extension of official financing 
                by an agency to private sector investors to support 
                international development.
            (6) Multilateral entity.--The term ``multilateral entity'' 
        means--
                    (A) the World Bank Group;
                    (B) the Inter-American Development Bank Group;
                    (C) the Asian Development Bank;
                    (D) the African Development Bank;
                    (E) the European Bank for Reconstruction and 
                Development;
                    (F) the Green Climate Fund;
                    (G) the Global Environmental Facility;
                    (H) the International Fund for Agricultural 
                Development; or
                    (I) any other--
                            (i) multilateral development bank;
                            (ii) United Nations organization; or
                            (iii) multilateral development or climate 
                        entity, as determined by the co-chairs of the 
                        Working Group.
            (7) Science and security agency or entity.--The term 
        ``science and security agency or entity'' means--
                    (A) the Department of Energy;
                    (B) the Department of the Interior;
                    (C) the National Oceanic and Atmospheric 
                Administration;
                    (D) the National Aeronautics and Space 
                Administration;
                    (E) the Office of the Director of National 
                Intelligence;
                    (F) the Office of Science and Technology Policy;
                    (G) the United States Global Change Research 
                Program; and
                    (H) any other relevant agency and entity, as 
                determined by the co-chairs of the Working Group.
                                 &lt;all&gt;
</pre></body></html>
