<html><body><pre>
[Congressional Bills 118th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[S. 4180 Introduced in Senate (IS)]

&lt;DOC&gt;






118th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                S. 4180

 To amend the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and 
 Liability Act of 1980 to allow for brownfield revitalization funding 
     eligibility for Alaska Native Tribes, and for other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                   IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

                             April 18, 2024

Mr. Sullivan (for himself and Mr. Kelly) introduced the following bill; 
 which was read twice and referred to the Committee on Environment and 
                              Public Works

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
 To amend the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and 
 Liability Act of 1980 to allow for brownfield revitalization funding 
     eligibility for Alaska Native Tribes, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Contaminated Lands Reclamation Act 
of 2024''.

SEC. 2. DEFINITIONS.

    In this Act:
            (1) Administrator.--The term ``Administrator'' means the 
        Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency.
            (2) Alaska native corporation.--The term ``Alaska Native 
        Corporation'' has the meaning given the term ``Native 
        Corporation'' in section 3 of the Alaska Native Claims 
        Settlement Act (43 U.S.C. 1602).
            (3) ANCSA land.--The term ``ANCSA land'' means land that--
                    (A) is or was contaminated land at the time of 
                conveyance pursuant to the Alaska Native Claims 
                Settlement Act (43 U.S.C. 1601 et seq.); and
                    (B) was conveyed pursuant to the Alaska Native 
                Claims Settlement Act (43 U.S.C. 1601 et seq.) to an 
                Alaska Native Corporation or Indian Tribe, including--
                            (i) land reconveyed by an Alaska Native 
                        Corporation--
                                    (I) to a settlement trust pursuant 
                                to section 39 of that Act (43 U.S.C. 
                                1629e); or
                                    (II) pursuant to other applicable 
                                law;
                            (ii) land conveyed to an Alaska Native 
                        Corporation pursuant to an exchange authorized 
                        by--
                                    (I) section 22(f) of that Act (43 
                                U.S.C. 1621(f));
                                    (II) section 3192(h) of the Alaska 
                                National Interest Lands Conservation 
                                Act (16 U.S.C. 3192(h)); or
                                    (III) other applicable law; or
                            (iii) land conveyed by an Alaska Native 
                        Corporation to a successor in interest to which 
                        the lands were conveyed under section 14(c) of 
                        the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act (43 
                        U.S.C. 1613(c)).
            (4) Compensatory mitigation.--
                    (A) In general.--The term ``compensatory 
                mitigation'', for the purposes of remediating eligible 
                land, means--
                            (i) restoration, including reestablishment 
                        or rehabilitation;
                            (ii) establishment, including creation;
                            (iii) enhancement; and
                            (iv) in certain circumstances, as 
                        determined by the Secretary, the preservation 
                        of eligible land.
                    (B) Inclusions.--The term ``compensatory 
                mitigation'' includes--
                            (i) on-site permittee-responsible 
                        mitigation;
                            (ii) off-site permittee-responsible 
                        mitigation; and
                            (iii) in-leu fee mitigation.
            (5) Contaminated land.--The term ``contaminated land'' 
        means land, including ANCSA land and Indian land, contaminated 
        by--
                    (A) petroleum;
                    (B) a petroleum-based product;
                    (C) a hazardous substance (as is defined in section 
                101 of the Comprehensive Environmental Response, 
                Compensation, and Liability Act of 1980 (42 U.S.C. 
                9601)); or
                    (D) any other pollutant or contaminant (as is 
                defined in section 101 of the Comprehensive 
                Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act 
                of 1980 (42 U.S.C. 9601)).
            (6) Credit.--
                    (A) In general.--The term ``credit'' means a unit 
                of measure (such as a functional or areal measure or 
                other suitable metric) that represents the accrual or 
                attainment of the functions associated with the 
                restoration, establishment, enhancement, or 
                preservation of resources at a compensatory mitigation 
                site, with no change in the size of the area of the 
                compensatory mitigation site.
                    (B) Generating mitigation credit.--Remediation of 
                contaminated sites is an appropriate means of 
                generating mitigation credit when the removal of 
                hazardous substances, pollutants, or contaminants 
                restores or enhances aquatic resource functions on 
                ANCSA land or Indian land.
            (7) Indian.--The term ``Indian'' has the meaning given the 
        term in section 4 of the Indian Self Determination and 
        Education Assistance Act (25 U.S.C. 5304).
            (8) Indian land.--The term ``Indian land'' means land 
        that--
                    (A) is held in trust by the United States for an 
                Indian Tribe; or
                    (B) is owned by an Indian or Indian Tribe and is 
                subject to restrictions against alienation.
            (9) Indian tribe.--The term ``Indian Tribe'' has the 
        meaning given the term in section 4 of the Indian Self 
        Determination and Education Assistance Act (25 U.S.C. 5304).
            (10) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary 
        of the Army, acting through the Chief of Engineers.

SEC. 3. DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR RESPONSIBILITIES FOR ALASKA NATIVE 
              CLAIMS SETTLEMENT ACT CONTAMINATED LANDS.

    (a) Congressional Findings.--Congress finds that--
            (1) for more than 50 years after the Alaska Native Claims 
        Settlement Act (43 U.S.C. 1601 et seq.) was enacted, Alaska 
        Native Peoples and their communities continue to face obstacles 
        in the pursuit of self-determination, resulting in ongoing 
        economic, social, and cultural instability due to the 
        contamination of lands conveyed to them by the Federal 
        Government pursuant to that Act;
            (2) in 1971, the Secretary of the Interior failed to 
        identify and remediate 44,000,000 acres of land conveyed to 
        Alaska Natives pursuant to the Alaska Native Claims Settlement 
        Act (43 U.S.C. 1601 et seq.);
            (3) in 1990, Congress directed the Secretary of the 
        Interior to submit a report identifying lands and properties 
        transferred to Alaska Native Corporations pursuant to the 
        Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act (43 U.S.C. 1601 et seq.) 
        that at the time of transfer were represented or disclosed by 
        the Federal Government as being free from contaminants, and 
        which subsequently were discovered to be contaminated;
            (4) the Secretary of the Interior never submitted the 
        report described under paragraph (3);
            (5) in 1995, Congress amended the Alaska Native Claims 
        Settlement Act (43 U.S.C. 1601 et seq.) by adding section 40 to 
        that Act (43 U.S.C. 1629f), which directed the Secretary of the 
        Interior to submit a report addressing issues resulting from 
        the presence of contaminants on lands conveyed or prioritized 
        for conveyance to Alaska Native Corporations under that Act;
            (6) in 1998, the Secretary of the Interior responded to the 
        directive from Congress described in paragraph (5) by 
        submitting to Congress a report entitled ``Hazardous Substance 
        Contamination of Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act Lands in 
        Alaska'', the findings of which Congress recognizes, including 
        that the United States conveyed numerous contaminated lands to 
        Alaska Native Corporations pursuant to the Alaska Native Claims 
        Settlement Act (43 U.S.C. 1601 et seq.) for the settlement of 
        aboriginal land claims;
            (7) in 2014, in the joint explanatory statement for the 
        Department of the Interior, Environment, and Related Agencies 
        accompanying the Consolidated and Further Continuing 
        Appropriations Act, 2015 (Public Law 113-235; 128 Stat. 2130), 
        Congress directed the Secretary of the Interior--
                    (A) to provide an update on the inventory of 
                contaminated sites conveyed pursuant to the Alaska 
                Native Claims Settlement Act (43 U.S.C. 1601 et seq.), 
                including sites identified subsequent to the 1998 
                report described in paragraph (6);
                    (B) to provide an updated status on the 6 duties 
                listed in the 1998 report described in paragraph (6); 
                and
                    (C) to provide a detailed plan on how the 
                Department of the Interior intended to complete a 
                cleanup of each contaminated site conveyed pursuant to 
                the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act (43 U.S.C. 1601 
                et seq.);
            (8) in 2016, the Secretary of the Interior updated the 
        report described in paragraph (6), the updated findings of 
        which Congress recognizes, including that 920 contaminated land 
        sites were conveyed to Alaska Native Corporations pursuant to 
        the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act (43 U.S.C. 1601 et 
        seq.);
            (9) the full number of currently contaminated lands that 
        were contaminated at the time of conveyance pursuant to the 
        Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act (43 U.S.C. 1601 et seq.) is 
        unknown;
            (10) it is not, and never was, the intent of Congress to 
        convey lands that would still be contaminated in 2024 to Alaska 
        Native Corporations for the settlement of aboriginal land 
        claims in 1971;
            (11) there is an immediate need to address the 
        environmental and health risks to Alaska Native Peoples due to 
        the United States conveying contaminated lands and lands at 
        risk for contamination to Alaska Native Corporations; and
            (12) addressing the environmental and health risks to 
        Alaska Native Peoples due to the conveyance of contaminated 
        lands by the United States to Alaska Native Peoples should be 
        done rapidly, with certainty, without litigation, and in 
        conformity with the real economic, social, and cultural needs 
        of Alaska Native communities.
    (b) Duties of the Secretary of the Interior.--Not later than 180 
days after the date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary of the 
Interior shall--
            (1) perform the duties established in the 2016 update to 
        the Department of the Interior 1998 report entitled ``Hazardous 
        Substance Contamination of Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act 
        Lands in Alaska''; and
            (2) develop a cleanup plan for ANCSA land.
    (c) Report to Congress.--Not later than 180 days after the date of 
enactment of this Act, and each year thereafter for a period of 10 
years, the Secretary of the Interior shall submit to Congress a report 
that describes the status of the performance of the duties required 
under subsection (b).

SEC. 4. BROWNFIELD REVITALIZATION FUNDING ELIGIBILITY.

    (a) Alaska Native Eligibility.--Section 104(k)(1) of the 
Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act 
of 1980 (42 U.S.C. 9604(k)(1)) is amended--
            (1) in subparagraph (G), by striking ``other than in 
        Alaska''; and
            (2) in subparagraph (H), by striking ``and following) and 
        the Metlakatla Indian community'' and inserting ``et seq.)''.
    (b) Grants and Loans for Brownfield Remediation.--Section 
104(k)(3)(A)(ii) of the Comprehensive Environmental Response, 
Compensation, and Liability Act of 1980 (42 U.S.C. 9604(k)(3)(A)(ii)) 
is amended by striking ``$500,000 for each site'' and all that follows 
through the period at the end and inserting ``$1,000,000 for each site 
to be remediated.''.

SEC. 5. ALASKA NATIVE CLAIMS SETTLEMENT ACT CONVEYED LAND GRANT 
              PROGRAM.

    (a) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Eligible contaminant.--The term ``eligible 
        contaminant'' means--
                    (A) solid waste (as defined section 1004 of the 
                Solid Waste Disposal Act (42 U.S.C. 6903));
                    (B) a hazardous substance (as defined in section 
                101 of the Comprehensive Environmental Response, 
                Compensation, and Liability Act of 1980 (42 U.S.C. 
                9601));
                    (C) a pollutant or contaminant (as defined in 
                section 101 of the Comprehensive Environmental 
                Response, Compensation, and Liability Act of 1980 (42 
                U.S.C. 9601)); and
                    (D) petroleum, including--
                            (i) crude oil or any fraction thereof; and
                            (ii) any other petroleum product excluded 
                        from the definition of ``hazardous substance'' 
                        in section 101 of the Comprehensive 
                        Environmental Response, Compensation, and 
                        Liability Act of 1980 (42 U.S.C. 9601).
            (2) Eligible recipient.--The term ``eligible recipient'' 
        means--
                    (A) a Regional Corporation (as defined in section 3 
                of the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act (43 U.S.C. 
                1602));
                    (B) a Village Corporation (as defined in section 3 
                of the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act (43 U.S.C. 
                1602));
                    (C) an Indian Tribe in the State of Alaska;
                    (D) an Alaska Native nonprofit organization;
                    (E) an Alaska Native nonprofit association; and
                    (F) an intertribal consortium (as defined in 
                section 35.502 of title 40, Code of Federal Regulations 
                (or successor regulations)), that meets the 
                requirements described in subsections (a) and (c) of 
                section 35.504 of that title.
    (b) Grant Program.--
            (1) In general.--The Administrator, acting through the 
        Regional Administrator for Region 10 (referred to in this 
        subsection as the ``Administrator''), may provide grants to 
        eligible recipients to address contamination by eligible 
        contaminants on ANCSA land that--
                    (A) subject to paragraph (4), is or was 
                contaminated by an eligible contaminant at the time of 
                conveyance pursuant to the Alaska Native Claims 
                Settlement Act (43 U.S.C. 1601 et seq.); and
                    (B) is on an inventory of that land maintained by 
                the Environmental Protection Agency.
            (2) Supplement.--An eligible recipient may use a grant 
        awarded under this subsection to supplement other funds 
        provided by the Environmental Protection Agency or any other 
        Federal agency for identical or similar purposes to the 
        purposes described in paragraph (1), in accordance with such 
        conditions as the Administrator may establish.
            (3) Use of funds.--Subject to such conditions as the 
        Administrator may establish, an eligible recipient may use a 
        grant awarded under this subsection to address contamination by 
        eligible contaminants on ANCSA land through planning, 
        assessment, remediation, and activities necessary to prepare 
        the land for reuse.
            (4) Waiver.--
                    (A) In general.--The Administrator may waive the 
                requirement described in paragraph (1)(A) if the owner 
                of the land at the time a grant is awarded under this 
                subsection did not cause or contribute to the 
                contamination on the land.
                    (B) Effect of waiver.--Land with respect to which a 
                waiver is provided under subparagraph (A) shall be 
                eligible for a grant under this subsection if the land 
                was contaminated by an eligible contaminant after the 
                time of conveyance of the land pursuant to the Alaska 
                Native Claims Settlement Act (43 U.S.C. 1601 et seq.).
            (5) Priorities.--In awarding grants under this subsection, 
        the Administrator shall give priority to ANCSA land with 
        respect to which--
                    (A) the contamination by eligible contaminants 
                presents an imminent and substantial risk to human 
                health or the environment, regardless of the specific 
                circumstances that created the risk; or
                    (B) the Federal Government caused or contributed to 
                the contamination by eligible contaminants prior to the 
                conveyance of the land pursuant to the Alaska Native 
                Claims Settlement Act (43 U.S.C. 1601 et seq.).
            (6) Ineligibility of certain land.--
                    (A) In general.--Except as provided in subparagraph 
                (B), the Administrator shall not award a grant under 
                this subsection for land with respect to which the 
                Administrator determines a financially viable non-
                Federal party (or successors to such a party) or an 
                affiliate of such a party is primarily responsible for 
                the contamination by eligible contaminants.
                    (B) Exception.--Subparagraph (A) shall not apply to 
                land described in paragraph (5)(A).
            (7) Funding.--
                    (A) Authorization of appropriations.--There is 
                authorized to be appropriated to carry out this 
                subsection $35,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2025 
                through 2030, to remain available until expended.
                    (B) Reservation.--The Administrator may reserve up 
                to 10 percent of the amount appropriated to carry out 
                this subsection for salaries, expenses, and 
                administration.
                    (C) Prohibition.--No funds appropriated to carry 
                out section 104(k) of the Comprehensive Environmental 
                Response, Compensation, and Liability Act of 1980 (42 
                U.S.C. 9604(k)) may be used to carry out this 
                subsection.
    (c) Brownfields Program Funding.--
            (1) In general.--Notwithstanding any other provision of 
        law, an eligible recipient may use funding provided under 
        paragraphs (2)(A)(i), (3), and (4) of section 104(k) of the 
        Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and 
        Liability Act of 1980 (42 U.S.C. 9604(k)) to address 
        contamination on ANCSA land that--
                    (A) subject to paragraph (2), is or was 
                contaminated by an eligible contaminant at the time of 
                conveyance pursuant to the Alaska Native Claims 
                Settlement Act (43 U.S.C. 1601 et seq.); and
                    (B) is on an inventory of that land maintained by 
                the Environmental Protection Agency.
            (2) Waiver.--
                    (A) In general.--The Administrator may waive the 
                requirement described in paragraph (1)(A) if the owner 
                of the land at the time funding described in paragraph 
                (1) is provided did not cause or contribute to the 
                contamination on the land.
                    (B) Effect of waiver.--Land with respect to which a 
                waiver is provided under subparagraph (A) shall be 
                eligible to use funding for the purpose described in 
                paragraph (1) if the land was contaminated by an 
                eligible contaminant after the time of conveyance of 
                the land pursuant to the Alaska Native Claims 
                Settlement Act (43 U.S.C. 1601 et seq.).
    (d) Guidance.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 90 days after the date of 
        enactment of this Act, the Administrator shall update guidance 
        relating to eligibility for brownfields funding under section 
        104(k) of the Comprehensive Environmental Response, 
        Compensation, and Liability Act of 1980 (42 U.S.C. 9604(k)) for 
        land described in paragraph (2) to provide that the Federal 
        Government shall not be considered a viable responsible party.
            (2) Land described.--The land referred to in paragraph (1) 
        is ANCSA land that--
                    (A) contains contamination by a contaminant 
                described in subsection (a)(1)(D) that the Federal 
                Government caused or contributed to prior to conveyance 
                pursuant to the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act (43 
                U.S.C. 1601 et seq.); and
                    (B) is on an inventory of that land maintained by 
                the Environmental Protection Agency.
            (3) Cessation of effectiveness.--The update to the guidance 
        required under paragraph (1) shall cease to be effective on the 
        date on which funding made available for the program under 
        subsection (b) through fiscal year 2030 is fully obligated.

SEC. 6. AUTHORIZATION OR CONTAMINATED LAND REMEDIATION IN COMPENSATORY 
              MITIGATION PROGRAMS.

    (a) Remediation of Contaminated Lands.--The Secretary shall allow a 
person who has been issued a permit for the discharge of dredged or 
fill material under section 404 of the Federal Water Pollution Control 
Act (33 U.S.C. 1344) to enter into an agreement with an Indian Tribe to 
remediate ANCSA land or Indian land for the purpose of compensatory 
mitigation for a permitted activity.
    (b) Regulations.--Not later than 180 days after the date of 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary and Administrator shall jointly 
promulgate regulations and issue guidance, as necessary, to establish 
performance standards and criteria for determining credits generated 
through the remediation of contamination under this section on ANCSA 
land or Indian land that--
            (1) maximize opportunities for mitigation;
            (2) provide flexibility for regional variations in 
        conditions, functions, and values;
            (3) apply equivalent standards and criteria to each type of 
        compensatory mitigation;
            (4) include procedures for consulting with eligible 
        entities; and
            (5) provide that decontamination undertaken to generate 
        credits must be done in compliance with applicable Federal and 
        State standards and applicable Federal or State cleanup 
        programs authorized under section 104 of the Comprehensive 
        Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act of 1980 
        (42 U.S.C. 9604).

SEC. 7. TRIBAL PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION PILOT PROGRAM.

    (a) Definition of Eligible Project.--In this section, the term 
``eligible project'' includes siting, design, engineering, and 
construction work for--
            (1) a project of the Secretary authorized for construction;
            (2) a project carried out under a continuing authority 
        program (as defined in section 7001(c)(1)(D)(iii) of the Water 
        Resources Reform and Development Act of 2014 (33 U.S.C. 
        2282d(c)(1)(D)(iii)));
            (3) a project or activity eligible to be carried out under 
        the Tribal partnership program under section 203 of the Water 
        Resources Development Act of 2000 (33 U.S.C. 2269); and
            (4) a project carried out under section 219 of the Water 
        Resources Development Act of 1992 (106 Stat. 4835; 110 Stat. 
        3757; 113 Stat. 334; 136 Stat. 3808).
    (b) Authorization.--Not later than 120 days after the date of 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall establish and implement a 
pilot program under which Indian Tribes may directly carry out eligible 
projects.
    (c) Administration.--
            (1) In general.--In carrying out the pilot program under 
        this section, the Secretary shall--
                    (A) identify not less than 5 eligible projects, 
                including, in each of fiscal years 2025 and 2026--
                            (i) not less than 1 eligible project in the 
                        South Pacific Division of the Corps of 
                        Engineers; and
                            (ii) not less than 1 eligible project in 
                        the Pacific Ocean Division of the Corps of 
                        Engineers;
                    (B) notify the Committee on Environment and Public 
                Works of the Senate and the Committee on Transportation 
                and Infrastructure of the House of Representatives on 
                the identification of each eligible project under the 
                pilot program under this section;
                    (C) in collaboration with the Indian Tribe, develop 
                a detailed project management plan for each identified 
                eligible project that outlines the scope, budget, 
                design, and construction resource requirements 
                necessary for the Indian Tribe to execute the project 
                or a separable element of the eligible project;
                    (D) on the request of the Indian Tribe and in 
                accordance with subsection (e)(3), enter into a project 
                partnership agreement with the Indian Tribe for the 
                Indian Tribe to provide full project management control 
                for construction of the eligible project, or a 
                separable element of the eligible project, in 
                accordance with plans approved by the Secretary;
                    (E) following execution of the project partnership 
                agreement, transfer to the Indian Tribe to carry out 
                construction of the eligible project, or a separable 
                element of the eligible project--
                            (i) if applicable, the balance of the 
                        unobligated amounts appropriated for the 
                        eligible project, except that the Secretary 
                        shall retain sufficient amounts for the Corps 
                        of Engineers to carry out any responsibilities 
                        of the Corps of Engineers relating to the 
                        eligible project and the pilot program under 
                        this section; and
                            (ii) additional amounts, as determined by 
                        the Secretary, from amounts made available to 
                        carry out this section, except that the total 
                        amount transferred to the Indian Tribe shall 
                        not exceed the updated estimate of the Federal 
                        share of the cost of construction, including 
                        any required design; and
                    (F) regularly monitor and audit each eligible 
                project being constructed by an Indian Tribe under this 
                section to ensure that the construction activities are 
                carried out in compliance with the plans approved by 
                the Secretary and that the construction costs are 
                reasonable.
            (2) Detailed project schedule.--Not later than 180 days 
        after entering into an agreement under paragraph (1)(D), each 
        Indian Tribe, to the maximum extent practicable, shall submit 
        to the Secretary a detailed project schedule, based on 
        estimated funding levels, that lists all deadlines for each 
        milestone in the construction of the eligible project.
            (3) Technical assistance.--On the request of an Indian 
        Tribe, the Secretary may provide technical assistance to the 
        Indian Tribe relating to--
                    (A) any study, engineering activity, design, or 
                construction activity carried out by the Indian Tribe 
                under this section; and
                    (B) expeditiously obtaining any permits necessary 
                for the eligible project.
    (d) Cost Share.--Nothing in this section affects the cost-sharing 
requirement applicable on the day before the date of enactment of this 
Act to an eligible project carried out under this section.
    (e) Implementation Guidance.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 90 days after the date of 
        enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall issue guidance for 
        the implementation of the pilot program under this section 
        that, to the extent practicable, identifies--
                    (A) the metrics for measuring the success of the 
                pilot program; and
                    (B) the laws and regulations that an Indian Tribe 
                must follow in carrying out an eligible project under 
                the pilot program.
            (2) Monitoring.--The Secretary shall monitor the progress 
        of each Indian Tribe participating in the pilot program under 
        this section to ensure that, in siting, designing, engineering, 
        or constructing an eligible project, the Indian Tribe--
                    (A) is complying with all applicable laws and 
                regulations, including any requirements that would 
                apply if the Secretary was carrying out the project; 
                and
                    (B) is meeting the standards of the Corps of 
                Engineers for design and quality.
            (3) New project partnership agreements.--The Secretary may 
        not enter into a project partnership agreement under this 
        section until the date on which the Secretary issues guidance 
        under paragraph (1).
    (f) Report.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 3 years after the date of 
        enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall submit to the 
        Committee on Environment and Public Works of the Senate and the 
        Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure of the House of 
        Representatives and make publicly available a report detailing 
        the results of the pilot program under this section, 
        including--
                    (A) a description of the progress of Indian Tribes 
                in meeting milestones in detailed project schedules 
                developed pursuant to subsection (c)(2); and
                    (B) any recommendations of the Secretary concerning 
                whether the pilot program or any component of the pilot 
                program should be implemented on a national basis.
            (2) Update.--Not later than 5 years after the date of 
        enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall submit to the 
        Committee on Environment and Public Works of the Senate and the 
        Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure of the House of 
        Representatives an update to the report under paragraph (1).
            (3) Failure to meet deadline.--If the Secretary fails to 
        submit a report by the required deadline under this subsection, 
        the Secretary shall submit to the Committee on Environment and 
        Public Works of the Senate and the Committee on Transportation 
        and Infrastructure of the House of Representatives a detailed 
        explanation of why the deadline was missed and a projected date 
        for submission of the report.
    (g) Administration.--All laws and regulations that would apply to 
the Secretary if the Secretary were carrying out the eligible project 
shall apply to an Indian Tribe carrying out an eligible project under 
this section.
    (h) Termination of Authority.--The authority to commence an 
eligible project under this section terminates on the date that is 5 
years after the date of enactment of this Act.
    (i) Authorization of Appropriations.--In addition to any amounts 
appropriated for a specific eligible project, there is authorized to be 
appropriated to the Secretary to carry out this section, including the 
costs of administration of the Secretary, $15,000,000 for each of 
fiscal years 2025 through 2029.

SEC. 8. REPORT ON REMEDIATION OF CONTAMINATED ANCSA LAND.

    Not later than 1 year after the date of enactment of this Act, the 
Administrator, in consultation with the Secretary, Secretary of the 
Interior, and other Federal agencies, as the Secretary determines to be 
appropriate, shall submit to Congress a report that describes--
            (1) the status of remediating ANCSA land pursuant to this 
        Act; and
            (2) recommendations on what additional authorities are 
        needed to identify and remediate ANCSA land.

SEC. 9. RULE OF CONSTRUCTION.

    Nothing in this Act or an amendment made by this Act conflicts with 
the requirements of any existing program established for the purpose of 
remediating ANCSA land or Indian land.
                                 &lt;all&gt;
</pre></body></html>
