<html><body><pre>
[Congressional Bills 117th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H.R. 3764 Introduced in House (IH)]

&lt;DOC&gt;






117th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                H. R. 3764

  To direct the Administrator of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric 
 Administration to provide for ocean-based climate solutions to reduce 
 carbon emissions and global warming; to make coastal communities more 
resilient; and to provide for the conservation and restoration of ocean 
    and coastal habitats, biodiversity, and marine mammal and fish 
                  populations; and for other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                              June 8, 2021

Mr. Grijalva (for himself, Mr. Beyer, Mr. Blumenauer, Ms. Bonamici, Ms. 
Brownley, Mr. Cartwright, Mr. Case, Ms. Castor of Florida, Mr. Cleaver, 
Mr. Cohen, Mr. Crist, Ms. DeGette, Mr. Espaillat, Mr. Evans, Mr. Gomez, 
Mr. Huffman, Mr. Khanna, Ms. Johnson of Texas, Mr. Levin of California, 
   Mr. Lieu, Mr. Lowenthal, Ms. Matsui, Ms. Norton, Ms. Pingree, Mr. 
  Sablan, Mr. Sires, and Mr. Swalwell) introduced the following bill; 
   which was referred to the Committee on Natural Resources, and in 
  addition to the Committees on Science, Space, and Technology, House 
  Administration, Ways and Means, Transportation and Infrastructure, 
 Foreign Affairs, and Armed Services, for a period to be subsequently 
   determined by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of such 
 provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the committee concerned

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
  To direct the Administrator of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric 
 Administration to provide for ocean-based climate solutions to reduce 
 carbon emissions and global warming; to make coastal communities more 
resilient; and to provide for the conservation and restoration of ocean 
    and coastal habitats, biodiversity, and marine mammal and fish 
                  populations; and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Ocean-Based Climate Solutions Act of 
2021''.

SEC. 2. DEFINITIONS.

    In this Act, the term ``Administrator'' means the Administrator of 
the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration.

SEC. 3. TABLE OF CONTENTS.

    The table of contents of this Act is as follows:

Sec. 1. Short title.
Sec. 2. Definitions.
Sec. 3. Table of contents.
                          TITLE I--BLUE CARBON

Sec. 101. Blue Carbon Program.
Sec. 102. National map of coastal and marine blue carbon ecosystems.
Sec. 103. Report on blue carbon in the United States.
Sec. 104. Blue Carbon Partnership Grant Program.
Sec. 105. Integrated pilot programs to protect and restore degraded 
                            blue carbon ecosystems.
Sec. 106. Interagency working group.
Sec. 107. Blue carbon areas of significance.
Sec. 108. Authorization of Smithsonian Institution blue carbon 
                            activities.
Sec. 109. Federal coastal and marine blue carbon restoration and 
                            protections; funding.
Sec. 110. Authorization of appropriations.
Sec. 111. Rule of construction.
Sec. 112. Definitions.
                       TITLE II--OFFSHORE ENERGY

     Subtitle A--Oil and Gas Leasing in the Outer Continental Shelf

Sec. 201. Prohibition of oil and gas leasing in certain areas of the 
                            outer Continental Shelf.
Sec. 202. Best available technology.
                 Subtitle B--Offshore Renewable Energy

Sec. 211. Findings; sense of Congress on the importance of offshore 
                            wind energy.
Sec. 212. Outer Continental Shelf offshore wind targets.
Sec. 213. Removing roadblocks for data sharing.
Sec. 214. Increasing funding for scientific research.
Sec. 215. Extending collaboration with industry.
Sec. 216. Developing strategies to protect wildlife.
Sec. 217. Offshore wind for the Territories.
Sec. 218. Increasing funding for coastal conservation and resilience.
TITLE III--CLIMATE-READY FISHERIES, EFFICIENT FISHERY VESSELS, AND BUY 
                            AMERICAN SEAFOOD

Sec. 301. Sense of Congress.
Sec. 302. Caught in the USA.
Sec. 303. Eliminate fish subsidies in trade agreements.
Sec. 304. Fuel efficient fishing vessels.
Sec. 305. Climate and fisheries research and management program.
Sec. 306. Climate-ready fisheries innovation program.
Sec. 307. Report on shifting stocks and ways to adapt fisheries for the 
                            impacts of climate change.
Sec. 308. Essential fish habitat consultation.
Sec. 309. Ocean Aquaculture Research and Policy Program.
           TITLE IV--COASTAL BARRIER RESOURCE ACT AMENDMENTS

Sec. 401. Undeveloped coastal barrier.
Sec. 402. Coastal hazard pilot project.
Sec. 403. Report on expanding Coastal Barrier Resources Act to the 
                            Pacific Coast, including Pacific 
                            Territories and Freely Associated States.
Sec. 404. Require disclosure to prospective buyers that property is in 
                            the Coastal Barrier Resources System.
Sec. 405. Improve Federal agency compliance with Coastal Barrier 
                            Resources Act.
Sec. 406. Excess Federal property.
Sec. 407. Emergency exceptions to limitations on expenditures.
Sec. 408. Authorization of appropriations.
            TITLE V--COASTAL ZONE MANAGEMENT ACT AMENDMENTS

Sec. 501. Grants to further achievement of Tribal coastal zone 
                            objectives.
Sec. 502. Eligibility of District of Columbia for Federal funding.
Sec. 503. Coastal and Estuarine Resilience and Restoration Program.
Sec. 504. Coastal Zone Management Fund.
Sec. 505. Authorization of appropriations.
Sec. 506. Amendments to National Estuarine Research Reserve System 
                            program.
Sec. 507. Working Waterfronts Grant Program.
                       TITLE VI--INSULAR AFFAIRS

Sec. 601. Definitions.
Sec. 602. Insular Area Climate Change Interagency Task Force.
Sec. 603. Runit Dome report and monitoring activities.
Sec. 604. Coastal management technical assistance and report.
Sec. 605. Climate Change Insular Research Grant Program.
Sec. 606. National Weather Service technical assistance grants.
Sec. 607. Coral reef prize competitions.
Sec. 608. Ocean and Coastal Mapping Integration Act.
Sec. 609. Office of Insular Affairs Technical Assistance Program.
Sec. 610. Non-Federal cost-share waiver.
Sec. 611. Disaster relief non-Federal cost-share waiver.
          TITLE VII--STRENGTHENING MARINE MAMMAL CONSERVATION

Sec. 701. Conservation of marine mammals adversely affected by climate 
                            change.
Sec. 702. Vessel speed restrictions in marine mammal habitat.
Sec. 703. Monitoring ocean noise for marine mammal protection.
Sec. 704. Grants for seaports to establish programs to reduce the 
                            impacts of vessel traffic and port 
                            operations on marine mammals.
Sec. 705. Near real-time monitoring and mitigation program for large 
                            whales.
Sec. 706. Grants to support technology that reduces underwater noise 
                            from vessels.
Sec. 707. Naval technology transfer for quieting Federal non-combatant 
                            vessels.
TITLE VIII--INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS, EFFORTS IN THE ARCTIC, AND BUREAU 
              OF INDIAN AFFAIRS TRIBAL RESILIENCE PROGRAM

                  Subtitle A--International Agreements

Sec. 801. Law of the Sea Convention.
Sec. 802. United Nations Sustainable Development Goal 14.
Sec. 803. Marine protected areas in areas beyond national jurisdiction.
                   Subtitle B--Efforts in the Arctic

Sec. 811. Plan for the United States to cut black carbon emissions to 
                            33 percent below 2013 levels by 2025.
     Subtitle C--Bureau of Indian Affairs Tribal Resilience Program

Sec. 821. Bureau of Indian Affairs Tribal Resilience program.
              TITLE IX--COASTAL RESILIENCY AND ADAPTATION

Sec. 901. Living Shoreline Grant Program.
Sec. 902. National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration Research 
                            Programs.
Sec. 903. Improvements to the National Oceans and Coastal Security Act.
Sec. 904. Shovel-ready restoration grants for coastlines and fisheries.
Sec. 905. Strategic Climate Change Relocation Initiative and Program.
Sec. 906. National Centers of Excellence in Coastal Resilience Research 
                            and Education.
Sec. 907. Initiate designation process for successful sanctuary 
                            nominations and technical corrections to 
                            the National Marine Sanctuaries Act.
Sec. 908. Grants to further resilience and climate research with 
                            indigenous and tribal communities.
  TITLE X--OCEAN HEALTH: OCEAN ACIDIFICATION AND HARMFUL ALGAL BLOOMS

        Subtitle A--Coastal Communities Ocean Acidification Act

Sec. 1001. Coastal community vulnerability assessment.
                  Subtitle B--Ocean Acidification Act

Sec. 1011. Prize competitions.
         Subtitle C--Harmful Algal Bloom Essential Forecasting

Sec. 1021. Centers of Excellence in Harmful Algal Bloom Research, 
                            Prevention, Response, and Mitigation.
             TITLE XI--OCEAN DATA AND COLLABORATIVE EFFORTS

                Subtitle A--Regional Ocean Partnerships

Sec. 1101. Findings; sense of Congress; purposes.
Sec. 1102. Regional ocean partnerships.
       Subtitle B--National Coastal Resilience Data and Services

Sec. 1111. Authorization of NOAA activities.
Sec. 1112. Interagency coordination.
         Subtitle C--Centralized Website for Resiliency Grants

Sec. 1121. Centralized website for resiliency grants.
              Subtitle D--Automatic Identification Systems

Sec. 1131. Automatic identification systems.
 TITLE XII--MEASURES TO ADDRESS GREENHOUSE GAS POLLUTION FROM SHIPPING 
                                VESSELS

Sec. 1201. Greenhouse gas emissions from shipping.
Sec. 1202. Quiet Seas and Clear Skies Vessel Speed Reduction Award 
                            Program.
                 TITLE XIII--VIRGIN PLASTIC EXCISE TAX

Sec. 1301. Virgin plastic excise tax.
Sec. 1302. Establishment of the Virgin Plastic Trust Fund.
                     TITLE XIV--STUDIES AND REPORTS

Sec. 1401. Deep sea mining.
Sec. 1402. National Academies assessment of oceanic blue carbon.
Sec. 1403. Ocean, coastal, and Great Lakes climate impacts and action 
                            report.
Sec. 1404. Report on the ecological and economic effects of high seas 
                            fishing in the ocean areas beyond national 
                            jurisdiction.
Sec. 1405. National Academies assessment of public access to the 
                            coasts.
Sec. 1406. Study examining the impact of acidification and other 
                            environmental stressors on estuaries 
                            environments.
Sec. 1407. Study examining the causes and impacts of black carbon.
Sec. 1408. Marine protected areas inventory.
Sec. 1409. Marine biodiversity census.
Sec. 1410. Marine biodiversity gap analysis.
Sec. 1411. Study and action on derelict fishing gear.

                          TITLE I--BLUE CARBON

SEC. 101. BLUE CARBON PROGRAM.

    (a) Establishment.--The Administrator shall establish and maintain 
a program within the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration to 
further conservation and restoration objectives for fish and wildlife 
habitat and coastal resilience, including the development of ways to 
incorporate ecosystem services from carbon storage into existing 
domestic and international policies, programs, and activities.
    (b) Additional Authority.--In conducting the program, the 
Administrator may enter into and perform such contracts, leases, 
grants, or cooperative agreements as may be necessary to carry out the 
purposes of this title on such terms as Administrator considers 
appropriate.
    (c) Activities.--The Administrator shall lead the development and 
coordination of the strategic plan described in section 106(e) and 
shall--
            (1) collaborate with Federal agencies, the interagency 
        working group, State agencies, Indian Tribes, and non-
        governmental organizations on research, restoration, and 
        protection efforts relating to blue carbon ecosystems;
            (2) develop a database of blue carbon stocks and fluxes in 
        the United States;
            (3) assist in exploration of the potential for a market for 
        carbon credits and other financial instruments for protection 
        and restoration initiatives, including research, development of 
        protocols, and evaluation of protocols and the efficacy of blue 
        carbon markets as a tool for protecting ecosystems;
            (4) develop and provide informational materials and 
        guidance relating to using blue carbon ecosystems as a tool to 
        further conservation objectives;
            (5) use existing models or develop new models to assess 
        blue carbon storage potential that include quantification, 
        verifiability, additionality as compared to a historical 
        baseline, and permanence of those benefits;
            (6) quantify current total and net ecosystem carbon storage 
        and sequestration in coastal and marine areas;
            (7) project future total and net ecosystem carbon storage 
        and sequestration under different scenarios influenced by human 
        population growth, sea level rise, and other system-wide 
        changes;
            (8) protect and restore habitats, waters, and organisms 
        that are long-term carbon sinks or will be subject to habitat 
        change as a result of climate change and development;
            (9) provide staff and technical expertise to the 
        interagency working group;
            (10) quantify co-benefits of blue carbon ecosystems, 
        including flood risk reduction, habitat protection and 
        restoration for endangered and threatened species, habitat 
        protection and restoration for commercial and recreational 
        fisheries, water quality improvements, habitat maintenance and 
        restoration, cycling of nutrients other than carbon, commercial 
        and recreational fishing and boating benefits;
            (11) assess regional and national ecosystem and 
        socioeconomic impacts of carbon sequestration and storage;
            (12) research variability, long-term storage, and 
        innovative techniques for effective, long-term, natural ocean 
        or coastal ecosystem-based carbon sequestration;
            (13) identify areas of particularly high rates of carbon 
        sequestration and storage;
            (14) assess legal issues of landownership in blue carbon 
        markets, and develop guidelines to help landowners navigate the 
        requirements of such markets; and
            (15) assess the impacts of protection and restoration 
        efforts in blue carbon ecosystems on methane emissions.

SEC. 102. NATIONAL MAP OF COASTAL AND MARINE BLUE CARBON ECOSYSTEMS.

    (a) National Map.--The Administrator, in consultation with the 
interagency working group established under section 106, shall--
            (1) produce and maintain (by updating every three years) a 
        national map and inventory of coastal and marine blue carbon 
        ecosystems including--
                    (A) with respect to each such ecosystem--
                            (i) the species and types of habitat in the 
                        ecosystem;
                            (ii) the condition of such habitats 
                        including whether a habitat is degraded, 
                        drained, eutrophic, or tidally restricted;
                            (iii) the type of public or private 
                        ownership relating to such ecosystem and any 
                        protected status;
                            (iv) the size of the ecosystem;
                            (v) the salinity boundaries of the 
                        ecosystem;
                            (vi) the tidal boundaries of the ecosystem;
                            (vii) an assessment of carbon sequestration 
                        potential, methane production, and net 
                        greenhouse gas effects of the ecosystem--
                                    (I) quantifying the amount of 
                                carbon stored in a particular 
                                geographic area;
                                    (II) the degree to which such 
                                amounts can be verified;
                                    (III) determination of how much 
                                additional carbon may be stored in such 
                                an area due to further carbon 
                                sequestration; and
                                    (IV) the permanence of such 
                                existing and future carbon storage;
                            (viii) an assessment of the ecosystem co-
                        benefits, such as fish habitat for commercial, 
                        recreational, indigenous, and Tribal fisheries, 
                        flood risk reduction, wave stress, storm 
                        protection, shoreline stabilization, public 
                        access, water and air pollution filtration, 
                        contributions to traditional and cultural 
                        practices, and recreational use and benefits of 
                        the ecosystem;
                            (ix) the potential for landward migration 
                        of each ecosystem as a result of sea level 
                        rise;
                            (x) any upstream structures detrimental to 
                        the watershed process and conditions, including 
                        dams, dikes, and levees;
                            (xi) any upstream pollution sources that 
                        threaten the health of each ecosystem;
                            (xii) proximity of the ecosystem to 
                        aquaculture uses or lease areas; and
                            (xiii) a depiction of the effects of human 
                        stressors, including the conversion of blue 
                        carbon ecosystems to other land uses and the 
                        cause of such conversion; and
                    (B) a depiction of the effects of climate change, 
                including sea level rise, ocean acidification, ocean 
                warming, and other environmental stressors on the 
                sequestration rate, carbon storage, and carbon 
                sequestration and storage potential of blue carbon 
                ecosystems; and
            (2) in carrying out paragraph (1)--
                    (A) incorporate, to the extent possible, data 
                collected through federally and State funded research, 
                including data collected from--
                            (i) the Coastal Change Analysis Program of 
                        the National Oceanic and Atmospheric 
                        Administration;
                            (ii) the National Wetlands Inventory of the 
                        United States Fish and Wildlife Service;
                            (iii) biologic carbon sequestration 
                        information of the United States Geological 
                        Survey;
                            (iv) information from the Center for LIDAR 
                        Information Coordination and Knowledge of the 
                        United States Geological Survey and Federal 
                        Emergency Management Agency;
                            (v) biological and environmental research 
                        from the Department of Energy;
                            (vi) national aquatic resource surveys of 
                        the Environmental Protection Agency; and
                            (vii) data from the National Coastal Blue 
                        Carbon Assessment of the Department of 
                        Agriculture; and
                    (B) engage regional experts for additional peer-
                reviewed data to ensure that best available scientific 
                information is incorporated.
    (b) Use.--The interagency working group shall use the national map 
and inventory created pursuant to subsection (a)--
            (1) to assess the existing and potential carbon 
        sequestration of different blue carbon ecosystems, and account 
        for any regional differences;
            (2) to assess and quantify emissions from degraded and 
        destroyed blue carbon ecosystems;
            (3) to assist in the development of regional assessments 
        and to provide technical assistance to regional, State, Tribal, 
        and local government agencies, regional information 
        coordination entities (as such term is defined in section 
        12303(6) of the Integrated Coastal and Ocean Observation System 
        Act (33 U.S.C. 3602)), and agencies, organizations, and other 
        entities that support communities that may not have adequate 
        resources, including low-income communities, communities of 
        color, Tribal communities, Indigenous communities, and rural 
        communities;
            (4) to assist in efforts to assess degraded coastal and 
        marine blue carbon ecosystems and their potential for 
        restoration, including developing scenario modeling to identify 
        vulnerable areas where management, protection, and restoration 
        efforts should be focused, including the potential for an 
        ecosystem to migrate inland to adapt to sea level rise; and
            (5) to produce predictions of blue carbon ecosystems and 
        carbon sequestration rates in the context of climate change, 
        environmental stressors, and human stressors.

SEC. 103. REPORT ON BLUE CARBON IN THE UNITED STATES.

    Not later than one year after the date of enactment of this Act and 
every two years thereafter, the Administrator, in consultation with the 
interagency working group, shall submit to the Committee on Natural 
Resources of the House of Representatives and the Committee on 
Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate a report containing 
the following:
            (1) A summary of federally funded coastal and marine blue 
        carbon ecosystem research, monitoring, conservation, and 
        restoration activities, including the budget for each of these 
        activities and describe the progress in advancing the national 
        priorities established by the interagency working group.
            (2) With respect to each blue carbon ecosystem, the type, 
        location, and ownership of the ecosystem (whether privately 
        owned lands, State lands, Tribal lands, or Federal lands.
            (3) An assessment of the vulnerability of coastal and 
        marine blue carbon ecosystems to climate impacts such as sea-
        level rise, acidification, and saltwater intrusion, and other 
        environmental and human stressors, such as development, water 
        pollution, and aquaculture.
            (4) An assessment of the greatest anthropogenic threats to 
        blue carbon ecosystems, including the Federal agency actions 
        that have historically caused and presently cause great adverse 
        effects on such ecosystems.
            (5) An assessment of the carbon sequestration potential of 
        coastal and marine blue carbon ecosystems and the probable 
        changes to sequestration under climate change scenarios.
            (6) An assessment of biophysical, social, and economic 
        impediments including water storage and flood control 
        structures to coastal and marine blue carbon ecosystem 
        protection and restoration and opportunities to restore and 
        enhance the resilience of and sequestration potential of blue 
        carbon ecosystems.
            (7) An assessment of aging or outdated artificial 
        structures, including dikes, levees, dams, culverts, water 
        storage structures, shoreline hardening projects, impediments 
        to fish passage, and other infrastructure that impede the 
        ecological or sequestration functions of blue carbon areas and 
        the feasibility of repairing, retrofitting, or removing such 
        structures.
            (8) The economic, social, and environmental co-benefits 
        that these blue carbon ecosystems provide including--
                    (A) protection of coasts from storms and flooding;
                    (B) tourism and recreational use;
                    (C) benefits to fisheries;
                    (D) nutrient removal;
                    (E) the number of jobs that are directly or 
                indirectly attributable to blue carbon ecosystems; and
                    (F) the total economic activity that is 
                attributable to such blue carbon ecosystems.
            (9) An assessment of the social and economic makeup of the 
        communities served by blue carbon ecosystems.

SEC. 104. BLUE CARBON PARTNERSHIP GRANT PROGRAM.

    (a) Establishment.--The Administrator shall establish a competitive 
grant program entitled the ``Blue Carbon Partnership Grant Program'' to 
provide funds to eligible entities for projects that--
            (1) protect and restore blue carbon stocks, oceanic blue 
        carbon, and blue carbon ecosystems and increase the long-term 
        carbon storage and sequestration; and
            (2) contribute to priorities identified in the most recent 
        strategic plan developed by the interagency working group 
        pursuant to section 106(e).
    (b) Eligible Recipients.--A person or entity is eligible to receive 
a grant under the grant program if such person or entity is--
            (1) a voluntary private landowner or group of landowners;
            (2) a State agency responsible for managing natural 
        resources or wildlife;
            (3) an Indian Tribe;
            (4) a unit of local government;
            (5) a nonprofit organization or land trust;
            (6) an institution of higher education and research; or
            (7) any group of entities described in paragraphs (1) 
        through (6).
    (c) Requirements.--In administering the grant program under this 
section, the Administrator shall develop criteria, guidelines, 
contracts, reporting requirements, and evaluation metrics developed by 
the interagency working group.
    (d) Selection Criteria.--In evaluating applications for the program 
from eligible entities, the Administrator shall give priority to 
proposed eligible protection and restoration activities that--
            (1) would result in long-term protection and sequestration 
        of carbon stored in coastal and marine environments; and
            (2)(A) would protect key habitats for fish, wildlife, and 
        the maintenance of biodiversity;
            (B) would provide coastal protection from development, 
        storms, flooding, and land-based pollution;
            (C) would protect coastal resources of national, 
        historical, and cultural significance;
            (D) would benefit communities of color, low-income 
        communities, Tribal or Indigenous communities, or rural 
        communities; or
            (E) would capitalize on existing established public-private 
        partnerships.
    (e) Report to Congress.--
            (1) Report required.--The Administrator shall submit 
        annually to Congress a report containing a State-by-State 
        analysis of--
                    (A) the total number of acres of land or water 
                protected or restored through fee title acquisition, 
                easement, restoration or other activities under the 
                program;
                    (B) the status of restoration projects under this 
                program; and
                    (C) the amount of blue carbon captured or protected 
                over a 100-year time period as a result of this 
                program.
            (2) Publication of report.--The Administrator shall make 
        available to the public each report required by paragraph (1).
    (f) Acreage Requirements.--To the maximum extent possible, 
Administrator shall award grants under the grant program established by 
this section to conduct blue carbon ecosystem protection and 
restoration on 1,500,000 acres over 10 years.
    (g) Authorization of Appropriations.--There is authorized to be 
appropriated to the Administrator $300,000,000 for each of the fiscal 
years 2022 to 2026 to carry out this section.

SEC. 105. INTEGRATED PILOT PROGRAMS TO PROTECT AND RESTORE DEGRADED 
              BLUE CARBON ECOSYSTEMS.

    The Administrator shall--
            (1) establish integrated pilot programs that develop best 
        management practices, including design criteria and performance 
        functions, for coastal and marine blue carbon ecosystem 
        protection and restoration, nature-based adaptation strategies, 
        living shoreline projects, landward progression or migration of 
        blue carbon ecosystems, and identify potential barriers to 
        protection and restoration efforts;
            (2) ensure that the pilot programs cover geographically, 
        ecologically, culturally, and economically representative 
        locations with significant ecological, economic, and social 
        benefits and maximize potential for long-term carbon storage 
        and sequestration;
            (3) establish a procedure for reviewing applications for 
        the pilot program, taking into account--
                    (A) quantifying the amount of carbon stored in a 
                particular geographic area;
                    (B) the degree to which such amounts can be 
                verified;
                    (C) determination of how much additional carbon may 
                be stored in such an area due to further carbon 
                sequestration; and
                    (D) the permanence of such existing and future 
                carbon storage;
            (4) ensure, through consultation with the interagency 
        working group, that the goals, metrics, monitoring, and 
        outcomes of the pilot programs are communicated to the 
        appropriate State, Tribal, and local governments, and to the 
        general public; and
            (5) coordinate with relevant Federal agencies on the 
        interagency working group to prevent unnecessary duplication of 
        effort among Federal agencies and departments with respect to 
        protection and restoration programs.

SEC. 106. INTERAGENCY WORKING GROUP.

    (a) Establishment.--The President shall establish an interagency 
working group on coastal and marine blue carbon.
    (b) Purposes.--The interagency working group shall--
            (1) oversee the development of and updates to a national 
        map (including all insular areas of the United States) of 
        coastal and marine blue carbon ecosystems, including habitat 
        types with a regional focus in analysis that is usable for 
        local level planning, protection, and restoration;
            (2) use such map to inform the Administrator of the 
        Environmental Protection Agency's creation of the annual 
        Inventory of U.S. Greenhouse Gas Emissions and Sinks;
            (3) establish national coastal and marine blue carbon 
        ecosystem protection and restoration priorities, including an 
        assessment of current Federal funding being used for protection 
        and restoration efforts;
            (4) assess the biophysical, social, statutory, regulatory, 
        and economic impediments to coastal and marine blue carbon 
        ecosystem protection and restoration;
            (5) study the effects of climate change and environmental 
        and human stressors on carbon sequestration rates;
            (6) identify priority blue carbon ecosystems for 
        protection;
            (7) develop a national strategy for foundational science 
        necessary to study, synthesize, and evaluate the effects of 
        climate change, environmental, and human stressors on 
        sequestration rates and capabilities of blue carbon ecosystems 
        protection;
            (8) develop an assessment of current legal authorities to 
        protect and restore blue carbon ecosystems and make 
        recommendations for additional authorities if current 
        authorities are determined to be insufficient; and
            (9) ensure the continuity, use, and interoperability of 
        data assets through Coastal Carbon Data Clearinghouse of the 
        Smithsonian Institution and other databases.
    (c) Membership.--The interagency working group shall be comprised 
of representatives of the following (or their designees):
            (1) The Administrator.
            (2) The Administrator of the Environmental Protection 
        Agency.
            (3) The Director of the National Science Foundation.
            (4) The Administrator of the National Aeronautics and Space 
        Administration.
            (5) The Director of the United States Geological Survey.
            (6) The Director of the United States Fish and Wildlife 
        Service.
            (7) The Director of the National Park Service.
            (8) The Director of the Bureau of Indian Affairs.
            (9) The Administrator of the Smithsonian Institution.
            (10) The Assistant Administrator Insular and International 
        Affairs of the Department of the Interior.
            (11) The Chief of Engineers of the Army Corps of Engineers.
            (12) The Administrator of Agriculture.
            (13) The Administrator of Defense.
            (14) The Administrator of Transportation.
            (15) The Administrator of State.
            (16) The Administrator of Energy.
            (17) The Administrator of the United States Agency for 
        International Development.
            (18) The Administrator of the Federal Emergency Management 
        Agency.
            (19) The Chair of the Council on Environmental Quality.
    (d) Chair.--The interagency working group shall be chaired by the 
Administrator.
    (e) Strategic Plan.--
            (1) In general.--The interagency working group shall create 
        a strategic plan for Federal investments in basic research, 
        development, demonstration, long-term monitoring and 
        stewardship, and deployment of blue carbon ecosystem and marine 
        blue carbon projects for the 5-year period beginning on the 
        date that is 1 year after the date of enactment of this Act. 
        The plan shall include--
                    (A) an assessment of the use of existing Federal 
                programs to protect, restore, enhance, and preserve 
                blue carbon ecosystems;
                    (B) an analysis of potential sea level rise 
                migration corridors for blue carbon ecosystems;
                    (C) an analysis of anticipated fish and wildlife 
                uses of blue carbon ecosystems;
                    (D) identification of priority strategies and 
                investments for preserving, restoring, and enhancing 
                the resilience and carbon sequestration potential of 
                such blue carbon ecosystems; and
                    (E) an analysis of the role of methane emissions in 
                blue carbon ecosystem carbon budgets.
            (2) Timing.--The interagency working group shall--
                    (A) submit the strategic plan required under 
                paragraph (1) to the Committee on Natural Resources and 
                the Committee on Science, Space, and Technology of the 
                House of Representatives and the Committee on Commerce, 
                Science, and Transportation of the Senate on a date 
                that is not later than one year after the date of 
                enactment of this Act; and
                    (B) submit a revised version of such plan to such 
                committees every five years thereafter.
            (3) Federal register.--Not less than 90 days before the 
        strategic plan, or any revision thereof, is submitted under 
        paragraph (2), the interagency working group shall publish such 
        plan in the Federal Register and solicit public comments on 
        such plan for a period of not less than 60 days.

SEC. 107. BLUE CARBON AREAS OF SIGNIFICANCE.

    (a) Designation.--The Administrator shall designate as a blue 
carbon area of significance any area that is--
            (1) in the coastal zone (as such term is defined in section 
        304 of the Coastal Zone Management Act of 1972 (16 U.S.C. 
        1453)), in territorial waters of the United States, or in the 
        exclusive economic zone of the United States;
            (2) the location of water, a substrate, or an ecosystem 
        that--
                    (A) provides for long-term storage and 
                sequestration of significant amounts of ecosystem 
                carbon; and
                    (B)(i) limits erosion and facilitates future 
                landward migration;
                    (ii) provides a buffer against storm surge, 
                especially for communities of color, low-income 
                communities, and Tribal and Indigenous communities; or
                    (iii) provides a spawning, breeding, feeding, or 
                nesting habitat for wildlife; and
            (3) not exclusive of coastal or other resources that are 
        significant in for mitigating or adapting to climate change.
    (b) Guidelines.--The Administrator, in consultation with the 
interagency working group, shall, not later than one year after the 
date of enactment of this Act, establish by regulation guidelines based 
on the best available science to describe and identify blue carbon 
areas of significance and measures to ensure the protection of blue 
carbon areas of significance.
    (c) Review and Update.--The Administrator, in consultation with the 
interagency working group, shall review and update guidelines 
established under subsection (b) not less frequently than once every 5 
years or when new information warrants such an update.
    (d) Schedule.--The Administrator, in consultation with the 
interagency working group, shall establish a schedule for the 
identification of blue carbon areas of significance under subsection 
(b) and for reviews and updates under subsection (c), and shall make 
initial designations of a blue carbon area of significance in each 
coastal State not later than one year after the date of enactment of 
this Act.
    (e) Recommendations and Information.--The Administrator, in 
consultation with the interagency working group, shall, with respect to 
each coastal carbon area of significance, provide recommendations and 
information regarding the adverse impacts and threats to the carbon 
storage, ecosystem services, and habitat capacity of the area, and the 
actions that should be considered to avoid adverse impacts and ensure 
the conservation and enhancement of that area.
    (f) Programs Administered by NOAA.--The Administrator, in 
consultation with the interagency working group, shall use programs 
administered by the Administrator to carry out this section and ensure 
the conservation and enhancement of each blue carbon area of 
significance.
    (g) Requirements for Federal Actions.--With respect to any proposed 
agency action that has the potential to cause an adverse impact on the 
carbon storage, carbon sequestration, ecosystem services, or habitat 
capacity of any blue carbon area of significance, each Federal agency 
shall comply with the following requirements:
            (1) Notification.--Such Federal agency shall notify the 
        Administrator of such proposed agency action.
            (2) Determination of adverse impact.--The Administrator, in 
        consultation with the proposing agency and subject to public 
        comment, shall determine whether the proposed agency action 
        will cause an adverse impact on the carbon storage, carbon 
        sequestration, ecosystem, or habitat of a blue carbon area of 
        significance.
            (3) Alternative.--With respect to any proposed action the 
        Administrator determines will have an adverse impact under 
        paragraph (2), the proposing agency, in consultation with the 
        Administrator, shall determine whether there is an alternative 
        action that would prevent such adverse impact and fulfill the 
        purpose of the proposed action. The proposing agency shall not 
        take an action that would cause an adverse impact if an 
        alternative that would not cause such adverse impact is 
        available and would fulfill the purpose of such action.
            (4) Carbon storage offsets.--With respect to a proposed 
        action for which the agency determines no alternative is 
        available under paragraph (3), the proposing agency shall--
                    (A) in consultation with the Administrator, take 
                measures to mitigate such adverse impact;
                    (B) take such action as the Administrator 
                determines necessary to create a coastal or marine blue 
                carbon ecosystem storage offset that, taken in 
                conjunction with the proposed action, results in a long 
                term net increase in carbon storage, lasting an 
                equivalent time period as the carbon storage lost by 
                the adverse impact;
                    (C) demonstrate quantitatively, using the best 
                available science, that the carbon storage offset will 
                result in a net increase in ecological carbon storage 
                and is located in close proximity to the original site 
                to keep the affected communities whole;
                    (D) maintain such carbon storage offset for a 
                period of time to be determined by the Administrator 
                but not less than 100 years; and
                    (E) publish the agency's proposed course of 
                mitigation in the Federal Register for public notice 
                and comment.
    (h) Requirement for Authorization or Appropriation.--Any requests 
for a new authorization or appropriation from a Federal agency 
transmitted to the Office of Management and Budget shall include, if 
such authorization or appropriation may affect a coastal carbon area of 
significance, a certification that such agency will use such 
authorization or appropriation in compliance with this section.
    (i) Required Restrictions.--A Federal agency may not enter into a 
lease, easement, right-of-way, or sale of any land designated as a blue 
carbon area of significance unless such agency attaches appropriate 
restrictions to the use of the property to protect the blue carbon area 
of significance.
    (j) Exception.--Preparation, revision, implementation, or 
enforcement of a fishery management plan under the Magnuson-Stevens 
Fishery Conservation and Management Act (16 U.S.C. 1801 et seq.) that 
applies to an area that is subject to a prohibition on all bottom-
tending fishing gear shall not be treated as an action that is subject 
to subsection (g).

SEC. 108. AUTHORIZATION OF SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION BLUE CARBON 
              ACTIVITIES.

    (a) In General.--The Administrator of the Smithsonian Institution, 
in coordination with the Administrator and the interagency working 
group, shall provide for the long-term stewardship, continuity, use, 
and interoperability of, and access to, data relating to blue carbon 
ecosystems and national mapping, including United States Territories 
and Tribal lands, by supporting the maintenance of the Coastal Carbon 
Data Clearinghouse.
    (b) Coastal Carbon Data Clearinghouse Duties.--The Administrator of 
the Smithsonian Institution in coordination with the Administrator and 
interagency working group shall process, store, archive, provide access 
to, and incorporate all coastal and marine blue carbon data collected 
through federally funded research by a Federal agency, State, local 
agency, Tribe, scientist, or other relevant entity.
    (c) Global and National Data Assets.--The Administrator of the 
Smithsonian Institution, in coordination with the Administrator and the 
interagency working group, shall ensure that existing global and 
national data assets are incorporated into the Coastal Carbon Data 
Clearinghouse.
    (d) Establishment of Standards, Protocols, and Procedures.--The 
Administrator of the Smithsonian Institution, in coordination with the 
Administrator and members of the interagency working group, shall 
establish standards, protocols, and procedures for the processing, 
storing, archiving, and providing access to data in the Coastal Carbon 
Data Clearinghouse and best practices for sharing such data with State, 
local, and Tribal governments, Indigenous communities, coastal 
stakeholders, non-Federal resource managers, and academia. The 
Administrator shall publish, update, and keep current such data on a 
publicly available website.
    (e) Digital Tools and Resources.--The Administrator of the 
Smithsonian Institution, in coordination with the Administrator and 
members of the interagency working group, shall develop digital tools 
and resources to support the public use of the Coastal Carbon Data 
Clearinghouse.
    (f) Authorization of Appropriations.--There are authorized to be 
appropriated to the Administrator of the Smithsonian Institution 
$5,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2022 through 2026 to carry out this 
section.

SEC. 109. FEDERAL COASTAL AND MARINE BLUE CARBON RESTORATION AND 
              PROTECTIONS; FUNDING.

    (a) In General.--The Director of the United States Fish and 
Wildlife Service, the Director of the National Park Service, and the 
Administrator shall each conduct coastal and marine restoration and 
protection activities on land and water managed by each such agency to 
achieve at least one of the following:
            (1) The sequestration of additional carbon dioxide 
        through--
                    (A) the active restoration of degraded blue carbon 
                ecosystems; and
                    (B) the protection of threatened blue carbon 
                ecosystems.
            (2) The halting of ongoing carbon dioxide emissions, and 
        the resumption of the natural rate of carbon capture, through 
        the restoration of drained coastal wetlands.
            (3) The halting of ongoing methane emissions, and the 
        resumption of the natural rate of carbon storage, through the 
        restoration of formerly tidal wetland that has lost tidal 
        connectivity and become fresh wetland (commonly known as 
        ``impounded wetland'').
    (b) Funding.--For each fiscal year 2022 through 2026, there is 
authorized to be appropriated for blue carbon ecosystem protection and 
restoration--
            (1) to the Director of the United States Fish and Wildlife 
        Service $200,000,000 for on lands managed by such Director;
            (2) to the Director of the National Park Service 
        $200,000,000 for lands managed by such Director; and
            (3) to the Administrator $200,000,000 for lands and water 
        managed by such Administrator.

SEC. 110. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.

    In addition to amounts authorized to be appropriated for specific 
activities under sections 104, 108, and 109, there is authorized to be 
appropriated to the Administrator $50,000,000 for each of the fiscal 
years 2022 to 2026 to carry out the remainder of this title.

SEC. 111. RULE OF CONSTRUCTION.

    Nothing in this title affects the application of the requirements 
of section 404 of the Clean Water Act (33 U.S.C. 1344); the National 
Environmental Policy Act, or any regulations issued under either such 
Act.

SEC. 112. DEFINITIONS.

    In this title, the following definitions apply:
            (1) Blue carbon areas of significance.--The term ``blue 
        carbon area of significance'' means any area designated by the 
        Administrator under section 107 as a blue carbon area of 
        significance.
            (2) Blue carbon ecosystem.--The term ``blue carbon 
        ecosystem'' means vegetated coastal habitats including 
        mangroves, tidal marshes, seagrasses, kelp forests, and other 
        tidal or salt-water wetlands that have the capacity to 
        sequester carbon from the atmosphere for a period of not less 
        than 100 years.
            (3) Blue carbon stocks.--The term ``blue carbon stocks'' 
        means coastal and marine vegetation and wildlife, and 
        underlying sediment that has the capacity to sequester and 
        store atmospheric carbon.
            (4) Carbon sequestration.--The term ``carbon 
        sequestration'' means the process of capturing and storing 
        atmospheric carbon dioxide.
            (5) Carbon storage.--The term ``carbon storage'' means 
        sequestered carbon that remains out of the atmosphere, stored 
        either in biogenic material or sediments.
            (6) Interagency working group.--The term ``interagency 
        working group'' means the interagency working group on blue 
        carbon established under section 106.

                       TITLE II--OFFSHORE ENERGY

     Subtitle A--Oil and Gas Leasing in the Outer Continental Shelf

SEC. 201. PROHIBITION OF OIL AND GAS LEASING IN CERTAIN AREAS OF THE 
              OUTER CONTINENTAL SHELF.

    Section 8 of the Outer Continental Shelf Lands Act (43 U.S.C. 1337) 
is amended by adding at the end the following:
    ``(q) Prohibition of Oil and Gas Leasing in Certain Areas of the 
Outer Continental Shelf.--Notwithstanding any other provision of this 
section or any other law, the Secretary may not issue a lease for the 
exploration, development, or production of oil or natural gas in any 
planning area, except in the Central or Western planning areas of the 
Gulf of Mexico (as such planning areas are described in the document 
entitled `2017-2022 Outer Continental Shelf Oil and Gas Leasing 
Proposed Final Program', dated November 2016, or a subsequent oil and 
gas leasing program developed under section 18 of the Outer Continental 
Shelf Lands Act (43 U.S.C. 1344)).''.

SEC. 202. BEST AVAILABLE TECHNOLOGY.

    Section 11 of the Outer Continental Shelf Lands Act (43 U.S.C. 
1340) is amended by adding at the end the following:
    ``(i) Best Available Technology.--Notwithstanding any other 
provision of this Act or any other law, the Secretary shall require 
each holder of a lease or permit under this section for geophysical and 
geological exploration on the outer Continental Shelf to use the best 
commercially available technology with respect to reducing acoustic 
pressure levels to conduct such exploration.''.

                 Subtitle B--Offshore Renewable Energy

SEC. 211. FINDINGS; SENSE OF CONGRESS ON THE IMPORTANCE OF OFFSHORE 
              WIND ENERGY.

    (a) Findings.--Congress finds that--
            (1) the United States should aggressively reduce greenhouse 
        gas emissions from United States public lands and oceans and 
        strive to achieve net-zero emissions as soon as possible;
            (2) the United States can and must address this climate 
        crisis by putting people to work building the necessary 
        infrastructure to reduce carbon emissions;
            (3) the United States offshore wind resources must be 
        responsibly harnessed in order to both rapidly reduce our 
        carbon emissions and put people back to work; and
            (4) achieving the goal of 30 gigawatts of offshore wind 
        energy capacity by 2030 is anticipated to result in the 
        creation of tens of thousands of living wage, family-supporting 
        union jobs while positioning America to lead a clean energy 
        revolution and tackle the climate crisis.
    (b) Sense of Congress.--It is the sense of Congress that--
            (1) the United States should rapidly develop its offshore 
        wind resources as a key part of achieving a national goal of 
        net-zero emissions;
            (2) offshore wind lease areas should be determined by a 
        robust and transparent stakeholder process that incorporates 
        early engagement and input from diverse user groups as well as 
        Federal, State, Tribal, and local governments;
            (3) development of offshore wind resources must ensure 
        ecosystem health and the protection of threatened and 
        endangered species and their habitats; and
            (4) permitting agencies must have sufficient resources to 
        carry out a robust and efficient review and permitting process.

SEC. 212. OUTER CONTINENTAL SHELF OFFSHORE WIND TARGETS.

    (a) Targets.--The Secretary of the Interior shall seek to grant 
leases under section 8 of the Outer Continental Shelf Lands Act (43 
U.S.C. 1337) for--
            (1) not less than 12.5 gigawatts of offshore wind energy 
        capacity on the Outer Continental Shelf by January 1, 2025; and
            (2) not less than 30 gigawatts of offshore wind energy 
        capacity on the Outer Continental Shelf by January 1, 2030.
    (b) Report.--Not later than December 1, 2021, and each year 
thereafter, the Secretary of the Interior shall submit to the Committee 
on Natural Resources of the House of Representatives and the Committee 
on Energy and Natural Resources of the Senate a report on the 
Secretary's progress in meeting the targets described in subsection 
(a).

SEC. 213. REMOVING ROADBLOCKS FOR DATA SHARING.

    Section 402(b) of the Magnuson-Stevens Fishery Conservation and 
Management Act (16 U.S.C. 1881a(b)) is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (1)--
                    (A) in subparagraph (G), by striking ``or'';
                    (B) in subparagraph (H), by striking the period at 
                the end and insert ``; or''; and
                    (C) by adding at the end the following:
                    ``(I) to the Secretary of the Interior for use 
                relating to siting, exploration, production, or 
                promotion of offshore wind energy on the outer 
                Continental Shelf.''; and
            (2) in paragraph (2), by striking ``(H)'' and inserting 
        ``(I)''.

SEC. 214. INCREASING FUNDING FOR SCIENTIFIC RESEARCH.

    Beginning on the date that is 60 days after the date of enactment 
of this Act, with respect to the total amount paid as bonus bids for 
each offshore wind lease sale under section 8(p) of the Outer 
Continental Shelf Lands Act (43 U.S.C. 1337(p)), $5,000,000 of each 
such amount shall be available, to the extent and in such amounts as 
are provided in advance in appropriations Acts, to be used by the 
Secretary of the Interior to fund research on the interaction between 
offshore wind energy and--
            (1) federally protected marine resources (including all 
        listed species and designated critical habitats under the 
        Endangered Species Act of 1973 (16 U.S.C. 1531 et seq.));
            (2) marine mammals protected under the Marine Mammal 
        Protection Act of 1972 (16 U.S.C. 1361 et seq.);
            (3) managed fishery resources, seabirds and migratory bird 
        species, and the habitats on which these species depend; and
            (4) technology for data collection and other scientific and 
        permitting needs, as determined necessary by the Secretary of 
        the Interior, in consultation with the Secretary of Commerce 
        and the Secretary of Energy, to support responsible development 
        and long-term use of offshore wind resources on the Outer 
        Continental Shelf.

SEC. 215. EXTENDING COLLABORATION WITH INDUSTRY.

    Section 113 of Division G of Public Law 113-76 is amended to read 
as follows:

                        ``contribution authority

    ``Sec. 113.  The Secretary of the Interior may accept from public 
and private sources contributions of money and services for use by the 
Bureau of Ocean Energy Management and the Bureau of Safety and 
Environmental Enforcement to conduct work in support of the orderly 
exploration and development of Outer Continental Shelf resources, 
including preparation of environmental documents such as impact 
statements and assessments, studies, and related research, during 
fiscal years--
    ``(1) 2014 through 2024; or
    ``(2) with respect to work supporting offshore wind energy 
exploration or development, 2014 through 2030.''.

SEC. 216. DEVELOPING STRATEGIES TO PROTECT WILDLIFE.

    (a) In General.--Not later than one year after the date of 
enactment of this Act, the National Academies of Sciences, Engineering, 
and Medicine shall prepare a report that reviews, compiles, and 
synthesizes existing research on--
            (1) the effect of offshore wind energy on wildlife, 
        habitat, and threatened and endangered species; and
            (2) best practices for minimizing and mitigating such 
        effects.
    (b) Requirements.--The report shall--
            (1) provide a quantitative assessment of the contributions 
        of offshore wind energy in--
                    (A) reducing the amount of greenhouse gases emitted 
                by the electricity sector; and
                    (B) helping to improve human health and wildlife 
                populations in communities that are near offshore wind 
                energy areas; and
            (2) include a quantitative assessment of the efficacy of 
        existing methodologies to measure direct and indirect effects 
        of offshore wind energy on wildlife and their habitats, and 
        provide recommendations regarding best practices to monitor, 
        avoid, minimize, and mitigate impacts on wildlife and their 
        habitat.

SEC. 217. OFFSHORE WIND FOR THE TERRITORIES.

    (a) Application of Outer Continental Shelf Lands Act With Respect 
to Territories of the United States.--
            (1) In general.--Section 2 of the Outer Continental Shelf 
        Lands Act (43 U.S.C. 1331) is amended--
                    (A) in subsection (a)--
                            (i) by striking ``The term'' and inserting 
                        the following:
            ``(1) The term.--'';
                            (ii) by inserting after ``control'' the 
                        following: ``or lying within the exclusive 
                        economic zone of the United States and the 
                        outer Continental Shelf adjacent to any 
                        territory or possession of the United States''; 
                        and
                            (iii) by adding at the end the following:
            ``(2) The term `outer Continental Shelf' does not include 
        any area conveyed by Congress to a territorial government for 
        administration;'';
                    (B) in subsection (p), by striking ``and'' after 
                the semicolon at the end;
                    (C) in subsection (q), by striking the period at 
                the end and inserting ``; and''; and
                    (D) by adding at the end the following:
    ``(r) The term `State' means the several States, the Commonwealth 
of Puerto Rico, Guam, American Samoa, the United States Virgin Islands, 
and the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands.''.
            (2) Exclusions.--Section 18 of the Outer Continental Shelf 
        Lands Act (43 U.S.C. 1344) is amended by adding at the end the 
        following:
    ``(i) This section shall not apply to the scheduling of any lease 
sale in an area of the outer Continental Shelf that is adjacent to any 
insular area of the United States.''.
    (b) Wind Lease Sales for Areas of the Outer Continental Shelf.--The 
Outer Continental Shelf Lands Act (43 U.S.C. 1331 et seq.) is amended 
by adding at the end the following:

``SEC. 33. WIND LEASE SALES FOR AREAS OF THE OUTER CONTINENTAL SHELF.

    ``(a) Wind Lease Sales Off Coasts of Territories of the United 
States.--
            ``(1) Study on feasibility of conducting wind lease 
        sales.--
                    ``(A) In general.--The Secretary shall conduct a 
                study on the feasibility, including the technological 
                and long-term economic feasibility, and the potential 
                environmental effects, of conducting wind lease sales 
                in each area of the outer Continental Shelf that is 
                within the territorial jurisdiction of American Samoa, 
                Guam, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, 
                Puerto Rico, and the Virgin Islands of the United 
                States.
                    ``(B) Consultation.--In conducting the study 
                required in subparagraph (A), the Secretary shall 
                consult--
                            ``(i) the National Laboratories, as that 
                        term is defined in section 2(3) of the Energy 
                        Policy Act of 2005 (42 U.S.C. 15801(3));
                            ``(ii) the National Oceanic and Atmospheric 
                        Administration, including the Office of 
                        National Marine Sanctuaries and National Marine 
                        Fisheries Service; and
                            ``(iii) the Governor of each of American 
                        Samoa, Guam, the Northern Mariana Islands, 
                        Puerto Rico, and the Virgin Islands of the 
                        United States.
                    ``(C) Public comment.--The study required in 
                subparagraph (A) shall be published in the Federal 
                Register for public comment for a period of not fewer 
                than 60 days.
                    ``(D) Submission of results.--Not later than 18 
                months after the date of enactment of this section, the 
                Secretary shall submit the results of the study 
                conducted under subparagraph (A) to--
                            ``(i) the Committee on Energy and Natural 
                        Resources of the Senate;
                            ``(ii) the Committee on Natural Resources 
                        of the House of Representatives; and
                            ``(iii) each of the delegates or resident 
                        commissioners to the House of Representatives 
                        from American Samoa, Guam, the Commonwealth of 
                        the Northern Mariana Islands, Puerto Rico, and 
                        the Virgin Islands of the United States.
                    ``(E) Public availability.--The Secretary shall 
                publish the study required under subparagraph (A) and 
                the results submitted under subparagraph (C) on a 
                public website.
            ``(2) Call for information and nominations.--The Secretary 
        shall issue a call for information and nominations for proposed 
        wind lease sales for areas determined to be feasible under the 
        study conducted under paragraph (1).
            ``(3) Conditional wind lease sales.--
                    ``(A) In general.--For each territory, the 
                Secretary shall conduct not less than one wind lease 
                sale in the area of the outer Continental Shelf within 
                the territorial jurisdiction of such territory if such 
                area meets each of the following criteria:
                            ``(i) The study required under paragraph 
                        (1)(A) concluded that a wind lease sale on the 
                        area is feasible.
                            ``(ii) The Secretary has determined that 
                        the call for information has generated 
                        sufficient interest in the area.
                            ``(iii) The Secretary has consulted with 
                        the Secretary of Defense and other relevant 
                        Federal agencies regarding such sale.
                            ``(iv) The Secretary has consulted with the 
                        Governor of the territory regarding the 
                        suitability of the area for wind energy 
                        development.
                    ``(B) Exception.--If no area of the outer 
                Continental Shelf within the territorial jurisdiction 
                of a territory meets each of the criteria in clauses 
                (i) through (iv) of subparagraph (A), the requirement 
                under subparagraph (A) shall not apply to such 
                territory.''.

SEC. 218. INCREASING FUNDING FOR COASTAL CONSERVATION AND RESILIENCE.

    Section 8(p)(2) of the Outer Continental Shelf Lands Act (43 U.S.C. 
1337(p)(2)) is amended by adding at the end the following:
            ``(C) With respect to a lease under this subsection for the 
        production of wind energy, 30 percent of the revenue received 
        by the Federal Government as a result of payments from such 
        lease shall be deposited in the National Oceans and Coastal 
        Security Fund established by section 904 of the National Oceans 
        and Coastal Security Act (16 U.S.C. 7503).''.

TITLE III--CLIMATE-READY FISHERIES, EFFICIENT FISHERY VESSELS, AND BUY 
                            AMERICAN SEAFOOD

SEC. 301. SENSE OF CONGRESS.

    It is the sense of Congress that--
            (1) American wild-caught seafood is integral to the 
        Nation's food supply and to American food security;
            (2) the seafood supply chain is often long and complex;
            (3) American caught and American-processed seafood can be a 
        sustainable healthy source of protein and micronutrients;
            (4) fresh, frozen, dried, and canned domestic seafood can 
        be produced, processed, packaged, and transported in a manner 
        that has a low carbon footprint;
            (5) marine species that are small, at lower trophic levels, 
        and pelagic typically have the smallest carbon footprint; and
            (6) therefore, any executive agency that purchases seafood 
        products should, to the extent practicable, buy local American-
        caught or American-harvested and American-processed seafood 
        products from fisheries that are not overfished or experiencing 
        overfishing in order to reduce the greenhouse gas emissions 
        associated with the supply chain of seafood products.

SEC. 302. CAUGHT IN THE USA.

    Section 2(c)(1) of the Act of August 11, 1939 (15 U.S.C. 713c-
3(c)(1)) is amended to read as follows:
            ``(1) The Secretary shall make grants from the fund 
        established under subsection (b) to--
                    ``(A) assist persons in carrying out research and 
                development projects addressed to any aspect of United 
                States marine fisheries, including harvesting, 
                processing, packaging, marketing, and associated 
                infrastructures; or
                    ``(B) assist persons to market and promote the 
                consumption of--
                            ``(i) local or domestic marine fishery 
                        products;
                            ``(ii) environmentally and climate-friendly 
                        marine fishery products that minimize and 
                        employ efforts to avoid bycatch and impacts on 
                        marine mammals;
                            ``(iii) invasive species;
                            ``(iv) well-managed but less known species; 
                        or
                            ``(v) plant-based feed for aquaculture 
                        operations.''.

SEC. 303. ELIMINATE FISH SUBSIDIES IN TRADE AGREEMENTS.

    (a) In General.--Section 102(b) of the Bipartisan Congressional 
Trade Priorities and Accountability Act of 2015 (19 U.S.C. 4201(b)) is 
amended by adding at the end the following:
            ``(23) Fish subsidies.--The principal negotiating 
        objectives of the United States with respect to fish subsidies 
        are the following:
                    ``(A) To eliminate subsidies that contribute to 
                overfishing, or illegal, unreported, and unregulated 
                fishing, such as subsidies that--
                            ``(i) increase the marine fishing capacity 
                        of fishing vessels or support the acquisition 
                        of equipment that increases the ability of 
                        fishing vessels to find fish;
                            ``(ii) support the construction of fishing 
                        vessels, importation of fishing vessels, or 
                        government repurchase of fishing vessels 
                        outside of a binding and effective fishing 
                        capacity reduction program that includes the 
                        corresponding elimination of fishing rights and 
                        a binding and effective prohibition on the 
                        reuse of vessels for fishing to increase 
                        capacity in any fishery;
                            ``(iii) affect fish stocks in any fishery--
                                    ``(I) in an overfished or worse 
                                condition; or
                                    ``(II) whose stock levels are 
                                declining;
                            ``(iv) are provided to fishing enterprises 
                        engaged in long-distance fishing, either on the 
                        high seas or in the exclusive economic zone of 
                        a third country;
                            ``(v) support the transfer or reflagging of 
                        fishing vessels to third countries, including 
                        through the creation of joint ventures with 
                        partners of those countries;
                            ``(vi) are provided to the fishing 
                        enterprises or to owners or operators of 
                        vessels that have been determined to have 
                        engaged in illegal, unreported, and unregulated 
                        fishing by a coastal state or a regional 
                        fisheries management organization; or
                            ``(vii) reduce fuel, insurance, or other 
                        operating costs solely for fishing enterprises 
                        except where intended to reduce the carbon 
                        footprint of existing fishing operations.
                    ``(B) To require parties to trade agreements--
                            ``(i) to report to an environmental affairs 
                        committee established under the agreement, on 
                        an annual basis, all marine fishing-related 
                        subsidies provided by the parties, including 
                        fleet capacity and trade data concerning the 
                        fisheries that the subsidies affect;
                            ``(ii) to establish an independent body to 
                        make assessments of the health of fish stocks 
                        in each domestic fishery and report such 
                        assessments to such environmental affairs 
                        committee;
                            ``(iii) with respect to shared or 
                        international fisheries in which each party is 
                        involved in fishing activities, to commit to 
                        cooperating with third countries, regional 
                        fisheries management organizations, and 
                        assessment bodies in annual assessments of the 
                        health of fish stocks and associated species in 
                        such fisheries; and
                            ``(iv) to certify to such environmental 
                        affairs committee that they have made and 
                        continue to make adequate progress toward the 
                        goal of protecting and conserving, through 
                        well-connected and effective system of 
                        protected areas and other effective area-based 
                        conservation measures, at least 30 percent of 
                        the planet by 2030, with the focus on areas 
                        particularly important for biodiversity.
                    ``(C) To require parties to trade agreements that 
                are also members of the World Trade Organization to 
                work collaboratively at the Organization to establish 
                and maintain robust disciplines on fisheries 
                subsidies.''.
    (b) Effective Date.--The amendments made by subsection (a)--
            (1) take effect on the date of enactment of this Act; and
            (2) apply with respect to negotiations for trade agreements 
        subject to the provisions of section 103 of the Bipartisan 
        Congressional Trade Priorities and Accountability Act of 2015 
        (19 U.S.C. 4202) entered into on or after such date of 
        enactment.

SEC. 304. FUEL EFFICIENT FISHING VESSELS.

    Section 53708(b)(2) of title 46, United States Code, is amended--
            (1) in subparagraph (A) by striking ``or'' at the end;
            (2) in subparagraph (B) by striking ``increased fuel 
        efficiency or improved safety.'' and inserting ``improved 
        safety; or''; and
            (3) by adding at the end the following:
                    ``(C) increasing fuel efficiency and reducing fuel 
                usage, which may include--
                            ``(i) installation of solar panels;
                            ``(ii) engine replacement or retrofit, 
                        including the installation of new fuel-
                        efficient, low-emission engines, including 
                        hybrid electric marine engines or generators;
                            ``(iii) gearbox or propeller replacement;
                            ``(iv) modifications to hull shape; and
                            ``(v) modifications to fishing gear.''.

SEC. 305. CLIMATE AND FISHERIES RESEARCH AND MANAGEMENT PROGRAM.

    Title IV of the Magnuson-Stevens Fishery Conservation and 
Management Act (16 U.S.C. 1881 et seq.) is amended by adding at the end 
the following:

``SEC. 409. CLIMATE AND FISHERIES RESEARCH AND MANAGEMENT PROGRAM.

    ``(a) Establishment of the Program.--The Secretary, with input from 
appropriate Regional Fishery Management Councils and in coordination 
with other Federal agencies and educational institutions, shall 
establish a program to identify, develop, and implement adaptive 
strategies, consistent with the requirements of this Act, to improve 
the management of fisheries and aquaculture under current and 
anticipated impacts of climate change. In administering such program, 
the Secretary shall--
            ``(1) expand and improve fisheries science, monitoring, and 
        data collection in order to support and promote integrated, 
        climate science-informed fishery management and ensure that the 
        requirements of this Act are met under changing climatic 
        conditions;
            ``(2) prepare and adapt fishery management for climate 
        change by promoting a precautionary approach to management and 
        supporting the development and use of relevant science and 
        management tools, including forecasting, risk assessment, 
        scenario planning, coupled climate and ecosystem modeling, and 
        management strategy evaluation;
            ``(3) improve agency understanding of stock shifts to 
        inform catch advice, inform the resolution of jurisdictional 
        issues, and support achievement of conservation mandates in the 
        face of shifting stocks;
            ``(4) promote the development and use of climate-related 
        information in stock assessments;
            ``(5) develop and provide guidance on incorporating 
        information on environmental variability and climate change in 
        control rules for fishery management;
            ``(6) promote management approaches that increase 
        resilience to current and anticipated climate impacts in 
        managed species and marine ecosystems, including by 
        coordinating with and advancing programs to protect genetic 
        diversity and age structure, protect marine habitat, minimize 
        and better account for bycatch, and incorporating into 
        management the ecological role of forage fish in the marine 
        food web;
            ``(7) increase understanding of the socioeconomic impacts 
        of climate change on fishing participants, fishing communities, 
        and related industries;
            ``(8) coordinate within the National Oceanic and 
        Atmospheric Administration on issues related to climate change 
        and fisheries, including on data needs and availability;
            ``(9) ensure that the research, resource management, and 
        expenditures to prepare fisheries for climate change promote 
        racial and socioeconomic equity with respect to environmental 
        and economic outcomes across fisheries and regions;
            ``(10) promote the incorporation of climate change into 
        fisheries management at regional fishery management 
        organizations and other international bodies; and
            ``(11) advance other climate change fishery science and 
        management as appropriate.
    ``(b) Evaluation.--The Secretary, with input from the Councils, 
shall, not later than three years after the date of enactment of the 
Ocean-Based Climate Solutions Act of 2021 and every 5 years thereafter, 
conduct an independent review that will be provided to Congress and the 
public on the results of the program, including--
            ``(1) steps taken to modify or enhance research and data 
        collection programs to better understand the effects of climate 
        change on fishery resources;
            ``(2) steps taken to evaluate various management strategies 
        in the context of future climate scenarios;
            ``(3) how tools and solutions identified by the program 
        have been or will be implemented in fishery science and 
        management; and
            ``(4) the degree to which equity in outcomes of fulfilling 
        programmatic duties was achieved as required by subsection 
        (a)(9).
    ``(c) Authorization of Appropriations.--There is authorized to be 
appropriated to the Secretary to carry out this section $2,000,000 for 
each fiscal year 2022 through 2026.''.

SEC. 306. CLIMATE-READY FISHERIES INNOVATION PROGRAM.

    (a) Climate-Ready Fisheries Innovation Program.--Not later than one 
year after the date of enactment of this Act, the Administrator shall 
establish a program, including grants, to develop innovative tools and 
approaches designed to increase the adaptive capacity of fishery 
management to the impacts of climate change. In administering such 
program, the Administrator shall--
            (1) develop science and management tools and approaches 
        that address regional and national priorities to improve the 
        conservation and management of fishery resources under existing 
        and anticipated climate impacts;
            (2) provide for routine input from fishery managers and 
        scientists in order to maximize opportunities to incorporate 
        results of the program in fishery management actions;
            (3) promote adoption of methods developed under the program 
        in fishery management plans developed by the Regional Fishery 
        Management Councils;
            (4) provide information and outreach to the private sector 
        and academic sector to encourage development of tools and 
        approaches to manage the effects of climate change on 
        fisheries; and
            (5) provide information and outreach to fishery 
        participants to increase understanding of and encourage 
        adoption and use of tools and approaches developed under the 
        program.
    (b) Coordination of the Program.--
            (1) The Administrator shall establish a process to ensure 
        coordination with and outreach to--
                    (A) regional offices and science centers of the 
                National Marine Fisheries Service;
                    (B) the Regional Fishery Management Councils;
                    (C) the scientific and statistical committees of 
                such Fishery Management Councils; and
                    (D) other relevant programs, including the 
                cooperative research and management program under 
                section 318 of the Magnuson-Stevens Fishery 
                Conservation and Management Act (16 U.S.C. 1867), the 
                Integrated Ocean Observing System, and programs within 
                the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration 
                designed to address ocean acidification.
            (2) Such coordination should include identification of 
        multi-year research priorities to study and understand the 
        current and anticipated impacts of climate change on fisheries, 
        fisheries interactions, habitats, fishery participants, fishing 
        communities, fisheries science and monitoring, or other 
        relevant priority. Such priorities should be routinely reviewed 
        in a timeframe not to exceed 5 years and updated as necessary.
    (c) Authorization of Appropriations.--There is authorized to be 
appropriated to the Administrator to carry out this section $5,000,000 
for each of fiscal years 2022 through 2026.

SEC. 307. REPORT ON SHIFTING STOCKS AND WAYS TO ADAPT FISHERIES FOR THE 
              IMPACTS OF CLIMATE CHANGE.

    Not later than one year after the date of enactment of this Act, 
the Administrator shall transmit a report to Congress--
            (1) assessing whether and how fish stocks have shifted and 
        are expected to shift as a result of climate change, the 
        magnitude and timing of shifts, and a list of shifting stocks 
        by region;
            (2) evaluating the impacts range shifts are having on 
        fisheries stock assessments and describing how survey methods 
        are being modified to capture range shifts in fisheries;
            (3) assessing factors that promote resilience of fish 
        stocks undergoing range shift;
            (4) assessing existing federal policies on fishing permits 
        and licenses in each region, including allocation between 
        states and jurisdictions, and whether those rules facilitate 
        the resilience and adaptive capacity of fisheries when stocks 
        shift; and
            (5) identifying actions that could be taken to facilitate 
        the shifting, splitting or transitioning of permits to 
        fishermen in the regions where stocks have shifted, consistent 
        with the requirements of the Magnuson-Stevens Fishery 
        Conservation and Management Act and other applicable law.

SEC. 308. ESSENTIAL FISH HABITAT CONSULTATION.

    Section 305(b) of the Magnuson-Stevens Fishery Conservation and 
Management Act (16 U.S.C. 1855(b)) is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (1)(A)--
                    (A) by inserting ``every five years'' after 
                ``updating''; and
                    (B) by inserting ``, changes to habitat, in part 
                due to climate change,'' after ``evidence'';
            (2) in paragraph (1)(D), by inserting ``and such agencies 
        shall take action'' after ``agencies'';
            (3) by striking paragraphs (2) through (4) and inserting 
        after paragraph (1) the following:
            ``(2) Consultations regarding federal agency action with 
        adverse effects on essential fish habitat.--
                    ``(A) Requirement to avoid or mitigate adverse 
                effects.--Notwithstanding any other provision of law, 
                any Federal agency shall consult with the Secretary to 
                ensure that any action authorized, funded, or 
                undertaken by such agency avoids the adverse effect of 
                such action on essential fish habitat or, to the extent 
                that the adverse effect cannot be avoided, the agency 
                shall minimize and mitigate the adverse effect. In the 
                case of habitat areas of particular concern, the agency 
                shall further--
                            ``(i) conduct or require monitoring for 
                        possible adverse effects, and, if adverse 
                        effects occur, undertake additional actions to 
                        minimize and mitigate any such adverse effects 
                        of the action on the habitat area of particular 
                        concern and species for which the habitat area 
                        of particular concern is designated for the 
                        duration of time over which adverse impacts are 
                        likely to occur; and
                            ``(ii) evaluate the effectiveness of 
                        measures to avoid, minimize, and mitigate 
                        adverse impacts to the habitat area of 
                        particular concern and species for which the 
                        habitat area of particular concern is 
                        designated, and report the results of such 
                        evaluation to the Secretary on an annual basis.
                    ``(B) Considerations.--In completing the 
                requirements under subparagraph (A) for projects 
                seeking to restore and improve the long-term resilience 
                of habitat, particularly in estuarine environments 
                heavily impacted by sea level rise and other climate 
                change factors, each Federal agency shall, in 
                consultation with the Secretary, take into account the 
                consequences of not pursuing such restoration and 
                habitat resilience projects and the long-term positive 
                impacts on fish populations of such activities.
                    ``(C) Agency consultation.--Each Federal agency 
                shall consult with the Secretary with respect to any 
                action authorized, funded, or undertaken, or proposed 
                to be authorized, funded, or undertaken, by such agency 
                that may adversely affect any essential fish habitat 
                identified under this chapter.
                    ``(D) Regulations regarding consultation process.--
                Not later than 180 days after the date of enactment of 
                the Ocean-Based Climate Solutions Act of 2021, the 
                Secretary shall establish regulations for the 
                consultation process, including procedures to ensure 
                that recommendations made by the Secretary would result 
                in the avoidance, if possible, of adverse effects on 
                essential fish habitat and, if avoidance is not 
                possible, the minimization and mitigation of any such 
                adverse effects.
            ``(3) Input from appropriate councils.--When engaging in a 
        consultation required under paragraph (2), the Secretary shall 
        provide the relevant Council or Councils with information 
        regarding the proposed action and the potential adverse 
        effects, and the Council or Councils shall comment on and make 
        recommendations to the Secretary and any Federal or State 
        agency concerning--
                    ``(A) the underlying action if, in the view of the 
                Council, such action may affect the habitat of a 
                fishery resource under the authority of such Council; 
                and
                    ``(B) the proposed action if, in the view of the 
                Council, such action is likely to adversely affect the 
                habitat of an anadromous fishery resource under the 
                authority of such Council.
            ``(4) Information from other sources.--
                    ``(A) Receipt of information.--
                            ``(i) If the Secretary receives information 
                        from a Council or Federal or State agency, or 
                        determine from another source, or as result of 
                        the consultation required in paragraph (2), 
                        that an action authorized, funded, or 
                        undertaken, or proposed to be authorized, 
                        funded, or undertaken by any Federal agency 
                        adversely affects an essential fish habitat 
                        identified under this chapter, the Secretary 
                        shall recommend to such agency measures can be 
                        taken by such agency to avoid such the adverse 
                        effects of the action on such habitat or, to 
                        the extent that adverse effects cannot be 
                        avoided, minimize and mitigate the adverse 
                        effects.
                            ``(ii) Any recommendations made by the 
                        Secretary shall be made available to the public 
                        on the website of the National Marine Fisheries 
                        Service at the time the recommendations are 
                        made
                    ``(B) Required response.--
                            ``(i) Within 30 days after receiving a 
                        recommendation under subparagraph (A), a 
                        Federal agency shall provide a detailed 
                        response in writing to any Council comment 
                        under paragraph (3) and the Secretary regarding 
                        the matter. The response shall include a 
                        description of measures proposed by the agency 
                        for avoiding the adverse effects, or to the 
                        extent the adverse effects cannot be avoided, 
                        minimizing and mitigating the adverse effects 
                        of the action on essential fish habitat. In the 
                        case of a response that is inconsistent with 
                        the recommendations of the Secretary, the 
                        Federal agency shall explain how the 
                        alternative measures proposed will avoid the 
                        adverse effects of such action on essential 
                        fish habitat or, to the extent that adverse 
                        effects cannot be avoided, mitigate the adverse 
                        effects.
                            ``(ii) Such responses shall be made 
                        available to the public on the website of the 
                        National Marine Fisheries Service at the time 
                        that the recommendations are received.
                    ``(C) Publication.--The Secretary shall make 
                available to the public--
                            ``(i) any recommendation made under 
                        subparagraph (A) on the date on which such 
                        recommendation is made; and
                            ``(ii) any response made by an agency under 
                        subparagraph (B) on the date on which such 
                        response is received.
            ``(5) Monitoring for effectiveness.--The Secretary shall 
        monitor the effectiveness of measures taken by each Federal 
        agency to avoid, minimize, and mitigate adverse impacts to 
        essential fish habitat.
            ``(6) Essential fish habitat.--In this subsection, the term 
        `habitat areas of particular concern' means specific types of 
        areas that are part of or within essential fish habitat that--
                    ``(A) provide an important ecological function, 
                including for maintaining and restoring the biomass, 
                demographic, spatial, or genetic characteristics of 
                fish populations;
                    ``(B) are sensitive to human-induced environmental 
                degradation;
                    ``(C) are or will be significantly stressed by 
                human activities;
                    ``(D) due to prevailing or anticipated future 
                environmental conditions, are or may become important 
                to the health of managed species; or
                    ``(E) are rare.
            ``(7) Authorization of appropriations.--There are 
        authorized to be appropriated to the Secretary such funds as 
        may be necessary to carry out the requirements of this 
        section.''.

SEC. 309. OCEAN AQUACULTURE RESEARCH AND POLICY PROGRAM.

    (a) Establishment.--The Administrator shall establish a program to 
address opportunities, challenges, and innovation in restorative ocean 
aquaculture development, siting, and operations in the coastal waters 
and exclusive economic zone through--
            (1) investment in research and technical assistance to 
        ensure adverse impacts to the marine environment can be fully 
        understood, anticipated, accounted for, and avoided and impacts 
        to wild-capture fisheries and marine wildlife are minimized 
        during the species selection, design, development, siting, and 
        operation of aquaculture facilities; and
            (2) the development and application of best management 
        practices to ensure the species selection, design, development, 
        siting, and operation of restorative ocean aquaculture 
        maximizes potential benefits while minimizing potential adverse 
        impacts to the marine environment, marine wildlife, and wild-
        capture fisheries.
    (b) Use of Existing Programs.--The Administrator shall use grant 
and research programs available to the Administrator to support the 
design, development, siting, and operation of restorative ocean 
aquaculture using best management practices to maximize potential 
benefits and minimize potential adverse impacts to the marine 
environment.
    (c) Prioritization in Other Programs.--In carrying out other 
programs relating to aquaculture research and development, the 
Administrator shall prioritize restorative ocean aquaculture, including 
in carrying out--
            (1) the Small Business Innovation Research Program of the 
        National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration;
            (2) National Sea Grant College Program; and
            (3) section 2 of the Act of August 11, 1939 (15 U.S.C. 
        713c-3).
    (d) Prioritization Within the Program.--In carrying out the program 
established by this section, the Administrator shall prioritize support 
for research and technology development that includes--
            (1) design analyses of restorative aquaculture systems to 
        maximize ecosystem benefits while avoiding adverse impacts to 
        the marine environment and wild-capture fisheries and marine 
        wildlife;
            (2) spatial analyses to understand and evaluate where 
        siting of restorative aquaculture can minimize adverse impacts 
        to migratory birds and waterbirds, marine birds and mammals, 
        endangered species, and other aspects of the current and 
        projected future marine ecosystem;
            (3) design, spatial, and environmental analysis to 
        understand and evaluate how siting and operations of land-based 
        restorative aquaculture could impact surrounding communities 
        and ecosystems;
            (4) monitoring both the individual and cumulative 
        environmental impacts of current and proposed small scale 
        aquaculture operations to inform potential impacts of large-
        scale operations and siting;
            (5) offshore monitoring, remediation, and mitigation 
        technology development; and
            (6) understanding and preparing for impacts that climate 
        change may have on design development, siting, and operations 
        of restorative aquaculture facilities and the marine 
        environment.
    (e) Report.--Not later than one year after the date of enactment of 
this Act, the National Academies shall submit to the Administrator and 
to Congress a report that reviews, compiles, and synthesizes existing 
technologies and assessments of restorative ocean aquaculture to 
further inform ongoing research and technical assistance funded under 
subsection (c).
    (f) Content.--The report required by subsection (e) shall include 
the following:
            (1) A quantitative assessment of the capacity for 
        sequestering and storing significant amounts of carbon from the 
        atmosphere and ocean to mitigate the impacts of climate change.
            (2) A comprehensive assessment of the blue carbon potential 
        for an aquaculture project, including its potential 
        environmental impacts and cumulative impacts on native marine 
        species and marine habitat and the potential adverse wildlife 
        interactions likely to result from the use of restorative 
        aquaculture technologies in use or under development worldwide.
            (3) A comprehensive assessment of the potential impacts, 
        including cumulative impacts, to wild-capture fisheries and 
        marine wildlife and the productivity thereof likely to result 
        from the use of restorative aquaculture technologies in use or 
        under development worldwide.
            (4) An assessment of any known ecosystems services that 
        have been derived from restorative ocean aquaculture and 
        design, including siting and size parameters that maximize 
        those benefits.
            (5) A detailed discussion of the mitigation measures 
        available currently to reduce any negative environmental or 
        wild-capture fisheries and marine wildlife impacts identified 
        and their degree of efficacy, as well as the real-time facility 
        monitoring options available.
            (6) Recommendations of regionally relevant siting, 
        installation, and operations standards necessary to ensure that 
        restorative ocean aquaculture facilities are developed and 
        operated in a manner which minimizes impacts to the marine 
        environment and avoids and minimizes harmful interactions with 
        marine wildlife and habitat or conflict with other existing 
        ocean-user groups.
            (7) Economic analysis identifying the potential benefits 
        and impacts to commercial and recreational fishing and ocean 
        recreation industries resulting from restorative ocean 
        aquaculture.
            (8) Recommendations for further research and assessments 
        that should be supported.
            (9) A sustainability classification system to assess the 
        various types of restorative aquaculture on a range of life 
        cycle ecological and social benefits and provides a composite 
        score with which to rank such types of restorative aquaculture.
    (g) Restorative Ocean Aquaculture Defined.--The term ``restorative 
ocean aquaculture'' means ocean and coastal propagation of seaweed or 
shellfish farming that generates positive ecological and social impact.
    (h) Authorization of Appropriations.--There is authorized to be 
appropriated to the Administrator to carry out this section $5,000,000 
for each of fiscal years 2022 through 2026.

           TITLE IV--COASTAL BARRIER RESOURCE ACT AMENDMENTS

SEC. 401. UNDEVELOPED COASTAL BARRIER.

    Section 3(1) of the Coastal Barrier Resources Act (16 U.S.C. 
3502(1)) is amended--
            (1) in the matter preceding subparagraph (A), by striking 
        ``means'' and inserting ``includes'';
            (2) in subparagraph (A)--
                    (A) in the matter preceding clause (i), by 
                inserting ``bluff,'' after ``barrier spit,''; and
                    (B) in clause (ii), by inserting ``and related 
                lands'' after ``aquatic habitats'';
            (3) in subparagraph (B), by inserting ``, including areas 
        that are and will be vulnerable to coastal hazards, such as 
        flooding, storm surge, wind, erosion, and sea level rise'' 
        after ``nearshore waters''; and
            (4) in the matter following subparagraph (B), by striking 
        ``, and man's activities on such features and within such 
        habitats,''

SEC. 402. COASTAL HAZARD PILOT PROJECT.

    (a) In General.--
            (1) Project.--The Secretary of the Interior, in 
        consultation with the Administrator and the Administrator of 
        the Federal Emergency Management Agency, shall carry out a 
        coastal hazard pilot project to propose definitions and 
        criteria and produce draft digital maps of areas, including 
        coastal mainland areas, which could be added to the John H. 
        Chafee Coastal Barrier Resources System that are and will be 
        vulnerable to coastal hazards, such as flooding, storm surge, 
        wind, erosion and sea level rise, and areas not in such System 
        to which barriers and associated habitats are likely to migrate 
        or be lost as sea level rises.
            (2) Number of units.--The project carried out under this 
        section shall consist of the creation of maps for at least 10 
        percent of the System and may also identify additional new 
        System units.
    (b) Report.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than two years after the date of 
        enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall submit to the 
        Committee on Environment and Public Works of the Senate and the 
        Committee on Natural Resources of the House of Representatives 
        a report describing the results of the pilot project and the 
        proposed definitions and criteria and costs of completing 
        coastal hazard maps for the entire System.
            (2) Contents.--The report shall include a description of--
                    (A) the final recommended digital maps created 
                under the coastal hazard pilot project;
                    (B) recommendations for the adoption of the digital 
                maps created under this section by Congress;
                    (C) a summary of the comments received from the 
                Governors of the States, other government officials, 
                and the public regarding the definitions, criteria, and 
                maps;
                    (D) a description of the criteria used for the 
                project and any related recommendations; and
                    (E) the amount of funding necessary for completing 
                coastal hazard maps for the entire System.
    (c) Consultation.--The Secretary shall prepare the report required 
under subsection (b)--
            (1) in consultation with the Governors of the States in 
        which any System units newly identified areas are located; and
            (2) after--
                    (A) providing an opportunity for the submission of 
                public comments; and
                    (B) considering any public comments submitted under 
                subparagraph (A).

SEC. 403. REPORT ON EXPANDING COASTAL BARRIER RESOURCES ACT TO THE 
              PACIFIC COAST, INCLUDING PACIFIC TERRITORIES AND FREELY 
              ASSOCIATED STATES.

    (a) Definitions.--In this section, the following definitions apply:
            (1) Pacific territories and freely associated states.--The 
        term ``Pacific Territories and Freely Associated States'' means 
        each of American Samoa, Guam, the Republic of the Marshall 
        Islands, the Federated States of Micronesia, and Palau.
            (2) Undeveloped coastal barrier.--The term ``undeveloped 
        coastal barrier'' has the meaning given the term in section 3 
        of the Coastal Barrier Resources Act (16 U.S.C. 3502) (as 
        amended by section 501).
    (b) Report.--Not later than 18 months after the date of enactment 
of this Act, the Secretary of the Interior shall prepare and submit a 
report to Congress on ways to integrate the Pacific Coast of the United 
States, including in the Pacific Territories and Freely Associated 
States into the John H. Chafee Coastal Barrier Resources System.
    (c) Consultation.--The Secretary shall prepare the report required 
under subsection (b)--
            (1) in consultation with the Governors of the affected 
        States, territories, and Freely Associated States; and
            (2) after providing an opportunity for the submission and 
        consideration of public comments.
    (d) Contents.--The report required under subsection (a) shall--
            (1) examine the potential for loss of human life and damage 
        to fish, wildlife, and other natural resources, and the 
        potential for the wasteful expenditure of Federal revenues, 
        along the Pacific Coast, giving particular attention to 
        tsunami, flood, erosion, and storm damage, and sea level rise 
        impacts;
            (2) consider the biophysical processes needed to maintain 
        habitat functions and coastal resiliency, accounting for 
        climate and land use change; and
            (3) evaluate ways in which the definition of the term 
        ``undeveloped coastal barrier'' under section 3 of the Coastal 
        Barrier Resources Act (16 U.S.C. 3502) could be expanded to 
        more accurately address the geology and functions of coastal 
        barriers in areas along the Pacific Coast, including in the 
        Pacific Territories and Freely Associated States, including the 
        ways in which coastal bluffs, rocky outcroppings, beaches, 
        wetlands, estuaries, coral reefs, mangroves, and other 
        landforms in such areas function as coastal barriers by 
        absorbing storm impacts, protecting inland communities from sea 
        level rise impacts, providing habitat, and being subject to 
        erosion.
    (e) Preparation and Submission of Maps.--
            (1) Preparation.--As soon as practicable after the date of 
        enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall prepare maps 
        identifying the boundaries of those undeveloped coastal 
        barriers of the United States along the Pacific Coast, 
        including in the Pacific Territories and Freely Associated 
        States.
            (2) Submission to congress.--Not later than three years 
        after the date of submission of the report under subsection 
        (b), the Secretary shall submit to Congress maps identifying 
        the boundaries of those undeveloped coastal barriers of the 
        United States along the Pacific Coast, including the Pacific 
        Territories and Freely Associated States, that the Secretary 
        considers to be appropriate for inclusion in the John H. Chafee 
        Coastal Barrier Resources System.

SEC. 404. REQUIRE DISCLOSURE TO PROSPECTIVE BUYERS THAT PROPERTY IS IN 
              THE COASTAL BARRIER RESOURCES SYSTEM.

    Section 5 of the Coastal Barrier Resources Act (16 U.S.C. 3504) is 
amended by adding at the end the following:
    ``(c) Disclosure of Limitations.--
            ``(1) Requirement.--No person shall sell any interest in 
        real property located in the System unless the person has 
        disclosed to the buyer that the property is in the System and 
        subject to the limitations under this section.
            ``(2) Notification to the secretary.--Not later than 60 
        days after the date of sale of any interest in real property 
        located in the System, the seller shall notify the Secretary 
        using the online system required by paragraph (3) of such sale 
        and shall certify to the Secretary that such seller complied 
        with the requirements of paragraph (1).
            ``(3) Online reporting system.--Not later than one year 
        after the date of enactment of the Ocean-Based Climate 
        Solutions Act of 2021, the Secretary shall establish and 
        maintain an online reporting system to facilitate notifications 
        to the Secretary required by paragraph (2).
            ``(4) Civil penalty.--Any person who violates this 
        subsection shall be subject to a civil penalty of not more than 
        $10,000.''.

SEC. 405. IMPROVE FEDERAL AGENCY COMPLIANCE WITH COASTAL BARRIER 
              RESOURCES ACT.

    (a) In General.--Section 7 of the Coastal Barrier Resources Act (16 
U.S.C. 3506) is amended--
            (1) in subsection (a)--
                    (A) by striking ``the Coastal Barrier Improvement 
                Act of 1990'' and inserting ``Ocean-Based Climate 
                Solutions Act of 2021''; and
                    (B) by striking ``promulgate regulations'' and 
                inserting ``revise or promulgate regulations and 
                guidance, as necessary''; and
            (2) by amending subsection (b) to read as follows:
    ``(b) Reports and Certification.--
            ``(1) Reports.--The head of each Federal agency affected by 
        this Act shall annually report to the Secretary that such 
        agency is in compliance with this Act.
            ``(2) Certification.--The Secretary shall annually certify 
        whether each such agency is in compliance with this Act.
            ``(3) Failure to comply.--If the Secretary certifies that 
        an agency is not in compliance with this Act, the head of the 
        agency shall report to Congress not later than 90 days after 
        the date of such certification regarding how the agency will 
        achieve compliance.''.
    (b) Technical Correction.--Section 3 of the Coastal Barrier 
Resources Act (16 U.S.C. 3502) is amended by striking ``Committee on 
Resources'' and inserting ``Committee on Natural Resources''.

SEC. 406. EXCESS FEDERAL PROPERTY.

    Section 4(e) of the Coastal Barrier Resources Act (16 U.S.C. 
3503(e)) is amended by adding at the end of subsection (e) the 
following new paragraph:
            ``(3) Notwithstanding the provisions of 3502(1) and 3503(g) 
        of this Act, the term `undeveloped coastal barrier' means any 
        coastal barrier regardless of the degree of development.''.

SEC. 407. EMERGENCY EXCEPTIONS TO LIMITATIONS ON EXPENDITURES.

    Section 6(a) of the Coastal Barrier Resources Act (16 U.S.C. 
3505(a)) is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (6), by striking subparagraph (E) and 
        redesignating subparagraphs (F) and (G) as subparagraphs (E) 
        and (F), respectively; and
            (2) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
            ``(7) Emergency actions necessary to the saving of lives 
        and the protection of property and the public health and 
        safety, if such actions are performed pursuant to sections 402, 
        403, and 502 of the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and 
        Emergency Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5107a; 5170b; and 5192) and 
        are limited to actions that are necessary to alleviate the 
        immediate emergency.''.

SEC. 408. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.

    Section 9 of the Coastal Barrier Resources Act (16 U.S.C. 3508) is 
amended by striking ``$2,000,000'' and all that follows through the end 
of the sentence and inserting ``$5,000,000 for each of fiscal years 
2022 through 2026.''.

            TITLE V--COASTAL ZONE MANAGEMENT ACT AMENDMENTS

SEC. 501. GRANTS TO FURTHER ACHIEVEMENT OF TRIBAL COASTAL ZONE 
              OBJECTIVES.

    (a) Grants Authorized.--The Coastal Zone Management Act of 1972 (16 
U.S.C. 1451 et seq.) is amended by adding at the end the following:

``SEC. 320. GRANTS TO FURTHER ACHIEVEMENT OF TRIBAL COASTAL ZONE 
              OBJECTIVES.

    ``(a) Grants Authorized.--The Secretary may award competitive 
grants to Indian Tribes to further achievement of the objectives of 
such a Tribe for such Tribe's Tribal coastal zone.
    ``(b) Cost Share.--
            ``(1) In general.--The Federal share of the cost of any 
        activity carried out with a grant of $200,000 or more under 
        this section shall not exceed 95 percent of such cost, except 
        as provided in paragraph (2).
            ``(2) Waiver.--The Secretary may waive the application of 
        paragraph (1) with respect to a grant to an Indian Tribe, or 
        otherwise reduce the portion of the share of the cost of an 
        activity required to be paid by an Indian Tribe under such 
        paragraph.
    ``(c) Compatibility.--The Secretary may not award a grant under 
this section unless the Secretary determines that the activities to be 
carried out with the grant are compatible with this title.
    ``(d) Authorized Objectives and Purposes.--Amounts awarded as a 
grant under this section shall be used for 1 or more of the objectives 
and purposes authorized under subsections (b) and (c), respectively, of 
section 306A.
    ``(e) Funding.--There is authorized to be appropriated to the 
Secretary $5,000,000 to carry out this section for each of fiscal years 
2022 through 2026.
    ``(f) Definitions.--In this section, the following definitions 
apply:
            ``(1) Indian land.--The term `Indian land' has the meaning 
        given such term in section 2601 of the Energy Policy Act of 
        1992 (25 U.S.C. 3501).
            ``(2) Indian tribe.--The term `Indian Tribe' has the 
        meaning given such term in section 4 of the Indian Self-
        Determination and Education Assistance Act (25 U.S.C. 5304).
            ``(3) Tribal coastal zone.--The term `Tribal coastal zone' 
        means any Indian land that is within the coastal zone.
            ``(4) Tribal coastal zone objective.--The term `Tribal 
        coastal zone objective' means, with respect to an Indian Tribe, 
        any of the following objectives:
                    ``(A) Protection, restoration, or preservation of 
                areas in the Tribal coastal zone of such Tribe that 
                hold--
                            ``(i) important ecological, cultural, or 
                        sacred significance for such Tribe; or
                            ``(ii) traditional, historic, and aesthetic 
                        values essential to such Tribe.
                    ``(B) Preparing and implementing a special area 
                management plan and technical planning for important 
                coastal areas.
                    ``(C) Any coastal or shoreline stabilization 
                measure, including any mitigation measure, for the 
                purpose of public safety, public access, or cultural or 
                historical preservation.''.
    (b) Guidance.--Not later than 180 days after the date of enactment 
of this Act, the Administrator shall issue guidance for the program 
established under the amendment made by subsection (a), including the 
criteria for awarding grants under such program based on consultation 
with Indian Tribes.
    (c) Use of State Grants To Fulfill Tribal Objectives.--Section 
306A(c)(2) of the Coastal Zone Management Act of 1972 (16 U.S.C. 
1455a(c)(2)) is amended by striking ``and'' after the semicolon at the 
end of subparagraph (D), by striking the period at the end of 
subparagraph (E) and inserting ``; and'', and by adding at the end the 
following:
                    ``(F) fulfilling any Tribal coastal zone objective 
                (as that term is defined in section 320).''.
    (d) Other Programs Not Affected.--Nothing in this section and the 
amendments made by this section may be construed to affect the ability 
of an Indian Tribe to apply for, receive assistance under, or 
participate in any program authorized by the Coastal Zone Management 
Act of 1972 (16 U.S.C. 1451 et seq.) or other related Federal laws.

SEC. 502. ELIGIBILITY OF DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA FOR FEDERAL FUNDING.

    Section 304(4) of the Coastal Zone Management Act of 1972 (16 
U.S.C. 1453(4)) is amended by inserting ``the District of Columbia,'' 
after ``the term also includes''.

SEC. 503. COASTAL AND ESTUARINE RESILIENCE AND RESTORATION PROGRAM.

    Section 307A of the Coastal Zone Management Act of 1972 (16 U.S.C. 
1456-1) is amended--
            (1) by striking the heading and inserting ``coastal and 
        estuarine resilience and restoration program'';
            (2) by amending subsection (a) to read as follows:
    ``(a) In General.--The Secretary may conduct a Coastal and 
Estuarine Resilience and Restoration Program, in cooperation with 
State, regional, and other units of government and the National 
Estuarine Research Reserves, for the purposes of--
            ``(1) protecting important coastal and estuarine areas 
        that--
                    ``(A) have significant conservation, recreation, 
                coastal access, ecological, historical, or aesthetic 
                value;
                    ``(B) are threatened by conversion from their 
                natural, undeveloped, or recreational state to other 
                uses; or
                    ``(C) could be managed or restored to effectively 
                conserve, enhance, or restore ecological function or 
                mitigate climate change; or
            ``(2) restoring developed property in vulnerable coastal 
        and estuarine areas to a natural state to restore ecological 
        function, allow for shoreline migration, and protect coastal 
        communities.'';
            (3) in subsection (c)--
                    (A) by amending paragraph (7) to read as follows:
            ``(7) Priority shall be given to lands that--
                    ``(A) can be effectively managed and protected and 
                that have significant recreation, ecological, 
                historical, cultural, aesthetic, or community 
                protection value;
                    ``(B) to the maximum extent practicable, benefit 
                communities that may not have adequate resources to 
                prepare for or respond to coastal hazards or to access 
                the coastline, including low income communities, 
                communities of color, Tribal and Indigenous 
                communities, and rural communities; and
                    ``(C)(i) are under an imminent threat of conversion 
                to a use that will degrade or otherwise diminish their 
                natural, undeveloped, or recreational state;
                    ``(ii) serve to mitigate the adverse impacts caused 
                by coastal population growth in the coastal 
                environment;
                    ``(iii) are within a national estuarine research 
                reserve designated under section 315, a national 
                wildlife refuge, or a national estuary program, or are 
                proposed for designation as such a reserve or other 
                such protected area; or
                    ``(iv) are under threat due to climate change or 
                may serve to mitigate the adverse effects of climate 
                change, including through the storage of blue carbon, 
                and to facilitate inland migration of coastal 
                ecosystems in response to sea level rise.''; and
                    (B) in paragraph (10), by striking ``triennially'' 
                and inserting ``every 5 years'';
            (4) in subsection (f)--
                    (A) in paragraph (2)(B), by inserting ``for any 
                territory of the United States that is unable to 
                provide such match,'' after ``community,''; and
                    (B) in paragraph (4)--
                            (i) in subparagraph (A)(i), by striking 
                        ``meets the criteria set forth in section 
                        2(b)'' and inserting ``the goals set forth in 
                        subsection (b)'';
                            (ii) by striking subparagraph (B) and 
                        redesignating subparagraph (C) as subparagraph 
                        (B);
                            (iii) in subparagraph (B) (as so 
                        redesignated), by striking ``described in (A)'' 
                        and inserting ``described in subparagraph 
                        (A)''; and
                            (iv) by inserting at the end the following 
                        new subparagraph:
                    ``(C) The value of ecosystem services that the 
                acquired land provides, including as a buffer for storm 
                surge, habitat for economically valuable species, and 
                as blue carbon sink.'';
            (5) in subsection (g), by striking ``15'' and inserting 
        ``20'';
            (6) in subsection (h), by striking the second sentence; and
            (7) in subsection (l), by striking ``fiscal years 2009 
        through 2013'' and inserting ``fiscal years 2022 through 
        2026''.

SEC. 504. COASTAL ZONE MANAGEMENT FUND.

    Section 308 of Coastal Zone Management Act of 1972 (16 U.S.C. 
1456a) is amended to read as follows:

``SEC. 308. COASTAL ZONE MANAGEMENT FUND.

    ``(a) Establishment.--There is established a fund, to be known as 
the `Coastal Zone Management Fund', which shall consist of fees 
deposited into the Fund under section 307(i)(3) and any other funds 
appropriated to the Fund.
    ``(b) Grants for Post-Disaster Response to Severe Coastal Flood 
Events.--
            ``(1) In general.--In response to a major disaster declared 
        under the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency 
        Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5121 et seq.) as a result of flood 
        and related damages in the coastal zone of a State, the 
        Secretary may issue a grant to such State for a purpose 
        described in paragraph (2).
            ``(2) Eligible uses.--A State may use funds provided under 
        this subsection to--
                    ``(A) improve resilience to future severe coastal 
                flood hazards including activities and projects related 
                to--
                            ``(i) publicly owned infrastructure;
                            ``(ii) residential and commercial 
                        structures;
                            ``(iii) natural infrastructure; or
                            ``(iv) waste disposal sites and industrial 
                        facilities;
                    ``(B) assess damages after a major disaster 
                described in paragraph (1);
                    ``(C) plan, design, or engineer a project to--
                            ``(i) restore, expand, install, or relocate 
                        natural infrastructure;
                            ``(ii) remove damaged assets, restore sites 
                        to safe conditions, and select alternative 
                        sites; or
                            ``(iii) facilitate the landward migration 
                        of coastal ecosystems; or
                    ``(D) implement a project described by subparagraph 
                (C).
            ``(3) Federal share.--The Secretary may issue a grant under 
        this subsection for an amount not to exceed--
                    ``(A) 90 percent of the cost of an activity 
                described in subparagraph (A) or (B) of paragraph (2);
                    ``(B) except as provided in subparagraph (C), 60 
                percent of the cost of an activity described in 
                paragraph (2)(D);
                    ``(C) 75 percent of the cost of an activity 
                provided for in a plan approved under subsection (d); 
                or
                    ``(D) 100 percent of the cost of any activity 
                described in subparagraph (A), (B), or (C) of paragraph 
                (2) responding to the effects of a severe coastal flood 
                in a disadvantaged community that is identified in a 
                plan approved under subsection (d).
    ``(c) Grants for Severe Coastal Flood Hazard Planning.--
            ``(1) In general.--The Secretary, at the request of a 
        Governor of a coastal State or Tribe, may use amounts in the 
        Fund to issue a grant to a coastal State or Tribe for 
        developing a plan for the timely response to a severe coastal 
        flood hazard.
            ``(2) Proposal.--To be considered for a grant under this 
        section, a State shall submit a grant proposal to the Secretary 
        in a time, place, and manner determined by the Secretary. Such 
        proposal shall--
                    ``(A) describe the risks that severe coastal flood 
                hazards pose in the State and goals for reducing loss 
                of life and property and sustaining coastal ecosystems 
                in response to these risks;
                    ``(B) include consideration of related plans 
                including the Coastal Zone Management Plan of the State 
                or Tribe, the Hazard Mitigation Plan of the State or 
                Tribe, applicable State plans under the Community 
                Development Block Program, National Estuarine Research 
                Reserve Disaster Mitigation and Response plans, and the 
                severe coastal flood hazard preparedness plans, if any, 
                of neighboring States;
                    ``(C) be developed in conjunction with local 
                governments in the coastal zone of the State and 
                provided for public review and comment on the plan, 
                including holding a public hearing and engaging 
                disadvantaged communities; and
                    ``(D) be substantially consistent with the guidance 
                issued under subsection (e)(1)(C).
            ``(3) Criteria.--In determining the amount of a grant under 
        this subsection, the Secretary shall consider the--
                    ``(A) area and population of the coastal zone of 
                the applicant State;
                    ``(B) the risks that severe coastal flood hazards 
                pose to the State; and
                    ``(C) the reduction of severe coastal flood hazards 
                expected as a result of the proposal.
            ``(4) Limitation on amount of funds to be awarded.--Grants 
        made pursuant to this subsection in any fiscal year shall not 
        exceed 50 percent of the funds in the Fund as a result of 
        appropriations pursuant to subsection (i)(1).
            ``(5) Federal share.--
                    ``(A) In general.--Except as provided in 
                subparagraph (B), the Federal share of the cost of an 
                activity funded by a grant issued under this subsection 
                shall not exceed--
                            ``(i) 75 percent of the cost of the 
                        activity; or
                            ``(ii) 85 percent of the cost of the 
                        activity in the case of a State that has 
                        enacted a requirement for the disclosure of 
                        severe coastal flood hazards, including sea 
                        level rise, that meets criteria for such 
                        disclosure established by the Secretary, to 
                        buyers of real estate in the coastal zone.
                    ``(B) Exception.--The Secretary may reduce or waive 
                the matching requirement under paragraph (5) if a 
                coastal State submits a written request to the 
                Secretary for a waiver with a justification as to why 
                the State cannot meet the match requirement, and the 
                Secretary determines such justification is sufficient 
                to waive such requirement.
    ``(d) Grants for Severe Coastal Flood Hazard Plan Implementation.--
            ``(1) In general.--The Secretary, at the Secretary's 
        discretion or at the request of the Governor of a State, may 
        use amounts in the Fund to issue grants to a coastal State or 
        National Estuarine Research Reserve with a severe coastal flood 
        hazard preparedness plan approved under subsection (c) to 
        implement the approved plan.
            ``(2) Eligible activities.--Activities eligible for funding 
        under this subsection include--
                    ``(A) conducting a public awareness campaign to 
                inform the public and decisionmakers about severe 
                coastal flood hazards;
                    ``(B) developing, enacting, and administering a 
                State or local law prohibiting new and significantly 
                expanded development in areas at risk of severe coastal 
                flood hazards;
                    ``(C) developing, enacting, and administering a 
                State requirement for disclosure of severe coastal 
                flood hazards, including sea level rise, to buyers of 
                real estate;
                    ``(D) making grants to local governments, or 
                regional consortiums of local governments, to implement 
                the State plan, including development of local or 
                regional plans and site-specific plans or projects; and
                    ``(E) planning, designing, and implementing 
                projects to--
                            ``(i) protect existing public 
                        infrastructure and residential and commercial 
                        properties, including built structures, natural 
                        infrastructure, and living shorelines;
                            ``(ii) relocate infrastructure or 
                        structures at risk of damage by severe coastal 
                        flood hazards, restore such sites to safe 
                        conditions, and select alternative sites;
                            ``(iii) remove structures damaged by severe 
                        coastal flood hazards and restore such site to 
                        safe conditions;
                            ``(iv) protect waste disposal facilities in 
                        areas at risk of severe coastal flood hazards 
                        or relocate such facilities to alternative 
                        sites; and
                            ``(v) facilitate the landward migration of 
                        coastal ecosystems.
            ``(3) Criteria.--Grants made pursuant to this subsection 
        shall be in response to an annual request for proposals. In 
        determining the amount of a grant, the Secretary shall 
        consider--
                    ``(A) the area and population of the coastal zone 
                of the State;
                    ``(B) the risks that severe coastal flood hazards 
                pose in the State and the reduction of coastal flood 
                hazards expected as a result of the proposal;
                    ``(C) demonstration of innovative approaches to 
                preparing for severe coastal flood hazards; and
                    ``(D) benefits to disadvantaged communities 
                identified in a plan approved under this subsection.
            ``(4) Federal share.--A grant under this subsection shall 
        be limited to 75 percent of the cost of the proposal, except 
        that the Secretary may reduce or waive the such matching 
        requirement if a coastal State submits to the Secretary in 
        writing a request for a waiver with a justification as to why 
        the State cannot meet the match requirement, and the Secretary 
        determines such justification is sufficient to waive such 
        requirement.
    ``(e) Technical Support to States.--
            ``(1) The Secretary shall take such actions as the 
        Secretary determines necessary to support States in carrying 
        out this section, including at a minimum the following:
                    ``(A) Periodic assessment of storm flood risk and 
                relative sea level and lake level changes along the 
                United States coastline, including estimates of changes 
                in storm intensity and relative sea or lake levels by 
                2040, 2060, 2080, and 2100.
                    ``(B) Operation of an online mapping tool to 
                describe areas at risk of temporary flooding from 
                future coastal storms and permanent inundation as a 
                result of sea or long term lake level changes.
                    ``(C) Publication, not later than one year after 
                the date of enactment of this section and periodically 
                thereafter, of guidance for the development of State 
                plans developed pursuant to subsection (d).
                    ``(D) Establishment, not later than one year after 
                the date of enactment of this section, of minimum 
                criteria for disclosure of severe coastal flood 
                hazards, including sea level rise, to buyers of real 
                estate in the coastal zone.
                    ``(E) Creation, not later than one year after the 
                date of enactment of this section, and periodic 
                updating, of an online dashboard describing the key 
                features of State or local government requirements for 
                disclosure of severe coastal flood hazards to buyers of 
                real estate.
                    ``(F) Establishment, not later than one year after 
                the date of enactment of this section, after 
                consultation with the Secretary of the Environmental 
                Protection Agency, of standards for restoration to safe 
                conditions of sites from which infrastructure or other 
                structures have been relocated.
            ``(2) The guidance developed by the Secretary pursuant to 
        paragraph (1)(C) shall, at a minimum--
                    ``(A) provide information States need to establish 
                State-specific estimates of severe coastal flood 
                hazards, including more severe storms and relative sea 
                and lake levels, and planning targets for such hazards 
                for the years 2040, 2060, 2080, and 2100;
                    ``(B) describe approaches the State should consider 
                to prohibit new or expanded development in areas at 
                risk of severe coastal flood hazards;
                    ``(C) outline considerations for State grants to 
                support local governments in the coastal zone, or 
                consortiums of such governments acting on a regional 
                basis, in developing or implementing parts of a plan 
                pursuant to subsection (d);
                    ``(D) describe methods for evaluation of response 
                options including construction of structures to protect 
                assets and relocation to alternative sites, including 
                cost comparison in the context of available resources, 
                and related considerations;
                    ``(E) review options for establishing priorities 
                for removal of damaged or abandoned structures and 
                restoration of sites to safe conditions;
                    ``(F) describe social justice policies and 
                practices the State should consider adopting in 
                carrying out the activities under this section, 
                including criteria for identifying disadvantaged 
                communities within the coastal zone of the State and 
                the policies and practices the State should consider 
                adopting to assure that interests of such communities 
                are addressed in State plans developed pursuant to this 
                section;
                    ``(G) identify areas in coastal communities, or 
                other locations in the State, that have minimal severe 
                coastal flood hazards, that are appropriate for 
                relocation of people and property, and can sustain the 
                identity and cultural heritage of relocated 
                communities;
                    ``(H) provide information and practices for 
                identifying coastal areas that are important to the 
                successful landward migration of ecosystems in response 
                to severe coastal flood hazards and measures for 
                protecting these migration pathways;
                    ``(I) identify tools to identify waste disposal 
                sites and related sites that pose a risk of water 
                pollution as a result of severe coastal flood hazards 
                and describe practices the State should consider to 
                protect or relocate such facilities or sites; and
                    ``(J) describe opportunities to improve public 
                access to the shoreline as a result of improved 
                preparedness for severe coastal flood hazards.
    ``(f) Administration.--The Secretary may use amounts in the Fund 
for expenses incident to the administration of this section, in an 
amount not to exceed $250,000 or 3 percent of the amount in the Fund, 
whichever is less, for each fiscal year.
    ``(g) Report to Congress.--The Secretary shall, not later than 
three years after the date of enactment of this section and every 3 
years thereafter, submit to the Committee on Natural Resources of the 
House of Representatives and the Committee on Commerce of the Senate a 
report describing the development of plans and projects under this 
section, changes in severe coastal flood hazards, including changes to 
risks to disadvantaged communities, and making recommendations to 
better respond to these challenges.
    ``(h) Definitions.--In this section, the following definitions 
apply:
            ``(1) Severe coastal flood hazards.--The term `severe 
        coastal flood hazards' means--
                    ``(A) temporary flooding resulting from coastal 
                storms and storm surge, tsunamis, and changing lake 
                levels; and
                    ``(B) permanent inundation from rising sea levels 
                and land subsidence, including landward migration of 
                shorelines impacting residential and commercial 
                property, infrastructure, and ecosystems.
            ``(2) Natural infrastructure.--The term `natural 
        infrastructure' means coastal wetlands, beaches, dunes, 
        marshes, mangrove forests, oyster beds, submerged aquatic 
        vegetation, coral reefs, municipal green infrastructure, and 
        living shorelines.
            ``(3) Publicly owned infrastructure.--The term `publicly 
        owned infrastructure' means buildings, structures, and 
        facilities and appurtenances of drinking water, sewage 
        treatment, natural gas, or electric power utilities owned by a 
        municipal, county, or State government or a combination of such 
        governments.
            ``(4) Waste disposal site.--The term `waste disposal site' 
        means a publicly or privately owned solid waste landfill or 
        disposal site, a hazardous waste landfill or disposal site, a 
        site included on the National Priorities List developed under 
        the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and 
        Liability Act of 1980 (42 U.S.C. 9601), and a site used for the 
        disposal of coal combustion residuals from a coal fired plant 
        that has been identified in a plan approved under subsection 
        (d).
            ``(5) Disadvantaged communities.--The term `disadvantaged 
        communities' means areas of the coastal State identified in a 
        plan approved under subsection (d) which disproportionately 
        suffer from a combination of economic, health, and 
        environmental burdens including poverty, high unemployment, air 
        and water pollution, presence of hazardous wastes as well as 
        high incidence of asthma and heart disease.
            ``(6) Living shoreline.--The term `living shoreline' means 
        a protected, stabilized coastal edge made of natural materials 
        such as plants designed to provide wildlife habitat, as well as 
        natural resilience to shorelines.
            ``(7) Municipal green infrastructure.--The term `municipal 
        green infrastructure' has the meaning given the term `green 
        infrastructure' in paragraph (27) of section 1362 of title 33, 
        United States Code.
            ``(8) Safe conditions.--The term `safe conditions' refers 
        to standards for restoration of sites from which infrastructure 
        or structures are relocated established by the Secretary 
        pursuant to subsection (f)(1)(F) are protective of human health 
        and the environment.
    ``(i) Authorization of Appropriations.--
            ``(1) In general.--There is authorized to be appropriated 
        into the Fund for use by the Secretary $100,000,000 for each of 
        fiscal years 2022 through 2026, which shall remain available 
        until expended without fiscal year limitation.
            ``(2) Disaster relief.--There is authorized to be 
        appropriated into the Fund for use by the Secretary to respond 
        to a major disaster declared under the Robert T. Stafford 
        Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5121 et 
        seq.) such sums as may be necessary. Funds appropriated 
        pursuant to this paragraph may only be used to make grants to 
        the State or States in which the major disaster occurred and 
        shall remain available until expended without fiscal year 
        limitation.''.

SEC. 505. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.

    Section 318(a) of the Coastal Zone Management Act of 1972 (16 
U.S.C. 1464) is amended to read as follows:
    ``(a) Sums Appropriated to the Secretary.--There are authorized to 
be appropriated to the Secretary, to remain available until expended--
            ``(1) for grants under sections 306, 306A, and 309, 
        $95,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2022 through 2026; and
            ``(2) for grants under section 315, $37,000,000 for each of 
        fiscal years 2022 through 2026.''.

SEC. 506. AMENDMENTS TO NATIONAL ESTUARINE RESEARCH RESERVE SYSTEM 
              PROGRAM.

    (a) Designation of Additional Reserves.--Not later than five years 
after the date of enactment of this Act, the Administrator shall 
designate not less than 5 new national estuarine reserves under section 
315 of the Coastal Zone Management Act of 1972 (16 U.S.C. 1461) that 
ensure the National Estuarine Research Reserve System includes areas 
in--
            (1) full representation of biogeographic regions, States, 
        and Territories; and
            (2) each coastal State or Territory (as that term is 
        defined in that Act).
    (b) Guidelines for Tracking and Modeling the Impacts of Climate 
Change.--Section 315(c) of the Coastal Zone Management Act of 1972 (16 
U.S.C. 1461(c)) is amended--
            (1) by redesignating paragraphs (3) through (5) as 
        paragraphs (4) through (6); and
            (2) by inserting after paragraph (2) the following:
            ``(3) the establishment of coordinated long-term data 
        monitoring and methods throughout the System for tracking and 
        modeling the impacts of climate change on estuarine systems, 
        including impacts on lake levels and sea levels;''.
    (c) Land Acquisition and Construction.--Section 315 of the Coastal 
Zone Management Act of 1972 (16 U.S.C. 1461) is amended by striking (g) 
and adding at the end the following:
    ``(g) Land Acquisition and Construction.--The Secretary may use 
funds authorized under section 318 for land acquisition and the 
construction and renovations of facilities required to meet delivery of 
System programs and services, or to meet changing needs of program 
under this title. Such construction shall incorporate green design 
principles, materials, energy efficiency, and adaptive reuse 
strategies, and the development of innovative coastal technology and 
management strategies that enhance resilience of System facilities and 
lands.
    ``(h) Requirements for Use of Funds.--In using funds under 
subsection (g), the Secretary shall--
            ``(1) provide science-based information and technical 
        assistance to coastal stakeholders and decisionmakers;
            ``(2) leverage the capabilities of nationwide protected 
        area networks to address challenging coastal management issues 
        such as climate change and vulnerability of coastal ecosystems 
        and communities to coastal hazards;
            ``(3) serve as living laboratories and preferred places for 
        National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration research and 
        fellowships on coastal and estuarine systems;
            ``(4) serve as critical sentinel sites for detecting 
        environmental change and developing and demonstrating 
        adaptation and mitigation strategies;
            ``(5) identify priority places for land acquisition, 
        especially those lands required to enhance resilience to 
        environmental change; and
            ``(6) engage coastal communities, stakeholders, and the 
        public in education programs to increase scientific literacy of 
        coastal environments, and to develop and train capable 
        environmental stewards.
    ``(i) Systemwide Elements of the National Estuarine Research 
Reserve System.--The Secretary shall coordinate systemwide programs and 
activities in the System including--
            ``(1) the centralized management and dissemination of data 
        from System observation and monitoring networks;
            ``(2) a competitive grant program employing the 
        collaborative research model on coastal research and management 
        priorities to be conducted at research reserve sites focused on 
        the priorities determined by the Secretary; and
            ``(3) establish the Margaret A. Davidson Graduate Research 
        Fellowship Program to address key coastal management questions 
        and the coastal research and management priorities of the 
        Reserve System and its place-based sites to help scientists and 
        communities understand the coastal challenges that may 
        influence future policy and management strategies.
    ``(j) Place-Based Program Elements of the National Estuarine 
Research Reserve System.--Each National Estuarine Research Reserve 
shall establish and maintain place-based program elements that 
include--
            ``(1) a research, monitoring, and observation network that 
        detects environmental change and informs suitable adaptation 
        and mitigation strategies where appropriate, and that supports 
        systemwide activities stated in subsection (e);
            ``(2) education, outreach, and interpretive programs that 
        communicate the value and changing dynamics of coastal systems;
            ``(3) stewardship programs that provide science-based 
        tools, habitat management, and restoration and that provide 
        resources and information to inform coastal management;
            ``(4) coastal training programs that provide technical 
        assistance to coastal communities, resource managers, and 
        coastal decisionmakers; and
            ``(5) the lands and facilities that support such accessible 
        research, monitoring, stewardship, education, and coastal 
        training activities.
    ``(k) Definitions.--In this section, the following definitions 
apply:
            ``(1) Collaborative research.--The term `collaborative 
        research' means the engagement of local decisionmakers and 
        stakeholders directly in the research process so that their 
        knowledge and needs will inform research questions, data 
        analysis, and use of the products generated by the research.
            ``(2) Sentinel site.--The term `sentinel site' means a site 
        with long-term research and monitoring capability to detect, 
        document, and respond to emerging environmental changes that 
        impact natural and human systems''.

SEC. 507. WORKING WATERFRONTS GRANT PROGRAM.

     The Coastal Zone Management Act of 1972 (16 U.S.C. 1451 et seq.) 
is amended by adding at the end the following:

``SEC. 322. WORKING WATERFRONTS GRANT PROGRAM.

    ``(a) Working Waterfront Task Force.--
            ``(1) Establishment and functions.--The Secretary shall 
        establish a task force to work directly with coastal States, 
        user groups, and coastal stakeholders to identify and address 
        critical needs with respect to working waterfronts.
            ``(2) Membership.--The members of the task force shall be 
        appointed by the Secretary, and shall include--
                    ``(A) experts in the unique economic, social, 
                cultural, ecological, geographic, and resource concerns 
                of working waterfronts; and
                    ``(B) representatives from the National Oceanic and 
                Atmospheric Administration's Office of Coastal 
                Management, the United States Fish and Wildlife 
                Service, the Department of Agriculture, the 
                Environmental Protection Agency, the United States 
                Geological Survey, the Navy, the National Marine 
                Fisheries Service, the Economic Development 
                Administration, and such other Federal agencies as the 
                Secretary considers appropriate.
            ``(3) Functions.--The task force shall--
                    ``(A) identify and prioritize critical needs with 
                respect to working waterfronts in States that have a 
                management program approved by the Secretary pursuant 
                to section 306, in the areas of--
                            ``(i) economic and cultural importance of 
                        working waterfronts to communities;
                            ``(ii) changing environments and threats 
                        working waterfronts face from environmental 
                        changes, trade barriers, sea level rise, 
                        extreme weather events, ocean acidification, 
                        and harmful algal blooms; and
                            ``(iii) identifying working waterfronts and 
                        highlighting them within communities;
                    ``(B) outline options, in coordination with coastal 
                States and local stakeholders, to address such critical 
                needs, including adaptation and mitigation where 
                applicable;
                    ``(C) identify Federal agencies that are 
                responsible for addressing such critical needs; and
                    ``(D) recommend Federal agencies best suited to 
                address any critical needs for which no agency is 
                responsible under existing law.
            ``(4) Information to be considered.--In identifying and 
        prioritizing policy gaps pursuant to paragraph (3), the task 
        force shall consider the findings and recommendations contained 
        in section VI of the report entitled `The Sustainable Working 
        Waterfronts Toolkit: Final Report', dated March 2013.
            ``(5) Report.--Not later than 18 months after the date of 
        enactment of this section, the task force shall submit a report 
        to Congress on its findings.
            ``(6) Implementation.--The head of each Federal agency 
        identified in the report pursuant to paragraph (3)(C) shall 
        take such action as is necessary to implement the 
        recommendations contained in the report by not later than one 
        year after the date of issuance of the report.
    ``(b) Working Waterfront Grant Program.--
            ``(1) Establishment.--The Secretary shall establish a 
        Working Waterfront Grant Program, in cooperation with 
        appropriate State, regional, and other units of government, 
        under which the Secretary may make a grant to any coastal State 
        for the purpose of implementing a working waterfront plan 
        approved by the Secretary under subsection (c).
            ``(2) Grants.--The Secretary shall award matching grants 
        under the Working Waterfronts Grant Program to coastal States 
        with approved working waterfront plans through a regionally 
        equitable, competitive funding process in accordance with the 
        following:
                    ``(A) The Governor, or an agency designated by the 
                Governor for coordinating the implementation of this 
                section, in consultation with any appropriate local 
                government, shall determine that the application is 
                consistent with the State's or territory's approved 
                coastal zone plan, program, and policies prior to 
                submission to the Secretary.
                    ``(B) In developing guidelines under this section, 
                the Secretary shall consult with coastal States, other 
                Federal agencies, and other interested stakeholders 
                with expertise in working waterfront planning.
                    ``(C) Coastal States may allocate grants to local 
                governments, agencies, or nongovernmental organizations 
                eligible for assistance under this section.
            ``(3) Considerations.--In awarding a grant to a coastal 
        State, the Secretary shall consider--
                    ``(A) the economic, cultural, and historical 
                significance of working waterfront to the coastal 
                State;
                    ``(B) the demonstrated working waterfront needs of 
                the coastal State as outlined by a working waterfront 
                plan approved for the coastal State under subsection 
                (c), and the value of the proposed project for the 
                implementation of such plan;
                    ``(C) the ability to leverage funds among 
                participating entities, including Federal agencies, 
                regional organizations, State and other government 
                units, landowners, corporations, or private 
                organizations;
                    ``(D) the potential for rapid turnover in the 
                ownership of working waterfront in the coastal State, 
                and where applicable the need for coastal States to 
                respond quickly when properties in existing or 
                potential working waterfront areas or public access 
                areas as identified in the working waterfront plan 
                submitted by the coastal State come under threat or 
                become available; and
                    ``(E) the impact of the working waterfront plan 
                approved for the coastal State under subsection (c) on 
                the coastal ecosystem and the users of the coastal 
                ecosystem.
            ``(4) Timeline for approval.--The Secretary shall approve 
        or reject an application for such a grant not later than 60 
        days after receiving an application for the grant.
    ``(c) Working Waterfront Plans.--
            ``(1) Development and submission of plan.--To be eligible 
        for a grant under subsection (b), a coastal State shall submit 
        to the Secretary a comprehensive working waterfront plan in 
        accordance with this subsection, or be in the process of 
        developing such a plan and have an established working 
        waterfront program at the State or local level.
            ``(2) Plan requirements.--Such plan--
                    ``(A) shall provide for preservation and expansion 
                of access to coastal waters to persons engaged in 
                commercial fishing, recreational fishing and boating 
                businesses, aquaculture, boatbuilding, or other water-
                dependent, coastal-related business;
                    ``(B) shall include--
                            ``(i) an assessment of the economic, 
                        social, cultural, and historic value of working 
                        waterfront to the coastal State;
                            ``(ii) a description of relevant State and 
                        local laws and regulations affecting working 
                        waterfront in the geographic areas identified 
                        in the working waterfront plan;
                            ``(iii) identification of geographic areas 
                        where working waterfronts are currently under 
                        threat of conversion to uses incompatible with 
                        commercial and recreational fishing, 
                        recreational fishing and boating businesses, 
                        aquaculture, boatbuilding, or other water-
                        dependent, coastal-related business, and the 
                        level of that threat;
                            ``(iv) identification of geographic areas 
                        with a historic connection to working 
                        waterfronts where working waterfronts are not 
                        currently available, and, where appropriate, an 
                        assessment of the environmental impacts of any 
                        expansion or new development of working 
                        waterfronts on the coastal ecosystem;
                            ``(v) identification of other working 
                        waterfront needs including improvements to 
                        existing working waterfronts and working 
                        waterfront areas;
                            ``(vi) a strategic and prioritized plan for 
                        the preservation, expansion, and improvement of 
                        working waterfronts in the coastal State;
                            ``(vii) for areas identified under clauses 
                        (iii), (iv), (v), and (vi), identification of 
                        current availability and potential for 
                        expansion of public access to coastal waters;
                            ``(viii) a description of the degree of 
                        community support for such strategic plan; and
                            ``(ix) a contingency plan for properties 
                        that revert to the coastal State pursuant to 
                        determinations made by the coastal State under 
                        subsection (g)(4)(C);
                    ``(C) may include detailed descriptions of 
                environmental impacts on working waterfronts, including 
                hazards, sea level rise, inundation exposure, and other 
                resiliency issues;
                    ``(D) may be part of the management program 
                approved under section 306;
                    ``(E) shall utilize to the maximum extent 
                practicable existing information contained in relevant 
                surveys, plans, or other strategies to fulfill the 
                information requirements under this paragraph; and
                    ``(F) shall incorporate the policies and 
                regulations adopted by communities under local working 
                waterfront plans or strategies in existence before the 
                date of enactment of this section.
            ``(3) A working waterfront plan--
                    ``(A) shall be effective for purposes of this 
                section for the 5-year period beginning on the date it 
                is approved by the Secretary;
                    ``(B) must be updated and re-approved by the 
                Secretary before the end of such period; and
                    ``(C) shall be complimentary to and incorporate the 
                policies and objectives of regional or local working 
                waterfront plans as in effect before the date of 
                enactment of this section or as subsequently revised.
            ``(4) The Secretary may--
                    ``(A) award planning grants to coastal States for 
                the purpose of developing or revising comprehensive 
                working waterfront plans;
                    ``(B) award grants consistent with the purposes of 
                this section to States undertaking the working 
                waterfront planning process under this section, for the 
                purpose of preserving and protecting working 
                waterfronts during such process; and
                    ``(C) determine that a preexisting coastal land use 
                plan for that State is in accordance with the 
                requirements of this subsection.
            ``(5) Any coastal State applying for a working waterfront 
        grant under this title shall--
                    ``(A) develop a working waterfront plan, using a 
                process that involves the public and those with an 
                interest in the coastal zone;
                    ``(B) coordinate development and implementation of 
                such a plan with other coastal management programs, 
                regulations, and activities of the coastal State; and
                    ``(C) if the coastal State allows qualified holders 
                (other than the coastal State) to enter into working 
                waterfront covenants, provide as part of the working 
                waterfront plan under this subsection a procedure to 
                ensure that the qualified holders are fulfilling such 
                qualified holder's obligations under the working 
                waterfront covenant.
    ``(d) Uses, Terms, and Conditions.--A grant under this section may 
be used--
            ``(1) to acquire a working waterfront, or an interest in a 
        working waterfront;
            ``(2) to make improvements to a working waterfront, 
        including the construction or repair of wharfs, boat ramps, or 
        related facilities; or
            ``(3) for necessary climate change adaptation or 
        mitigation.
    ``(e) Public Access Requirement.--A working waterfront project 
funded by grants made under this section must provide for expansion, 
improvement, or preservation of reasonable and appropriate public 
access to coastal waters at or in the vicinity of a working waterfront, 
except for commercial fishing or other industrial access points where 
the coastal State determines that public access would be unsafe.
    ``(f) Limitations.--
            ``(1) Except as provided in paragraph (2), a grant awarded 
        under this section may be used to purchase working waterfront 
        or an interest in working waterfront, including an easement, 
        only from a willing seller and at fair market value.
            ``(2) A grant awarded under this section may be used to 
        acquire working waterfront or an interest in working waterfront 
        at less than fair market value only if the owner certifies to 
        the Secretary that the sale is being entered into willingly and 
        without coercion.
            ``(3) No Federal, State, or local entity may exercise the 
        power of eminent domain to secure title to any property or 
        facilities in connection with a project carried out under this 
        section.
    ``(g) Allocation of Grants to Local Governments and Other 
Entities.--
            ``(1) Designation of qualified holder.--Subject to the 
        approval of the Secretary, a coastal State may, as part of an 
        approved working waterfront plan, designate as a qualified 
        holder any unit of State or local government or nongovernmental 
        organization, if the coastal State is ultimately responsible 
        for ensuring that the property will be managed in a manner that 
        is consistent with the purposes for which the land entered into 
        the program.
            ``(2) Allocation.--A coastal State or a qualified holder 
        designated by a coastal State may allocate to a unit of local 
        government, nongovernmental organization, fishing cooperative, 
        or other entity, a portion of any grant made under this section 
        for the purpose of carrying out this section, except that such 
        an allocation shall not relieve the coastal State of the 
        responsibility for ensuring that any funds so allocated are 
        applied in furtherance of the coastal State's approved working 
        waterfront plan.
            ``(3) Exceptions.--A qualified holder may hold title to or 
        interest in property acquired under this section, except that--
                    ``(A) all persons holding title to or interest in 
                working waterfront affected by a grant under this 
                section shall enter into a working waterfront covenant;
                    ``(B) such covenant shall be held by the coastal 
                State or a qualified holder designated under paragraph 
                (1);
                    ``(C) if the coastal State determines, on the 
                record after an opportunity for a hearing, that the 
                working waterfront covenant has been violated--
                            ``(i) all right, title, and interest in and 
                        to the working waterfront covered by such 
                        covenant shall, except as provided in 
                        subparagraph (D), revert to the coastal State; 
                        and
                            ``(ii) the coastal State shall have the 
                        right of immediate entry onto the working 
                        waterfront; and
                    ``(D) if a coastal State makes a determination 
                under subparagraph (C), the coastal State may convey or 
                authorize the qualified holder to convey the working 
                waterfront or interest in working waterfront to another 
                qualified holder.
    ``(h) Matching Contributions.--
            ``(1) In general.--Except as provided in paragraph (2), the 
        Secretary shall require that each coastal State that receives a 
        grant under this section, or a qualified holder designated by 
        that coastal State under subsection (g), shall provide matching 
        funds in an amount equal to at least 25 percent of the total 
        cost of the project carried out with the grant. As a condition 
        of receipt of a grant under this section, the Secretary shall 
        require that a coastal State provide to the Secretary such 
        assurances as the Secretary determines are sufficient to 
        demonstrate that the share of the cost of each eligible project 
        that is not funded by the grant awarded under this section has 
        been secured.
            ``(2) Waiver.--The Secretary may waive the application of 
        paragraph (1) for any qualified holder that is an underserved 
        community, a community that has an inability to draw on other 
        sources of funding because of the small population or low 
        income of the community, or for other reasons the Secretary 
        considers appropriate.
            ``(3) In-kind contributions.--A local community designated 
        as a qualified holder under subsection (g) may use funds or 
        other in-kind contributions donated by a nongovernmental 
        partner to satisfy the matching funds requirement under this 
        subsection.
            ``(4) Funding from other federal source.--If financial 
        assistance under this section represents only a portion of the 
        total cost of a project, funding from other Federal sources may 
        be applied to the cost of the project.
            ``(5) Value of a working waterfront.--The Secretary shall 
        treat as non-Federal match the value of a working waterfront or 
        interest in a working waterfront, including conservation and 
        other easements, that is held in perpetuity by a qualified 
        holder, if the working waterfront or interest is identified in 
        the application for the grant and acquired by the qualified 
        holder not later than three years of the grant award date, or 
        not later than three years after the submission of the 
        application and before the end of the grant award period. Such 
        value shall be determined by an appraisal performed at such 
        time before the award of the grant as the Secretary considers 
        appropriate.
            ``(6) Other considerations.--The Secretary shall treat as 
        non-Federal match the costs associated with acquisition of a 
        working waterfront or an interest in a working waterfront, and 
        the costs of restoration, enhancement, or other improvement to 
        a working waterfront, if the activities are identified in the 
        project application and the costs are incurred within the 
        period of the grant award, or, for working waterfront described 
        in paragraph (6), within the same time limits described in that 
        paragraph. Such costs may include either cash or in-kind 
        contributions.
    ``(i) Limit on Administrative Costs.--No more than 5 percent of the 
funds made available to the Secretary under this section may be used by 
the Secretary for planning or administration of the program under this 
section.
    ``(j) Other Technical and Financial Assistance.--
            ``(1) Up to 5 percent of the funds appropriated under this 
        section shall be used by the Secretary for purposes of 
        providing technical assistance as described in this subsection.
            ``(2) The Secretary shall--
                    ``(A) provide technical assistance to coastal 
                States and local governments in identifying and 
                obtaining other sources of available Federal technical 
                and financial assistance for the development and 
                revision of a working waterfront plan and the 
                implementation of an approved working waterfront plan;
                    ``(B) provide technical assistance to States and 
                local governments for the development, implementation, 
                and revision of comprehensive working waterfront plans, 
                which may include, subject to the availability of 
                appropriations, planning grants and assistance, pilot 
                projects, feasibility studies, research, and other 
                projects necessary to further the purposes of this 
                section;
                    ``(C) assist States in developing other tools to 
                protect working waterfronts;
                    ``(D) collect and disseminate to States guidance 
                for best storm water management practices in regards to 
                working waterfronts;
                    ``(E) provide technical assistance to States and 
                local governments on integrating resilience planning 
                into working waterfront preservation efforts; and
                    ``(F) collect and disseminate best practices on 
                working waterfronts and resilience planning.
    ``(k) Reports.--
            ``(1) The Secretary shall--
                    ``(A) develop performance measures to evaluate and 
                report on the effectiveness of the program under this 
                section in accomplishing the purpose of this section; 
                and
                    ``(B) submit to Congress a biennial report that 
                includes such evaluations, an account of all 
                expenditures, and descriptions of all projects carried 
                out using grants awarded under this section.
            ``(2) The Secretary may submit the biennial report under 
        paragraph (1)(B) by including it in the biennial report 
        required under section 316.
    ``(l) Definitions.--In this section, the following definitions 
apply:
            ``(1) Qualified holder.--The term `qualified holder' means 
        a coastal State or a unit of local or coastal State government 
        or a non-State organization designated by a coastal State under 
        subsection (g).
            ``(2) Working waterfront.--The term `working waterfront' 
        means real property (including support structures over water 
        and other facilities) that provides access to coastal waters to 
        persons engaged in commercial and recreational fishing, 
        recreational fishing and boating businesses, boatbuilding, 
        aquaculture, or other water-dependent, coastal-related business 
        and is used for, or that supports, commercial and recreational 
        fishing, recreational fishing and boating businesses, 
        boatbuilding, aquaculture, or other water-dependent, coastal-
        related business.
            ``(3) Working waterfront covenant.--The term `working 
        waterfront covenant' means an agreement in recordable form 
        between the owner of working waterfront and one or more 
        qualified holders, that provides such assurances as the 
        Secretary may require that--
                    ``(A) the title to or interest in the working 
                waterfront will be held by a grant recipient or 
                qualified holder in perpetuity, except as provided in 
                subparagraph (C);
                    ``(B) the working waterfront will be managed in a 
                manner that is consistent with the purposes for which 
                the property is acquired pursuant to this section, and 
                the property will not be converted to any use that is 
                inconsistent with the purpose of this section;
                    ``(C) if the title to or interest in the working 
                waterfront is sold or otherwise exchanged--
                            ``(i) all working waterfront owners and 
                        qualified holders involved in such sale or 
                        exchange shall accede to such agreement; and
                            ``(ii) funds equal to the fair market value 
                        of the working waterfront or interest in 
                        working waterfront shall be paid to the 
                        Secretary by parties to the sale or exchange, 
                        and such funds shall, at the discretion of the 
                        Secretary, be paid to the coastal State in 
                        which the working waterfront is located for use 
                        in the implementation of the working waterfront 
                        plan of the State approved by the Secretary 
                        under this section; and
                    ``(D) such covenant is subject to enforcement and 
                oversight by the coastal State or by another person as 
                determined appropriate by the Secretary.
    ``(m) Authorization of Appropriations.--There is authorized to be 
appropriated to the Secretary $12,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2022 
through 2026 to carry out this section.''.

                       TITLE VI--INSULAR AFFAIRS

SEC. 601. DEFINITIONS.

    In this title, the following definitions apply:
            (1) Freely associated states.--The term ``Freely Associated 
        States'' means the Republic of the Marshall Islands, the 
        Federated States of Micronesia, and the Republic of Palau.
            (2) Territory.--The term ``Territory'' means American 
        Samoa, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, Guam, 
        Puerto Rico, or the Virgin Islands of the United States.
            (3) Insular areas.--The term ``Insular Areas'' means the 
        Territories and the Freely Associated States.

SEC. 602. INSULAR AREA CLIMATE CHANGE INTERAGENCY TASK FORCE.

    (a) Establishment of Task Force.--Not later than 90 days after the 
date of enactment of this Act, the following shall jointly establish 
the ``Insular Area Climate Change Interagency Task Force'' (hereafter 
in this section referred to as the ``Task Force''):
            (1) The Secretary of the Interior.
            (2) The Secretary of Energy.
            (3) The Secretary of State.
            (4) The Secretary of Housing and Urban Development.
            (5) The Secretary of Agriculture.
            (6) The Secretary of Commerce.
            (7) The Secretary of the Federal Emergency Management 
        Agency.
            (8) The Secretary of the Environmental Protection Agency.
    (b) Chairperson.--The Task Force shall be chaired by the 
Administrator of the Federal Emergency Management Agency.
    (c) Duties.--The Task Force shall--
            (1) evaluate all Federal programs regarding ways to provide 
        greater access to Federal programs and equitable baseline 
        funding in relation to States, to territories for climate 
        change planning, mitigation, adaptation, and resilience;
            (2) identify statutory barriers to providing territories 
        greater access to Federal programs and equitable baseline 
        funding; and
            (3) provide recommendations related to climate change in 
        Insular Areas.
    (d) Comprehensive Report.--Not later than one year after the 
establishment of the Task Force, the Task Force, in consultation with 
Insular Areas governments, shall issue a comprehensive report that--
            (1) identifies Federal programs that have an impact on 
        climate change planning, mitigation, adaptation, and 
        resilience, but exclude territories in regard to eligibility, 
        funding, and assistance, or do not provide equitable baseline 
        funding in relation to States; and
            (2) provides advice and recommendations related to climate 
        change in Insular Areas, such as new suggested Federal programs 
        or initiatives.
    (e) Publication; Public Availability.--The Administrator of the 
Federal Emergency Management Agency shall ensure that the report 
required under subsection (d) is--
            (1) submitted to the Committees on Energy and Commerce and 
        Natural Resources of the House of Representatives, and Energy 
        and Natural Resources of the Senate;
            (2) published in the Federal Register for public comment 
        for a period of at least 60 days; and
            (3) made available on a public website along with any 
        comments received during the public comment period required 
        under paragraph (2).

SEC. 603. RUNIT DOME REPORT AND MONITORING ACTIVITIES.

    (a) In General.--Not later than one year after the date of 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of the Interior shall submit to 
the Committees on Natural Resources and Energy and Commerce of the 
House of Representatives, and to the Committee on Energy and Natural 
Resources of the Senate, a report, prepared by independent experts not 
employed by the United States Government, on the impacts of climate 
change on the ``Runit Dome'' nuclear waste disposal site in Enewetak 
Atoll, Marshall Islands, and on other environmental hazards in the 
vicinity thereof. The report shall include the following:
            (1) A detailed scientific analysis of any threats to the 
        environment, and to the health and safety of Enewetak Atoll 
        residents, posed by each of the following:
                    (A) The ``Runit Dome'' nuclear waste disposal site.
                    (B) Crypts used to contain nuclear waste and other 
                toxins on Enewetak Atoll.
                    (C) Radionuclides and other toxins present in the 
                lagoon of Enewetak Atoll, including areas in the lagoon 
                where nuclear waste was dumped.
                    (D) Radionuclides and other toxins, including 
                beryllium, which may be present on the islands of 
                Enewetak Atoll as a result of nuclear tests and other 
                activities of the U.S. government, including tests of 
                chemical and biological warfare agents, rocket tests, 
                contaminated aircraft landing on Enewetak Island, and 
                nuclear cleanup activities.
                    (E) Radionuclides and other toxins that may be 
                present in the drinking water on Enewetak Island or in 
                the water source for the desalination plant.
                    (F) Radionuclides and other toxins that may be 
                present in the groundwater under and in the vicinity of 
                the nuclear waste disposal facility on Runit Island.
            (2) A detailed scientific analysis of the extent to which 
        rising sea levels, severe weather events and other effects of 
        climate change might exacerbate any of the threats identified 
        above.
            (3) A detailed plan, including costs, to relocate all of 
        the nuclear waste and other toxic waste contained in--
                    (A) the ``Runit Dome'' nuclear waste disposal site;
                    (B) all of the crypts on Enewetak Atoll containing 
                such waste; and
                    (C) the three dumping areas in Enewetak's lagoon to 
                a safe, secure facility to be constructed in an 
                uninhabited, unincorporated territory of the United 
                States.
    (b) Marshallese Participation.--The Secretary of the Interior shall 
allow scientists or other experts selected by the Republic of the 
Marshall Islands to participate in all aspects of the preparation of 
the report required by subsection (a), including, without limitation, 
developing the work plan, identifying questions, conducting research, 
and collecting and interpreting data.
    (c) Publication.--The report required in subsection (a) shall be 
published in the Federal Register for public comment for a period of 
not fewer than 60 days.
    (d) Public Availability.--The Secretary of the Interior shall 
publish the study required under subsection (a) and results submitted 
under subsection (b) on a public website.
    (e) Authorization of Appropriation for Report.--There is authorized 
to be appropriated for the Office of Insular Affairs of the Department 
of the Interior for fiscal year 2022 such sums as may be necessary to 
produce the report required in subsection (a).
    (f) Indefinite Authorization of Appropriation for Runit Dome 
Monitoring Activities.--There is authorized to be appropriated to the 
Department of Energy such sums as may be necessary to comply with the 
requirements of section 103(f)(1)(B) of the Compact of Free Association 
Amendments Act of 2003 (48 U.S.C. 1921b(f)(1)(B)).

SEC. 604. COASTAL MANAGEMENT TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AND REPORT.

    (a) Technical Assistance.--
            (1) In general.--The Administrator, acting through the 
        Director of the Office for Coastal Management, shall provide 
        technical assistance to Insular Areas to enhance coastal 
        management and climate change programs of the Insular Areas.
            (2) Authorization of appropriations.--There is authorized 
        to be appropriated to the Administrator to carry out this 
        subsection $5,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2022 through 
        2026.
    (b) Annual Report.--The Administrator, acting through the Director 
of the Office for Coastal Management, shall submit a report to the 
Committee on Natural Resources of the House of Representatives and the 
Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate every 
5 years on the status of the following in Insular Areas:
            (1) Wetland, mangrove, and estuary conditions.
            (2) Climate change impacts, including ecological, economic 
        and cultural impacts.

SEC. 605. CLIMATE CHANGE INSULAR RESEARCH GRANT PROGRAM.

    (a) In General.--The Administrator shall establish a Climate Change 
Insular Research Grant Program to provide grants to institutions of 
higher education in Insular Areas for monitoring, collecting, 
synthesizing, analyzing, and publishing local climate change data.
    (b) Authorization of Appropriations.--There is authorized to be 
appropriated to the Administrator to carry out this section $5,000,000 
for each of fiscal years 2022 through 2026.

SEC. 606. NATIONAL WEATHER SERVICE TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE GRANTS.

    (a) Technical Assistance and Outreach.--
            (1) In general.--The Administrator, acting through the 
        Director of the Office for Coastal Management, shall provide 
        technical assistance and outreach to Insular Areas of the 
        United States through the San Juan, Tiyan, and Pago Pago 
        Weather Forecast Offices of the National Weather Service. For 
        the purposes of this section, the Administrator may also employ 
        other agency entities as the Administrator considers necessary, 
        in order to improve weather data collection, produce more 
        accurate tropical weather forecasts, and provide science, data, 
        information, and impact-based decision support services to 
        reduce tsunami, hurricane, typhoon, drought, tide, and sea 
        level rise impacts in Insular Areas.
            (2) Authorization of appropriations.--There is authorized 
        to be appropriated to the Administrator to carry out this 
        subsection $5,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2022 through 
        2026.
    (b) Grants.--
            (1) In general.--The Administrator, may provide grants to 
        academic, nonprofit, and local entities to conduct climate 
        change research to improve weather data collection, produce 
        more accurate tropical weather forecasts, and provide science, 
        data, information, and impact-based decision support services 
        to reduce tsunami, hurricane, typhoon, drought, tide, and sea 
        level rise impacts in the Insular Areas.
            (2) Authorization of appropriations.--There is authorized 
        to be appropriated to the Administrator to carry out this 
        subsection $5,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2022 through 
        2026.

SEC. 607. CORAL REEF PRIZE COMPETITIONS.

    (a) Prize Competitions.--The Administrator, acting through the 
Director of the Office of Science and Technology, shall work with the 
head of each Federal agency represented on the U.S. Coral Reef Task 
Force established under Executive Order 13089 (63 Fed. Reg. 32701) to 
establish prize competitions in accordance with section 24 of the 
Stevenson-Wydler Technology Innovation Act of 1980 (15 U.S.C. 3719), 
that promote coral reef research and conservation.
    (b) Waiver of Matching Requirement.--Section 204(b) of the Coral 
Reef Conservation Act of 2000 (16 U.S.C. 6403(b)) is amended--
            (1) by striking the enumerator and heading for paragraph 
        (2) and inserting the following:
            ``(2) Waivers.--
                    ``(A) Need and benefit.--''; and
            (2) by adding at the end of paragraph (2) the following:
                    ``(B) Sustaining coral reef management and 
                monitoring.--The Administrator shall waive all the 
                matching requirement under paragraph (2) for grants to 
                implement State and territorial coral reef conservation 
                cooperative agreements to sustain coral reef management 
                and monitoring in Florida, Hawaii, American Samoa, the 
                Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, Guam, 
                Puerto Rico, and the Virgin Islands of the United 
                States.''.

SEC. 608. OCEAN AND COASTAL MAPPING INTEGRATION ACT.

    Section 12204 of the Ocean and Coastal mapping Integration Act (33 
U.S.C. 3503) is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (12) by striking ``and'';
            (2) in paragraph (13) by striking the period at the end and 
        inserting ``; and''; and
            (3) by adding at the end the following:
            ``(14) The study of insular areas and the effects of 
        climate change.''.

SEC. 609. OFFICE OF INSULAR AFFAIRS TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROGRAM.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary of the Interior, acting through the 
Office of Insular Affairs Technical Assistance Program, shall provide 
technical assistance for climate change planning, mitigation, and 
adaptation to Territories and Freely Associated States under the 
jurisdiction of such Program.
    (b) Authorization of Appropriations.--There is authorized to be 
appropriated to the Secretary to carry out this section $5,000,000 for 
each of fiscal years 2022 through 2026.

SEC. 610. NON-FEDERAL COST-SHARE WAIVER.

    Section 501 of the Omnibus Territories Act of 1977 (48 U.S.C. 
1469a), is amended by adding at the end the following:
    ``(e) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, in the case of 
the Insular Areas, any department or agency shall waive any requirement 
for non-Federal matching funds under $750,000 (including in-kind 
contributions) required by law to be provided by those 
jurisdictions.''.

SEC. 611. DISASTER RELIEF NON-FEDERAL COST-SHARE WAIVER.

    Funding made available to an Insular Area for disaster relief, 
long-term recovery, restoration of infrastructure and housing, economic 
revitalization, and mitigation pursuant to the Robert T. Stafford 
Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5121 et seq.) 
shall not be subject to a non-Federal share funding requirement.

          TITLE VII--STRENGTHENING MARINE MAMMAL CONSERVATION

SEC. 701. CONSERVATION OF MARINE MAMMALS ADVERSELY AFFECTED BY CLIMATE 
              CHANGE.

    (a) In General.--The Marine Mammal Protection Act of 1974 (16 
U.S.C. 1361 et seq.) is amended by inserting after section 120 the 
following:

``SEC. 121. CONSERVATION OF MARINE MAMMALS ADVERSELY AFFECTED BY 
              CLIMATE CHANGE.

    ``(a) Climate Impact Management Plans.--
            ``(1) Within 24 months after the date of enactment of this 
        section, the Administrator, in consultation with the Marine 
        Mammal Commission, shall publish in the Federal Register, after 
        notice and opportunity for public comment, a list of those 
        marine mammal species and population stocks in waters under the 
        jurisdiction of the United States for which climate change, 
        alone or in combination or interaction with other factors, is 
        more likely than not to result in a decline in population 
        abundance, of impeding population recovery, or of reducing 
        carrying capacity. The list shall identify--
                    ``(A) any species or population stock for which 
                such impacts are likely to occur within 20 years; and
                    ``(B) any species or population stock listed as a 
                threatened species or endangered species under the 
                Endangered Species Act of 1973 (16 U.S.C. 1531 et seq.) 
                for which such impacts have more than a remote 
                possibility of occurring within 100 years.
            ``(2)(A) The Administrator, in consultation with the Marine 
        Mammal Commission, shall review the list adopted pursuant to 
        paragraph (1) at least once every 5 years, or more frequently 
        if significant new information becomes available, and, after 
        notice and opportunity for public comment, shall publish a 
        revised list in the Federal Register.
            ``(B) Within 12 months after receiving the petition of an 
        interested person under section 553(e) of title 5, United 
        States Code, to add a marine mammal species or population stock 
        to the list published under paragraph (1), the Administrator, 
        in consultation with the Marine Mammal Commission and after 
        notice and opportunity for public comment, shall publish in the 
        Federal Register its finding of whether the petitioned action 
        is warranted. If the petitioned action is deemed warranted, the 
        Administrator shall publish at the same time the revision 
        adding such species or population stock.
            ``(3) The list published under paragraph (1), and any 
        revisions thereto made in accordance with paragraph (2), shall 
        include a determination of whether a climate impact management 
        plan will promote the conservation of species or stocks listed 
        pursuant to paragraph (1)(C).
            ``(4)(A)(i) The Administrator shall publish in the Federal 
        Register a draft climate impact management plan for each marine 
        mammal species or population stock--
                    ``(I) listed under paragraph (1)(A), within 18 
                months after the listing; and
                    ``(II) listed under paragraph (1)(B), within 30 
                months after the listing.
            ``(ii) Each draft climate impact management plan shall be 
        developed in consultation with the Marine Mammal Commission 
        and, as appropriate, other Federal agencies, and shall be made 
        available for public review and comment for a period not to 
        exceed 90 days.
            ``(iii) No later than 120 days after the close of the 
        comment period required under clause (ii), the Administrator 
        shall issue a final climate impact management plan and 
        implementing regulations that are consistent with the other 
        provisions of this section and, to the full extent available 
        under the Administrator's authorities under this Act and other 
        statutes, implement the conservation and management measures 
        identified in the plan.
            ``(B) Each management plan under subparagraph (A) shall 
        include a comprehensive strategy for conserving and recovering 
        of such marine mammal stocks and species given the anticipated 
        direct and indirect effects of climate change and increasing 
        resiliency in the species or population stock, and shall 
        identify conservation and management measures to--
                    ``(i) conserve and recover such species and 
                population stocks given the anticipated adverse effects 
                of climate change on such species and population stocks 
                and their prey;
                    ``(ii) monitor, reduce, and prevent interactions 
                with fisheries and other human activities that may 
                occur as a result of changes in marine mammal 
                distribution or other indirect effects of climate 
                change;
                    ``(iii) increase resiliency by materially reducing 
                other human impacts on such species and population 
                stocks, including but not limited to the reduction of 
                incidental taking of marine mammals and of the 
                degradation of the habitat of such species and 
                population stocks, and by managing prey species to 
                improve the availability of prey to such species and 
                population stocks; and
                    ``(iv) take any other action as may be necessary to 
                implement the strategy set forth in the plan.
            ``(C) Each management plan under subparagraph (A) shall 
        include objective, measurable criteria for evaluating the 
        effectiveness and sufficiency of such measures to meet the 
        purposes of this Act.
            ``(D)(i) All other Federal agencies shall, in consultation 
        with and with the assistance of the Administrator, utilize 
        their authorities in furtherance of the strategy and 
        conservation and management measures set forth in climate 
        impact management plans developed under this subsection and 
        ensure that their actions do not conflict or interfere with the 
        objectives of such management plans. The Administrator shall 
        consult with the Marine Mammal Commission and, as may be 
        warranted, other agencies in the implementation of such plans.
            ``(ii) With respect to any Federal agency action 
        authorized, funded, or undertaken by such agency that, in the 
        view of the Administrator or of the agency, may conflict or 
        interfere with the objectives of such management plans, such 
        agency shall, in consultation with the Administrator, ensure 
        that such action is consistent with the management plans. To 
        the extent that it is impossible for such action to be 
        consistent with the management plan, the Administrator shall 
        require measures to minimize any such conflicts, in addition to 
        any other measures required by law, and the agency shall adopt 
        such measures required by the Administrator.
            ``(E) When appropriate, the Administrator may, and is 
        encouraged to, integrate climate impact management plans into 
        conservation plans adopted under section 115(b) or recovery 
        plans adopted under section 4(f) of the Endangered Species Act 
        of 1973 (16 U.S.C. 1533(f)).
            ``(F) The Administrator shall review climate impact 
        management plans and implementing regulations at least once 
        every 5 years, and shall revise and amend them as necessary to 
        meet the goals and requirements of this section. Any changes 
        shall be subject to the procedures and requirements applicable 
        to the adoption of the initial plans and regulations.
            ``(5) The Administrator shall report to Congress four years 
        after the date of enactment of this section, and every 2 years 
        thereafter, on--
                    ``(A) actions taken to implement this section;
                    ``(B) any backlog in meeting the schedule set forth 
                in this subsection for adopting, reviewing, and 
                implementing climate impact management plans, or 
                additional resources necessary to address any such 
                backlog; and
                    ``(C) the effectiveness of implementation and 
                sufficiency of the measures adopted in climate impact 
                management plans, and any recommendations for improving 
                the process or the applicable legislation.
    ``(b) Monitoring of Climate Impacts.--The Administrator shall 
establish a program within the National Oceanic and Atmospheric 
Administration to monitor the adverse impacts of climate change on 
marine mammals. The purposes of the monitoring program shall be to--
            ``(1) improve models of projected future changes in marine 
        mammal distribution and densities resulting from climate 
        change;
            ``(2) identify and monitor interactions with fisheries and 
        other human activities that may occur as a result of changes in 
        marine mammal distribution or other effects of climate change;
            ``(3) monitor the abundance of species and population 
        stocks, to an extent sufficient to detect a 20 percent 
        population decline over 20 years;
            ``(4) improve understanding of the impacts of climate 
        change on marine mammal species and population stocks; and
            ``(5) assess the direct and indirect contributions of 
        marine mammals to carbon reduction, including through carbon 
        sequestration and nutrient cycling.
    ``(c) Promulgation of Regulations for Listing Marine Mammals 
Adversely Impacted by Climate Change.--The Administrator shall, within 
120 days after the date of enactment of this section--
            ``(1) publish in the Federal Register for public comment, 
        for a period of not less than 60 days, regulations for listing 
        marine mammal species and population stocks adversely impacted 
        by climate change, alone or in combination or interaction with 
        other factors, as described in paragraphs (1) and (2) of 
        subsection (a), taking into account both quantitative and 
        qualitative indicators of adverse impacts of climate change and 
        human activities on such species and stocks, including--
                    ``(A) direct and indirect mortality and serious 
                injury;
                    ``(B) loss or degradation of habitat;
                    ``(C) changes in the distribution or availability 
                of prey;
                    ``(D) changes in the distribution of marine mammal 
                species and population stocks;
                    ``(E) decreased genetic diversity or reproductive 
                success;
                    ``(F) increased susceptibility to pathogens; and
                    ``(G) increased likelihood of interactions with 
                fisheries and other human activities; and
            ``(2) no later than 90 days after the close of the period 
        for such public comment, publish in the Federal Register final 
        regulations for listing marine mammals as required by paragraph 
        (a), to be reviewed at least once every three years.
    ``(d) Lack of Quantitative Information.--The lack of quantitative 
information shall not be a basis for a determination under subsection 
(c) that a species or population stock is not adversely impacted by 
climate change, alone or in combination or interaction with other 
factors, as described in paragraphs (1) and (2) of subsection (a).
    ``(e) Estimation of Potential Biological Removal.--
            ``(1) The Administrator, in estimating the potential 
        biological removal level in stock assessments prepared in 
        accordance with section 117, shall consider the adverse impacts 
        of climate change in determining the recovery factor applied to 
        each stock.
            ``(2) The Administrator, in preparing stock assessments in 
        accordance with section 117, shall reexamine the stock 
        definition and geographic range of marine mammal species and 
        population stocks to identify climate-related changes in 
        spatial distribution and stock definition and to identify how 
        such changes may affect human impacts to the species.
    ``(f) Authority To Enter Into Agreements.--The Administrator 
shall--
            ``(1) periodically review the status of agreements with 
        foreign governments under section 108(a) concerning the 
        management of transboundary marine mammal species and 
        population stocks, and their prey species, that are or may be 
        affected by climate change; and
            ``(2) through the Administrator of State, initiate the 
        amendment of any such agreement, or negotiations for the 
        development of bilateral or multinational agreements, 
        consistent with the goals and policies of this section.
    ``(g) Construction.--This section shall not be construed to limit 
or restrict any other responsibility of the Administrator or of any 
other person under this Act or any other statute.
    ``(h) Authorization of Appropriations.--
            ``(1) There is authorized to be appropriated to the 
        Administrator carry out this section, $3,000,000 for each of 
        fiscal years 2022 through 2026.
            ``(2) There is authorized to be appropriated to the 
        Administrator of the Interior to carry out this section, 
        $2,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2022 through 2026.
            ``(3) There is authorized to be appropriated to the Marine 
        Mammal Commission to carry out this section, $1,000,000 for 
        each of fiscal years 2022 through 2026.''.
    (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of contents in the first section 
of such Act is amended by inserting after the item relating to section 
120 the following:

``Sec. 121. Conservation of marine mammals adversely affected by 
                            climate change.''.

SEC. 702. VESSEL SPEED RESTRICTIONS IN MARINE MAMMAL HABITAT.

    (a) In General.--The Marine Mammal Protection Act of 1974 (16 
U.S.C. 1361 et seq.) is further amended by inserting after section 121 
the following:

``SEC. 122. VESSEL SPEED RESTRICTIONS IN MARINE MAMMAL HABITAT.

    ``(a) In General.--The Administrator shall, in coordination with 
the Marine Mammal Commission and the Commandant of the Coast Guard and 
applying the best available scientific information, designate areas of 
importance for marine mammals known to experience vessel strikes and 
establish for each such area a seasonal or year-round mandatory vessel 
restrictions to reduce vessel strikes, as necessary, for all vessels 
operating in such areas.
    ``(b) Areas of Importance.--Areas designated under subsection (a) 
may include--
            ``(1) the important feeding, breeding, calving, rearing, or 
        migratory habitat for strategic stocks of marine mammals, 
        including all areas designated as critical habitat for any 
        marine mammal under section 4 of the Endangered Species Act of 
        1973 (16 U.S.C. 1533);
            ``(2) areas of high marine mammal mortality, injury, or 
        harassment, including the disruption of vocalization patterns 
        and masking of biologically important sounds, caused by vessel 
        ship strikes or underwater vessel noise;
            ``(3) any area designated as a National Marine Sanctuary, 
        National Marine Monument, National Park, or National Wildlife 
        Refuge; and
            ``(4) areas of high marine mammal primary productivity with 
        year-round or seasonal aggregations of marine mammals to which 
        this section applies.
    ``(c) Deadline for Regulations.--Not later than three years after 
the date of enactment of this section, the Administrator shall 
designate areas under subsection (a) and issue such regulations as are 
necessary to carry out this section and to designate areas of 
importance pursuant to this Act, consistent with notice and comment 
requirements under chapter 5 of title 5, United States Code.
    ``(d) Modifying or Designating New Areas of Importance.--
            ``(1) In general.--The Administrator shall issue 
        regulations to modify or designate the areas of importance 
        under this section within 180 days after the issuance of 
        regulations to establish or to modify critical habitat for 
        strategic stocks of marine mammals pursuant to the Endangered 
        Species Act of 1973 (16 U.S.C. 1531 et seq.).
            ``(2) Reexamination.--The Administrator shall--
                    ``(A) reexamine the areas of importance designated 
                under this section every 5 years following the initial 
                issuance of the regulations to determine if the best 
                available scientific information warrants modification 
                or designation of areas of importance; and
                    ``(B) publish any revisions under subparagraph (A) 
                in the Federal Register after notice and opportunity 
                for public comment.
            ``(3) Finding.--Not later than 90 days after receiving the 
        petition of an interested person under section 553(e) of title 
        5, United States Code, to designate, modify, or add an area of 
        importance under this section, the Administrator shall make a 
        finding as to whether the petition presents substantial 
        scientific information indicating that the petitioned action 
        may be warranted. The Administrator shall promptly publish such 
        finding in the Federal Register for comment. Not later than one 
        year after the close of comments, the Administrator shall 
        publish in the Federal Register a finding of whether the 
        petitioned action is warranted and, if the Administrator 
        determines that the petitioned action is warranted, shall 
        publish draft regulations designating the area of importance. 
        Not later than 180 days after the close of comments on the 
        draft regulations, the Administrator shall issue final 
        regulations designating the area of importance.
    ``(e) Exceptions for Safe Maneuvering and Using Authorized 
Technology.--
            ``(1) In general.--Any restrictions established under 
        subsection (a) shall not apply to vessels described in section 
        224.1059(c) of title 50, Code of Regulations.
            ``(2) Authorized technology.--
                    ``(A) In general.--The speed limit established 
                under subsection (a) shall not apply to a vessel 
                operating using technology authorized by regulations 
                issued by the Administrator under subparagraph (B).
                    ``(B) Regulations.--The Administrator may issue 
                regulations authorizing a vessel to operate using 
                technology specified by the Administrator under this 
                subparagraph if the Administrator determines that such 
                operation is at least as effective as the speed limit 
                under subsection (a) in reducing mortality and injury 
                to marine mammals and the disturbance of marine mammal 
                habitat.
    ``(f) Applicability.--Any speed restriction established under 
subsection (a)--
            ``(1) shall apply to all vessels subject to the 
        jurisdiction of the United States, all other vessels entering 
        or departing a port or place subject to the jurisdiction of the 
        United States, and all other vessels within the Exclusive 
        Economic Zone of the United States, regardless of flag; and
            ``(2) shall not apply to--
                    ``(A) United States vessels engaged in military 
                readiness activities; or
                    ``(B) law enforcement vessels of the Federal 
                Government, when such vessels are engaged in law 
                enforcement or search and rescue duties.
    ``(g) Statutory Construction.--
            ``(1) In general.--Nothing in this section shall be 
        interpreted or implemented in a manner that--
                    ``(A) subject to paragraph (2), preempts or 
                modifies any obligation of any person subject to the 
                provisions of this title to act in accordance with 
                applicable State laws, except to the extent that those 
                laws are inconsistent with any provision of this title, 
                and then only to the extent of the inconsistency;
                    ``(B) affects or modifies any obligation under 
                Federal law; or
                    ``(C) preempts or supersedes the final rule titled 
                `To Implement Speed Restrictions to Reduce the Threat 
                of Ship Collisions With North Atlantic Right Whales', 
                codified at section 224.105 of title 50, Code of 
                Federal Regulations, except for actions that are more 
                protective than the Final Rule and further reduce the 
                risk of take to North Atlantic right whales.
            ``(2) Inconsistencies.--The Administrator may determine 
        whether inconsistencies referred to in paragraph (1)(A) exist, 
        but may not determine that any State law is inconsistent with 
        any provision of this title if the Administrator determines 
        that such law gives greater protection to covered marine 
        species and their habitat.
    ``(h) Authorization of Appropriations.--There is authorized to be 
appropriated to the Administrator carry out this section, $3,000,000 
for each of fiscal years 2022 through 2026.''.
    (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of contents in the first section 
of such Act is further amended by inserting after the item relating to 
section 121 the following:

``Sec. 122. Vessel speed restrictions in marine mammal habitat.''.

SEC. 703. MONITORING OCEAN NOISE FOR MARINE MAMMAL PROTECTION.

    (a) In General.--The Administrator shall maintain and expand an 
Ocean Noise Reference Station Network, utilizing and coordinating with 
the Integrated Ocean Observing System to--
            (1) provide grants to expand the deployment of Federal and 
        non-Federal observing and data management systems capable of 
        collecting measurements of underwater sound in high-priority 
        ocean and coastal locations for purposes of monitoring and 
        analyzing baselines and trends in the underwater soundscape to 
        protect and manage marine life;
            (2) continue to develop and apply standardized forms of 
        measurements to assess sounds produced by marine animals, 
        physical processes, and anthropogenic activities; and
            (3) coordinate and make accessible to the public the 
        datasets, modeling and analysis, and user-driven products and 
        tools, resulting from observations of underwater sound funded 
        through grants authorized by this section.
    (b) Authorization of Appropriations.--There is authorized to be 
appropriated to the Administrator to support integrated ocean 
observations activities carried out under this section, $1,500,000 for 
each of fiscal years 2022 through 2026.

SEC. 704. GRANTS FOR SEAPORTS TO ESTABLISH PROGRAMS TO REDUCE THE 
              IMPACTS OF VESSEL TRAFFIC AND PORT OPERATIONS ON MARINE 
              MAMMALS.

    (a) In General.--The Administrator shall, not later than 180 days 
after the date of enactment of this Act, establish a grant program to 
provide assistance to up to ten seaports to develop and implement 
mitigation measures that will lead to a quantifiable reduction in 
threats to marine mammals from shipping activities and port operations.
    (b) Eligible Uses.--Grants provided under this section may be used 
to develop, assess, and carry out activities that quantifiably reduce 
threats and enhance the habitats of marine mammals by--
            (1) reducing underwater noise related to marine traffic;
            (2) reducing ship strike mortality and other physical 
        disturbances;
            (3) enhancing marine mammal habitat, including the habitat 
        for prey of marine mammals; or
            (4) monitoring underwater noise, vessel interactions with 
        marine mammals, or other types of monitoring that are 
        consistent with reducing the threats to and enhancing the 
        habitats of marine mammals.
    (c) Priority.--The Administrator shall prioritize assistance under 
this section for projects that--
            (1) assist ports with higher relative threat levels to 
        vulnerable marine mammals from vessel traffic;
            (2) project higher levels of--
                    (A) reduction of noise from vessels;
                    (B) reduction of disturbance or ship strike 
                mortality risk; and
                    (C) reduction of noise influence within MPAs; or
            (3) allow eligible entities to conduct risk assessments, 
        and track progress toward threat reduction and habitat 
        enhancement; including protecting coral reefs from encroachment 
        by commerce and shipping lanes.
    (d) Outreach.--The Administrator shall conduct outreach to seaports 
to provide information on how to apply for assistance under this 
section, the benefits of the program under this section, and 
facilitation of best practices and lessons learned.
    (e) Eligible Entities.--A person shall be eligible for assistance 
under this section if the person is--
            (1) a port authority for a seaport;
            (2) a State, regional, local, or Tribal agency that has 
        jurisdiction over a maritime port authority or a seaport; or
            (3) a private or government entity, applying for a grant 
        awarded under this section in collaboration with another entity 
        described in paragraph (1) or (2), that owns or operates a 
        maritime terminal.
    (f) Report.--The Administrator shall submit annually to the 
Committee on Natural Resources of the House of Representatives, and the 
Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate, a 
report that includes the following:
            (1) The name and location of each entity receiving a grant.
            (2) Amount of each grant.
            (3) The name and location of the seaport in which the 
        activities took place.
            (4) A description of the activities carried out with the 
        grant funds.
            (5) An estimate of the impact of the project to reduce 
        threats or enhance habitat of marine mammals.
    (g) Authorization of Appropriations.--There is authorized to be 
appropriated to the Administrator for carrying out this section, 
$5,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2022 through 2026, to remain 
available until expended.

SEC. 705. NEAR REAL-TIME MONITORING AND MITIGATION PROGRAM FOR LARGE 
              WHALES.

    (a) Establishment of the Program.--The Administrator shall design 
and deploy a Near Real-Time Large Whale Monitoring and Mitigation 
Program in order to curtail the risk to large whales of vessel 
collisions, entanglement in commercial fishing gear, and to minimize 
other impacts, including but not limited to underwater noise from 
development activities. Such program shall be capable of detecting and 
alerting ocean users and enforcement agencies of the location of large 
whales on a near real-time basis, informing sector-specific mitigation 
protocols that can effectively reduce take of large whales, and 
continually integrating improved technology. The program shall be 
informed by the technologies, monitoring methods, and mitigation 
protocols developed pursuant to the pilot program required in 
subsection (b).
    (b) Pilot Project.--In carrying out subsection (a), the 
Administrator shall first establish a pilot monitoring and mitigation 
project for North Atlantic right whales for the purposes of informing a 
cost-effective, efficient and results-oriented near real-time 
monitoring and mitigation program for large whales.
            (1) Pilot project requirements.--In designing and deploying 
        the monitoring system, the Administrator shall, using best 
        available scientific information, identify and ensure coverage 
        of--
                    (A) core foraging habitats of North Atlantic right 
                whales, including but not limited to--
                            (i) the ``South of the Islands'' core 
                        foraging habitat;
                            (ii) the ``Cape Cod Bay Area'' core 
                        foraging habitat;
                            (iii) the ``Great South Channel'' core 
                        foraging habitat; and
                            (iv) the Gulf of Maine; and
                    (B) important feeding, breeding, calving, rearing, 
                or migratory habitats of North Atlantic right whales 
                that co-occur with areas of high risk of mortality, 
                injury, or harassment of such whales from vessel 
                strikes, disturbance from development activities, and 
                entanglement in commercial fishing gear.
            (2) Pilot project monitoring components.--Within 3 years 
        after the date of enactment of this Act, the Administrator, in 
        consultation with relevant Federal agencies, Tribal 
        governments, and with input from affected stakeholders, shall 
        design and deploy a real-time monitoring system for North 
        Atlantic right whales that includes near real-time monitoring 
        methods, technologies and protocols that--
                    (A) comprise sufficient detection power, spatial 
                coverage and survey effort to detect and localize North 
                Atlantic right whales within core foraging habitats;
                    (B) are capable of detecting North Atlantic right 
                whales visually, including during periods of poor 
                visibility and darkness, and acoustically;
                    (C) take advantage of dynamic habitat suitability 
                models that help to discern the likelihood of North 
                Atlantic right whale occurrence in core foraging 
                habitat at any given time;
                    (D) coordinate with the Integrated Ocean Observing 
                System to leverage monitoring assets;
                    (E) integrate new near real-time monitoring methods 
                and technologies as they become available;
                    (F) accurately verify and rapidly communicate 
                detection data; and
                    (G) allow for ocean users to contribute data that 
                is verified to be collected using comparable near real-
                time monitoring methods and technologies.
            (3) Pilot program mitigation protocols.--The Administrator 
        shall, in consultation with the Administrator of Homeland 
        Security, Administrator of Defense, Administrator of 
        Transportation, and Administrator of the Interior, and with 
        input from affected stakeholders, develop and deploy mitigation 
        protocols that make use of the near real-time monitoring system 
        to direct sector-specific mitigation measures that avoid and 
        significantly reduce risk of disturbance, injury and mortality 
        to North Atlantic right whales.
            (4) Pilot program access to data.--The Administrator shall 
        provide access to data generated by the monitoring system for 
        purposes of scientific research and evaluation, and public 
        awareness and education, through the NOAA Right Whale Sighting 
        Advisory System and WhaleMap or other successive public web 
        portals.
            (5) Pilot program reporting.--
                    (A) Not later than two years after the date of 
                enactment of this Act, the Administrator shall submit 
                to the Committee on Natural Resources of the House of 
                Representatives, and the Committee on Commerce, Science 
                and Transportation of the Senate, and make available to 
                the public, an interim report that assesses the 
                benefits and efficacy of the North Atlantic right whale 
                near real-time monitoring and mitigation pilot program. 
                The report shall include--
                            (i) a description of the monitoring methods 
                        and technology in use or planned for 
                        deployment;
                            (ii) analyses of the efficacy of the 
                        methods and technology in use or planned for 
                        deployment in detecting North Atlantic right 
                        whales both individually and in combination;
                            (iii) how the monitoring system is directly 
                        informing and improving species management and 
                        mitigation in near real-time across ocean 
                        sectors whose activities pose a risk to North 
                        Atlantic right whales; and
                            (iv) a prioritized identification of gaps 
                        in technology or methods requiring future 
                        research and development.
                    (B) Not later than three years after the date of 
                enactment of this Act, the Administrator shall submit 
                to the Committee on Natural Resources of the House of 
                Representatives, and the Committee on Commerce, Science 
                and Transportation of the Senate, and make available to 
                the public, a final report, addressing the components 
                in subparagraph (A) for the subsequent one year 
                following the publication of the interim report, and 
                including the following--
                            (i) a strategic plan to expand the pilot 
                        program to provide near real-time monitoring 
                        and mitigation measures to additional large 
                        whale species, including a prioritized plan for 
                        acquisition, deployment, and maintenance of 
                        monitoring technologies, and the locations or 
                        species for which the plan would apply; and
                            (ii) a budget and description of 
                        appropriations necessary to carry out the 
                        strategic plan pursuant to the requirements of 
                        clause (i).
    (c) Additional Authority.--In carrying out this section, including, 
the Administrator may enter into and perform such contracts, leases, 
grants, or cooperative agreements as may be necessary to carry out the 
purposes of this section on such terms as the Administrator considers 
appropriate.
    (d) Reporting.--Not later than one year after the deployment of the 
program described in subsection (b) (and after completion of the 
reporting requirements pursuant to paragraph (5) of such subsection), 
and annually thereafter through 2029, the Administrator shall submit to 
the Committee on Natural Resources of the House of Representatives, and 
the Committee on Commerce, Science and Transportation of the Senate, 
and make available to the public, a report that assess the benefits and 
efficacy of the near real-time monitoring and mitigation program.
    (e) Definitions.--In this section, the following definitions apply:
            (1) Core foraging habitats.--The term ``core foraging 
        habitats'' means areas with biological and physical 
        oceanographic features that aggregate Calanus finmarchicus and 
        where North Atlantic right whales foraging aggregations have 
        been well documented.
            (2) Real-time.--The term ``real-time'' means that visual, 
        acoustic, or other detections of North Atlantic right whales 
        are transmitted and reported as soon as technically feasible, 
        and no longer than 24 hours, after they have occurred.
            (3) Large whale.--The term ``large whale'' means all 
        Mysticeti species and species within the genera Physeter and 
        Orcinus.
    (f) Authorization of Appropriations.--There is authorized to be 
appropriated to the Administrator to support development, deployment, 
application and ongoing maintenance of the monitoring system as 
required by this section, $5,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2022 
through 2026.

SEC. 706. GRANTS TO SUPPORT TECHNOLOGY THAT REDUCES UNDERWATER NOISE 
              FROM VESSELS.

    (a) In General.--The Administrator shall, within 6 months of the 
date of enactment of this Act, establish a grant program, to be 
administered in consultation with the Administrator of the United 
States Maritime Administration, to provide assistance for the 
development and implementation of new or improved technologies that 
reduce threats to and enhance the habitats of marine mammals and other 
marine species by quantifiably reducing underwater noise from marine 
vessels.
    (b) Eligible Uses.--Grants provided under this section may be used 
to develop, assess and implement new or improved technologies that 
materially reduce underwater noise from marine vessels.
    (c) Outreach.--The Administrator shall conduct outreach to eligible 
persons to provide information on how to apply for assistance under 
this section, the benefits of the program under this section, and 
facilitation of best practices and lessons learned.
    (d) Eligible Entities.--A person shall be eligible for assistance 
under this section if the person is--
            (1) a corporation established under the laws of the United 
        States; or
            (2) an individual, partnership, association, organization 
        or any other combination of individuals, provided, however, 
        that each such individual shall be a citizen of the United 
        States or lawful permanent resident of the United States or a 
        protected individual as such term is defined in section 
        274B(a)(3) of the Immigration and Nationality Act (9 U.S.C. 
        1324b(a)(3)).
    (e) Authorization of Appropriations.--There is authorized to be 
appropriated to the Administrator for carrying out this section, 
$5,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2022 through 2026, to remain 
available until expended.

SEC. 707. NAVAL TECHNOLOGY TRANSFER FOR QUIETING FEDERAL NON-COMBATANT 
              VESSELS.

    The Secretary of Defense, in consultation with the Secretary of 
Homeland Security, the Administrator, and the Administrator of the 
United States Maritime Administration, shall, not later than 18 months 
after the date of enactment of this Act, submit to the Senate 
Committees on Armed Services; Commerce, Science and Transportation; 
Environment and Public Works; and Homeland Security and Governmental 
Affairs; and the House of Representatives Committees on Armed Services; 
Energy and Commerce; Homeland Security; Natural Resources; and 
Transportation and Infrastructure, and publish, an unclassified report 
identifying existing non-classified naval technologies that reduce 
underwater noise and evaluating the effectiveness and feasibility of 
incorporating such technologies in the design, procurement and 
construction of non-combatant vessels of the United States.

TITLE VIII--INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS, EFFORTS IN THE ARCTIC, AND BUREAU 
              OF INDIAN AFFAIRS TRIBAL RESILIENCE PROGRAM

                  Subtitle A--International Agreements

SEC. 801. LAW OF THE SEA CONVENTION.

    (a) Findings.--Congress makes the following findings:
            (1) As a party to the Law of the Sea Convention, the United 
        States would be a powerful voting Council member of the 
        International Seabed Authority, a body that is critical to 
        negotiations regarding deep seabed mining, which is a practice 
        that could have significant potential climate, environmental, 
        and economic impacts.
            (2) Being party to the Convention and holding membership on 
        the International Seabed Authority is in the United States' 
        best interests in regard to competition with other countries 
        over future rare earth element resources found on the seafloor.
            (3) Without being party to the Convention, the United 
        States cannot play a role in negotiating and providing 
        international legitimacy to claims to the Arctic, an area that 
        is rapidly becoming more accessible due to climate change.
            (4) As a party to the Convention, the United States would 
        be better able to participate in negotiations regarding the 
        management of high seas fish stocks, migratory fish stocks, and 
        marine mammals, which will become more important as the climate 
        continues to change and species shift.
            (5) The Convention imposes minimum requirements for ocean 
        protections; the United States is already meeting or exceeding 
        those requirements and could therefore positively influence 
        international marine conservation by being party to the 
        Convention.
            (6) A diverse array of bipartisan Presidents and lawmakers, 
        military leaders, industry stakeholders, and environmental 
        organizations support ratification of the Convention, finding 
        that it is in the United States' best economic, political, and 
        environmental interest to ratify.
    (b) Sense of Congress.--It is the sense of Congress that--
            (1) the United States Senate should give its advice and 
        consent to accession to the Law of the Sea Convention, adopted 
        by the Third United Nations Conference on the Law of the Sea in 
        December 1982 and entered into force in November 1994, to 
        establish a treaty regime to govern activities on, over, and 
        under the world's oceans;
            (2) the Law of the Sea Convention builds on four 1958 Law 
        of the Sea conventions to which the United States is a party, 
        namely--
                    (A) the Convention on the Territorial Sea and the 
                Contiguous Zone;
                    (B) the Convention on the High Seas;
                    (C) the Convention on the Continental Shelf; and
                    (D) the Convention on Fishing and Conservation of 
                the Living Resources of the High Seas;
            (3) the Law of the Sea Convention and an associated 1994 
        agreement relating to implementation of the treaty were 
        transmitted to the Senate on October 6, 1994;
            (4) in the absence of advice and consent from the Senate, 
        the United States is not a party to the Convention nor to the 
        associated 1994 agreement;
            (5) becoming a party to the Law of the Sea Convention would 
        give the United States standing to participate in discussions 
        relating to the treaty and thereby improve the ability of the 
        United States to intervene as a full party in disputes relating 
        to navigational rights and defend United States interpretations 
        of the treaty's provisions; and
            (6) becoming a party to the treaty would improve the 
        ability of the United States to achieve the environmental, 
        social, and economic purposes of supporting the implementation 
        and enforcement of international fisheries agreements and the 
        protection of highly migratory species under the Magnuson 
        Stevens Act, the Shark Conservation Act, and the High Seas 
        Driftnet Fishing Moratorium Protection Act.

SEC. 802. UNITED NATIONS SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOAL 14.

    Not later than one year after the date of enactment of this Act, 
and every three years thereafter, the Administrator and in consultation 
with the Secretary of State, shall submit a report to Congress that 
describes--
            (1) the manner and extent to which the United States has 
        made progress towards achieving the targets of the 14th 
        Sustainable Development Goal of the United Nations (relating to 
        conserving and sustainably using the oceans, seas, and marine 
        resources); and
            (2) plans for future United States actions to achieve those 
        targets.

SEC. 803. MARINE PROTECTED AREAS IN AREAS BEYOND NATIONAL JURISDICTION.

    Not later than one year after the date of enactment of this Act, 
the Secretary of State, and in consultation with the Secretary of 
Commerce acting through the Administrator, shall develop a plan to 
provide technical assistance, data, and other resources for identifying 
and establishing strongly protected areas of the ocean in areas beyond 
national jurisdiction.

                   Subtitle B--Efforts in the Arctic

SEC. 811. PLAN FOR THE UNITED STATES TO CUT BLACK CARBON EMISSIONS TO 
              33 PERCENT BELOW 2013 LEVELS BY 2025.

    (a) Sense of Congress.--It is the sense of Congress that the United 
States should honor its commitment to the Arctic Council to cut black 
carbon emissions by 2025 to a level that is between 25 and 33 percent 
below the levels emitted by the United States in 2013.
    (b) In General.--Not later than 180 days after the date of 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of State, in consultation with the 
Secretary of Transportation, the Administrator, and the Administrator 
of the Environmental Protection Agency, shall develop a plan for the 
United States to cut black carbon emissions by 2025 to a level that is 
between 25 and 33 percent below the levels emitted by the United States 
in 2013. Such plan shall also describe--
            (1) the measures the Federal Government will take to 
        achieve such targeted emissions levels;
            (2) the measures the Federal Government will take to 
        prioritize black carbon emission reduction in communities of 
        color, Tribal and Indigenous communities, and low-income 
        communities; and
            (3) how the United States may use multilateral and 
        bilateral diplomatic tools to encourage and assist other member 
        countries of the Arctic Council to fulfill the goals announced 
        in 2017.
    (c) Submissions to Congress and Updates to Plan.--The Secretary of 
State, shall submit to the appropriate congressional committees and 
make available to the public--
            (1) not later than 180 days after the date of enactment of 
        this Act, the plan developed under subsection (b);
            (2) not later than one year after the date of enactment of 
        this Act, and every three years thereafter, a report on the 
        progress made toward implementing the plan submitted pursuant 
        to subsection (b); and
            (3) not later than January 1, 2025, a proposal for further 
        reductions in black carbon emissions in the United States that 
        should be accomplished by 2030.
    (d) Appropriate Congressional Committees Defined.--In this section, 
the term ``appropriate congressional committees'' means--
            (1) the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the Committee on 
        Natural Resources, and the Committee on Energy and Commerce of 
        the House of Representatives; and
            (2) the Committee on Foreign Relations, the Committee on 
        Commerce, the Committee on Environment and Public Works, and 
        the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources of the Senate.
    (e) Public Comment.--The Secretary of State shall--
            (1) before submitting each such plan or report to the 
        appropriate congressional committees under subsection (c)--
                    (A) consult with Indian Tribes and Indigenous 
                communities; and
                    (B) provide a period of at least 90 days for public 
                comment on each such plan or report; and
            (2) after each such period for public comment, continue to 
        make the proposed plan and report, as well as the comments 
        received, available to the public on an appropriate website.

     Subtitle C--Bureau of Indian Affairs Tribal Resilience Program

SEC. 821. BUREAU OF INDIAN AFFAIRS TRIBAL RESILIENCE PROGRAM.

    (a) Establishment.--The Secretary of the Interior shall establish a 
program to--
            (1) improve the resilience of Indian Tribes to the effects 
        of a changing climate;
            (2) support building strong Tribal and Indigenous 
        communities that are resilient to climate change;
            (3) ensure agency effectiveness in fulfilling Federal 
        Indian trust responsibilities in the face of climate change; 
        and
            (4) ensure the development of modern, cost-effective 
        infrastructure in Tribal and Indigenous communities.
    (b) Grants.--
            (1) Authority.--As part of the program established under 
        subsection (a), to the extent funds are made available through 
        Acts of appropriation, the Secretary shall make multiyear 
        grants to Indian Tribes and Indigenous communities for eligible 
        activities described in paragraph (2).
            (2) Eligible activities.--Grants under this subsection may 
        be used for the following on Indian land and in Indigenous 
        communities:
                    (A) Development and delivery of adaptation 
                training.
                    (B) Adaptation planning, vulnerability assessments, 
                emergency preparedness planning, and monitoring.
                    (C) Capacity building through travel support for 
                training, technical sessions, and cooperative 
                management forums.
                    (D) Travel support for participation in ocean and 
                coastal planning.
                    (E) Development of science-based information and 
                tools to enable adaptive resource management and the 
                ability to plan for resilience.
                    (F) Relocation of villages or other communities 
                experiencing or susceptible to coastal or river erosion 
                and flooding.
                    (G) Construction of infrastructure to support 
                emergency evacuations related to climate change.
                    (H) Restoration of ecosystems and construction of 
                natural and nature-based features to address risks from 
                coastal and riverine flooding and erosion.
                    (I) Restoration, relocation, and repair of 
                infrastructure damaged by melting permafrost or coastal 
                or river erosion and flooding.
                    (J) Installation and management of energy systems 
                that reduce energy costs and greenhouse gas emissions 
                compared to the energy systems in use before that 
                installation and management.
                    (K) Construction and maintenance of social or 
                cultural infrastructure that supports resilience.
            (3) Applications.--An Indian Tribe or Indigenous community 
        desiring a grant under this subsection shall submit to the 
        Secretary an application at such time, in such manner, and 
        containing such information as the Secretary may require, 
        including a description of the eligible activities to be 
        undertaken using the grant.
    (c) Interagency Cooperation.--The Secretary of the Interior, the 
Secretary of Commerce, and the Administrator of the Environmental 
Protection Agency shall establish under the White House Council on 
Native American Affairs an interagency subgroup on Tribal resilience, 
which shall--
            (1) work with Indian Tribes and Indigenous communities to 
        collect and share data and information, including traditional 
        ecological knowledge, about how the effects of a changing 
        climate are relevant to Indian Tribes and Indigenous 
        communities; and
            (2) identify opportunities for the Federal Government to 
        improve collaboration and assist with adaptation and mitigation 
        efforts that promote resilience.
    (d) Tribal Resilience Liaison.--The Secretary of the Interior shall 
establish a Tribal resilience liaison to--
            (1) coordinate with Indian Tribes, Indigenous communities, 
        and relevant Federal agencies regarding the program under this 
        section, grant opportunities related to the program, climate 
        adaptation, and climate resilience planning; and
            (2) help ensure Tribal and Indigenous engagement in climate 
        conversations at the Federal level.
    (e) Authorization of Appropriations.--There is authorized to be 
appropriated to carry out this section, $200,000,000 for each of fiscal 
years 2022 through 2026.

              TITLE IX--COASTAL RESILIENCY AND ADAPTATION

SEC. 901. LIVING SHORELINE GRANT PROGRAM.

    (a) Establishment.--The Administrator shall make grants to eligible 
entities for the purposes of--
            (1) designing and implementing large- and small-scale, 
        climate-resilient living shoreline projects; and
            (2) applying innovative uses of natural materials and 
        systems to protect coastal communities, habitats, and natural 
        system functions.
    (b) Project Proposals.--To be eligible to receive a grant under 
this section, an eligible entity shall submit to the Administrator a 
proposal for a living shoreline project that includes--
            (1) monitoring, data collection, and measurable performance 
        criteria with respect to the project; and
            (2) an engagement or education component that seeks and 
        solicits feedback from the local or regional community most 
        directly affected by the proposal.
    (c) Project Selection.--
            (1) Development of criteria.--The Administrator shall 
        select eligible entities to receive grants under this section 
        based on criteria developed by the Administrator.
            (2) Considerations.--In developing the criteria under 
        paragraph (1) to evaluate a proposed living shoreline project, 
        the Administrator shall take into account--
                    (A) the potential of the project to protect the 
                community and maintain the viability of the 
                environment, such as through protection of ecosystem 
                functions, environmental benefits, or habitat types, in 
                the area where the project is to be carried out;
                    (B) the historic and future environmental 
                conditions of the project site, particularly those 
                environmental conditions affected by climate change;
                    (C) the net ecological benefits of the project 
                including the potential of the project to contribute to 
                carbon sequestration and storage;
                    (D) the ability of the entity proposing the project 
                to demonstrate the potential of the project to protect 
                the coastal community where the project is to be 
                carried out, including through--
                            (i) mitigating the effects of erosion;
                            (ii) attenuating the impact of coastal 
                        storms and storm surge;
                            (iii) mitigating shoreline flooding;
                            (iv) mitigating the effects of sea level 
                        rise, accelerated land loss, and extreme tides;
                            (v) sustaining, protecting, or restoring 
                        the functions and habitats of coastal 
                        ecosystems;
                            (vi) protecting important cultural sites or 
                        values;
                            (vii) protecting low income communities, 
                        communities of color, Tribal communities, 
                        Indigenous communities, and rural communities;
                            (viii) sustaining, protecting, or restoring 
                        the functions and habitats of marine protected 
                        areas; or
                            (ix) such other forms of coastal protection 
                        as the Administrator considers appropriate; and
                    (E) the potential of the project to support 
                resiliency at a military installation or community 
                infrastructure supportive of a military installation 
                (as such terms are defined in section 2391 of title 10, 
                United States Code).
            (3) Standards.--The Administrator shall establish a living 
        shorelines engineering standard for each region of the United 
        States, which shall be used in selecting eligible projects for 
        grants under this section.
    (d) Use of Funds.--A grant awarded under this section to an 
eligible entity to carry out a living shoreline project may be used by 
the eligible entity only--
            (1) to carry out the project, including administration, 
        design, permitting, entry into negotiated indirect cost rate 
        agreements, and construction;
            (2) to monitor, collect, and report data on the performance 
        (including performance over time) of the project, in accordance 
        with standards issued by the Administrator under subsection 
        (f)(2); or
            (3) to incentivize landowners to engage in living shoreline 
        projects.
    (e) Monitoring and Reporting.--
            (1) In general.--The Administrator shall require each 
        eligible entity receiving a grant under this section (or a 
        representative of the entity) to carry out a living shoreline 
        project--
                    (A) to transmit to the Administrator data collected 
                under the project;
                    (B) to monitor the project and to collect data on 
                the ecological and economic benefits of the project and 
                the protection provided by the project for the coastal 
                community where the project is carried out;
                    (C) to make data collected under the project 
                available on a publicly accessible website of the 
                National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration; and
                    (D) upon the completion of the project, to submit 
                to the Administrator a report on--
                            (i) the measures described in subparagraph 
                        (B); and
                            (ii) the effectiveness of the project in 
                        increasing protection of the coastal community 
                        where the project is carried out through living 
                        shorelines techniques, including--
                                    (I) a description of--
                                            (aa) the project;
                                            (bb) the activities carried 
                                        out under the project; and
                                            (cc) the techniques and 
                                        materials used in carrying out 
                                        the project; and
                                    (II) data on the performance of the 
                                project in providing protection to that 
                                coastal community.
    (f) Authorization of Appropriations.--There is authorized to be 
appropriated to the Administrator $50,000,000 for each of fiscal years 
2022 through 2026 for purposes of carrying out this section.
    (g) Definitions.--In this section, the following definitions apply:
            (1) Eligible entity.--The term ``eligible entity'' means 
        any of the following:
                    (A) A unit of a State or local government.
                    (B) An organization described in section 501(c)(3) 
                of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 that is exempt 
                from taxation under section 501(a) of such Code.
                    (C) An Indian Tribe (as defined in section 4 of the 
                Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act 
                (25 U.S.C. 5304)).
            (2) Living shoreline project.--The term ``living shoreline 
        project'' means a project that restores or stabilizes a 
        shoreline using natural materials such as plants, sand, or 
        rock.
            (3) State.--The term ``State'' means each of the several 
        States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto 
        Rico, the United States Virgin Islands, Guam, American Samoa, 
        and the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands.

SEC. 902. NATIONAL OCEANIC AND ATMOSPHERIC ADMINISTRATION RESEARCH 
              PROGRAMS.

    (a) Living Shoreline and Nature-Based Infrastructure Research 
Program.--
            (1) Definition of nature-based infrastructure.--In this 
        section, the term ``nature-based infrastructure'' means a 
        feature that is created by human design, engineering, and 
        construction to provide risk reduction in coastal areas by 
        acting in concert with natural processes.
            (2) Establishment.--The Administrator shall make 
        competitive research grants available focused on developing and 
        assessing the effectiveness of innovative approaches to nature-
        based infrastructures and features for the purposes of--
                    (A) preparing more resilient, sustainable cities 
                and resilient communities;
                    (B) reducing the costs associated with climate-
                related disasters, built infrastructure degradation, 
                and human relocation; and
                    (C) accomplishing improved resilience while 
                maintaining ecosystem functions and habitats to the 
                greatest extent possible.
            (3) Eligibility.--To be eligible for a grant under this 
        subsection, an applicant must be an institution of higher 
        education, nonprofit organization, State, local, or Tribal 
        Government, for-profit organization, United States Territory, 
        or Federal agency that has statutory authority to receive 
        transfers of funds.
            (4) Research priorities.--The Administrator shall award 
        grants for projects which focus on the following:
                    (A) Assessments of installed nature-based 
                infrastructures, as of the date of enactment of this 
                Act, for their effectiveness in addressing, if 
                applicable--
                            (i) coastal resilience;
                            (ii) shoreline erosion;
                            (iii) storm damage including windstorms;
                            (iv) inland flooding;
                            (v) water quality;
                            (vi) impact on local ecosystems; and
                            (vii) other criteria as determined by the 
                        Administrator.
                    (B) Novel approaches to nature-based infrastructure 
                and living shorelines aimed at optimizing resilience to 
                climate change, extreme weather, and ecosystem 
                sustainability.
                    (C) Interdisciplinary research including 
                engineering, environmental and ecosystem sciences, 
                biology, and social science.
                    (D) Regional, community, and industry partnerships 
                to create locally-informed solutions.
            (5) Reports for informing living shorelines and nature-
        based infrastructure project grants.--Funded projects shall 
        submit a summarized report of their findings at the conclusion 
        of the grant to the Administrator to help inform the selection 
        and prioritization of living shorelines and other nature-based 
        infrastructure projects as described in section 1001 of this 
        Act.
            (6) Additional authorities.--The Administrator may use--
                    (A) the National Oceanographic Partnership Program 
                established by section 8931 of title 10, United States 
                Code, as a venue for collaboration and coordination to 
                leverage partnerships between public institutions of 
                higher education and Federal agencies;
                    (B) the Coastlines and People initiative under the 
                National Science Foundation as a tool to use ongoing 
                interdisciplinary research;
                    (C) the National Sea Grant College Program as a 
                resource to help foster collaboration between public 
                institutions of higher education and Federal agencies; 
                and
                    (D) the National Institute of Standards and 
                Technology (NIST) Community Resilience Center of 
                Excellence.
            (7) Authorization of appropriations.--There is authorized 
        to be appropriated to the Administrator $5,000,000 for each of 
        fiscal years 2022 through 2026 for purposes of carrying out 
        this subsection.
    (b) Coastal Science and Assessment: Competitive External 
Research.--
            (1) In general.--The Administrator shall establish an 
        annual competitive grants program that gives priority to 
        interdisciplinary coastal resilience research projects that 
        focus on developing scalable best practices for--
                    (A) protecting life and critical infrastructure;
                    (B) developing decision-support tools useful to 
                coastal communities;
                    (C) determining societal, ecological, and 
                resiliency benefits of coastal restoration and 
                protection and natural, nature-based, and man-made 
                infrastructure, and how these benefits affect the 
                sustainability of coastal ecosystems;
                    (D) volunteer and community-science monitoring of 
                coastal and marine resources as part of efforts to 
                protect coastal communities from sea level rise;
                    (E) monitoring and developing ecosystem-based 
                approaches to managing coastal ecosystems to promote 
                sustainability;
                    (F) assessing and enhancing the capacity of human 
                communities to adapt to coastal natural disasters;
                    (G) assessing coastal vulnerability and risk;
                    (H) evaluating adaptation, protection, and 
                restoration approaches to reduce risk, including 
                through the use of natural, nature-based, and man-made 
                features;
                    (I) minimizing costs associated with damages 
                incurred from natural disasters, flooding, and sea 
                level rise;
                    (J) developing curriculum for new programs in 
                coastal conservation at public community colleges and 
                within college Sea Grant programs to train the new 
                coastal conservation workforce;
                    (K) evaluating potential outcomes associated with 
                developing new commercial and recreational fishery 
                resources, including aquaculture and targeting invasive 
                and range-expanding species; and
                    (L) engaging in outreach, training, and education 
                connect actionable research to local communities, 
                policymakers, planners, practitioners, and students.
            (2) Eligibility.--To be eligible for a grant under the 
        Program, an applicant must be an institution of higher 
        education, nonprofit organization, State, local, or Tribal 
        government, for-profit organization, United States territory, 
        or Federal agency that has statutory authority to receive 
        transfers of funds.
            (3) Definitions.--In this subsection, the following 
        definitions apply:
                    (A) Critical infrastructure.--The term ``critical 
                infrastructure'' means infrastructure, including 
                natural or nature-based infrastructure, the destruction 
                or damaging of which would have a debilitating impact 
                on national security or economic security, undermine 
                community resiliency and adaptation, or threaten public 
                health or safety.
                    (B) Natural and nature-based features.--The term 
                ``natural features'' or ``nature-based features'' means 
                coastal wetlands, coral reefs, beaches, dunes, marshes, 
                coastal forests, municipal green infrastructure, and 
                living shorelines.
            (4) Authorization of appropriations.--There is authorized 
        to be appropriated to the Administrator $5,000,000 for each of 
        fiscal years 2022 through 2026 for purposes of carrying out 
        this section.
    (c) Grants for Recovering Oysters.--
            (1) Establishment.--The Administrator shall establish a 
        grant program (in this subsection referred to as the 
        ``Program'') under which the Administrator shall award grants 
        to eligible entities for the purpose of conducting research on 
        the conservation, restoration, or management of oysters in 
        estuarine ecosystems.
            (2) Application.--To be eligible to receive a grant under 
        this subsection, an eligible entity shall submit to the 
        Administrator an application at such time, in such manner, and 
        containing such information as the Administrator may require.
            (3) Allocation of grant funds.--
                    (A) In general.--The Administrator may award a 
                grant under the Program to eligible entities that 
                submit an application under paragraph (2).
                    (B) Matching requirement.--
                            (i) In general.--Except as provided in 
                        clause (ii), the total amount of Federal 
                        funding received under the Program by an 
                        eligible entity may not exceed 85 percent of 
                        the total cost of the research project for 
                        which the funding was awarded. For the purposes 
                        of this clause, the non-Federal share of 
                        project costs may be provided by in-kind 
                        contributions and other noncash support.
                            (ii) Waiver.--The Administrator may waive 
                        all or part of the requirement in clause (i) if 
                        the Administrator determines that no reasonable 
                        means are available through which an eligible 
                        entity applying for a grant under this 
                        subsection can meet such requirement and the 
                        probable benefit of such research project 
                        outweighs the public interest in such 
                        requirement.
                    (C) Equitable distribution.--The Administrator 
                shall ensure, to the maximum extent practicable, that 
                grant funding under this subsection is apportioned 
                according to the historic baseline oyster population of 
                each estuary of the United States.
            (4) Definitions.--In this subsection, the following 
        definitions apply:
                    (A) Academic community.--The term ``academic 
                community'' means faculty, researchers, professors, and 
                representatives of State-accredited colleges and 
                universities.
                    (B) Eligible entity.--The term ``eligible entity'' 
                means a member of the academic community, the seafood 
                industry, a relevant nonprofit organization, or a 
                relevant State agency, that is proposing or conducting 
                a research project on the conservation, restoration, or 
                management of oysters in an estuarine ecosystem.
                    (C) Historic baseline.--The term ``historic 
                baseline'' means the estimated population of oysters in 
                an estuary in 1850.
                    (D) Nonprofit organization.--The term ``nonprofit 
                organization'' means an organization described in 
                section 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 
                and exempt from tax under section 501(a) of such Code.
                    (E) Seafood industry.--The term ``seafood 
                industry'' means shellfish growers, shellfish 
                harvesters, commercial fishermen, and recreational 
                fishermen.
            (5) Authorization of appropriations.--There is authorized 
        to be appropriated to the Administrator $5,000,000 for each of 
        the fiscal years 2022 through 2026 to carry out this 
        subsection.

SEC. 903. IMPROVEMENTS TO THE NATIONAL OCEANS AND COASTAL SECURITY ACT.

    (a) Definition of Tidal Shoreline Refined.--Section 902 of the 
National Oceans and Coastal Security Act (16 U.S.C. 7501) is amended--
            (1) by amending paragraph (7) to read as follows:
            ``(7) Tidal shoreline.--The term `tidal shoreline' means a 
        `tidal shoreline' or a `Great Lake shoreline' as such terms are 
        used in section 923.110(c)(2)(i) of title 15, Code of Federal 
        Regulations, or a similar successor regulation.''; and
            (2) by adding at the end the following:
            ``(8) Indian tribe.--The term `Indian Tribe' has the 
        meaning given the term `Indian tribe' in section 4 of the 
        Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act (25 
        U.S.C. 5304).
            ``(9) Blue carbon.--The term `blue carbon' means the 
        ability of an ocean or coastal ecosystem, habitat, or other 
        natural resource to absorb, capture, and contain atmospheric 
        carbon dioxide.''.
    (b) Improvements to National Oceans and Coastal Security Fund.--
            (1) Deposits.--Section 904(b)(1) of such Act (16 U.S.C. 
        7503(b)(1)) is amended to read as follows:
            ``(1) In general.--There shall be deposited into the Fund, 
        which shall constitute the assets of the Fund--
                    ``(A) amounts transferred to the Fund under section 
                908; and
                    ``(B) such other amounts as may be appropriated or 
                otherwise made available to carry out this Act.''.
            (2) Expenditures.--Section 904 of such Act (16 U.S.C. 7503) 
        is amended by striking subsection (d) and inserting the 
        following:
    ``(d) Expenditure.--Of the amounts deposited into the Fund for each 
fiscal year--
            ``(1) not less than $150,000,000 shall be used for the 
        award of grants under subsection (b) of section 906;
            ``(2) not less than $50,000,000 shall be used for the award 
        of grants under subsection (c) of such section;
            ``(3) if amounts deposited into the Fund for each fiscal 
        year are greater than $200,000,000, any amounts in excess of 
        $200,000,000 shall be distributed such that--
                    ``(A) 80 percent shall be used for the award of 
                grants under subsection (b) of section 906; and
                    ``(B) 20 percent shall be used for the award of 
                grants under subsection (c) of section 906; and
            ``(4) of amounts provided in this subsection, not more than 
        4 percent may be used by the Administrator and the National 
        Fish and Wildlife Foundation (Foundation) for direct costs to 
        carry out this chapter.''.
    (c) Eligible Uses of the Fund.--Section 905 of such Act (16 U.S.C. 
7504) is amended to read as follows:

``SEC. 905. ELIGIBLE USES.

    ``(a) In General.--Amounts in the Fund may be allocated by the 
Administrator for grants under section 906(b) and the Foundation for 
grants under section 906(c) to support programs and activities intended 
to protect, conserve, restore, better understand, and utilize ocean and 
coastal resources and coastal infrastructure, including, where 
appropriate, scientific research, resiliency planning, implementation, 
and monitoring and spatial planning, data-sharing, and other programs 
and activities carried out in coordination with Federal and State 
departments or agencies, including the following:
            ``(1) Ocean, coastal, and Great Lakes restoration and 
        protection, including efforts to address potential impacts of 
        sea level change, sedimentation, erosion, changes in ocean 
        chemistry, hurricanes and other extreme weather, flooding, and 
        changes in ocean temperature to natural resources, communities, 
        and coastal economies.
            ``(2) Restoration, protection, or maintenance of living 
        ocean, coastal, and Great Lakes resources and their habitats, 
        including habitats and ecosystems that provide blue carbon 
        benefits.
            ``(3) Planning for and managing coastal development to 
        enhance ecosystem and community integrity, or to minimize 
        impacts from sea level change, hurricanes and other extreme 
        weather, flooding, and coastal erosion.
            ``(4) Projects to address management, planning, or 
        resiliency and readiness issues which are regional or 
        interstate in scope, such as regional ocean partnerships or 
        similar bodies.
            ``(5) Efforts that contribute to the understanding of 
        ecological, economic, societal, and national security threats 
        driven by changes to the oceans, coasts, and Great Lakes.
            ``(6) Efforts to preserve, protect, and collect data, 
        including but not limited to public ocean and coastal data 
        portals, that would support sustainable water-dependent 
        commercial activities including commercial fishing, 
        recreational fishing businesses, aquaculture, boat building, or 
        other coastal-related businesses.
            ``(7) Efforts to assist coastal States in repositioning, 
        relocating or deploying natural or nature-based features to 
        enhance the resiliency of critical coastal transportation, 
        emergency response, water, electrical, and other 
        infrastructure, that are already subject to or face increased 
        future risks of hurricanes, coastal flooding, coastal erosion, 
        or sea level change to ensure the economic security, safety, 
        and ecological well-being of the coasts of the United States.
            ``(8) Acquisition of property or interests in property if--
                    ``(A) the area is located within a coastal county 
                or adjacent county;
                    ``(B) the funds made available under this subtitle 
                are used to acquire land or interest in land by 
                purchase, exchange, or donation from a willing seller;
                    ``(C) the Governor of the State in which the 
                property or interests in property are acquired approves 
                of the acquisition; and
                    ``(D) such property or interest is acquired in a 
                manner that will ensure such property or interest will 
                be administered to support the purposes of this Act.
            ``(9) Protection and modification of critical coastal 
        public infrastructure affected by erosion, hurricanes or other 
        extreme weather, flooding, or sea level change.
            ``(10) Assistance for small businesses and communities that 
        are dependent on coastal tourism as eligible efforts that help 
        coastal economies minimize impacts from sea level rise and 
        disasters.
            ``(11) Projects that use natural and nature-based 
        approaches for enhancing the resiliency of wastewater and 
        stormwater infrastructure as eligible critical infrastructure 
        projects (as compared to just general water infrastructure, 
        which can also include drinking water systems).
            ``(12) Technical assistance to help develop comprehensive 
        resilience and mitigation plans as an eligible funding effort.
    ``(b) Prohibition on Use of Funds for Litigation and Lobbying.--No 
funds made available under this Act may be used to fund any expense 
related to litigation or any activity the purpose of which is to 
influence legislation pending before Congress.''.
    (d) Grants.--
            (1) Administration.--Subsection (a)(1) of section 906 of 
        such Act (16 U.S.C. 7505) is amended--
                    (A) by amending subparagraph (B) to read as 
                follows:
                    ``(B) Selection procedures and criteria for the 
                awarding of grants under this section that require 
                consultation with the Administrator and the Secretary 
                of the Interior.'';
                    (B) by amending subparagraph (C)(ii) to read as 
                follows:
                            ``(ii) under subsection (c), as 
                        appropriate, to entities including States, 
                        local governments, regional and interstate 
                        collaboratives, associations, nonprofit and 
                        for-profit private entities, public-private 
                        partnerships, academic institutions, Indian 
                        Tribes, and Indigenous communities.'';
                    (C) in subparagraph (F), by striking ``year if 
                grants have been awarded in that year'' and inserting 
                ``5 years''; and
                    (D) by adding at the end the following:
                    ``(I) A method to give special consideration in 
                reviewing proposals to projects with either direct or 
                indirect coastal or marine blue carbon benefits and an 
                accounting methodology to quantify these benefits for 
                the purposes of the annual report required under 
                section 907.''.
            (2) Grants to coastal states.--Subsection (b) of section 
        906 of such Act (16 U.S.C. 7505) is amended to read as follows:
    ``(b) Grants to Coastal States.--
            ``(1) In general.--Subject to section 904(d)(1) and 
        paragraphs (3) and (4) of this subsection, the Administrator 
        and the Foundation shall award grants to eligible coastal 
        States based on the following formula:
                    ``(A) 50 percent of the funds are allocated equally 
                among such coastal States.
                    ``(B) 25 percent of the funds are allocated on the 
                basis of the ratio of tidal shoreline miles in a 
                coastal State to the tidal shoreline miles of all 
                coastal States.
                    ``(C) 25 percent of the funds are allocated on the 
                basis of the ratio of population density of the coastal 
                counties of a coastal State to the average population 
                density of all coastal counties based on the most 
                recent data available by the U.S. Census Bureau.
            ``(2) Eligible coastal states.--For purposes of this 
        subsection, an eligible coastal State is any coastal state as 
        defined in section 304 of the Coastal Zone Management Act of 
        1972 (16 U.S.C. 1453).
            ``(3) Maximum allocation to states.--Notwithstanding 
        paragraph (1), not more than 5 percent of the total funds 
        distributed under this subsection may be allocated to any 
        single State. Any amount exceeding this limit shall be 
        redistributed equally among the remaining eligible coastal 
        States.
            ``(4) Requirement to submit plans.--
                    ``(A) In general.--To be eligible to receive a 
                grant under this subsection, an eligible coastal State 
                shall submit to the Administrator for review and 
                approval, a 5-year plan, which shall include the 
                following:
                            ``(i) Criteria to determine eligibility for 
                        entities which may receive grants under this 
                        subsection.
                            ``(ii) A description of the competitive 
                        process the coastal State will use in 
                        allocating funds received from the Fund, except 
                        in the case of allocating funds under paragraph 
                        (7), which shall include--
                                    ``(I) a description of the relative 
                                roles of and consistency with the State 
                                coastal zone management program 
                                approved under the Coastal Zone 
                                Management Act of 1972 (16 U.S.C. 1451 
                                et seq.), if the coastal State has such 
                                a plan, and any State Sea Grant 
                                Program, if the State has such program; 
                                and
                                    ``(II) a demonstration that such 
                                competitive process is consistent with 
                                the application and review procedures 
                                established by the Administrator and 
                                Foundation under subsection (a)(1).
                            ``(iii) A process to certify that the 
                        project or program and the awarding of a 
                        contract for the expenditure of amounts 
                        received under this paragraph are consistent 
                        with the standard procurement rules and 
                        regulations governing a comparable project or 
                        program in that State, including all applicable 
                        competitive bidding and audit requirements.
                            ``(iv) Procedures to make publicly 
                        available on the internet a list of all 
                        projects supported by the Fund, that includes 
                        at a minimum the grant recipient, grant amount, 
                        project description, and project status.
                    ``(B) Updates.--As a condition of receiving a grant 
                under this subsection, a coastal State shall submit to 
                the Administrator, not less frequently than once every 
                5 years, an update to the plan submitted by the coastal 
                State under subparagraph (A) for the 5-year period 
                immediately following the most recent submittal under 
                this paragraph.
            ``(5) Opportunity for public comment.--In determining 
        whether to approve a plan or an update to a plan described in 
        subparagraph (A) or (B) of paragraph (4), the Administrator or 
        the Foundation shall provide the opportunity for, and take into 
        consideration, public input and comment on the plan.
            ``(6) Indian tribes.--As a condition on receipt of a grant 
        under this subsection, a State that receives a grant under this 
        subsection shall ensure that Indian Tribes in the State are 
        eligible to participate in the competitive process described in 
        the State's plan under paragraph (5)(A)(ii).
            ``(7) Nonparticipation by a state.--In any year, if an 
        eligible coastal State or geographic area does not submit the 
        plan required by paragraph (4) or declines the funds 
        distributed under this subsection, the funds that would have 
        been allocated to the State or area shall be reallocated to 
        carry out subsection 906(c) for the national grant program.''.
            (3) National grants for oceans, coasts, and great lakes.--
        Subsection (c)(2) of such section is amended--
                    (A) in subparagraph (B)--
                            (i) in clause (ii), by striking ``; and'' 
                        and inserting a semicolon;
                            (ii) by redesignating clause (iii) as 
                        clause (iv); and
                            (iii) by inserting after clause (ii) the 
                        following:
                            ``(iii) nongovernmental organizations; 
                        and''; and
                    (B) by adding at the end the following:
                    ``(C) Cap on state funding.--The amount of a grant 
                awarded under this subsection shall not count toward 
                the cap on funding to States through grants awarded 
                under subsection (b).
                    ``(D) Indigenous communities.--Not less than 
                $5,000,000 each year shall be awarded to Tribes and 
                Indigenous Communities.''.
    (e) Annual Report.--Section 907 of the National Oceans and Coastal 
Security Act (16 U.S.C. 7506) is amended--
            (1) by amending paragraph (3) of subsection (b) to read as 
        follows:
            ``(3) a description of the expenditures made from the Fund 
        for the fiscal year, including the purpose of the expenditures; 
        and''; and
            (2) by adding at the end the following:
            ``(4) an estimate of blue carbon benefits, in tons of 
        carbon dioxide, expected through grants awarded to projects 
        that received special consideration under section 906 due to 
        their blue carbon potential.''.
    (f) Funding.--Section 908 of such Act (16 U.S.C. 7507) is amended 
to read as follows:

``SEC. 908. FUNDING.

    ``There is authorized to be appropriated $200,000,000 to carry out 
this title for each of fiscal years 2022 through 2026.''.

SEC. 904. SHOVEL-READY RESTORATION GRANTS FOR COASTLINES AND FISHERIES.

    (a) Establishment.--The Administrator shall establish a grant 
program to provide funding and technical assistance to eligible 
entities for purposes of carrying out a project described in subsection 
(d).
    (b) Project Proposal.--To be considered for a grant under this 
section, an eligible entity shall submit a grant proposal to the 
Administrator in a time, place, and manner determined by the 
Administrator. Such proposal shall include monitoring, data collection, 
and measurable performance criteria with respect to the project.
    (c) Development of Criteria.--The Administrator shall select 
eligible entities to receive grants under this section based on 
criteria developed by the Administrator, in consultation with relevant 
offices of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, such as 
the Office of Habitat Conservation and the Office for Coastal 
Management.
    (d) Eligible Projects.--A proposal is eligible for a grant under 
this section if--
            (1) the purpose of the project is to restore a marine, 
        estuarine, coastal, or Great Lake habitat, including--
                    (A) restoration of habitat to protect or recover a 
                species that is threatened, endangered, or a species of 
                concern under the Endangered Species Act of 1973 (16 
                U.S.C. 1531 et seq.);
                    (B) through the removal or remediation of marine 
                debris, including derelict vessels and abandoned, lost, 
                and discarded fishing gear, in coastal and marine 
                habitats; or
                    (C) for the benefit of--
                            (i) shellfish;
                            (ii) fish, including diadromous fish;
                            (iii) coral reef systems;
                            (iv) marine wildlife; or
                            (v) blue carbon ecosystems such as coastal 
                        wetlands, beaches, dunes, marshes, coastal 
                        forests, oyster beds, kelp forests, and 
                        submerged aquatic vegetation; or
            (2) provides adaptation to climate change, including 
        sequestering and storing carbon or by constructing, restoring, 
        or protecting ecological features or nature-based 
        infrastructure that protects coastal communities from sea level 
        rise, coastal storms, or flooding.
    (e) Priority.--In determining which projects to fund under this 
section, the Administrator shall give priority to a proposed project--
            (1) that would stimulate the economy;
            (2) for which the applicant can demonstrate that the grant 
        will fund work that will begin not more than 90 days after the 
        date of award;
            (3) for which the applicant can demonstrate that the grant 
        will fund work that will employ fishermen who have been 
        negatively impacted by the COVID-19 pandemic or pay a fisherman 
        for the use of a fishing vessel;
            (4) for which the applicant can demonstrate that any 
        preliminary study or permit required before the project can 
        begin has been completed or can be completed shortly after an 
        award is made; or
            (5) that includes communities that may not have adequate 
        resources including low income communities, communities of 
        color, Tribal communities, Indigenous communities, and rural 
        communities.
    (f) Authorization of Appropriations.--There is authorized to be 
appropriated to the Administrator $10,000,000,000 for fiscal year 2022 
to carry out this section, to remain available until expended.
    (g) Definitions.--In this section, the following definitions apply:
            (1) Eligible entity.--The term ``eligible entity'' means a 
        nonprofit, a for-profit business, an institution of higher 
        education, or a State, local, Tribal, or Territorial 
        government.
            (2) Fishermen.--The term ``fishermen'' means commercial or 
        for-hire fishermen or oyster farmers.

SEC. 905. STRATEGIC CLIMATE CHANGE RELOCATION INITIATIVE AND PROGRAM.

    (a) Establishment of Initiative.--The Chairman of the Council on 
Environmental Quality (in this section referred to as the ``Chair'') 
shall establish a Strategic Climate Change Relocation Initiative (in 
this section referred to as the ``Initiative'') for the purposes of 
coordinating Federal agency activities to identify and assist 
communities that have expressed affirmative interest in relocation due 
to health, safety, and environmental impacts from climate change, 
including hurricanes, flooding, sea level rise, and repeat wildfires.
    (b) Director.--The Chair shall appoint a Strategic Climate 
Relocation Director to manage the Initiative.
    (c) Consultation.--The Chair shall coordinate and consult with 
Federal agencies conducting activities related to this section 
including the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, the 
Department of the Interior, including the Bureau of Indian Affairs, the 
Environmental Protection Agency, the Federal Emergency Management 
Agency, the Department of Housing and Urban Development, the Denali 
Commission, the Corps of Engineers, the Office of Management and 
Budget, the National Economic Council, the National Security Council, 
the White House Council on Native American Affairs Interagency Subgroup 
on Tribal Resilience, and other Federal agencies as appropriate.
    (d) External Advisory Panel.--The Chair shall establish an external 
advisory panel that may include community leaders, non-governmental 
organizations, State and local government representatives, Tribal 
leaders, Indigenous community representatives, climate adaptation 
professionals, and other relevant experts as appropriate.
    (e) Report to Congress.--Not later than two years after the date of 
enactment of this Act, the Chair shall submit a report to Congress 
recommending key elements of a Strategic Climate Change Relocation 
Program to identify and assist communities that have expressed 
affirmative interest in relocation due to health, safety, and 
environmental impacts from climate change. The report shall--
            (1) identify--
                    (A) areas where climate change impacts make 
                relocation a likely climate change adaptation strategy;
                    (B) communities that have expressed affirmative 
                interest in relocation (in this section referred to as 
                ``sending communities''); and
                    (C) potential relocation areas and communities that 
                have expressed interest in attracting climate migrants 
                (in this section referred to as ``receiving 
                communities'');
            (2) propose criteria to qualify for climate relocation 
        assistance, with preference given to disadvantaged communities 
        where community members have indicated a preference for retreat 
        which would otherwise be challenged to relocate;
            (3) describe the roles and responsibilities of specific 
        Federal agencies in implementing the Strategic Climate Change 
        Relocation Program and how the Program should be coordinated 
        with applicable State and Federal agency plans and programs and 
        identify Federal programs that can be tailored to incentivize 
        self-identification of communities as receiving areas;
            (4) outline the role that State, Tribal, Indigenous, and 
        local governments should play in implementing the Strategic 
        Climate Change Relocation Program, including identification of 
        areas or communities where people leaving areas vulnerable to 
        climate change can consider locating, and the specific 
        resources needed to prepare those communities to be receiving 
        communities in terms of Federal investment in infrastructure, 
        affordable housing, and social services;
            (5) summarize existing Federal and State programs for 
        purchase of individual properties vulnerable to the impacts of 
        climate change and propose how these programs might be 
        restructured, improved, or expanded to incentivize climate 
        change relocation;
            (6) describe measures that governments or other 
        organizations can take to reduce the psychological stress 
        associated with relocation to preserve or support the 
        historical and cultural identity of communities being relocated 
        and to restore and conserve areas that are relocated from as 
        publicly accessible natural assets, and how Federal programs 
        will support these efforts;
            (7) identify and recommend measures to overcome how 
        institutional barriers, such as Federal programs that do not 
        account for Tribal sovereignty, constrain Tribal communities' 
        ability to pursue self-determined management of their resources 
        and built environment;
            (8) identify measures that Congress, Federal agencies, or 
        State and local governments should take to discourage or 
        restrict new development and hard structural measures in areas 
        vulnerable to such significant climate change impacts that they 
        are likely to require a solution that includes relocation, in 
        particular, where the Federal Government could establish 
        stricter funding requirements for post-disaster funding that 
        require updated building codes and land use strategies 
        reflecting climate risk;
            (9) describe existing policies and clarify responsibilities 
        of governments in complying with obligations to protect private 
        property, including providing just compensation for any taking 
        of private property;
            (10) propose an application process, available online, for 
        States, Tribes, and communities to express affirmative interest 
        in climate relocation assistance, either as a leaving community 
        or receiving community;
            (11) provide guidance on and identify additional funding 
        for re-use planning and operations and maintenance requirements 
        for vacated land, and identify the resources needed to 
        prioritize public access, recreational spaces, or conservation 
        areas;
            (12) review efficacy of existing flood mitigation 
        strategies on reducing flood risk to human populations, and 
        identify opportunities to coordinate blue-green infrastructure 
        solutions with buyout programs that increase the resilience of 
        remaining residents; and
            (13) outline the amount and timing of Federal funding that 
        is expected to be needed to implement the Climate Change 
        Relocation Program.
    (f) Development of Report to Congress.--In developing the report 
required under subsection (e), the Chair shall--
            (1) provide for public review and comment of a draft of the 
        report;
            (2) solicit feedback from organizations representing State 
        and local governments;
            (3) engage in review by the external advisory panel; and
            (4) evaluate projects implemented under the National 
        Disaster Resilience Competition administered by the Department 
        of Housing and Urban Development.
    (g) Climate Change Strategic Relocation Program Pilot Projects.--
Within 2 years after the date of submission of the report under 
subsection (e), the Chair shall establish and carry out pilot projects 
based upon the recommendations included in such report.
    (h) Subsequent Periodic Reports to Congress.--Within 3 years after 
the date of submission of the report under subsection (e), and every 3 
years thereafter, the Chair shall submit to Congress a report 
evaluating progress in the implementation of the Climate Change 
Relocation Program and making recommendations for needed changes to the 
Program.

SEC. 906. NATIONAL CENTERS OF EXCELLENCE IN COASTAL RESILIENCE RESEARCH 
              AND EDUCATION.

    (a) In General.--The Administrator shall designate institutions of 
higher education, defined by section 101(a) of the Higher Education Act 
of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1001(a)), as National Centers of Excellence in 
Coastal Resilience Research and Education (in this section referred to 
as ``Centers of Excellence'').
    (b) Purposes.--The purposes of such designations are the following:
            (1) To recognize institutions of higher education that have 
        exhibited national leadership in research and education in 
        coastal climate change adaptation and mitigation.
            (2) To identify such Centers of Excellence as sources of 
        expert advice and guidance for Federal agencies engaged in 
        research and education related to coastal climate change 
        resilience.
            (3) To formalize and enhance existing collaborations and 
        partnerships between public institutions of higher education 
        and Federal agencies, with the goal of ensuring information and 
        recommendations are communicated effectively between such 
        entities.
    (c) Criteria for Designation.--The Administrator shall designate an 
institution of higher education as a Center of Excellence that--
            (1) has demonstrated proven expertise in the physical, 
        engineering, social, and environmental sciences, particularly 
        research and education focused on the impacts of sea-level 
        rise, coastal flooding, storms, or shoreline erosion;
            (2) has demonstrated a commitment to understanding the 
        socioeconomic impacts of climate change;
            (3) is located in a State that frequently experiences 
        coastal flooding or shoreline erosion in connection with sea-
        level rise, severe coastal storms, or related pollution of 
        groundwater supplies;
            (4) has previously partnered with, or is receiving funds 
        from, Federal agencies for research on coastal flooding or 
        shoreline erosion issues;
            (5) can demonstrate institutional collaboration in research 
        and education with other public institutions of higher 
        education, including minority-serving institutions; and
            (6) can demonstrate capabilities for convening local, 
        State, or Federal entities to develop plans for coastal 
        flooding, storm preparedness, shoreline erosion, and other 
        resilience-related decision making.
    (d) Reviews and Additional Designs.--
            (1) Review of reports from national centers of 
        excellence.--The Administrator shall review reports from 
        National Centers of Excellence to ensure that recommendations 
        and guidance of such Centers regarding sea-level rise, coastal 
        flooding, shoreline erosion, and related issues are 
        communicated to relevant Federal agencies.
            (2) Review of national centers of excellence and potential 
        designees.--The Administrator shall periodically review each 
        Center of Excellence and potential new designees as such 
        Centers, to--
                    (A) ensure that each Center of Excellence continues 
                to meet the criteria for designation under this Act; 
                and
                    (B) designate additional National Centers of 
                Excellence in accordance with this Act.
            (3) Revocation.--If the Administrator determines under 
        paragraph (1) that a Center of Excellence does not meet the 
        criteria for such designation, the Administrator shall revoke 
        such designation by such process as the Administrator 
        determines appropriate.
    (e) Authorization of Appropriations.--There is authorized to be 
appropriated to carry out this section $3,000,000 for each of fiscal 
years 2022 through 2026.

SEC. 907. INITIATE DESIGNATION PROCESS FOR SUCCESSFUL SANCTUARY 
              NOMINATIONS AND TECHNICAL CORRECTIONS TO THE NATIONAL 
              MARINE SANCTUARIES ACT.

    (a) In General.--Not later than four years after the date of 
enactment of this Act, the Administrator shall initiate the process to 
designate as a national marine sanctuary under section 304 of the 
National Marine Sanctuaries Act (16 U.S.C. 1433) each of the areas 
identified in the Inventory of Successful Nominations of the National 
Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration as of October 20, 2020.
    (b) Removal of Limitations on Designations and Changes to Effective 
Date of Designations.--Section 304 of the National Marine Sanctuaries 
Act (16 U.S.C. 1434) is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (a)(6), by striking ``the forty-five day 
        period of continuous session of Congress beginning on the date 
        of submission of the documents'' and inserting ``60-day 
        period'';
            (2) in paragraph (b)(1), by striking ``the forty-five days 
        of continuous session of Congress beginning on the day on which 
        such notice is published'' and inserting ``60 days'';
            (3) by striking paragraph (b)(3); and
            (4) by striking subsection (f).
    (c) Authorization of Appropriations.--There is authorized to be 
appropriation $4,000,000 in each fiscal year to carry out this section 
for fiscal years 2022 through 2026.

SEC. 908. GRANTS TO FURTHER RESILIENCE AND CLIMATE RESEARCH WITH 
              INDIGENOUS AND TRIBAL COMMUNITIES.

    (a) Establishment.--The Administrator shall establish a new grant 
program in the National Marine Sanctuary System to support climate 
research and resilience with indigenous and local knowledge of marine 
and natural areas.
    (b) Grants Authorized.--The Administrator may award competitive 
grants to Indian Tribes and Indigenous communities and States to--
            (1) engage, support, and perpetuate ecosystem and 
        conservation practices such as Native Hawaiian Ahupuaa 
        management; and
            (2) establish a long-term data monitoring and methods 
        throughout the Sanctuary System for tracking and modeling the 
        impacts of climate change on the cultural, natural, and marine 
        environment.
    (c) Authorization of Appropriations.--There is authorized to be 
appropriated $5,000,000 in each fiscal year to carry out this section 
for fiscal years 2022 through 2026.

  TITLE X--OCEAN HEALTH: OCEAN ACIDIFICATION AND HARMFUL ALGAL BLOOMS

        Subtitle A--Coastal Communities Ocean Acidification Act

SEC. 1001. COASTAL COMMUNITY VULNERABILITY ASSESSMENT.

    Section 12406 of the Federal Ocean Acidification Research And 
Monitoring Act of 2009 (33 U.S.C. 3705) is amended--
            (1) in subsection (a), by inserting ``(referred to in this 
        section as the `Program')'' after ``acidification program'';
            (2) by redesignating subsection (b) as subsection (c); and
            (3) by inserting after subsection (a) the following:
    ``(b) Support for State and Local Vulnerability Assessments and 
Strategic Research Planning.--In carrying out the program established 
under subsection (a), the Administrator shall collaborate with State, 
local, indigenous, and tribal government entities that are conducting 
or have completed vulnerability assessments, strategic research 
planning, or other similar activities related to ocean acidification 
and its impacts on coastal communities, for the purpose of--
            ``(1) determining whether such activities can be used as a 
        model for other communities; and
            ``(2) identifying opportunities for the National Oceanic 
        and Atmospheric Administration and other relevant Federal 
        agencies to support such activities.''.

                  Subtitle B--Ocean Acidification Act

SEC. 1011. PRIZE COMPETITIONS.

    Section 12404 of the Federal Ocean Acidification Research And 
Monitoring Act of 2009 (33 U.S.C. 3703) is amended by adding at the end 
the following:
    ``(d) Prize Competitions.--
            ``(1) In general.--Any Federal agency with a representative 
        serving on the interagency working group established under this 
        section may, either individually or in cooperation with 1 or 
        more agencies, carry out a program to award prizes 
        competitively under section 24 of the Stevenson-Wydler 
        Technology Innovation Act of 1980 (15 U.S.C. 3719). An agency 
        seeking to carry out such a program shall carry out such 
        program in coordination with the chair of such interagency 
        working group.
            ``(2) Purposes.--Any prize competition carried out under 
        this subsection shall be for the purpose of stimulating 
        innovation to advance our Nation's ability to understand, 
        research, or monitor ocean acidification or its impacts, or to 
        develop management or adaptation options for responding to 
        ocean acidification.
            ``(3) Priority programs.--Priority shall be given to 
        establishing programs under this section that address 
        communities, environments, or industries that are in distress 
        due to the impacts of ocean acidification, including--
                    ``(A) the development of monitoring or management 
                options for communities or industries that are 
                experiencing significant financial hardship;
                    ``(B) the development of adaptation options to 
                alleviate economic harm and job loss caused by ocean 
                acidification;
                    ``(C) the development of measures to help 
                vulnerable communities or industries, with an emphasis 
                on rural communities and businesses; and
                    ``(D) the development of adaptation and management 
                options for impacted shellfish industries.''.

         Subtitle C--Harmful Algal Bloom Essential Forecasting

SEC. 1021. CENTERS OF EXCELLENCE IN HARMFUL ALGAL BLOOM RESEARCH, 
              PREVENTION, RESPONSE, AND MITIGATION.

    (a) Establishment.--Not later than one year after the date of 
enactment of this Act, the Administrator, shall designate organizations 
or consortia of organizations as National Centers of Excellence in 
Harmful Algal Bloom Research, Prevention, Response, and Mitigation.
    (b) Purpose.--The purpose of the Centers is--
            (1) to further understanding of harmful algal blooms;
            (2) to further understanding of the impacts of harmful 
        algal blooms on public health, including the health of at-risk 
        populations;
            (3) to further the ability to research, forecast, and 
        monitor harmful algal blooms;
            (4) to formalize and enhance existing partnerships and 
        collaborations among institutions of higher education, research 
        entities, local, State, Territorial, and Tribal agencies, 
        Indigenous communities, regional observing associations, and 
        the Federal Government;
            (5) to further the prevention, control, and mitigation of 
        harmful algal blooms;
            (6) to transition harmful algal bloom research and 
        forecasting from research to operational use; and
            (7) to address existing and emerging harmful algal bloom 
        issues as the Administrator considers appropriate.
    (c) Eligibility for Designations.--To be eligible for designation 
under this section, an organization must--
            (1) be an institution of higher education, as that term is 
        defined in section 101(a) of the Higher Education Act of 1965 
        (20 U.S.C. 1001(a)), a State, Territorial, or Tribal agency, a 
        nonprofit laboratory or other research entity, a regional 
        information coordination entity as defined in the Integrated 
        Coastal and Ocean Observation System Act of 2009 (Public Law 
        111-11), or a consortium of such eligible institutions;
            (2) have demonstrated expertise and success in harmful 
        algal bloom research, monitoring, forecasting, prevention, or 
        response efforts;
            (3) have demonstrated ability to collaborate with local, 
        State, Territorial, and Tribal governments and Federal agencies 
        on harmful algal blooms; and
            (4) be located in area region that is economically and 
        environmentally impacted by harmful algal blooms.
    (d) Requirements for Designations.--In designating National Centers 
of Excellence under this section, the Administrator shall--
            (1) consult with the Inter-Agency Task Force on Harmful 
        Algal Blooms and Hypoxia;
            (2) ensure regional balance by designating National Centers 
        in a variety of locations throughout the United States, 
        including the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto 
        Rico, American Samoa, Guam, the Commonwealth of the 
        Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, the United States 
        Virgin Islands, and other Territories and possessions of the 
        United States; and
            (3) support novel innovative approaches of other harmful 
        algal bloom research.
    (e) Effective Period, Review, and Renewal.--Each designation of an 
organization as a National Center of Excellence under this section--
            (1) shall be effective for 5 years;
            (2) shall be reviewed by the Administrator in the fourth 
        year of such effective period; and
            (3) following such review, may be renewed for an additional 
        5-year period.
    (f) Annual Reports.--The Administrator shall require and publish an 
annual activity report from each National Center of Excellence.
    (g) Authorization of Appropriations.--To carry out this section, 
including for providing funding to National Centers of Excellence 
designated under this section, there is authorized to be appropriated 
to the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration $12,500,000 for 
each of fiscal years 2022 through 2026, of which not more than 5 
percent may be available each fiscal year for administrative expenses.

             TITLE XI--OCEAN DATA AND COLLABORATIVE EFFORTS

                Subtitle A--Regional Ocean Partnerships

SEC. 1101. FINDINGS; SENSE OF CONGRESS; PURPOSES.

    (a) Findings.--Congress makes the following findings:
            (1) The ocean and coastal waters of the United States are 
        foundational to the economy, security, global competitiveness, 
        and well-being of the United States and continuously serve the 
        people of the United States and other countries as an important 
        source of food, energy, economic productivity, recreation, 
        culture, beauty, and enjoyment.
            (2) Over many years, the resource productivity and water 
        quality of the ocean and coastal areas of the United States 
        have been diminished by pollution, increasing population 
        demands, economic development, and natural and man-made hazard 
        events, both acute and chronic.
            (3) Ocean and coastal areas of the United States are 
        managed by State and Federal resource agencies and regulated on 
        an interstate and regional scale by various overlapping Federal 
        authorities, thereby creating a significant need for interstate 
        coordination to enhance regional priorities, including the 
        ecological and economic health of those areas.
            (4) Tribes and Indigenous communities have unique expertise 
        and knowledge important for the stewardship of our ocean and 
        coastal waters.
    (b) Sense of Congress.--It is the sense of Congress that--
            (1) the United States should seek to support interstate 
        coordination of shared regional priorities relating to the 
        management, conservation, resilience, and restoration of ocean 
        and coastal areas to maximize efficiencies through 
        collaborative regional efforts by regional ocean partnerships, 
        in consultation with Federal and State agencies, Tribal 
        governments, and local authorities;
            (2) such efforts would enhance existing and effective State 
        coastal management efforts based on shared regional priorities; 
        and
            (3) regional ocean partnerships should either directly 
        include representation from Tribal governments or have 
        dedicated consultation with such governments.
    (c) Purposes.--The purposes of this subtitle are as follows:
            (1) To complement and expand cooperative voluntary efforts 
        intended to manage and restore ocean and coastal areas spanning 
        across multiple State boundaries.
            (2) To expand Federal support for monitoring, data 
        management, and restoration activities in ocean and coastal 
        areas.
            (3) To commit the United States to a comprehensive 
        cooperative program to achieve improved water quality in, and 
        improvements in the productivity of living resources of, all 
        coastal ecosystems.
            (4) To authorize regional ocean partnerships as 
        intergovernmental coordinators for shared interstate and 
        regional priorities relating to the collaborative management of 
        the large marine ecosystems, thereby reducing duplication of 
        efforts and maximizing opportunities to leverage support in the 
        ocean and coastal regions.
            (5) To empower States and Tribes to take a lead role in 
        managing oceans and coasts.
            (6) To incorporate Tribal interests in the management of 
        our oceans and coasts and provide funding to support Tribal and 
        Indigenous ocean and coastal resiliency activities in 
        coordination with regional ocean partnerships.
            (7) To enable regional ocean partnerships, or designated 
        fiscal management entities of such partnerships, to receive 
        Federal funding to conduct the scientific research, 
        conservation and restoration activities, and priority 
        coordination on shared regional priorities necessary to achieve 
        the purposes described in paragraphs (1) through (4).

SEC. 1102. REGIONAL OCEAN PARTNERSHIPS.

    (a) Definitions.--In this section, the following definitions apply:
            (1) Coastal state.--The term ``coastal State'' has the 
        meaning given that term in section 304 of the Coastal Zone 
        Management Act of 1972 (16 U.S.C. 1453).
            (2) Indian tribe.--The term ``Indian Tribe'' has the 
        meaning given such term in section 4 of the Indian Self-
        Determination and Education Assistance Act (25 U.S.C. 5304).
    (b) Regional Ocean Partnerships.--
            (1) In general.--A coastal State may participate in a 
        regional ocean partnership with one or more other coastal 
        States that share a common ocean or coastal area with the 
        coastal State, without regard to whether the coastal States are 
        contiguous.
            (2) Application.--The Governors of a group of two or more 
        coastal states may apply to the Administrator on behalf of a 
        partnership of such States, for the partnership to receive 
        designation as a regional ocean partnership if the 
        partnership--
                    (A) meets the requirements under paragraph (3); and
                    (B) submits an application for such designation in 
                such manner, in such form, and containing such 
                information as the Administrator may require.
            (3) Requirements.--A partnership is eligible for 
        designation as a regional ocean partnership by the 
        Administrator under paragraph (2) if the partnership--
                    (A) is established to coordinate the interstate 
                management of coastal resources;
                    (B) focuses on the environmental issues affecting 
                the ocean and coastal areas of the members 
                participating in the partnership;
                    (C) complements existing State coastal and ocean 
                management efforts on an interstate scale, focusing on 
                shared regional priorities;
                    (D) does not have a regulatory function; and
                    (E) is not duplicative of an existing regional 
                ocean partnership, as determined by the Administrator.
    (c) Governing Bodies of Regional Ocean Partnerships.--
            (1) In general.--A regional ocean partnership designated 
        under subsection (b) shall be governed by a governing body.
            (2) Membership.--A governing body described in paragraph 
        (1)--
                    (A) shall be comprised, at a minimum, of voting 
                members from each coastal State participating in the 
                regional ocean partnership, designated by the Governor 
                of the coastal State; and
                    (B) may include such other members as the 
                partnership considers appropriate.
    (d) Functions.--A regional ocean partnership designated under 
subsection (b) may perform the following functions:
            (1) Promote coordination of the actions of the agencies of 
        coastal states participating in the partnership with the 
        actions of the appropriate officials of Federal agencies and 
        State and Tribal governments in developing strategies--
                    (A) to conserve living resources, expand and 
                protect valuable habitats, enhance coastal resilience, 
                and address such other issues related to the shared 
                ocean or coastal area as are determined to be a shared, 
                regional priority by those States; and
                    (B) to manage regional data portals and develop 
                associated data products for purposes that support the 
                priorities of the partnership.
            (2) In cooperation with appropriate Federal and State 
        agencies, Tribal governments, and local authorities, develop 
        and implement specific action plans to carry out coordination 
        goals.
            (3) Coordinate and implement priority plans and projects, 
        and facilitate science, research, modeling, monitoring, data 
        collection, management and sharing, and other activities that 
        support the goals of the partnership through the provision of 
        grants and contracts under subsection (f).
            (4) Engage, coordinate, and collaborate with relevant 
        governmental entities and stakeholders to address ocean and 
        coastal related matters that require interagency or 
        intergovernmental solutions.
            (5) Implement engagement programs for public information, 
        education, and participation to foster stewardship of the 
        resources of the ocean and coastal areas, as relevant.
            (6) Develop and make available, through publications, 
        technical assistance, and other appropriate means, information 
        pertaining to cross-jurisdictional issues being addressed 
        through the coordinated activities of the partnership.
            (7) Serve as a liaison with, and provide information to, 
        international and foreign counterparts, as appropriate on 
        priority issues for the partnership.
    (e) Consultation and Engagement.--A regional ocean partnership 
designated under subsection (b) shall maintain mechanisms for 
consultation with Federal and Tribal governments as well as engagement 
with nongovernmental entities, including academic organizations, 
nonprofit organizations, and businesses.
    (f) Grants and Contracts.--
            (1) In general.--A regional ocean partnership designated 
        under subsection (b) may, in coordination with existing Federal 
        and State management programs, from amounts made available to 
        the partnership by the Administrator or the head of another 
        Federal agency--
                    (A) provide grants to eligible persons described in 
                paragraph (2) for the purposes described in paragraph 
                (3); and
                    (B) enter into contracts with such persons for such 
                purposes.
            (2) Eligible persons.--The eligible persons described in 
        this paragraph (1)(A) are the following:
                    (A) Indian Tribes.
                    (B) State and local governments.
                    (C) Nongovernmental organizations.
                    (D) Institutions of higher education.
                    (E) Individuals.
                    (F) Private entities.
            (3) Purposes.--The purposes described in paragraph (1)(A) 
        include any of the following:
                    (A) Monitoring the water quality and living 
                resources of multi-State ocean and coastal ecosystems 
                and to coastal communities.
                    (B) Conducting research and development with 
                respect to human-induced environmental changes to--
                            (i) ocean and coastal ecosystems; and
                            (ii) coastal communities.
                    (C) Developing and executing cooperative strategies 
                that--
                            (i) address regional data issues identified 
                        by the partnership; and
                            (ii) will result in more effective 
                        management of common ocean and coastal areas.
    (g) Reports and Assessments.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than five years after the date 
        of enactment of this Act, and every 5 years thereafter until 
        2040, the Administrator, in coordination with the regional 
        ocean partnerships designated under subsection (b), shall--
                    (A) assess the effectiveness of the partnerships in 
                supporting regional priorities relating to the 
                management of common ocean and coastal areas; and
                    (B) submit to Congress a report on that assessment.
            (2) Report requirements.--The report required under 
        paragraph (1)(B) shall include the following:
                    (A) An assessment of the overall status of the work 
                of the regional ocean partnerships designated under 
                subsection (b).
                    (B) An assessment of the effectiveness of the 
                strategies that the regional ocean partnerships are 
                supporting or implementing and the extent to which the 
                priority needs of the regions covered by such 
                partnerships are being met through such strategies.
                    (C) Such recommendations as the Administrator may 
                have for the improvement of efforts of the regional 
                ocean partnerships to support the purposes of this Act.
                    (D) An assessment of how the efforts of the 
                regional ocean partnerships support or enhance Federal 
                and State efforts in line with the purposes of this 
                Act.
                    (E) Recommendations for improvements to the 
                collective strategies that support the purposes of this 
                Act in coordination and consultation with all relevant 
                Federal, State, and Tribal entities.
    (h) Availability of Federal Funds.--In addition to amounts made 
available to regional ocean partnerships designated under subsection 
(b) by the Administrator under this section, the head of any other 
Federal agency may provide grants to, enter into contracts with, or 
otherwise provide funding to such partnerships.
    (i) Authorities.--Nothing in this section establishes any new legal 
or regulatory authority of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric 
Administration or of the regional ocean partnerships designated under 
subsection (b), other than--
            (1) the authority of the Administrator to provide amounts 
        to the partnerships; and
            (2) the authority of the partnerships to provide grants and 
        enter into contracts under subsection (e).
    (j) Funding.--
            (1) Regional ocean partnerships.--There are authorized to 
        be appropriated to the National Oceanic and Atmospheric 
        Administration the following amounts for regional ocean 
        partnerships designated under subsection (b) or designated 
        fiscal management entities of such partnerships to carry out 
        activities of the partnerships under this Act:
                    (A) $10,100,000 for fiscal year 2022.
                    (B) $10,202,000 for fiscal year 2023.
                    (C) $10,306,040 for fiscal year 2024.
                    (D) $10,412,160 for fiscal year 2025.
                    (E) $10,520,404 for fiscal year 2026.
            (2) Distribution of amounts.--Amounts made available under 
        paragraph (1) shall be divided evenly among the regional ocean 
        partnerships designated under subsection (b).
            (3) Tribal consultation.--There are authorized to be 
        appropriated $1,000,000 for each fiscal year 2021 through 2025 
        to the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration for 
        Indian Tribes and Indigenous communities to be distributed for 
        purposes of participation in or engagement with the regional 
        ocean partnerships.

       Subtitle B--National Coastal Resilience Data and Services

SEC. 1111. AUTHORIZATION OF NOAA ACTIVITIES.

    (a) Purposes.--The Administrator shall, in consultation with other 
Federal agencies, develop within National Oceanic and Atmospheric 
Administration a comprehensive suite of coastal flood, sea level rise, 
Great Lakes water level, and vertical land motion data, products, and 
services, and conduct the research and development necessary to support 
those products and services that--
            (1) augment existing capacities and combine existing 
        observations, modeling, predictions, products and services into 
        a coordinated decision-support framework;
            (2) produce and maintain authoritative and timely data, 
        maps, and information services, including improving existing 
        and new information products and services targeted to end-user 
        needs, that allow coastal communities across the United States 
        to plan for present and future coastal flood risk; and
            (3) engage with, ensure accessibility by, and provide 
        technical assistance to, end users, with particular attention 
        to historically underserved and at risk communities and 
        populations, and also including other Federal agencies, 
        regional ocean partnerships, states, local governments, Tribal 
        governments, and Indigenous communities on the appropriate 
        application of these data and tools and to better assess 
        information gaps, needs, and solutions relating to the risk 
        posed by coastal flooding, including sea level rise.
    (b) Data Archiving.--National Oceanic and Atmospheric 
Administration shall make data and metadata generated under this Act 
fully and openly available, in accordance with the Federal Evidence-
Based Policy Making Act, to maximize distribution, access, and 
effective utilization of these important national assets. National 
Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration shall serve as the archive 
authority and stewardship partner for this data and conduct activities 
to assure maximum return on investment for this important national 
asset.
    (c) Use of Existing Advisory Committees.--The Administrator may 
consult with and seek input from existing agency advisory committees to 
provide recommendations on systems, products, and services relating to 
coastal flooding, including sea level rise.
    (d) Technical Assistance to Other Federal Agencies.--To assist in 
carrying out this Act and to facilitate collaboration, National Oceanic 
and Atmospheric Administration may provide technical assistance to 
other Federal agencies on a reimbursable or non-reimbursable basis, 
including by entering into an agreement with another Federal agency to 
detail, for a period of not more than 3 years, an employee of National 
Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration to such other Federal agency.
    (e) International Engagement.--The Administrator, in coordination 
with the Secretary of State, may engage internationally to provide and 
receive technical assistance, data sharing and capacity building on 
matters pertaining to coastal flooding, sea level rise and inundation, 
including participating in and on relevant international bodies and 
organizations.
    (f) Report.--The Administrator shall, within one year after the 
date of enactment of this Act and every 3 years thereafter, provide the 
Committee on Natural Resources of the House of Representatives and the 
Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate with a 
report on actions taken to implement this Act and containing an 
evaluation of the need to expand and improve agency observations, 
modeling, predictions, products, and services to--
            (1) improve the understanding of the processes that drive 
        coastal flood risk, including sea level rise, storm events, 
        changing Great Lakes water levels, and land subsidence; and
            (2) track and report how observed rates of sea level rise 
        compare to the sea level rise trends and predictions published 
        within the quadrennial National Climate Assessments and related 
        reports.
    (g) Authorization of Appropriations.--To carry out this Section, 
there are authorized to be appropriated $3,000,000 for each of fiscal 
years 2022-2026.

SEC. 1112. INTERAGENCY COORDINATION.

    (a) In General.--The Director of the Office of Science and 
Technology Policy, in consultation with the Administrator, shall--
            (1) facilitate interagency cooperation and alignment of 
        Federal Government activities conducted with respect to coastal 
        flooding, including sea level rise, to improve the ability of 
        the United States to prepare for, avoid, mitigate, respond to, 
        and recover from potentially devastating impacts; and
            (2) coordinate the activities of the interagency committee 
        established under subsection (b).
    (b) Coastal Flooding and Sea Level Rise Subcommittee.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 90 days after the date of 
        enactment of this Act, the President, acting through the 
        appropriate interagency committee or task force, shall 
        establish an interagency subcommittee on coastal flooding and 
        sea level rise (subsequently referred to as the 
        ``subcommittee'').
            (2) Purposes.--The Subcommittee shall--
                    (A) examine the latest science and technologies for 
                measuring, predicting, and delivering information 
                related to coastal flood risk, including sea level 
                rise;
                    (B) coordinate executive branch actions and 
                activities that improve measurements, predictions, and 
                service delivery of information related to coastal 
                flood risk, including sea level rise;
                    (C) identify gaps in observations, data, 
                information, and modeling and ensure agency activities 
                are complementary;
                    (D) consult and coordinate with other interagency 
                climate and ocean policy efforts and bodies as 
                appropriate;
                    (E) coordinate the delivery of science and data and 
                technical assistance from Federal agencies, including 
                to support and inform the development and delivery of 
                National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration 
                products and services; and
                    (F) define and prioritize needs from other Federal 
                agencies that could be addressed by enhancements to 
                Federal data and services, including National Oceanic 
                and Atmospheric Administration products and services.
            (3) Leadership.--The Subcommittee shall be co-chaired by 
        the Director of the Office of Science and Technology Policy and 
        the Administrator.
            (4) Membership.--The following entities shall be members of 
        the committee:
                    (A) The National Oceanic and Atmospheric 
                Administration.
                    (B) The National Aeronautics and Space 
                Administration.
                    (C) The Department of Interior through the United 
                States Geological Survey.
                    (D) The United States Army Corps of Engineers.
                    (E) The Department of Homeland Security through the 
                Federal Emergency Management Administration.
                    (F) The Environmental Protection Agency.
                    (G) The Department of Defense.
                    (H) The Department of Energy.
                    (I) The National Science Foundation.
                    (J) Such other White House offices and Federal 
                agencies the Director of the Office of Science and 
                Technology Policy deems appropriate.
            (5) Agreements.--
                    (A) In general.--To carry out activities under this 
                Act, the heads of agencies represented on the committee 
                may enter into cooperative agreements, or any other 
                agreement with each other, and transfer, receive, and 
                expend funds made available by any Federal agency, any 
                State or subdivision thereof, or any public or private 
                organization or individual.
                    (B) National aeronautics and space administration 
                and national oceanic and atmospheric administration.--
                The Administrator of the National Aeronautics and Space 
                Administration and the Administrator shall enter into 
                one or more interagency agreements providing for 
                cooperation and collaboration in the development of sea 
                level rise and coastal flood related instruments, 
                technologies, and data sets, and products in accordance 
                with this Act.
                    (C) United states geological survey and national 
                oceanic and atmospheric administration.--The Director 
                of the United States Geological Survey and the 
                Administrator of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric 
                Administration shall enter into one or more interagency 
                agreements providing for cooperation and collaboration 
                in the development, quality control, processing, and 
                delivery of coastal hazards and sea level rise related 
                data, modeling, mapping, and services in accordance 
                with this Act.
            (6) International, academic community, and commercial 
        sector collaboration.--Each Federal agency participating in the 
        subcommittee established under this subsection shall, to the 
        extent practicable, increase engagement and cooperation with 
        the international community, academic community, and commercial 
        sector on the observational infrastructure, data, scientific 
        research, and service delivery and technical assistance 
        necessary to advance the monitoring, forecasting, and 
        prediction of, preparation for, and protection from coastal 
        flooding, sea level rise, changing Great Lakes water levels, 
        and land subsidence.

         Subtitle C--Centralized Website for Resiliency Grants

SEC. 1121. CENTRALIZED WEBSITE FOR RESILIENCY GRANTS.

    (a) Centralized Website.--Not later than six months after the date 
of enactment of this subsection, the Administrator shall establish and 
maintain and regularly update a publicly available website that 
includes--
            (1) hyperlinks to all programs administered by the National 
        Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration and hyperlinks to other 
        Federal agencies that offer similar grants to assist States and 
        local communities with resiliency, adaptation, and mitigation 
        of climate change and sea level rise; and
            (2) with respect to each such grant, the contact 
        information for an individual who can offer assistance to 
        States and local government.
    (b) Outreach.--The Administrator shall conduct outreach activities 
to inform State, Tribal, and local governments and Indigenous 
communities of the resiliency, adaptation, and mitigation grants.

              Subtitle D--Automatic Identification Systems

SEC. 1131. AUTOMATIC IDENTIFICATION SYSTEMS.

    Section 70114(a) of title 46, United States Code, is amended to 
read as follows:
            ``(1) Subject to paragraph (2), the following vessels, 
        while operating on the navigable waters of the United States, 
        in the United States exclusive economic zone, and on the high 
        seas, shall be equipped with and operate an automatic 
        identification system under regulations prescribed by the 
        Administrator:
                    ``(A) A self-propelled commercial vessel of at 
                least 49 feet overall in length.
                    ``(B) A vessel carrying more than a number of 
                passengers for hire determined by the Administrator.
                    ``(C) A towing vessel of more than 26 feet overall 
                in length and 600 horsepower.
                    ``(D) Any other vessel for which the Administrator 
                decides that an automatic identification system is 
                necessary for the safe navigation of the vessel.''.

 TITLE XII--MEASURES TO ADDRESS GREENHOUSE GAS POLLUTION FROM SHIPPING 
                                VESSELS

SEC. 1201. GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS FROM SHIPPING.

    (a) Application.--The monitoring, reporting, and verification 
requirements of this section shall apply to all vessels of 5,000 gross 
tons or more calling at, leaving, or transiting between, or at berth 
at, ports in the United States, regardless of flag.
    (b) Vessel Reporting.--A vessel shall measure and monitor on a per-
voyage basis, and report to the Administrator and to the vessel's flag-
State on an annual basis, the following metrics:
            (1) Total greenhouse gas emissions and particulate 
        pollution emitted by the vessel inside the United States 
        exclusive economic zone.
            (2) Average greenhouse gas emissions and particulate 
        pollution emitted per transport work and per nautical mile.
    (c) Acceptable Methods For Measuring, Monitoring, And Reporting.--
            (1) In general.--The Administrator shall develop a list of 
        acceptable methods for measuring, monitoring, and reporting 
        metrics listed in subsection (b).
            (2) Consistency.--The Administrator, to the maximum extent 
        practicable, shall ensure consistency of such methods with 
        similar reporting schemes developed by the European Union and 
        the International Maritime Organization to reduce any 
        duplicative burden on shippers.
            (3) Methods.--Acceptable methods included in the list could 
        include the following:
                    (A) Bunker Delivery Note (BDN) and periodic 
                stocktakes of fuel tanks.
                    (B) Bunker fuel tank monitoring on board.
                    (C) Flowmeters for applicable combustion processes.
                    (D) Direct CO&lt;INF&gt;2&lt;/INF&gt; emissions measurements.
    (d) Annual Report by the Administrator.--The Administrator, in 
consultation with the Administrator of the Environmental Protection 
Agency and Commandant of the Coast Guard, shall publish an annual 
report on emissions from vessels covered under this section, including 
the underlying data, accompanied by an explanation intended to 
facilitate public understanding of the vessel shipping sector's 
CO&lt;INF&gt;2&lt;/INF&gt; emissions and energy efficiency.
    (e) Regulations.--Before promulgation of regulations under this 
section, reports issued under this section shall be reviewed to ensure 
that regulatory changes will not create the risk of increased 
CO&lt;INF&gt;2&lt;/INF&gt; emissions.

SEC. 1202. QUIET SEAS AND CLEAR SKIES VESSEL SPEED REDUCTION AWARD 
              PROGRAM.

    (a) Findings.--The Congress finds the following:
            (1) 49 marine mammal species are considered depleted under 
        the Marine Mammal Protection Act of 1972, and of those species, 
        42 are listed as threatened or endangered under the Endangered 
        Species Act of 1973.
            (2) Climate change is altering marine mammal migration 
        routes and timing.
            (3) Hundreds of threatened and endangered marine mammals, 
        including North Atlantic right whales and blue whales, die from 
        vessel strikes each year.
            (4) Background ambient noise levels have increased 
        significantly since the 1950s and can be attributed to vessel 
        noise, impeding foraging, breeding, communication, and other 
        behaviors of marine animals, including of threatened species 
        and endangered species.
            (5) Slower ship speeds reduce the lethality of vessel 
        strikes on marine life, moderate underwater noise, and provide 
        climate benefits through reduced fuel consumption and lower 
        particulate emissions.
            (6) In 2019, the Vessel Speed Reduction Program in the 
        Santa Barbara Channel region and the San Francisco Bay region 
        saved over 17,000 metric tons of greenhouse gas emissions, with 
        349 vessels from 15 different companies slowing their speeds 
        for over 99,000 nautical miles.
    (b) Establishment.--Not later than 12 months after the date of 
enactment of this Act, the Administrator, in consultation with the 
Administrator of the EPA and Commandant of the United States Coast 
Guard, shall establish the Quiet Seas and Clear Skies Program (in this 
section referred to as the ``Program'') to--
            (1) reduce air pollution, harmful underwater vessel noise, 
        and the risk of fatal marine mammal ship strikes by encouraging 
        voluntary reduction in the speed of eligible vessels operating 
        within the exclusive economic zone of the United States; and
            (2) annually award Quiet Seas and Clear Skies Excellence 
        Awards under subsection (d) for verified successful 
        participation in, and cooperation with, the Program by shipping 
        companies.
    (c) Program Requirements.--The Administrator shall develop and 
publish in the Federal Register requirements for voluntary 
participation in the Program by eligible shipping companies, including 
the following:
            (1) Program area.--Geographic areas covered by the Program 
        shall include all waters of the United States exclusive 
        economic zone.
            (2) Fleet requirement.--At least 75 percent of eligible 
        vessels operated by a shipping company shall participate and be 
        in compliance with paragraph (3) in order to be eligible for an 
        Award under subsection (d).
            (3) Speed limits.--The Administrator shall, based upon the 
        best available scientific information and consultation with the 
        Commandant of the Coast Guard, and input from shipping 
        companies and experts in air quality and marine mammal 
        conservation, prescribe maximum speeds for eligible vessels 
        participating in the Program, except when directed by the Coast 
        Guard to proceed in excess of the speed requirements of the 
        Program for safety purposes, that would--
                    (A) obtain a significant reduction in greenhouse 
                gas and particulate pollution, including black carbon 
                emissions from eligible vessels;
                    (B) protect marine life; and
                    (C) reduce noise generated by eligible vessels.
            (4) Certification.--The Administrator shall establish 
        protocols for shipping companies to certify compliance with the 
        Program requirement to be eligible for an Award under 
        subsection (d).
    (d) Annual Awards.--Under the Program, the Director of National 
Marine Sanctuaries shall annually award Quiet Seas and Clear Skies 
Excellence Awards to shipping companies operating fleets that have 
participated in, and complied with the requirements of, the Program 
during the preceding year.
    (e) Official Seal.--The Administrator shall create an official seal 
to be recognized as the symbol of excellence in compliance with the 
Program, that--
            (1) may be used by shipping companies with eligible vessels 
        for which a Quiet Seas and Clear Skies Excellence Award is 
        awarded under this section;
            (2) includes the name of the shipping company; and
            (3) includes the year for which such Award was made.
    (f) Limitations.--Nothing in this section shall be construed to--
            (1) require participation in the Program; or
            (2) authorize any action that affects navigational rights 
        and freedoms under international law or navigational safety.
    (g) Definition of Eligible Vessel.--In this section, the term 
``eligible vessel'' means a vessel greater than or equal to 65 feet in 
overall length.
    (h) Authorization of Appropriations.--There is authorized to be 
appropriated to the Administrator to carry out this section $4,000,000 
for each of fiscal years 2022 through 2026.

                 TITLE XIII--VIRGIN PLASTIC EXCISE TAX

SEC. 1301. VIRGIN PLASTIC EXCISE TAX.

    (a) In General.--Subchapter E of chapter 32 of subtitle D of the 
Internal Revenue Code of 1986 is amended to read as follows:

                ``Subtitle E--Virgin Plastic Excise Tax

``SEC. 4191. IMPOSITION OF TAX.

    ``(a) In General.--There is hereby imposed a virgin plastic excise 
tax on the manufacturer, producer, or importer of a covered item.
    ``(b) Amount of Tax.--
            ``(1) In general.--The virgin plastic excise tax imposed by 
        subsection (a) is $0.05 per pound of virgin plastic.
            ``(2) Inflation adjustment.--
                    ``(A) In general.--In the case of any taxable year 
                beginning after 2021, the dollar amounts in paragraph 
                (1) shall be increased by an amount equal to--
                            ``(i) such dollar amount, multiplied by
                            ``(ii) the cost-of-living adjustment 
                        determined under section 1(f)(3) for the 
                        calendar year in which the taxable year begins, 
                        determined by substituting in subparagraph 
                        (A)(ii) `calendar year 2021' for `calendar year 
                        2016'.
                    ``(B) Rounding.--If any increase determined under 
                subparagraph (A) is not a multiple of \1/10\ of a cent, 
                such increase shall be rounded to the nearest multiple 
                of \1/10\ of a cent.
    ``(c) Regulations.--The Secretary shall issue such regulations or 
other guidance, including regulations or guidance for the determination 
of the amount of virgin plastic in a covered item, as may be necessary 
or appropriate to carry out the purposes of this section.
    ``(d) Definitions.--For purposes of this section:
            ``(1) Covered item.--The term `covered item' means a 
        single-use plastic product made in part or whole of virgin 
        plastic, except--
                    ``(A) a medical product that the Secretary of 
                Health and Human Services determines needs to be made 
                of virgin plastic for public health or the health of 
                the user,
                    ``(B) a container for--
                            ``(i) a drug regulated under the Federal 
                        Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act,
                            ``(ii) infant formula, or
                            ``(iii) a meal replacement liquid,
                    ``(C) a personal or feminine hygiene product that 
                could be unsafe or unsanitary to recycle,
                    ``(D) a sexual health product, and
                    ``(E) packaging for--
                            ``(i) a product described in subparagraphs 
                        (A) through (E), or
                            ``(ii) used for the shipment of hazardous 
                        materials that is prohibited from being 
                        composed of used materials under section 
                        178.509 or 178.522 of title 49, Code of Federal 
                        Regulations (as in effect on the date of 
                        enactment of this subtitle).
            ``(2) Packaging.--The term `packaging' means a package, 
        container, packing materials, or other material used for the 
        containment, protection, handling, delivery and presentation of 
        goods.
            ``(3) Virgin plastic.--The term `virgin plastic' means a 
        primary polymer or resin--
                    ``(A) of any form of ethylene, propylene, 
                polyethylene, polypropylene, polyvinyl chloride, or a 
                raw plastic polymer, and
                    ``(B) generated through processing byproducts 
                associated with petroleum, natural gas, coal, or 
                vegetation based resources.
            ``(4) Single-use product.--The term `single-use product' 
        means a consumer product that is routinely disposed of, 
        recycled, or otherwise discarded after a single use.''.
    (b) International Negotiations.--Congress finds the international 
mitigation of virgin, single-use plastics to be of national importance. 
Therefore, Congress encourages the United States Trade Representative 
and the Secretary of State, as appropriate, to engage in negotiations 
with other nations with the goal of forming treaties, environmental 
agreements, accords, partnerships or any other instrument that--
            (1) effectively reduces global single-use plastic 
        production from virgin polymers to 10 percent of 2010 levels by 
        2050, and
            (2) respects the principle of common but differentiated 
        responsibilities and respective capabilities.
    (c) Effective Date.--The amendments by this section shall apply to 
covered items, as such term is defined in section 4191 of such Code, 
manufactured, produced, or imported after the earlier of--
            (1) 1 year after the Secretary issues regulations 
        implementing section 4191 of such Code, or
            (2) 2 years after date of enactment of this Act.
    (d) Conforming Amendment.--The table of subchapters for chapter 32 
of such Code is amended by amending the item relating to subchapter E 
to read as follows:

``E. Virgin plastic excise tax''.

SEC. 1302. ESTABLISHMENT OF THE VIRGIN PLASTIC TRUST FUND.

    (a) In General.--Subchapter A of chapter 98 of the Internal Revenue 
Code of 1986 is amended by adding at the end the following:

``SEC. 9512. VIRGIN PLASTIC TRUST FUND.

    ``(a) Establishment and Funding.--There is hereby established in 
the Treasury of the United States a trust fund to be known as the 
`Virgin Plastic Trust Fund', consisting of such amounts as may be 
appropriated to such trust fund.
    ``(b) Transfer to Virgin Plastic Trust Fund of Amounts Equivalent 
to Certain Taxes.--There are hereby appropriated to the Virgin Plastic 
Trust Fund amounts equivalent to the taxes received in the Treasury 
under section 4191 (relating to virgin plastic excise tax).
    ``(c) Expenditures From Virgin Plastic Trust Fund.--The following 
Amounts in the Virgin Plastic Trust Fund are authorized to be 
appropriated each fiscal beginning after the date of enactment of the 
Ocean-Based Climate Solutions Act of 2021.
            ``(1) To U.S. Customs and Border Protection, such amounts 
        as may be necessary to administer the taxation of importers 
        under section 4191(a).
            ``(2) So much as remains in the fund in each fiscal year, 
        after appropriations are made under paragraph (1), for the 
        purposes of carrying out the Ocean-Based Climate Solutions Act 
        of 2021.''.
    (b) Conforming Amendment.--The table of sections for subchapter A 
of chapter 98 of such Code is amended by adding at the end the 
following:

``9512. Virgin Plastic Trust Fund.''.

                     TITLE XIV--STUDIES AND REPORTS

SEC. 1401. DEEP SEA MINING.

    Not later than 90 days after the date of enactment of this Act, the 
Administrator shall seek to enter into an agreement with the National 
Academies to conduct a comprehensive assessment of the environmental 
impacts of deep seabed mining, including--
            (1) characterization of deep seabed ecosystems;
            (2) assessment of potential impacts to deep seabed habitat 
        and species from exploratory or extractive activities;
            (3) assessment of the potential impacts of sediment plumes 
        from disturbance of the deep seabed on the pelagic food chain; 
        and
            (4) approximate quantification of the greenhouse gas 
        emissions associated with deep seabed mining, including 
        emissions possibly from the release of greenhouse gases 
        sequestered in the seabed.

SEC. 1402. NATIONAL ACADEMIES ASSESSMENT OF OCEANIC BLUE CARBON.

    Not later than 90 days after the date of enactment of this Act, the 
Administrator shall seek to enter into an agreement with the National 
Academies to conduct a comprehensive assessment of oceanic blue carbon, 
including--
            (1) the impacts of marine species decline on carbon 
        sequestration potential in ocean ecosystems, an estimate of the 
        global carbon dioxide mitigation potential of protecting or 
        recovering populations of fish and marine mammals, and the 
        ecological considerations of such conservation strategies;
            (2) an analysis of the geologic stores of carbon and deep 
        sea storage of dissolved carbon in the deep seafloor 
        environment, including current and potential natural long-term 
        carbon storage, identification of gaps in scientific 
        understanding, observations, and data regarding such geologic 
        and deep sea carbon storage; and
            (3) the potential impacts to oceanic blue carbon storage by 
        human activities including energy development activities, deep 
        sea mining, deep sea carbon capture technology, and other 
        disturbances to the sea floor and gas hydrate disruption atop 
        the seabed.

SEC. 1403. OCEAN, COASTAL, AND GREAT LAKES CLIMATE IMPACTS AND ACTION 
              REPORT.

    (a) Report.--Not later than one year after the date of enactment of 
this Act, and every 2 years thereafter, the National Oceanic and 
Atmospheric Administration, in coordination with all other relevant 
agencies, shall submit to Congress a report on the impacts of climate 
change on ocean, coastal, and Great Lakes ecosystems and the steps the 
United States is taking to minimize such impacts. Such report shall 
include consolidated data from all line offices in the National Oceanic 
and Atmospheric Administration, and from other relevant Federal 
agencies and sources.
    (b) Impacts.--The report required by subsection (a) shall include 
baseline information as well as trends, in a format that can be 
compared from year to year, on the impacts of climate change on ocean, 
coastal, and Great Lakes ecosystems of the United States including--
            (1) changes and the rate of change of carbonate chemistry 
        and other related chemical changes in acidity;
            (2) average sea surface temperatures;
            (3) average sea floor temperatures;
            (4) average sea level rise;
            (5) number, size, extent, and duration of marine heat waves 
        occurring;
            (6) number, duration, size, location, and the attributable 
        cause of harmful algal blooms;
            (7) number, duration, size, and location of hypoxic zones;
            (8) number, location, geographical extent, and severity of 
        coral bleaching events with attention to the proximity of coral 
        bleaching to dredging activity;
            (9) estimates of coral and sponge cover loss;
            (10) number, location, and severity of hurricanes impacting 
        the United States;
            (11) number, location, severity, and duration of coastal 
        flooding events;
            (12) changes in coastal land cover and other ecosystem 
        changes as a result of climate related stressors such as 
        inundation, erosion, storms, flooding, drought, and sea level 
        rise; and
            (13) changes in marine and Great Lakes species abundance 
        and distribution.

SEC. 1404. REPORT ON THE ECOLOGICAL AND ECONOMIC EFFECTS OF HIGH SEAS 
              FISHING IN THE OCEAN AREAS BEYOND NATIONAL JURISDICTION.

    (a) In General.--Not later than one year after the date of 
enactment of this Act, the Administrator, in coordination with the 
Secretary of State, shall seek to enter into an agreement with the 
National Academies under which the National Academies shall--
            (1) study the challenges and opportunities associated with 
        implementing a global moratorium on high seas commercial 
        fishing;
            (2) evaluate the ecological, social, and economic effects 
        of a global moratorium on high seas commercial fishing, 
        including establishment of ecological baselines required to 
        also estimate changes in biodiversity;
            (3) estimate the scope and volume of illegal, unregulated, 
        and unreported fishing occurring on the high seas fishing;
            (4) evaluate the percentage of United States seafood 
        imports originating from high Seas fishing, from both legally 
        reported and illegal, unregulated, and unreported fishing; and
            (5) evaluate the greenhouse gas emissions associated with 
        high seas fishing and high seas fishing fleets.
    (b) Elements.--The study and evaluation conducted pursuant to the 
agreement entered into under subsection (a) shall address--
            (1) the feasibility of implementing a global moratorium on 
        high seas commercial fishing, including--
                    (A) legal authorities that exist under the United 
                Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea and other 
                implementation instruments to implement a moratorium on 
                high seas commercial fishing;
                    (B) the nations and vessels likely to refuse or 
                otherwise fail to comply with such a moratorium, 
                including estimates of catch levels by those nations 
                and vessels relative to overall international catch; 
                and
                    (C) available enforcement mechanisms and 
                surveillance technology that could be used to enforce 
                such a moratorium; and
            (2) the range of effects that would be expected to result 
        from a moratorium on high seas commercial fishing, including--
                    (A) identification of fish stocks that would be 
                affected, changes in exploitation of those stocks, and 
                net effect on the biomass of those stocks;
                    (B) ecosystem effects on non-target species, 
                including marketable and non-marketable bycatch, forage 
                species, corals, other invertebrates, marine mammals, 
                seabirds, and sea turtles;
                    (C) changes in global carbon emissions from reduced 
                fishing vessel transits and from increased fish carbon 
                capture and improved high seas ecosystem functioning;
                    (D) amounts of subsidies that support high seas 
                commercial fishing by the top 12 nations that currently 
                conduct high seas fishing by volume;
                    (E) effects on global fisheries revenues and 
                profits overall and the effects on fisheries revenues, 
                profits, and jobs for developing nations;
                    (F) effects on sustainable seafood availability for 
                United States consumers;
                    (G) effects on revenues and profits for domestic 
                fishermen seafood businesses;
                    (H) effects on the scope and volume of illegal, 
                unregulated, and unreported fishing occurring on the 
                high seas; and
                    (I) potential spillover effects on other fisheries 
                from imposing a moratorium.
    (c) Report.--
            (1) In general.--The agreement entered into under 
        subsection (a) shall require the National Academies to submit 
        to the Secretary of Commerce, not later than two years after 
        entering into the agreement, a report that describes the 
        results of the study and evaluation conducted pursuant to the 
        agreement.
            (2) Public availability.--The Administrator shall publish 
        the report received under paragraph (1) on a public website.

SEC. 1405. NATIONAL ACADEMIES ASSESSMENT OF PUBLIC ACCESS TO THE 
              COASTS.

    Not later than 90 days after the date of enactment of this Act, the 
Administrator shall seek to enter into an agreement with the National 
Academies to conduct a comprehensive assessment on public access to the 
Nation's coasts, including the Great Lakes' coasts. The assessment 
shall include--
            (1) an analysis of the existing quantity and quality of 
        public access points to the coasts by state, including both 
        recreational and commercial (``working waterfront'') access;
            (2) opportunities and barriers faced by low income 
        communities, communities of color, Tribal communities, 
        Indigenous communities, and rural communities for access to the 
        coasts;
            (3) the likely impact of sea level rise and extreme weather 
        on public access points to and access along the coasts; and
            (4) Federal mechanisms for preventing the loss of access, 
        for mitigating such loss when it occurs, and for increasing the 
        quantity, quality, and afford ability of public access to the 
        coasts for both recreational and commercial activities.

SEC. 1406. STUDY EXAMINING THE IMPACT OF ACIDIFICATION AND OTHER 
              ENVIRONMENTAL STRESSORS ON ESTUARIES ENVIRONMENTS.

    (a) In General.--Not later than 90 days after the date of enactment 
of this Act, the Administrator shall make appropriate arrangements with 
the National Academies under which the National Academies shall conduct 
a study that--
            (1) examines the existing science of acidification in 
        coastal environments, including in the Great Lakes;
            (2) examines the challenges to studying acidification and 
        the combined effect of acidification and other environment 
        stressors in coastal environments;
            (3) provides recommendations for improving future research 
        with respect to acidification in coastal environments; and
            (4) identifies pathways for applying science in management 
        and mitigation decisions relating to acidification in estuaries 
        environments.
    (b) Contents of Study.--The study conducted under subsection (a) 
shall include--
            (1) the behavior of the carbonate system within estuaries 
        environments;
            (2) the interactions of the carbonate system with other 
        biotic and biotic characteristics of coastal ecosystems;
            (3) how environmental and anthropogenic changes or 
        disturbances, such as nutrient runoff and water pollution, 
        could affect biotic and biotic processes within coastal 
        ecosystems;
            (4) how coastal biotic and biotic processes will be 
        affected under predicted environmental changes;
            (5) the current state of data collection, interpretation, 
        storage, and retrieval and observational infrastructure of 
        biotic and biotic parameters in coastal ecosystems;
            (6) the gaps that exist in understanding the socio-economic 
        and health impacts of acidification in coastal ecosystems;
            (7) future directions for scientific research; and
            (8) pathways for applying science in management and 
        mitigation decisions.
    (c) Report.--Not later than two years after entering into any 
arrangement under subsection (a), the Administrator shall request that 
the National Academies submit to Congress a report detailing the 
findings of the study.

SEC. 1407. STUDY EXAMINING THE CAUSES AND IMPACTS OF BLACK CARBON.

    (a) In General.--Not later than 180 days after the date of 
enactment of this Act, the Administrator and the Administrator of 
Interior shall make appropriate arrangements with the National 
Academies under which the National Academies shall conduct a study 
that--
            (1) quantifies the sources of black carbon emissions, 
        including wildfires and natural processes;
            (2) examines the impacts of black carbon on Indigenous 
        communities; and
            (3) examines the impacts of black carbon on marine and 
        terrestrial Arctic wildlife.
    (b) Authorization of Appropriations.--There is authorized to be 
appropriated to the Administrator $1,000,000 for fiscal year 2022 to 
carry out this section.

SEC. 1408. MARINE PROTECTED AREAS INVENTORY.

    (a) In General.--The Administrator, in consultation with the 
Secretaries of State and Interior, shall update the National Marine 
Protection Areas Centers Marine Protected Area Inventory to include--
            (1) an inventory of areas already protected withing the 
        exclusive economic zone of the United States;
            (2) an inventory of areas already protected in areas of the 
        ocean beyond the jurisdiction of the United States, and a 
        description of any activities that are currently allowed in 
        each of the areas;
            (3) an inventory of areas that other countries or 
        international governing bodies are considering making a marine 
        protected area;
            (4) areas under United States jurisdiction that are subject 
        to both a prohibition on all bottom-tending fishing gear and a 
        prohibition on all fishing gear with bycatch rates that 
        adversely affect marine wildlife populations, and identify 
        additional prohibitions on non-fishing commercial activities in 
        those areas; and
            (5) an inventory of the lease areas for offshore wind as 
        established by the Bureau of Ocean and Energy Management.
    (b) Authorization of Appropriations.--There is authorized to be 
appropriated to the Administrator $2,000,000 to carry out this section.

SEC. 1409. MARINE BIODIVERSITY CENSUS.

    (a) In General.--Not later than 90 days after the enactment of this 
Act, the Administrator, in coordination with relevant Federal, State, 
and Tribal agencies, shall develop a strategy for the United States to 
initiative a living marine census.
    (b) Requirements.--The requirements of this subsection are that the 
strategy shall--
            (1) identify what is needed to develop a coordinated, 
        sustained marine biodiversity observation and research program 
        to identify and monitor the diversity, abundance, and 
        distribution of marine species; how it is changing; and how it 
        impacts ecosystem function and services;
            (2) identify existing infrastructure and programs, such as 
        the Marine Biodiversity Observation Network, and how they can 
        be utilized and expanded as part of a living marine census, 
        that includes a coordinated data infrastructure;
            (3) include an organizational structure that facilitates 
        multi-sector coordination and oversight; and
            (4) address how this effort will help inform the marine 
        biodiversity gap analysis as described in section 1410.
    (c) Publication and Public Comment.--Not later than 60 days after 
the strategy is published to a public website, the strategy shall be 
published in the Federal Register to provide an opportunity for 
submission of public comments for a period of not less than 60 days.
    (d) Authorization of Appropriations.--There is authorized to be 
appropriated to the Administrator to carry out this section $2,000,000 
for each of fiscal years 2022 through 2026.

SEC. 1410. MARINE BIODIVERSITY GAP ANALYSIS.

    (a) In General.--Not later than 90 days after the date of enactment 
of this Act, the Administrator of Commerce and the Administrator of the 
Interior, in coordination with relevant Federal and State agencies, 
shall begin a marine biodiversity gap analysis meeting the requirements 
described in subsection (b) to be completed not later than 18 months 
after such date. Such Secretaries, in coordination with relevant 
Federal and State agencies, shall update such analysis not less 
frequently than every 2 years thereafter.
    (b) Requirements.--The requirements of this subsection are that the 
Marine Biodiversity Gap Analysis shall--
            (1) assess habitats, species, and ecosystems across the 
        United States ocean waters and coasts; and
            (2) determine what types of habitats, species, and 
        ecosystems and the percentage of each type of habitat, species, 
        and ecosystem are necessary to protect in order to--
                    (A) protect biodiversity; and
                    (B) mitigate and provide resilience to the impacts 
                of climate change.
    (c) Publication.--The Administrator of Commerce shall publish the 
marine biodiversity gap analysis required by subsection (a) on a public 
website.
    (d) Report.--Biennially, the Administrator of Commerce and 
Administrator of the Interior shall publish a report on candidate areas 
for protection, and on progress for advancing protection of habitats, 
species, and biodiversity identified in the gap analysis required by 
subsection (a) and is also informed by the Living Marine Census 
described in section 1409.
    (e) Authorization of Appropriations.--There is authorized to be 
appropriated $2,000,000 in each fiscal year 2022 through 2026 to carry 
out this section.

SEC. 1411. STUDY AND ACTION ON DERELICT FISHING GEAR.

    (a) Report.--Not later than two years after the date of enactment 
of this Act, the Administrator shall submit to the Committee on 
Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate and the Committee 
on Natural Resources of the House of Representatives a report that 
includes--
            (1) an analysis of the scale of fishing gear losses by 
        United States and foreign fisheries, including--
                    (A) the variance in the quantity of gear lost 
                among--
                            (i) domestic and foreign fisheries;
                            (ii) types of fishing gear; and
                            (iii) methods of fishing;
                    (B) the means by which lost fishing gear is 
                transported by ocean currents; and
                    (C) common reasons that fishing gear is lost;
            (2) an evaluation of the ecological, human health, and 
        maritime safety impacts of derelict fishing gear, and how those 
        impacts vary across--
                    (A) types of fishing gear;
                    (B) materials used to construct fishing gear; and
                    (C) geographic location;
            (3) recommendations on management measures--
                    (A) to prevent fishing gear losses; and
                    (B) to reduce the impacts of lost fishing gear;
            (4) an assessment of the cost of implementing management 
        measures described in paragraph (3); and
            (5) an assessment of the impact of fishing gear loss 
        attributable to foreign countries.
    (b) Publication in the Federal Register.--On submission of the 
report required under subsection (a), the Administrator shall publish 
such report in the Federal Register for public comment, and include a 
description of the actions the Administrator intends to take during the 
1-year period after such publication to reduce litter from, and the 
environmental impacts of, commercial fishing gear.
                                 &lt;all&gt;
</pre></body></html>
