<html><body><pre>
[Congressional Bills 116th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H.R. 7325 Introduced in House (IH)]

&lt;DOC&gt;






116th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                H. R. 7325

 To make grants to support online training of residential contractors 
and rebates for the energy efficiency upgrades of homes, and for other 
                               purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                             June 24, 2020

  Mr. Welch (for himself, Mr. McKinley, Mr. Tonko, Mr. Cardenas, Mr. 
Carson of Indiana, and Mrs. Hayes) introduced the following bill; which 
 was referred to the Committee on Energy and Commerce, and in addition 
  to the Committee on Ways and Means, for a period to be subsequently 
   determined by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of such 
 provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the committee concerned

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
 To make grants to support online training of residential contractors 
and rebates for the energy efficiency upgrades of homes, and for other 
                               purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE; TABLE OF CONTENTS.

    (a) Short Title.--This Act may be cited as the ``HOPE for HOMES Act 
of 2020''.
    (b) Table of Contents.--The table of contents for this Act is as 
follows:

Sec. 1. Short title; table of contents.
Sec. 2. Definitions.
                         TITLE I--HOPE TRAINING

Sec. 101. Notice for HOPE Qualification training and grants.
Sec. 102. Course criteria.
Sec. 103. HOPE Qualification.
Sec. 104. Grants.
Sec. 105. Authorization of appropriations.
         TITLE II--HOME ENERGY SAVINGS RETROFIT REBATE PROGRAM

Sec. 201. Establishment of Home Energy Savings Retrofit Rebate Program.
Sec. 202. Partial system rebates.
Sec. 203. State administered rebates.
Sec. 204. Special provisions for moderate income households.
Sec. 205. Evaluation reports to Congress.
Sec. 206. Administration.
Sec. 207. Treatment of rebates.
Sec. 208. Authorization of appropriations.
                     TITLE III--GENERAL PROVISIONS

Sec. 301. Appointment of personnel.
Sec. 302. Maintenance of funding.

SEC. 2. DEFINITIONS.

    In this Act:
            (1) Contractor certification.--The term ``contractor 
        certification'' means an industry recognized certification that 
        may be obtained by a residential contractor to advance the 
        expertise and education of the contractor in energy efficiency 
        retrofits of residential buildings, including--
                    (A) a certification provided by--
                            (i) the Building Performance Institute;
                            (ii) the Air Conditioning Contractors of 
                        America;
                            (iii) the National Comfort Institute;
                            (iv) the North American Technician 
                        Excellence;
                            (v) RESNET;
                            (vi) the United States Green Building 
                        Council; or
                            (vii) Home Innovation Research Labs; and
                    (B) any other certification the Secretary 
                determines appropriate for purposes of the Home Energy 
                Savings Retrofit Rebate Program.
            (2) Contractor company.--The term ``contractor company'' 
        means a company--
                    (A) the business of which is to provide services to 
                residential building owners with respect to HVAC 
                systems, insulation, air sealing, or other services 
                that are approved by the Secretary;
                    (B) that holds the licenses and insurance required 
                by the State in which the company provides services; 
                and
                    (C) that provides services for which a partial 
                system rebate, measured performance rebate, or modeled 
                performance rebate may be provided pursuant to the Home 
                Energy Savings Retrofit Rebate Program.
            (3) Energy audit.--The term ``energy audit'' means an 
        inspection, survey, and analysis of the energy use of a 
        building, including the building envelope and HVAC system.
            (4) Home.--The term ``home'' means a residential dwelling 
        unit in a building with no more than 4 dwelling units that--
                    (A) is located in the United States;
                    (B) was constructed before the date of enactment of 
                this Act; and
                    (C) is occupied at least 6 months out of the year.
            (5) Home energy savings retrofit rebate program.--The term 
        ``Home Energy Savings Retrofit Rebate Program'' means the Home 
        Energy Savings Retrofit Rebate Program established under 
        section 201.
            (6) Homeowner.--The term ``homeowner'' means the owner of 
        an owner-occupied home or a tenant-occupied home.
            (7) Home valuation certification.--The term ``home 
        valuation certification'' means the following home assessments:
                    (A) Home Energy Score.
                    (B) PEARL Certification.
                    (C) National Green Building Standard.
                    (D) LEED.
                    (E) Any other assessment the Secretary determines 
                to be appropriate.
            (8) HOPE qualification.--The term ``HOPE Qualification'' 
        means the qualification described in section 103.
            (9) HOPE training credit.--The term ``HOPE training 
        credit'' means a HOPE training task credit or a HOPE training 
        supplemental credit.
            (10) HOPE training task credit.--The term ``HOPE training 
        task credit'' means a credit described in section 102(a).
            (11) HOPE training supplemental credit.--The term ``HOPE 
        training supplemental credit'' means a credit described in 
        section 102(b).
            (12) HVAC system.--The term ``HVAC system'' means a 
        system--
                    (A) consisting of a heating component, a 
                ventilation component, and an air-conditioning 
                component; and
                    (B) which components may include central air 
                conditioning, a heat pump, a furnace, a boiler, a 
                rooftop unit, and a window unit.
            (13) Measured performance rebate.--The term ``measured 
        performance rebate'' means a rebate provided in accordance with 
        section 203 and described in subsection (e) of that section.
            (14) Modeled performance rebate.--The term ``modeled 
        performance rebate'' means a rebate provided in accordance with 
        section 203 and described in subsection (d) of that section.
            (15) Moderate income.--The term ``moderate income'' means, 
        with respect to a household, a household with an annual income 
        that is less than 80 percent of the area median income, as 
        determined annually by the Department of Housing and Urban 
        Development.
            (16) Partial system rebate.--The term ``partial system 
        rebate'' means a rebate provided in accordance with section 
        202.
            (17) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary 
        of Energy.
            (18) State.--The term ``State'' includes--
                    (A) a State;
                    (B) the District of Columbia;
                    (C) the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico;
                    (D) Guam;
                    (E) American Samoa;
                    (F) the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana 
                Islands;
                    (G) the United States Virgin Islands; and
                    (H) any other territory or possession of the United 
                States.
            (19) State energy office.--The term ``State energy office'' 
        means the office or agency of a State responsible for 
        developing the State energy conservation plan for the State 
        under section 362 of the Energy Policy and Conservation Act (42 
        U.S.C. 6322).

                         TITLE I--HOPE TRAINING

SEC. 101. NOTICE FOR HOPE QUALIFICATION TRAINING AND GRANTS.

    Not later than 30 days after the date of enactment of this Act, the 
Secretary, acting through the Director of the Building Technologies 
Office of the Department of Energy, shall issue a notice that 
includes--
            (1) criteria established under section 102 for approval by 
        the Secretary of courses for which credits may be issued for 
        purposes of a HOPE Qualification;
            (2) a list of courses that meet such criteria and are so 
        approved; and
            (3) information on how individuals and entities may apply 
        for grants under this title.

SEC. 102. COURSE CRITERIA.

    (a) HOPE Training Task Credit.--
            (1) Criteria.--The Secretary shall establish criteria for 
        approval of a course for which a credit, to be known as a HOPE 
        training task credit, may be issued, including that such 
        course--
                    (A) is equivalent to at least 30 hours in total 
                course time;
                    (B) is accredited by the Interstate Renewable 
                Energy Council or is determined to be equivalent by the 
                Secretary;
                    (C) is, with respect to a particular job, aligned 
                with the relevant National Renewable Energy Laboratory 
                Job Task Analysis, or other credentialing program 
                foundation that helps identify the necessary core 
                knowledge areas, critical work functions, or skills, as 
                approved by the Secretary;
                    (D) has established learning objectives; and
                    (E) includes, as the Secretary determines 
                appropriate, an appropriate assessment of such learning 
                objectives that may include a final exam, to be 
                proctored on-site or through remote proctoring, or an 
                in-person field exam.
            (2) Included courses.--The Secretary shall approve one or 
        more courses that meet the criteria described in paragraph (1) 
        for training related to--
                    (A) contractor certification;
                    (B) energy auditing or assessment;
                    (C) home energy systems (including HVAC systems);
                    (D) insulation installation and air leakage 
                control;
                    (E) health and safety regarding the installation of 
                energy efficiency measures or health and safety impacts 
                associated with energy efficiency retrofits; and
                    (F) indoor air quality.
    (b) HOPE Training Supplemental Credit Criteria.--The Secretary 
shall establish criteria for approval of a course for which a credit, 
to be known as a HOPE training supplemental credit, may be issued, 
including that such course provides--
            (1) training related to--
                    (A) small business success, including management, 
                home energy efficiency software, or general accounting 
                principles;
                    (B) the issuance of a home valuation certification;
                    (C) the use of wifi-enabled technology in an energy 
                efficiency upgrade; or
                    (D) understanding and being able to participate in 
                the Home Energy Savings Retrofit Rebate Program; and
            (2) as the Secretary determines appropriate, an appropriate 
        assessment of such training that may include a final exam, to 
        be proctored on-site or through remote proctoring, or an in-
        person field exam.
    (c) Existing Approved Courses.--The Secretary may approve a course 
that meets the applicable criteria established under this section that 
is approved by the applicable State energy office or relevant State 
agency with oversight authority for residential energy efficiency 
programs.
    (d) In-Person and Online Training.--An online course approved 
pursuant to this section may be conducted in-person, but may not be 
offered exclusively in-person.

SEC. 103. HOPE QUALIFICATION.

    (a) Issuance of Credits.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary, or an entity authorized by 
        the Secretary pursuant to paragraph (2), may issue--
                    (A) a HOPE training task credit to any individual 
                that completes a course that meets applicable criteria 
                under section 102; and
                    (B) a HOPE training supplemental credit to any 
                individual that completes a course that meets the 
                applicable criteria under section 102.
            (2) Other entities.--The Secretary may authorize a State 
        energy office implementing an authorized program under 
        subsection (b)(2), an organization described in section 104(b), 
        and any other entity the Secretary determines appropriate, to 
        issue HOPE training credits in accordance with paragraph (1).
    (b) HOPE Qualification.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary may certify that an 
        individual has achieved a qualification, to be known as a HOPE 
        Qualification, that indicates that the individual has received 
        at least 3 HOPE training credits, of which at least 2 shall be 
        HOPE training task credits.
            (2) State programs.--The Secretary may authorize a State 
        energy office to implement a program to provide HOPE 
        Qualifications in accordance with this title.

SEC. 104. GRANTS.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary shall, to the extent amounts are 
made available in appropriations Acts for such purposes, provide grants 
to support the training of individuals toward the completion of a HOPE 
Qualification.
    (b) Provider Organizations.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary may provide a grant of up to 
        $20,000 under this section to an organization to provide 
        training online, including establishing, modifying, or 
        maintaining the online systems, staff time, and software and 
        online program management, through a course that meets the 
        applicable criteria established under section 102.
            (2) Criteria.--In order to receive a grant under this 
        subsection, an organization shall be--
                    (A) a nonprofit organization;
                    (B) an educational institution; or
                    (C) an organization that has experience providing 
                training to contractors that work with the 
                weatherization assistance program implemented under 
                part A of title IV of the Energy Conservation and 
                Production Act (42 U.S.C. 6861 et seq.) or equivalent 
                experience, as determined by the Secretary.
            (3) Additional certifications.--In addition to any grant 
        provided under paragraph (1), the Secretary may provide an 
        organization up to $5,000 for each additional course for which 
        a HOPE training credit may be issued that is offered by the 
        organization.
    (c) Contractor Company.--The Secretary may provide a grant under 
this section of $1,000 per employee to a contractor company, up to a 
maximum of $10,000, to reimburse the contractor company for training 
costs for employees, and any home technology support needed for an 
employee to receive training pursuant to this section. Grant funds 
provided under this subsection may be used to support wages of 
employees during training.
    (d) Trainees.--The Secretary may provide a grant of up to $1,000 
under this section to an individual who receives a HOPE Qualification.
    (e) State Energy Office.--The Secretary may provide a grant under 
this section to a State energy office of up to $25,000 to implement an 
authorized program under section 103(b).

SEC. 105. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.

    There is authorized to be appropriated to carry out this title 
$500,000,000 for the period of fiscal years 2020 through 2025.

         TITLE II--HOME ENERGY SAVINGS RETROFIT REBATE PROGRAM

SEC. 201. ESTABLISHMENT OF HOME ENERGY SAVINGS RETROFIT REBATE PROGRAM.

     The Secretary shall establish a program, to be known as the Home 
Energy Savings Retrofit Rebate Program, to--
            (1) provide rebates in accordance with section 202; and
            (2) provide grants to States to carry out programs to 
        provide rebates in accordance with section 203.

SEC. 202. PARTIAL SYSTEM REBATES.

    (a) Amount of Rebate.--In carrying out the Home Energy Savings 
Retrofit Rebate Program, and subject to the availability of 
appropriations for such purpose, the Secretary shall provide a 
homeowner a rebate, to be known as a partial system rebate, of, except 
as provided in section 204, up to--
            (1) $800 for the purchase and installation of insulation 
        and air sealing within a home of the homeowner; and
            (2) $1,500 for the purchase and installation of insulation 
        and air sealing within a home of the homeowner and replacement 
        of an HVAC system, the heating component of an HVAC system, or 
        the cooling component of an HVAC system, of such home.
    (b) Specifications.--
            (1) Cost.--The amount of a partial system rebate provided 
        under this section shall, except as provided in section 204, 
        not exceed 30 percent of cost of the purchase and installation 
        of insulation and air sealing under subsection (a)(1), or the 
        purchase and installation of insulation and air sealing and 
        replacement of an HVAC system, the heating component of an HVAC 
        system, or the cooling component of an HVAC system, under 
        subsection (a)(2). Labor may be included in such cost but may 
        not exceed--
                    (A) in the case of a rebate under subsection 
                (a)(1), 50 percent of such cost; and
                    (B) in the case of a rebate under subsection 
                (a)(2), 25 percent of such cost.
            (2) Replacement of an hvac system, the heating component of 
        an hvac system, or the cooling component of an hvac system.--In 
        order to qualify for a partial system rebate described in 
        subsection (a)(2)--
                    (A) any HVAC system, heating component of an HVAC 
                system, or cooling component of an HVAC system 
                installed shall be Energy Star Most Efficient 
                certified;
                    (B) installation of such an HVAC system, the 
                heating component of an HVAC system, or the cooling 
                component of an HVAC system, shall be completed in 
                accordance with standards specified by the Secretary 
                that are at least as stringent as the applicable 
                guidelines of the Air Conditioning Contractors of 
                America that are in effect on the date of enactment of 
                this Act;
                    (C) if ducts are present, replacement of an HVAC 
                system, the heating component of an HVAC system, or the 
                cooling component of an HVAC system shall include duct 
                sealing; and
                    (D) the installation of insulation and air sealing 
                shall occur within 6 months of the replacement of the 
                HVAC system, the heating component of an HVAC system, 
                or the cooling component of an HVAC system.
    (c) Additional Incentives for Contractors.--In carrying out the 
Home Energy Savings Retrofit Rebate Program, the Secretary may provide 
a $250 payment to a contractor per home for which--
            (1) a partial system rebate is provided under this section 
        for the installation of insulation and air sealing, or 
        installation of insulation and air sealing and replacement of 
        an HVAC system, the heating component of an HVAC system, or the 
        cooling component of an HVAC system, by the contractor;
            (2) the applicable homeowner has signed and submitted to 
        the Secretary a release form made available pursuant to section 
        206(b) authorizing the contractor access to information in the 
        utility bills of the homeowner; and
            (3) the contractor inputs, into the Department of Energy's 
        Building Performance Database--
                    (A) the energy usage for the home for the 12 months 
                preceding, and the 24 months following, the 
                installation of insulation and air sealing or 
                installation of insulation and air sealing and 
                replacement of an HVAC system, the heating component of 
                an HVAC system, or the cooling component of an HVAC 
                system;
                    (B) a description of such installation or 
                installation and replacement; and
                    (C) the total cost to the homeowner for such 
                installation or installation and replacement.
    (d) Process.--
            (1) Forms; rebate processing system.--Not later than 90 
        days after the date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary, in 
        consultation with the Secretary of the Treasury, shall--
                    (A) develop and make available rebate forms 
                required to receive a partial system rebate under this 
                section;
                    (B) establish a Federal rebate processing system 
                which shall serve as a database and information 
                technology system that will allow homeowners to submit 
                required rebate forms; and
                    (C) establish a website that provides information 
                on partial system rebates provided under this section, 
                including how to determine whether particular measures 
                qualify for a rebate under this section and how to 
                receive such a rebate.
            (2) Submission of forms.--In order to receive a partial 
        system rebate under this section, a homeowner shall submit the 
        required rebate forms, and any other information the Secretary 
        determines appropriate, to the Federal rebate processing system 
        established pursuant to paragraph (1).
    (e) Funding.--
            (1) Limitation.--For each fiscal year, the Secretary may 
        not use more than 50 percent of the amounts made available to 
        carry out this title to carry out this section.
            (2) Allocation.--The Secretary shall allocate amounts made 
        available to carry out this section for partial system rebates 
        among the States using the same formula as is used to allocate 
        funds for States under part D of title III of the Energy Policy 
        and Conservation Act (42 U.S.C. 6321 et seq.).

SEC. 203. STATE ADMINISTERED REBATES.

    (a) Funding.--In carrying out the Home Energy Savings Retrofit 
Rebate Program, and subject to the availability of appropriations for 
such purpose, the Secretary shall provide grants to States to carry out 
programs to provide rebates in accordance with this section.
    (b) State Participation.--
            (1) Plan.--In order to receive a grant under this section a 
        State shall submit to the Secretary an application that 
        includes a plan to implement a State program that meets the 
        minimum criteria under subsection (c).
            (2) Approval.--Not later than 60 days after receipt of a 
        completed application for a grant under this section, the 
        Secretary shall either approve the application or provide to 
        the applicant an explanation for denying the application.
    (c) Minimum Criteria for State Programs.--Not later than 6 months 
after the date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall establish 
and publish minimum criteria for a State program to meet to qualify for 
funding under this section, including--
            (1) that the State program be carried out by the applicable 
        State energy office or its designee;
            (2) that a rebate be provided under a State program only 
        for a home energy efficiency retrofit that--
                    (A) is completed by a contractor who meets minimum 
                training requirements and certification requirements 
                set forth by the Secretary;
                    (B) includes installation of one or more home 
                energy efficiency retrofit measures for a home that 
                together are modeled to achieve, or are shown to 
                achieve, a reduction in home energy use of 20 percent 
                or more from the baseline energy use of the home;
                    (C) does not include installation of any measure 
                that the Secretary determines does not improve the 
                thermal energy performance of the home, such as a pool 
                pump, pool heater, spa, or EV charger; and
                    (D) includes, after installation of the applicable 
                home energy efficiency retrofit measures, a test-out 
                procedure conducted in accordance with guidelines 
                issued by the Secretary of such measures to ensure--
                            (i) the safe operation of all systems post 
                        retrofit; and
                            (ii) that all improvements are included in, 
                        and have been installed according to--
                                    (I) manufacturers installation 
                                specifications; and
                                    (II) all applicable State and local 
                                codes or equivalent standards approved 
                                by the Secretary;
            (3) that the State program utilize--
                    (A) for purposes of modeled performance rebates, 
                modeling software approved by the Secretary for 
                determining and documenting the baseline energy use of 
                a home and the reductions in home energy use resulting 
                from the implementation of a home energy efficiency 
                retrofit; and
                    (B) for purposes of measured performance rebates, 
                methods and procedures approved by the Secretary for 
                determining and documenting the baseline energy use of 
                a home and the reductions in home energy use resulting 
                from the implementation of a home energy efficiency 
                retrofit, including methods and procedures for use of 
                advanced metering infrastructure, weather-normalized 
                data, and open source standards, to measure such 
                baseline energy use and such reductions in home energy 
                use;
            (4) that the State program include implementation of a 
        quality assurance program--
                    (A) to ensure that home energy efficiency retrofits 
                are achieving the stated level of energy savings, that 
                efficiency measures were installed correctly, and that 
                work is performed in accordance with procedures 
                developed by the Secretary, including through quality-
                control inspections for a portion of home energy 
                efficiency retrofits completed by each applicable 
                contractor; and
                    (B) under which a quality-control inspection of a 
                home energy efficiency retrofit is performed by a 
                quality assurance provider who--
                            (i) is independent of the contractor for 
                        such retrofit; and
                            (ii) will confirm that such contractor is a 
                        contractor who meets minimum training 
                        requirements and certification requirements set 
                        forth by the Secretary;
            (5) that the State program include requirements for a 
        homeowner, contractor, or rebate aggregator to claim a rebate, 
        including that the homeowner, contractor, or rebate aggregator 
        submit any applicable forms approved by the Secretary to the 
        State, including a copy of the certificate provided by the 
        applicable contractor certifying projected or measured 
        reduction of home energy use;
            (6) that the State program may include requirements for an 
        entity to be eligible to serve as a rebate aggregator to 
        facilitate the delivery of rebates to homeowners or 
        contractors;
            (7) that the State program include procedures for a 
        homeowner to transfer the right to claim a rebate to the 
        contractor performing the applicable home energy efficiency 
        retrofit or to a rebate aggregator that works with the 
        contractor; and
            (8) that the State program provide that a homeowner, 
        contractor, or rebate aggregator may claim more than one rebate 
        under the State program, and may claim a rebate under the State 
        program after receiving a partial system rebate under section 
        202, provided that no 2 rebates may be provided with respect to 
        a home using the same baseline energy use of such home.
    (d) Modeled Performance Rebates.--
            (1) In general.--In carrying out a State program under this 
        section, a State may provide a homeowner, contractor, or rebate 
        aggregator a rebate, to be known as a modeled performance 
        rebate, for an energy audit of a home and a home energy 
        efficiency retrofit that is projected, using modeling software 
        approved by the Secretary, to reduce home energy use by at 
        least 20 percent.
            (2) Amount.--
                    (A) In general.--Except as provided in section 204, 
                and subject to subparagraph (B), the amount of a 
                modeled performance rebate provided under a State 
                program shall be equal to 50 percent of the cost of the 
                applicable energy audit of a home and home energy 
                efficiency retrofit, including the cost of diagnostic 
                procedures, labor, reporting, and modeling.
                    (B) Limitation.--Except as provided in section 204, 
                with respect to an energy audit and home energy 
                efficiency retrofit that is projected to reduce home 
                energy use by--
                            (i) at least 20 percent, but less than 40 
                        percent, the maximum amount of a modeled 
                        performance rebate shall be $2,000; and
                            (ii) at least 40 percent, the maximum 
                        amount of a modeled performance rebate shall be 
                        $4,000.
    (e) Measured Performance Rebates.--
            (1) In general.--In carrying out a State program under this 
        section, a State may provide a homeowner, contractor, or rebate 
        aggregator a rebate, to be known as a measured performance 
        rebate, for a home energy efficiency retrofit that reduces home 
        energy use by at least 20 percent as measured using methods and 
        procedures approved by the Secretary.
            (2) Amount.--
                    (A) In general.--Except as provided in section 204, 
                and subject to subparagraph (B), the amount of a 
                measured performance rebate provided under a State 
                program shall be equal to 50 percent of the cost, 
                including the cost of diagnostic procedures, labor, 
                reporting, and energy measurement, of the applicable 
                home energy efficiency retrofit.
                    (B) Limitation.--Except as provided in section 204, 
                with respect to a home energy efficiency retrofit that 
                is measured as reducing home energy use by--
                            (i) at least 20 percent, but less than 40 
                        percent, the maximum amount of a measured 
                        performance rebate shall be $2,000; and
                            (ii) at least 40 percent, the maximum 
                        amount of a measured performance rebate shall 
                        be $4,000.
    (f) Coordination of Rebate and Existing State-Sponsored or Utility-
Sponsored Programs.--A State that receives a grant under this section 
is encouraged to work with State agencies, energy utilities, 
nonprofits, and other entities--
            (1) to assist in marketing the availability of the rebates 
        under the applicable State program;
            (2) to coordinate with utility or State managed financing 
        programs;
            (3) to assist in implementation of the applicable State 
        program, including installation of home energy efficiency 
        retrofits; and
            (4) to coordinate with existing quality assurance programs.
    (g) Administration and Oversight.--
            (1) Review of approved modeling software.--The Secretary 
        shall, on an annual basis, list and review all modeling 
        software approved for use in determining and documenting the 
        reductions in home energy use for purposes of modeled 
        performance rebates under subsection (d). In approving such 
        modeling software each year, the Secretary shall ensure that 
        modeling software approved for a year will result in modeling 
        of energy efficiency gains for any type of home energy 
        efficiency retrofit that is at least as substantial as the 
        modeling of energy efficiency gains for such type of home 
        energy efficiency retrofit using the modeling software approved 
        for the previous year.
            (2) Oversight.--If the Secretary determines that a State is 
        not implementing a State program that was approved pursuant to 
        subsection (b) and that meets the minimum criteria under 
        subsection (c), the Secretary may, after providing the State a 
        period of at least 90 days to meet such criteria, withhold 
        grant funds under this section from the State.

SEC. 204. SPECIAL PROVISIONS FOR MODERATE INCOME HOUSEHOLDS.

    (a) Certifications.--The Secretary shall establish procedures for 
certifying that the household of a homeowner is moderate income for 
purposes of this section.
    (b) Percentages.--Subject to subsection (c), for households of 
homeowners that are certified pursuant to the procedures established 
under subsection (a) as moderate income the--
            (1) amount of a partial system rebate under section 202 
        shall not exceed 60 percent of the applicable purchase and 
        installation costs described in section 202(b)(1); and
            (2) amount of--
                    (A) a modeled performance rebate under section 203 
                provided shall be equal to 80 percent of the applicable 
                costs described in section 203(d)(2)(A); and
                    (B) a measured performance rebate under section 203 
                provided shall be equal to 80 percent of the applicable 
                costs described in section 203(e)(2)(A).
    (c) Maximum Amounts.--For households of homeowners that are 
certified pursuant to the procedures established under subsection (a) 
as moderate income the maximum amount--
            (1) of a partial system rebate--
                    (A) under section 202(a)(1) for the purchase and 
                installation of insulation and air sealing within a 
                home of the homeowner shall be $1,600; and
                    (B) under section 202(a)(2) for the purchase and 
                installation of insulation and air sealing within a 
                home of the homeowner and replacement of an HVAC 
                system, the heating component of an HVAC system, or the 
                cooling component of an HVAC system, of such home, 
                shall be $3,000;
            (2) of a modeled performance rebate under section 203 for 
        an energy audit and home energy efficiency retrofit that is 
        projected to reduce home energy use as described in--
                    (A) section 203(d)(2)(B)(i) shall be $4,000; and
                    (B) section 203(d)(2)(B)(ii) shall be $8,000; and
            (3) of a measured performance rebate under section 203 for 
        a home energy efficiency retrofit that reduces home energy use 
        as described in--
                    (A) section 203(e)(2)(B)(i) shall be $4,000; and
                    (B) section 203(e)(2)(B)(ii) shall be $8,000.
    (d) Outreach.--The Secretary shall establish procedures to--
            (1) provide information to households of homeowners that 
        are certified pursuant to the procedures established under 
        subsection (a) as moderate income regarding other programs and 
        resources relating to assistance for energy efficiency upgrades 
        of homes, including the weatherization assistance program 
        implemented under part A of title IV of the Energy Conservation 
        and Production Act (42 U.S.C. 6861 et seq.); and
            (2) refer such households, as applicable, to such other 
        programs and resources.

SEC. 205. EVALUATION REPORTS TO CONGRESS.

    (a) In General.--Not later than 3 years after the date of enactment 
of this Act and annually thereafter until the termination of the Home 
Energy Savings Retrofit Rebate Program, the Secretary shall submit to 
Congress a report on the use of funds made available to carry out this 
title.
    (b) Contents.--Each report submitted under subsection (a) shall 
include--
            (1) how many home energy efficiency retrofits have been 
        completed during the previous year under the Home Energy 
        Savings Retrofit Rebate Program;
            (2) an estimate of how many jobs have been created through 
        the Home Energy Savings Retrofit Rebate Program, directly and 
        indirectly;
            (3) a description of what steps could be taken to promote 
        further deployment of energy efficiency and renewable energy 
        retrofits;
            (4) a description of the quantity of verifiable energy 
        savings, homeowner energy bill savings, and other benefits of 
        the Home Energy Savings Retrofit Rebate Program;
            (5) a description of any waste, fraud, or abuse with 
        respect to funds made available to carry out this title; and
            (6) any other information the Secretary considers 
        appropriate.

SEC. 206. ADMINISTRATION.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary shall provide such administrative 
and technical support to contractors, rebate aggregators, States, and 
Indian Tribes as is necessary to carry out this title.
    (b) Information Collection.--The Secretary shall establish, and 
make available to a homeowner, or the homeowner's designated 
representative, seeking a rebate under this title, release forms 
authorizing access by the Secretary, or a designated third-party 
representative to information in the utility bills of the homeowner 
with appropriate privacy protections in place.

SEC. 207. TREATMENT OF REBATES.

    For purposes of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, gross income 
shall not include any rebate received under this title.

SEC. 208. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.

    (a) In General.--There are authorized to be appropriated to the 
Secretary to carry out this title $1,000,000,000 for each of fiscal 
years 2020 through 2025, to remain available until expended.
    (b) Tribal Allocation.--Of the amounts made available pursuant to 
subsection (a) for a fiscal year, the Secretary shall work with Indian 
Tribes and use 2 percent of such amounts to carry out a program or 
programs that as close as possible reflect the goals, requirements, and 
provisions of this title, taking into account any factors that the 
Secretary determines to be appropriate.

                     TITLE III--GENERAL PROVISIONS

SEC. 301. APPOINTMENT OF PERSONNEL.

    Notwithstanding the provisions of title 5, United States Code, 
regarding appointments in the competitive service and General Schedule 
classifications and pay rates, the Secretary may appoint such 
professional and administrative personnel as the Secretary considers 
necessary to carry out this Act.

SEC. 302. MAINTENANCE OF FUNDING.

    Each State receiving Federal funds pursuant to this Act shall 
provide reasonable assurances to the Secretary that it has established 
policies and procedures designed to ensure that Federal funds provided 
under this Act will be used to supplement, and not to supplant, State 
and local funds.
                                 &lt;all&gt;
</pre></body></html>
