<html><body><pre>
[Congressional Bills 108th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H.R. 4546 Introduced in House (IH)]






108th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                H. R. 4546

To provide for the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, to 
   authorize appropriations for the National Oceanic and Atmospheric 
                Administration, and for other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                             June 14, 2004

  Mr. Ehlers introduced the following bill; which was referred to the 
 Committee on Science, and in addition to the Committee on Resources, 
for a period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case 
for consideration of such provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of 
                        the committee concerned

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
To provide for the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, to 
   authorize appropriations for the National Oceanic and Atmospheric 
                Administration, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. TABLE OF CONTENTS.

    The table of contents for this Act is as follows:

Sec. 1. Table of contents.
        TITLE I--NATIONAL OCEANIC AND ATMOSPHERIC ADMINISTRATION

Sec. 101. Short title.
Sec. 102. Definitions.
Sec. 103. National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration.
Sec. 104. Administration leadership.
Sec. 105. National Weather Service.
Sec. 106. Operations and services.
Sec. 107. Research and education.
Sec. 108. Science Advisory Board.
Sec. 109. Reports.
Sec. 110. Effect of Reorganization Plan.
               TITLE II--AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS

Sec. 201. Short title.
Sec. 202. Authorization of appropriations.
                TITLE III--COASTAL OCEAN SCIENCE PROGRAM

Sec. 301. Short title.
Sec. 302. Coastal Ocean Science Program.
                       TITLE IV--MARINE RESEARCH

Sec. 401. Short title.
Sec. 402. Purposes.
Sec. 403. Interagency marine research program.
Sec. 404. National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration Marine 
                            Research Initiative.
Sec. 405. Authorization of appropriations.
             TITLE V--OCEAN AND COASTAL OBSERVATION SYSTEMS

Sec. 501. Short title.
Sec. 502. Purposes.
Sec. 503. Integrated ocean and coastal observing system.
Sec. 504. Interagency financing.
Sec. 505. Great Lakes.
Sec. 506. Authorization of appropriations.
                    TITLE VI--ABRUPT CLIMATE CHANGE

Sec. 601. Short title.
Sec. 602. Abrupt climate change research program.
Sec. 603. Authorization of appropriations.
           TITLE VII--UNITED STATES WEATHER RESEARCH PROGRAM

Sec. 701. Short title.
Sec. 702. Program focus.
Sec. 703. Program research priorities.
Sec. 704. Interagency planning and process.
Sec. 705. Reporting requirements.
Sec. 706. Authorization of appropriations.

        TITLE I--NATIONAL OCEANIC AND ATMOSPHERIC ADMINISTRATION

SEC. 101. SHORT TITLE.

    This title may be cited as the ``National Oceanic and Atmospheric 
Administration Act''.

SEC. 102. DEFINITIONS.

    In this title:
            (1) The term ``Administration'' means the National Oceanic 
        and Atmospheric Administration.
            (2) The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary of Commerce.
            (3) The term ``Administrator'' means the Administrator of 
        the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration.

SEC. 103. NATIONAL OCEANIC AND ATMOSPHERIC ADMINISTRATION.

    (a) In General.--There shall be in the Department of Commerce an 
agency known as the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration.
    (b) Mission.--The mission of the Administration is to understand 
and predict changes in the Earth's ocean and atmosphere and the effects 
of such changes on the land environment, to conserve and manage 
coastal, ocean, and Great Lakes ecosystems to meet national economic, 
social, and environmental needs, and to educate the public about these 
topics.
    (c) Functions.--The functions of the Administration shall include--
            (1) collecting, through observation and other means, 
        communicating, analyzing, processing, providing, and 
        disseminating comprehensive scientific data and information 
        about weather and climate, solar and geophysical events on the 
        Sun and in the space environment, and about the coasts, oceans, 
        Great Lakes, and upper reaches of estuaries;
            (2) operating and maintaining a system for the storage, 
        retrieval, and dissemination of data relating to weather and 
        climate, solar and geophysical events on the Sun and in the 
        space environment, and about the coasts, oceans, Great Lakes, 
        and upper reaches of estuaries;
            (3) conducting and supporting basic and applied research 
        and development of technology as may be necessary to carry out 
        the functions described in this subsection;
            (4) issuing weather, water, climate, and space weather 
        forecasts and warnings;
            (5) coordinating efforts of Federal agencies in support of 
        national and international programs with respect to 
        meteorological services;
            (6) coordinating weather research activities of Federal 
        agencies, as provided by law;
            (7) understanding the science of Earth's climate and 
        related systems, and undertaking research, development, and 
        demonstration to enhance society's ability to plan and respond 
        to climate variability and change;
            (8) protecting, restoring, and managing the use of the 
        coasts, oceans, and Great Lakes through ecosystem-based 
        research, development, demonstration, and management;
            (9) coordinating efforts of Federal agencies in support of 
        national and international programs with respect to integrated 
        Earth observing systems;
            (10) administering public outreach and education programs 
        and services to increase scientific and environmental literacy 
        about weather and climate, solar and geophysical events on the 
        Sun and in the space environment, and the coasts, oceans, Great 
        Lakes, and upper reaches of estuaries;
            (11) cooperating, in consultation with the Secretary of 
        State, with international organizations and scientists in 
        bilateral and multilateral research, development, conservation, 
        and service programs related to coastal, ocean, and Great Lakes 
        issues; and
            (12) any other function assigned to the Administration by 
        law.

SEC. 104. ADMINISTRATION LEADERSHIP.

    (a) Administrator.--
            (1) In general.--There shall be, as the Administrator of 
        the Administration, an Under Secretary of Commerce for Oceans 
        and Atmosphere. The Administrator shall be appointed by the 
        President, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate. 
        The Administrator shall be paid at the rate of basic pay for 
        level III of the Executive Schedule.
            (2) Functions.--The Administrator shall perform such 
        functions and exercise such powers with respect to the 
        Administration as the Secretary may prescribe, including--
                    (A) general management;
                    (B) policy development and guidance;
                    (C) budget formulation, guidance, and execution; 
                and
                    (D) serving as the Department of Commerce official 
                for all ocean and atmosphere issues with other elements 
                of the Department of Commerce and with other Federal 
                agencies, State, tribal, and local governments, and the 
                public.
            (3) Delegation of authority.--The Administrator may, except 
        as otherwise prohibited by law--
                    (A) delegate any functions, powers, or duties of 
                the Administrator to such officers and employees of the 
                Administration as the Administrator may designate; and
                    (B) authorize such successive redelegations of such 
                functions, powers, or duties within the Administration 
                as the Administrator considers necessary or 
                appropriate.
    (b) Assistant Secretary for Oceans and Atmosphere.--
            (1) In general.--There shall be, as Deputy Administrator of 
        the Administration, an Assistant Secretary of Commerce for 
        Oceans and Atmosphere. The Assistant Secretary shall be 
        appointed by the President, by and with the advice and consent 
        of the Senate. The Assistant Secretary shall be the 
        Administrator's first assistant for purposes of subchapter III 
        of chapter 33 of title 5, United States Code. The Assistant 
        Secretary shall be paid at the rate of basic pay for level IV 
        of the Executive Schedule.
            (2) Functions.--The Assistant Secretary shall perform such 
        functions and exercise such powers as the Secretary or 
        Administrator may prescribe and shall act as Administrator 
        during the absence or disability of the Administrator or in the 
        event of a vacancy in the office of Administrator.
    (c) Deputy Under Secretary for Oceans and Atmosphere.--
            (1) In general.--There shall be in the Administration a 
        Deputy Under Secretary for Oceans and Atmosphere. The Deputy 
        Under Secretary shall be appointed by the Secretary. The 
        position of Deputy Under Secretary shall be a Senior Executive 
        Service position authorized under section 3133 of title 5, 
        United States Code.
            (2) Functions.--The Deputy Under Secretary--
                    (A) shall serve as an advisor to the Administrator 
                on all program and policy issues;
                    (B) shall ensure the timely and effective 
                implementation of Administration policies and 
                objectives;
                    (C) in the absence or disability of the Assistant 
                Secretary, or in the event of a vacancy in such 
                position, shall act in that position; and
                    (D) shall perform such other duties as the 
                Secretary or Administrator shall prescribe.
    (d) Deputy Assistant Secretary for Oceans and Atmosphere.--
            (1) In general.--There shall be in the Administration a 
        Deputy Assistant Secretary for Oceans and Atmosphere. The 
        Deputy Assistant Secretary for Oceans and Atmosphere shall be 
        appointed by the Secretary. The position of Deputy Assistant 
        Secretary for Oceans and Atmosphere shall be a Senior Executive 
        Service position authorized under section 3133 of title 5, 
        United States Code.
            (2) Functions.--The Deputy Assistant Secretary for Oceans 
        and Atmosphere--
                    (A) shall serve as an advisor to the Administrator 
                on program and policy issues related to environmental 
                policy, strategic planning, and program analysis;
                    (B) shall ensure the timely and effective 
                implementation of Administration policies and 
                objectives related to environmental policy, strategic 
                planning, and program analysis; and
                    (C) shall perform such other duties as the 
                Secretary or Administrator shall prescribe.
    (e) Deputy Assistant Secretary for International Affairs.--
            (1) In general.--There shall be in the Administration a 
        Deputy Assistant Secretary for International Affairs. The 
        Deputy Assistant Secretary for International Affairs shall be 
        appointed by the Secretary. The position of Deputy Assistant 
        Secretary for International Affairs shall be a Senior Executive 
        Service position authorized under section 3133 of title 5, 
        United States Code.
            (2) Functions.--The Deputy Assistant Secretary for 
        International Affairs--
                    (A) shall serve as an advisor to the Administrator 
                on program and policy issues related to coordination of 
                United States policy with respect to international 
                oceanic and atmospheric matters, and shall focus on 
                international environmental issues critical to the 
                United States;
                    (B) shall participate in international negotiations 
                concerning oceanic and atmospheric matters; and
                    (C) shall perform such other duties as the 
                Secretary or Administrator shall prescribe.
    (f) Deputy Assistant Secretary for Science and Technology.--
            (1) In general.--There shall be in the Administration a 
        Deputy Assistant Secretary for Science and Technology, who 
        shall coordinate and oversee the science and technology 
        activities of the Administration and ensure that Administration 
        decisions are informed by the results of appropriate and 
        relevant research. The Deputy Assistant Secretary for Science 
        and Technology shall be appointed by the Secretary. The 
        position of Deputy Assistant Secretary for Science and 
        Technology shall be a Senior Executive Service career reserved 
        position as defined in section 3132(a)(8) of title 5, United 
        States Code.
            (2) Functions.--The Deputy Assistant Secretary for Science 
        and Technology shall--
                    (A) coordinate research and development activities 
                across the Administration, including coordination of 
                research and development budgets;
                    (B) advise the Administrator on how programs can be 
                transitioned from research to operational use;
                    (C) provide advice to the Administrator regarding 
                science and technology issues and their relationship to 
                Administration policies, procedures, and decisions;
                    (D) participate in developing the Administration's 
                strategic plans and policies and review the science and 
                technology aspects of those plans and policies;
                    (E) develop and oversee guidelines for the 
                dissemination of research and development results 
                conducted, sponsored, or cited by the Administration to 
                the public;
                    (F) develop and oversee guidelines for peer review 
                of science and technology research sponsored by the 
                Administration;
                    (G) oversee implementation of the strategic plan 
                for science and technology research, development, and 
                demonstration required under section 109(b);
                    (H) oversee management of research laboratories in 
                the Administration; and
                    (I) perform such other duties as the Secretary or 
                Administrator shall prescribe.
            (3) Qualifications.--An individual appointed under 
        paragraph (1) shall be a person who has an outstanding science 
        and technology background, including research accomplishments, 
        scientific reputation, and public policy experience.
            (4) Consultation.--Before appointing an individual under 
        paragraph (1), the Secretary shall consult with the National 
        Academy of Sciences, the Science Advisory Board of the 
        Administration, and other appropriate scientific organizations.
    (g) General Counsel.--
            (1) In general.--There shall be in the Administration a 
        General Counsel. The General Counsel shall be appointed by the 
        Secretary. The General Counsel shall be paid at the rate of 
        basic pay for level V of the Executive Schedule.
            (2) Functions.--The General Counsel--
                    (A) shall serve as the chief legal officer of the 
                Administration for all legal matters that arise in 
                connection with the conduct of the functions of the 
                Administration; and
                    (B) shall perform such other functions and exercise 
                such powers as the Secretary or Administrator may 
                prescribe.
    (h) Continuation of Service.--Any individual serving on the date of 
enactment of this Act in a position provided for in this Act may 
continue to serve in that position until a successor is appointed under 
this Act. Nothing in this title shall be construed to require the 
appointment of a successor under this Act sooner than would have been 
required under law as in effect before the date of enactment of this 
Act.

SEC. 105. NATIONAL WEATHER SERVICE.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary shall maintain within the 
Administration a National Weather Service.
    (b) Mission.--The mission of the National Weather Service is to 
provide weather, water, and climate forecasts and warnings for the 
United States, its territories, adjacent waters, and ocean areas for 
the protection of life and property and the enhancement of the national 
economy.
    (c) Goals.--The goals of the National Weather Service shall 
include--
            (1) to provide timely and accurate weather, water, climate, 
        and space weather forecasts; and
            (2) to provide timely and accurate warnings of weather, 
        water, and climate natural hazards, and of space weather 
        hazards.
    (d) Functions.--The functions of the National Weather Service shall 
include--
            (1) maintaining a network of regional and local weather 
        forecast offices;
            (2) maintaining a network of observation systems to collect 
        weather and climate data;
            (3) operating national centers to deliver guidance, 
        forecasts, warnings, and analysis about weather, water, 
        climate, and space weather phenomena for the Administration and 
        the public;
            (4) conducting and supporting applied research to 
        facilitate the rapid incorporation of weather and climate 
        science advances into operational tools; and
            (5) such other functions to serve the mission of the 
        National Weather Service as the Administrator may prescribe.
    (e) Public-Private Partnerships.--Not less than once every 5 years, 
the Secretary shall develop and submit to Congress a policy the defines 
processes for making decisions about the roles of the National Weather 
Service and the private sector in providing weather and climate related 
products, technologies, and services. The first such policy shall be 
completed not less than 12 months after the date of enactment of this 
Act. At least 90 days before submitting the policy to Congress, the 
Secretary shall publish the policy in the Federal Register for a public 
comment periods of not less than 60 days.

SEC. 106. OPERATIONS AND SERVICES.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary shall maintain within the 
Administration operational and service programs to support routine data 
collection and direct services and products regarding satellite, 
observations, and coastal, ocean, and Great Lakes information.
    (b) Functions.--To support the mission described in section 102(b), 
and in addition to the functions described in section 102(c), the 
operations and service functions of the Administration shall include--
            (1) acquiring, managing, and operating coastal, ocean, and 
        Great Lakes observing systems;
            (2) ensuring the availability of a global Earth-observing 
        system, integrating remote sensing and in situ assets that 
        provide critical data needed to support the mission of the 
        Administration, and providing that data to decisionmakers and 
        the public;
            (3) developing, acquiring, and managing operational 
        environmental satellite constellations and associated ground 
        control and data acquisition facilities to support the mission 
        of the Administration;
            (4) managing and distributing atmospheric, geophysical, and 
        marine data and data products for the Administration through 
        national environmental data centers;
            (5) providing for long-term stewardship of environmental 
        data, products, and information via data processing, storage, 
        and archive facilities;
            (6) promoting widespread availability of environmental data 
        and information through full and open access and exchange to 
        the greatest extent possible;
            (7) issuing licenses for private remote sensing space 
        systems under the Land Remote Sensing Policy Act of 1992;
            (8) administering a national water level observation 
        network, which shall include monitoring of the Great Lakes;
            (9) providing charts and other information for safe 
        navigation of the oceans and inland waters, as provided by law; 
        and
            (10) such other functions to serve the operations and 
        services mission of the Administration as the Administrator may 
        prescribe.

SEC. 107. RESEARCH AND EDUCATION.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary shall maintain within the 
Administration programs to conduct and support research and education 
and the development of technologies relating to weather, climate, and 
the coasts, oceans, and Great Lakes.
    (b) Functions.--To support the mission described in section 102(b), 
and in addition to the functions described in section 102(c), the 
research and education functions of the Administration shall include--
            (1) conducting and supporting research and development of 
        technology to improve the Administration's capabilities in 
        collecting, through observation and otherwise, communicating, 
        analyzing, processing, providing, and disseminating 
        comprehensive scientific data and information about weather, 
        climate, and the coasts, oceans, and Great Lakes;
            (2) improving environmental prediction and management 
        capabilities through ecosystem-based research and development;
            (3) improving knowledge of Earth's climate and related 
        systems through research and observation for decision support;
            (4) reducing uncertainty in projections of how the Earth's 
        climate and related systems may change in the future;
            (5) fostering the public's ability to understand and 
        integrate scientific information into considerations of 
        national environmental issues through education and public 
        outreach activities;
            (6) administering the National Sea Grant College Program 
        Act;
            (7) conducting and supporting research and development of 
        technology for exploration of the oceans;
            (8) maintaining a system of laboratories to perform the 
        functions described in this subsection;
            (9) supporting extramural peer-reviewed competitive grant 
        programs to assist the Administration in performing the 
        functions described in this subsection; and
            (10) such other functions to serve the research and 
        education mission of the Administration as the Administrator 
        may prescribe.

SEC. 108. SCIENCE ADVISORY BOARD.

    (a) In General.--There shall be within the Administration a Science 
Advisory Board, which shall provide such scientific advice as may be 
requested by the Administrator, the Committee on Commerce, Science and 
Transportation of the Senate, or the Committee on Science or on 
Resources of the House of Representatives.
    (b) Purpose.--The purpose of the Science Advisory Board is to 
advise the Administrator and Congress on long-range and short-range 
strategies for research, education, and the application of science to 
resource management and environmental assessment and prediction.
    (c) Members.--
            (1) In general.--The Science Advisory Board shall consist 
        of not more than 15 members appointed by the Administrator to 
        ensure a balanced representation among preeminent scientists, 
        engineers, educators, industry, and science policy experts 
        reflecting the full breadth of the Administration's areas of 
        responsibility.
            (2) Terms of service.--Members shall be appointed for 3-
        year terms, renewable once, and shall serve at the discretion 
        of the Administrator. An individual serving a term as a member 
        of the Science Advisory Board on the date of enactment of this 
        Act may complete that term, and may be reappointed once for 
        another term of 3 years unless the term being served on such 
        date of enactment is the second term served by that individual. 
        Vacancy appointments shall be for the remainder of the 
        unexpired term of the vacancy, and an individual so appointed 
        may subsequently be appointed for 2 full 3-year terms if the 
        remainder of the unexpired term is less than one year.
            (3) Chairperson.--The Administrator shall designate a 
        chairperson from among the members of the Board.
            (4) Appointment.--Members of the Science Advisory Board 
        shall be appointed as special Government employees, within the 
        meaning given such term in section 202(a) of title 18, United 
        States Code.
            (5) Criteria for selection.--The Administrator shall 
        develop and apply standard criteria, in accordance with 
        applicable Department of Commerce guidance, for the selection 
        of members of the Science Advisory Board.
    (d) Administrative Provisions.--
            (1) Reporting.--The Science Advisory Board shall report to 
        the Administrator and the appropriate requesting party.
            (2) Administrative support.--The Administrator shall 
        provide administrative support to the Science Advisory Board.
            (3) Meetings.--The Science Advisory Board shall meet at 
        least twice each year, and at other times at the call of the 
        Administrator or the Chairperson.
            (4) Compensation and expenses.--A member of the Science 
        Advisory Board shall not be compensated for service on such 
        board, but upon request by the member may be allowed travel 
        expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, in 
        accordance with subchapter I of chapter 57 of title 5, United 
        States Code.
            (5) Subcommittees.--The Science Advisory Board may 
        establish such subcommittees of its members as may be 
        necessary. The Science Advisory Board may establish task forces 
        and working groups consisting of Board members and outside 
        experts as may be necessary.
    (e) Expiration.--Section 14 of the Federal Advisory Committee Act 
(5 U.S.C. App.) shall not apply to the Science Advisory Board.

SEC. 109. REPORTS.

    (a) Report on Data Management, Archival, and Distribution.--Not 
later than 1 year after the date of enactment of this Act the Secretary 
shall develop and transmit to the Committee on Commerce, Science, and 
Transportation of the Senate and the Committee on Science of the House 
of Representatives a report on the environmental data and information 
systems of the Administration. The report shall include--
            (1) an assessment of the adequacy of the environmental data 
        and information systems of the Administration to--
                    (A) provide adequate capacity to manage, archive 
                and disseminate environmental information collected and 
                processed, or expected to be collected and processed, 
                by the Administration and other appropriate departments 
                and agencies;
                    (B) establish, develop, and maintain information 
                bases, including necessary management systems, which 
                will provide for consistent, efficient, and compatible 
                transfer and use of data;
                    (C) develop effective interfaces among the 
                environmental data and information systems of the 
                Administration and other appropriate departments and 
                agencies;
                    (D) develop and use nationally accepted formats and 
                standards for data collected by various national and 
                international sources; and
                    (E) integrate and interpret data from different 
                sources to produce information that can be used by 
                decisionmakers in developing policies that effectively 
                respond to national and global environmental concerns; 
                and
            (2) a strategic plan to--
                    (A) set forth modernization and improvement 
                objectives for an integrated national environmental 
                data access and archive system for the 10 year period 
                beginning with the year in which the plan is 
                transmitted, including facility requirements and 
                critical new technology components that would be 
                necessary to meet the objectives set forth;
                    (B) propose specific Administration programs and 
                activities for implementing the plan;
                    (C) identify the data and information management, 
                archival, and distribution responsibilities of the 
                Administration with respect to other Federal 
                departments and agencies and international 
                organizations; and
                    (D) provide an implementation schedule and estimate 
                funding levels necessary to achieve modernization and 
                improvement objectives.
    (b) Strategic Plan for Scientific Research.--Not later than 1 year 
after the date of enactment of this Act the Secretary shall develop and 
transmit to the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of 
the Senate and the Committee on Science of the House of Representatives 
a strategic plan for science and technology research, development, and 
demonstration at the Administration. The plan shall include an 
assessment of the science and technology needs of the Administration 
and a strategic plan for coordinating research, development, and 
demonstration activities across the Administration to effectively meet 
those needs.

SEC. 110. EFFECT OF REORGANIZATION PLAN.

    Reorganization Plan No. 4 of 1970 shall have no further force and 
effect.

               TITLE II--AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS

SEC. 201. SHORT TITLE.

    This title may be cited as the ``National Oceanic and Atmospheric 
Administration Authorization Act of 2004''.

SEC. 202. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.

    There are authorized to be appropriated to the Administrator--
            (1) for Program Support--
                    (A) $300,000,000 for fiscal year 2005;
                    (B) $306,000,000 for fiscal year 2006; and
                    (C) $312,000,000 for fiscal year 2007;
            (2) for the National Ocean Service--
                    (A) $490,000,000 for fiscal year 2005;
                    (B) $500,000,000 for fiscal year 2006; and
                    (C) $510,000,000 for fiscal year 2007;
            (3) for the Office of Oceanic and Atmospheric Research--
                    (A) $414,000,000 for fiscal year 2005;
                    (B) $422,000,000 for fiscal year 2006; and
                    (C) $430,000,000 for fiscal year 2007;
            (4) for the National Weather Service--
                    (A) $836,000,000 for fiscal year 2005;
                    (B) $853,000,000 for fiscal year 2006; and
                    (C) $870,000,000 for fiscal year 2007;
            (5) for the National Environmental Satellite Data and 
        Information Service--
                    (A) $897,000,000 for fiscal year 2005;
                    (B) $915,000,000 for fiscal year 2006; and
                    (C) $933,000,000 for fiscal year 2007; and
            (6) for the Office of Program Planning and Integration--
                    (A) $2,000,000 for fiscal year 2005;
                    (B) $2,000,000 for fiscal year 2006; and
                    (C) $2,000,000 for fiscal year 2007.

                TITLE III--COASTAL OCEAN SCIENCE PROGRAM

SEC. 301. SHORT TITLE.

    This title may be cited as the ``Coastal Ocean Science Program Act 
of 2004''.

SEC. 302. COASTAL OCEAN SCIENCE PROGRAM.

    Section 201(c) of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric 
Administration Authorization Act of 1992 is amended to read as follows:
    ``(c) Coastal Ocean Science Program.--
            ``(1) In general.--There shall be in the National Oceanic 
        and Atmospheric Administration a Coastal Ocean Science Program 
        that supports Great Lakes, estuarine, and coastal ocean 
        research and assessment through competitive, peer-reviewed 
        research programs.
            ``(2) Program elements.--The Coastal Ocean Science Program 
        shall augment and integrate existing research capabilities of 
        the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, other 
        Federal agencies, and the academic community. Research shall be 
        conducted to improve predictions of ecosystem trends in 
        coastal, ocean, and Great Lakes ecosystems, and upper reaches 
        of estuaries; to better conserve and manage coastal, ocean, and 
        Great Lakes ecosystems; to improve predictions of effects of 
        coastal and Great Lakes pollution to help correct and prevent 
        environmental degradation; to improve understanding and 
        characterization of the role oceans play in global climate and 
        environmental analysis; and to improve predictions of coastal 
        hazards to protect human life, personal property, and ecosystem 
        function.
            ``(3) Authorization of appropriations.--There are 
        authorized to be appropriated to the Secretary of Commerce for 
        implementing the Coastal Ocean Science Program such sums as may 
        be necessary for each of fiscal years 2005 through 2008.''.

                       TITLE IV--MARINE RESEARCH

SEC. 401. SHORT TITLE.

    This title may be cited as the ``Marine Research Act''.

SEC. 402. PURPOSES.

    The purposes of this title are to provide for--
            (1) Presidential support and coordination of interagency 
        marine research programs; and
            (2) development and coordination of a comprehensive and 
        integrated United States ocean, coastal, and Great Lakes 
        research and monitoring program that will assist this Nation 
        and the world to understand, use, and respond to the 
        interactions of humans and the marine environment.

SEC. 403. INTERAGENCY MARINE RESEARCH PROGRAM.

    (a) Coordination.--The President, through the National Science and 
Technology Council, shall coordinate and support a national research 
program to improve understanding of the interactions of humans and the 
marine environment.
    (b) Implementation Plan.--Within 1 year after the date of enactment 
of this Act, the National Science and Technology Council, through the 
Director of the Office of Science and Technology Policy, shall develop 
and submit to the Congress a plan for coordinated Federal activities 
under the program. Nothing in this subsection is intended to duplicate 
or supersede the activities of the Inter-Agency Task Force on Harmful 
Algal Blooms and Hypoxia established under section 603 of the Harmful 
Algal Bloom and Hypoxia Research and Control Act of 1998 (16 U.S.C. 
1451 note). In developing the plan, the National Science and Technology 
Council shall consult with the Inter-Agency Task Force on Harmful Algal 
Blooms and Hypoxia. Such plan shall build on and complement the ongoing 
activities of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, the 
National Science Foundation, and other departments and agencies, and 
shall--
            (1) establish, for the 10-year period beginning in the year 
        it is submitted, the goals and priorities for Federal research 
        which most effectively advance scientific understanding of the 
        connections between humans and the marine environment, provide 
        usable information for the protection of human life, and use 
        the biological potential of the oceans for development of new 
        products;
            (2) describe specific activities required to achieve such 
        goals and priorities, including the funding of competitive 
        research grants, ocean and coastal observations, training and 
        support for scientists, and participation in international 
        research efforts;
            (3) identify and address, as appropriate, relevant programs 
        and activities of the Federal agencies and departments that 
        would contribute to the program;
            (4) consider and use, as appropriate, reports and studies 
        conducted by Federal agencies and departments, the National 
        Research Council, the Ocean Research Advisory Panel, the 
        Commission on Ocean Policy, and other expert scientific bodies; 
        and
            (5) estimate Federal funding for research activities to be 
        conducted under the program.
    (c) Program Scope.--The program may include the following 
activities related to the interaction of humans and the marine 
environment:
            (1) Interdisciplinary research among the ocean and 
        biological sciences, and coordinated research and activities to 
        improve understanding of processes within the ocean that may 
        affect human life and to explore the potential contribution of 
        marine organisms to medicine and research.
            (2) Coordination with the National Ocean Research 
        Leadership Council (10 U.S.C. 7902(a)) to ensure that any 
        integrated ocean and coastal observing system provides 
        information necessary to support the program described in this 
        section, including detection of contaminants in marine waters 
        and seafood.
            (3) Development through partnerships among Federal 
        agencies, States, or academic institutions of new technologies 
        and approaches for detecting and reducing hazards to human life 
        from ocean sources and to strengthen understanding of the value 
        of marine biodiversity.
            (4) Support for scholars, trainees, and education 
        opportunities that encourage an interdisciplinary and 
        international approach to exploring the diversity of life in 
        the oceans.

SEC. 404. NATIONAL OCEANIC AND ATMOSPHERIC ADMINISTRATION MARINE 
              RESEARCH INITIATIVE.

    (a) Establishment.--As part of the interagency program planned and 
coordinated under section 403, the Secretary of Commerce is authorized 
to establish a Marine Research Initiative to coordinate and implement 
research and activities of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric 
Administration related to the program. The Marine Research Initiative 
is authorized to provide support for--
            (1) centralized program and research coordination;
            (2) one or more National Oceanic and Atmospheric 
        Administration national centers of excellence;
            (3) research grants; and
            (4) distinguished scholars and traineeships.
    (b) National Centers.--(1) The Secretary is authorized to identify 
and provide financial support for, through a competitive process to 
develop within the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, one 
or more centers of excellence that strengthen the capabilities of the 
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration to carry out its 
programs and activities related to the Marine Research Initiative.
    (2) The center or centers shall focus on areas related to agency 
missions, including use of marine organisms as indicators for marine 
environmental health, ocean pollutants, marine toxins and pathogens, 
harmful algal blooms, hypoxia, seafood testing, and biology and 
pathobiology of marine mammals, and on disciplines including marine 
genomics, marine environmental microbiology, and ecological chemistry.
    (3) In selecting centers for funding, the Secretary shall give 
priority to proposals with strong interdisciplinary scientific merit 
that encourage educational opportunities and provide for effective 
partnerships among the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, 
other Federal entities, and State, academic, and industry participants.
    (c) Extramural Research Grants.--(1) The Secretary is authorized to 
provide grants of financial assistance to the scientific community for 
critical research and projects that explore the interaction of humans 
and the marine environment and that complement or strengthen programs 
and activities of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration. 
Officers and employees of Federal agencies may collaborate with, and 
participate in, such research and projects to the extent requested by 
the grant recipient.
    (2) Grants under this subsection shall be awarded through a 
competitive peer-reviewed process that may be conducted jointly with 
other agencies participating in the interagency program established in 
section 403.
    (d) Distinguished Scholars and Traineeships.--(1) The Secretary of 
Commerce is authorized to designate and provide financial assistance to 
support distinguished scholars from academic institutions, industry, 
State governments, or other Federal agencies for collaborative work 
with National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration scientists and 
facilities.
    (2) The Secretary of Commerce is authorized to establish a program 
to provide traineeships, training, and experience to predoctoral and 
postdoctoral students and to scientists at the beginning of their 
careers who are interested in research on the interaction of humans and 
the marine environment conducted under the National Oceanic and 
Atmospheric Administration initiative.

SEC. 405. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.

    There are authorized to be appropriated to the Secretary of 
Commerce to carry out the National Oceanic and Atmospheric 
Administration Marine Research Initiative established under section 
404, $8,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2005 through 2008. Not less 
than 50 percent of the amounts appropriated to carry out the Initiative 
for each fiscal year shall be utilized to support the programs 
described in subsections (c) and (d) of section 404.

             TITLE V--OCEAN AND COASTAL OBSERVATION SYSTEMS

SEC. 501. SHORT TITLE.

    This title may be cited as the ``Ocean and Coastal Observation 
Systems Act''.

SEC. 502. PURPOSES.

    The purposes of this title are to provide for--
            (1) development and maintenance of an integrated system 
        that provides for sustained ocean and coastal observations from 
        in situ, remote, and vessel platforms, and that promotes 
        improved comprehensive scientific data and information about 
        the ocean and coastal environment; and
            (2) implementation of a data and information system 
        required by all components of an integrated ocean and coastal 
        observing system and related research.

SEC. 503. INTEGRATED OCEAN AND COASTAL OBSERVING SYSTEM.

    (a) Establishment.--The President, through the National Oceanic and 
Atmospheric Administration, shall establish and maintain an integrated 
system of marine monitoring, data communication and management, data 
analysis, and research designed to provide data and information for the 
rapid and timely detection and prediction of changes occurring in the 
ocean and coastal environment that impact the Nation's social, 
economic, and ecological systems. Such an integrated ocean and coastal 
observing system shall provide for long-term and continuous 
observations of the oceans and coasts for the following purposes:
            (1) Improving weather forecasts and public warnings of 
        natural disasters and coastal hazards and mitigating such 
        disasters and hazards.
            (2) Understanding, assessing, and responding to human-
        induced and natural processes of global change.
            (3) Conducting focused research to enhance the national 
        understanding of coastal and global ocean systems.
            (4) Providing information that contributes to public 
        awareness of the condition and importance of the oceans.
    (b) Functions.--In carrying out responsibilities under this 
section, the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration shall--
            (1) serve as the lead entity providing oversight of Federal 
        ocean and coastal observing requirements and activities;
            (2) adopt and maintain plans for the design, operation, and 
        improvement of such system;
            (3) coordinate and administer a program of research and 
        development to support the operation of an integrated ocean and 
        coastal observing system and advance the understanding of the 
        oceans;
            (4) establish a joint operations center to be maintained in 
        conjunction with other Federal agencies;
            (5) provide, as appropriate, support for and representation 
        on United States delegations to international meetings on ocean 
        and coastal observing programs and in consultation with the 
        Secretary of State to coordinate relevant Federal activities 
        with those of other nations;
            (6) promote collaboration among regional coastal observing 
        systems established pursuant to subsection (d);
            (7) prepare annual and long-term plans for the design and 
        implementation of an integrated ocean and coastal observing 
        system, including the regional coastal observing systems and 
        taking into account the science and technology advances 
        considered ready for operational status;
            (8) identify requirements for a common set of measurements 
        to be collected and distributed;
            (9) establish standards and protocols for quality control 
        and data management and communications, in consultation with 
        the Joint Operations Center established pursuant to subsection 
        (c); and
            (10) work with regional coastal observing entities, the 
        National Sea Grant College Program, and other bodies as needed 
        to assess user needs, develop data products, make effective use 
        of existing capabilities, and incorporate new technologies, as 
        appropriate.
    (c) Joint Operations Center.--The Administrator of the National 
Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, in conjunction with the 
Administrator of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration, the 
Director of the National Science Foundation, the Under Secretary for 
Science and Technology of the Department of Homeland Security, and any 
other Federal agent the President considers appropriate, shall operate 
and maintain a joint operations center--
            (1) to acquire, integrate, and deploy required technologies 
        and provide support for an ocean and coastal observing system 
        based on annual long-term plans, developed by the National 
        Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration;
            (2) to implement standards and protocols for quality 
        control and data management and communications;
            (3) to migrate science and technology advancements from 
        research and development to operational deployment based on the 
        annual and long-term plans;
            (4) to integrate and extend existing programs into an 
        operating ocean and coastal observing system based on the 
        annual and long-term plans;
            (5) to coordinate the data communication and management 
        system; and
            (6) to certify that regional coastal observing systems meet 
        the standards established in subsection (d) and to ensure a 
        periodic process for review and recertification of the regional 
        coastal observing systems.
    (d) Regional Coastal Observing Systems.--
            (1) In general.--The Administrator of the National Oceanic 
        and Atmospheric Administration, through the Joint Operations 
        Center, shall work with representatives of entities in each 
        region that provide ocean data and information to users to form 
        regional associations. The regional associations shall be 
        responsible for the development and operation of observing 
        systems in the coastal regions extending to the seaward 
        boundary of the United States Exclusive Economic Zone, 
        including the Great Lakes. Participation in a regional 
        association may consist of legal entities, including research 
        institutions, institutions of higher learning, for-profit 
        corporations, nonprofit corporations, State, local, and 
        regional agencies, and consortia of 2 or more such institutions 
        or organizations, that--
                    (A) have demonstrated an organizational structure 
                capable of supporting and integrating all aspects of a 
                coastal ocean observing system within a region or 
                subregion; and
                    (B) have prepared an acceptable business plan, 
                including research components, and gained documented 
                acceptance of their intended regional or subregional 
                jurisdiction by users and other parties of interest 
                within the region or subregion with the objectives of--
                            (i) delivering an integrated and sustained 
                        system that meets national goals;
                            (ii) incorporating into the system existing 
                        and appropriate regional observations collected 
                        by Federal, State, regional, or local agencies;
                            (iii) responding to the needs of the users, 
                        including the public, within the region;
                            (iv) maintaining sustained, 24-hour-a-day 
                        operations and disseminating observations in a 
                        manner that is routine, predictable and, if 
                        necessary, in real-time or near real-time;
                            (v) providing services that include the 
                        collection and dissemination of data and data 
                        management for timely access to data and 
                        information;
                            (vi) creating appropriate products that are 
                        delivered in a timely fashion to the public and 
                        others who use, or are affected by, the oceans;
                            (vii) providing free and open access to the 
                        data collected with financial assistance under 
                        this title; and
                            (viii) adhering to national standards and 
                        protocols to ensure that data and related 
                        products can be fully exchanged among all of 
                        the regional coastal systems and will be 
                        accessible to any user in any part of the 
                        Nation.
            (2) Civil liability.--For purposes of determining the civil 
        liability under section 2671 of title 28, United States Code, 
        any regional observing system and any employee thereof that is 
        designated part of a regional association under this subsection 
        shall be deemed to be an instrumentality of the United States 
        with respect to any act or omission committed by any such 
        system or any employee thereof in fulfilling the purposes of 
        this title.
    (e) Pilot Projects.--
            (1) In general.--The Administrator, in consultation with 
        the Joint Operations Center, may initiate pilot projects. A 
        pilot project is an organized, planned set of activities 
        designed to provide an evaluation of technology, methods, or 
        concepts within a defined schedule and having the goal of 
        advancing the development of the sustained, integrated ocean 
        observing system. The pilot projects shall--
                    (A) develop protocols for coordinated 
                implementation of the full system;
                    (B) design and implement regional coastal ocean 
                observing systems;
                    (C) establish mechanisms for the exchange of data 
                between and among regions and Federal agencies;
                    (D) specify products and services and related 
                requirements for observations, data management, and 
                analysis in collaboration with user groups; and
                    (E) develop and test new technologies and 
                techniques to more effectively meet the needs of users 
                of the system.
            (2) Infrastructure capital projects.--The pilot projects 
        shall include one or more projects to capitalize the 
        infrastructure for the collection, management, analysis, and 
        distribution of data and one or more projects where the basic 
        infrastructure and institutional mechanisms already exist for 
        ongoing coastal observations, to fund the operations necessary 
        for the collection of the common set of observations.

SEC. 504. INTERAGENCY FINANCING.

    The departments and agencies represented on the joint operations 
center are authorized to participate in interagency financing and 
share, transfer, receive, and spend funds appropriated to any member of 
the joint operations center for the purposes of carrying out any 
administrative or programmatic project or activity under this title.

SEC. 505. GREAT LAKES.

    Provisions of this title relating to ocean and coastal areas shall 
also apply to the Great Lakes.

SEC. 506. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.

    (a) Observing System Authorization.--For development and 
implementation of an integrated ocean and coastal observing system 
under section 503, including financial assistance to regional coastal 
ocean observing systems and in addition to any amounts previously 
authorized, there are authorized to be appropriated to--
            (1) the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, 
        such sums as may be necessary;
            (2) the National Science Foundation, such sums as may be 
        necessary;
            (3) the National Aeronautics and Space Administration, such 
        sums as may be necessary; and
            (4) other Federal agencies with operational coastal or 
        ocean monitoring systems or which provide funds to States for 
        such systems, such sums as may be necessary.
    (b) Regional Coastal Observing Systems.--The Administrator of the 
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration shall make at least 51 
percent of the funds appropriated pursuant to subsection (a)(1) 
available as grants for the development and implementation of the 
regional coastal observing systems based on the plans adopted by the 
Council, which may be used to leverage non-Federal funds.

                    TITLE VI--ABRUPT CLIMATE CHANGE

SEC. 601. SHORT TITLE.

    This title may be cited as the ``Abrupt Climate Change Research Act 
of 2004''.

SEC. 602. ABRUPT CLIMATE CHANGE RESEARCH PROGRAM.

    (a) Establishment of Program.--The Secretary of Commerce shall 
establish within the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, 
and shall carry out, a program of scientific research on abrupt climate 
change.
    (b) Purposes of Program.--The purposes of the program are as 
follows:
            (1) To develop a global array of terrestrial and 
        oceanographic indicators of paleoclimate in order to 
        sufficiently identify and describe past instances of abrupt 
        climate change.
            (2) To improve understanding of thresholds and 
        nonlinearities in geophysical systems related to the mechanisms 
        of abrupt climate change.
            (3) To incorporate such mechanisms into advanced 
        geophysical models of climate change.
            (4) To test the output of such models against an improved 
        global array of records of past abrupt climate changes.
    (c) Abrupt Climate Change Defined.--In this section, the term 
``abrupt climate change'' means a change in the climate that occurs so 
rapidly or unexpectedly that human or natural systems have difficulty 
adapting to the climate as changed.

SEC. 603. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.

    There are authorized to be appropriated to the Secretary of 
Commerce for such sums as may be necessary to carry out the research 
program required under section 602.

           TITLE VII--UNITED STATES WEATHER RESEARCH PROGRAM

SEC. 701. SHORT TITLE.

    This title may be cited as the ``United States Weather Research 
Program Act of 2004''.

SEC. 702. PROGRAM FOCUS.

    The focus of the United States Weather Research Program, an 
interagency program established under section 108 of the National 
Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration Authorization Act of 1992 (15 
U.S.C. 313 note), shall be on--
            (1) hurricanes, floods, and heavy precipitation, including 
        both snow and rain;
            (2) building on existing investments, including those of 
        the National Weather Service modernization effort, to 
        dramatically accelerate improvement in weather forecasts;
            (3) providing attention and resources in areas where 
        progress can be made quickly and where the impact will be 
        greatest;
            (4) establishing goals that can be attained by leveraging 
        the resources of several agencies and through the collaborative 
        scientific efforts of the operational and research communities 
        in academia and government; and
            (5) making research grants to universities and other 
        research institutions.

SEC. 703. PROGRAM RESEARCH PRIORITIES.

    The research priorities of the United States Weather Research 
Program shall be in the areas of--
            (1) hurricanes, to improve--
                    (A) landfall location forecasts; and
                    (B) forecasts of hurricane strength;
            (2) heavy precipitation, to improve forecasts of both 
        winter storms and rain storms through better prediction of 
        timing, location, and intensity;
            (3) floods, to improve--
                    (A) flood forecasting by coupling precipitation 
                forecasts with hydrologic prediction; and
                    (B) forecasting and warning systems for inland 
                flooding related to tropical cyclones;
            (4) two-to-fourteen day forecasting, to--
                    (A) improve short and medium range numerical 
                weather predictions and warnings of high-impact weather 
                events;
                    (B) conduct the Hemispheric Observing System 
                Research and Predictability Experiment (THORpex) to 
                fill observational gaps in the Northern Hemisphere; and
                    (C) test and evaluate advanced data assimilation 
                techniques in global models;
            (5) societal and economic impacts, to--
                    (A) identify methods of delivering weather 
                information effectively and recommend ways to improve 
                weather communications;
                    (B) assess social and economic impacts of adverse 
                weather ranging from disastrous to routine;
                    (C) evaluate what weather information is most 
                useful to public and private decision makers; and
                    (D) providing for research on societal and economic 
                impact to ensure a connection between weather research 
                and improvement of the human condition; and
            (6) testing research concepts in an environment identical 
        to those used by operational meteorologists, to enable 
        technology transfer to those operational meteorologists.

SEC. 704. INTERAGENCY PLANNING AND PROCESS.

    The National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, as the lead 
agency of the United States Weather Research Program, shall coordinate 
and consult with the National Science Foundation, the National 
Aeronautics and Space Administration, other appropriate Federal 
agencies, and other appropriate entities to develop a five-year plan--
            (1) describing how Federal agencies can best team with 
        universities and other research institutions;
            (2) identifying social, economic, and military needs and 
        requirements for weather information, as well as defining the 
        research required to meet these needs;
            (3) outlining methods for dissemination of weather 
        information to user communities; and
            (4) describing best practices for transferring United 
        States Weather Research Program research results to forecasting 
        operations.

SEC. 705. REPORTING REQUIREMENTS.

    Not later than one year after the date of the enactment of this 
Act, and every 5 years thereafter, the Administrator of the National 
Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration shall transmit to the Committee 
on Science of the House of Representatives and the Committee on 
Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate a report which 
shall include--
            (1) the most recent five-year plan developed or updated 
        under section 704, including the roles and funding to be 
        provided by various Federal agencies in achieving the 
        objectives of the plan;
            (2) a justification of any changes to the plan since the 
        last transmittal under this section; and
            (3) a detailed assessment of the extent to which the 
        objectives of the plan have been achieved.

SEC. 706. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.

    There are authorized to be appropriated to the Office of 
Atmospheric Research of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric 
Administration for carrying out this title such sums as may be 
necessary, of which at least 50 percent shall be for competitive, peer-
reviewed grants to, or contracts or cooperative agreements with, 
institutions of higher education (as defined in section 101 of the 
Higher Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1001)).
                                 &lt;all&gt;
</pre></body></html>
