<html><body><pre>
[Congressional Bills 118th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H.R. 1527 Introduced in House (IH)]

&lt;DOC&gt;






118th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                H. R. 1527

  To improve access for outdoor recreation through the use of special 
 recreation permits on Federal recreational lands and waters, and for 
                            other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                             March 10, 2023

Mr. Curtis (for himself and Mr. Neguse) introduced the following bill; 
   which was referred to the Committee on Natural Resources, and in 
     addition to the Committee on Agriculture, for a period to be 
subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for consideration 
  of such provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the committee 
                               concerned

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
  To improve access for outdoor recreation through the use of special 
 recreation permits on Federal recreational lands and waters, and for 
                            other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE; TABLE OF CONTENTS.

    (a) Short Title.--This Act may be cited as the ``Simplifying 
Outdoor Access for Recreation Act'' or the ``SOAR Act''.
    (b) Table of Contents.--The table of contents of this Act is as 
follows:

Sec. 1. Short title; table of contents.
Sec. 2. Definitions.
               TITLE I--MODERNIZING RECREATION PERMITTING

Sec. 101. Definitions.
Sec. 102. Special recreation permit and fee.
Sec. 103. Permitting process improvements.
Sec. 104. Permit flexibility.
Sec. 105. Permit administration.
Sec. 106. Permits for multijurisdictional trips.
Sec. 107. Forest Service permit use reviews.
Sec. 108. Liability.
Sec. 109. Cost recovery reform.
Sec. 110. Extension of special recreation permits.
Sec. 111. Availability of Federal and State recreation passes.
Sec. 112. Online purchases of America the Beautiful--The National Parks 
                            and Federal Recreational Lands Pass.
Sec. 113. Savings provision.
                 TITLE II--MAKING RECREATION A PRIORITY

Sec. 201. Extension of seasonal recreation opportunities.
Sec. 202. Recreation performance metrics.
                 TITLE III--MAINTENANCE OF PUBLIC LAND

Sec. 301. Private-sector volunteer enhancement program.
Sec. 302. Enhancing outdoor recreation through public lands service 
                            organizations.

SEC. 2. DEFINITIONS.

    In this Act:
            (1) Federal land management agency.--The term ``Federal 
        land management agency'' has the meaning given the term in 
        section 802 of the Federal Lands Recreation Enhancement Act (16 
        U.S.C. 6801).
            (2) Federal recreational lands and waters.--The term 
        ``Federal recreational lands and waters'' has the meaning given 
        the term in section 802 of the Federal Lands Recreation 
        Enhancement Act (16 U.S.C. 6801).
            (3) Secretaries.--Except as otherwise provided in this Act, 
        the term ``Secretaries'' means--
                    (A) the Secretary of the Interior; and
                    (B) the Secretary of Agriculture.

               TITLE I--MODERNIZING RECREATION PERMITTING

SEC. 101. DEFINITIONS.

    In this title:
            (1) Associated agency.--The term ``associated agency'' 
        means the Federal land management agency, other than the lead 
        agency, that manages a Federal land unit that is the subject of 
        a single joint special recreation permit under section 106.
            (2) Lead agency.--With respect to a single joint special 
        recreation permit application submitted under section 106(a), 
        the term ``lead agency'' means the Federal land management 
        agency designated to administer the single joint special 
        recreation permit under section 106(a)(2).
            (3) Long-term special recreation permit.--The term ``long-
        term special recreation permit'' means--
                    (A) for a Federal land unit managed by the Forest 
                Service, a priority use permit; and
                    (B) for a Federal land unit managed by the Bureau 
                of Land Management, a multiyear special recreation 
                permit.
            (4) Multijurisdictional trip.--The term 
        ``multijurisdictional trip'' means a trip that--
                    (A) uses 2 or more Federal land units; and
                    (B) is under the jurisdiction of 2 or more Federal 
                land management agencies.
            (5) Federal land unit.--The term ``Federal land unit'' 
        means--
                    (A) a unit of the National Forest System;
                    (B) a unit of the National Park System;
                    (C) a unit of the National Wildlife Refuge System;
                    (D) a district of the Bureau of Land Management; 
                and
                    (E) a project of the Bureau of Reclamation.
            (6) Secretary concerned.--The term ``Secretary concerned'' 
        means--
                    (A) the Secretary of Agriculture, with respect to a 
                Federal land unit described in paragraph (5)(A); and
                    (B) the Secretary of the Interior, with respect to 
                a Federal land unit described in subparagraph (B), (C), 
                (D), or (E) of paragraph (5).
            (7) Special recreation permit.--The term ``special 
        recreation permit'' has the meaning given the term in section 
        802 of the Federal Lands Recreation Enhancement Act (16 U.S.C. 
        6801).

SEC. 102. SPECIAL RECREATION PERMIT AND FEE.

    (a) Definitions.--Section 802 of the Federal Lands Recreation 
Enhancement Act (16 U.S.C. 6801) is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (1), by striking ``section 3(f)'' and 
        inserting `` section 803(f)'';
            (2) in paragraph (2), by striking ``section 3(g)'' and 
        inserting ``section 803(g)'';
            (3) in paragraph (6), by striking ``section 5'' and 
        inserting ``section 805'';
            (4) in paragraph (9), by striking ``section 5'' and 
        inserting ``section 805'';
            (5) in paragraph (12), by striking ``section 7'' and 
        inserting ``section 807'';
            (6) in paragraph (13), by striking ``section 3(h)'' and 
        inserting ``section 803(h)'';
            (7) by redesignating paragraphs (1), (3), (4), (5), (6), 
        (7), (8), (9), (10), (11), and (13) as paragraphs (15), (1), 
        (3), (4), (5), (6), (7), (8), (11), (10), and (14), 
        respectively, and moving the paragraphs so as to appear in 
        numerical order;
            (8) by inserting after paragraph (8) (as so redesignated) 
        the following:
            ``(9) Recreation service provider.--The term `recreation 
        service provider' means an individual or entity that--
                    ``(A) provides outfitting, guiding, or other 
                recreation services; or
                    ``(B) conducts recreational or competitive events, 
                including incidental sales.''; and
            (9) by inserting after paragraph (12) the following:
            ``(13) Special recreation permit.--The term `special 
        recreation permit' means a permit issued by a Federal Land 
        Management Agency for specialized individual or group uses of 
        Federal recreational lands and waters, including--
                    ``(A) for outfitting, guiding, or other recreation 
                services;
                    ``(B) for recreation or competitive events, which 
                may include incidental sales;
                    ``(C) for the use of--
                            ``(i) a special area; or
                            ``(ii) an area in which use is allocated;
                    ``(D) for motorized recreational vehicle use in 
                compliance with an applicable travel management plan or 
                other regulation; and
                    ``(E) for a group activity or event.''.
    (b) Special Recreation Permit and Fee.--Section 803 of the Federal 
Lands Recreation Enhancement Act (16 U.S.C. 6802) is amended--
            (1) in subsection (b)(5), by striking ``section 4(d)'' and 
        inserting ``section 804(d)''; and
            (2) by striking subsection (h) and inserting the following:
    ``(h) Special Recreation Permit and Fee.--
            ``(1) Special recreation permit.--The Secretary may issue a 
        special recreation permit for specialized individual or group 
        uses of Federal recreational lands and waters as defined in 
        section 802(13) of this Act (16 U.S.C. 6801).
            ``(2) Special recreation permit fee.--
                    ``(A) In general.--The Secretary may charge a 
                special recreation permit fee in connection with the 
                issuance of a special recreation permit under paragraph 
                (1).
                    ``(B) Fees for certain lands.--
                            ``(i) In general.--Subject to clauses (ii) 
                        and (iii), a special recreation permit fee 
                        under subparagraph (A) for use of Federal 
                        recreational lands and waters managed by the 
                        Forest Service, the Bureau of Land Management, 
                        the Bureau of Reclamation, or the United States 
                        Fish and Wildlife Service shall not exceed the 
                        difference between--
                                    ``(I) the sum of--
                                            ``(aa) 3 percent of the 
                                        annual gross revenue of the 
                                        recreation service provider for 
                                        all activities authorized by 
                                        the special recreation permit; 
                                        and
                                            ``(bb) any applicable 
                                        revenue addition; and
                                    ``(II) any applicable revenue 
                                exclusion.
                            ``(ii) Exclusion of certain revenues and 
                        payments.--In calculating the amount of a fee 
                        for a special recreation permit under clause 
                        (i), the Secretary concerned shall exclude--
                                    ``(I) revenue from goods, services, 
                                souvenirs, merchandise, gear, food, and 
                                activities provided or sold by a 
                                special recreation permit holder in a 
                                location other than the Federal 
                                recreational lands and waters covered 
                                by the permit, including transportation 
                                costs, lodging, and any other service 
                                before or after a trip; and
                                    ``(II) revenue from any 
                                recreational services provided by a 
                                special recreation permit holder for 
                                activities on Federal recreational 
                                lands and waters for which a separate 
                                permit is issued.
                            ``(iii) Alternative per-person fee.--
                                    ``(I) In general.--For Federal 
                                recreational lands and waters managed 
                                by the Forest Service, the Bureau of 
                                Land Management, the Bureau of 
                                Reclamation, or the United States Fish 
                                and Wildlife Service, the Secretary may 
                                charge a per-person fee in connection 
                                with the issuance of a special 
                                recreation permit under paragraph (1).
                                    ``(II) Amount of fee.--The total 
                                amount charged by the Secretary in 
                                connection with the issuance of a 
                                special recreation permit under 
                                paragraph (1) using a per-person fee 
                                under subclause (I) shall not exceed 
                                the amount the Secretary may charge for 
                                a special recreation permit fee under 
                                subparagraph (A) and clauses (i) and 
                                (ii).
                            ``(iv) Effect.--Nothing in this 
                        subparagraph affects any fee for a commercial 
                        use authorization for use of Federal 
                        recreational lands and waters managed by the 
                        National Park Service.
                    ``(C) Disclosure of fees.--A special recreation 
                permit holder may inform customers of any fee charged 
                by the Secretary under this section.
            ``(3) Reports.--
                    ``(A) In general.--The Secretary shall make 
                available to holders of special recreation permits 
                under paragraph (1) and the public an annual report 
                describing the use of fees collected by the Secretary 
                under paragraph (2).
                    ``(B) Requirements.--The report under subparagraph 
                (A) shall include a description of how the fees are 
                used in each Federal land unit (as defined in section 2 
                of the SOAR Act) administered by the Secretary, 
                including an identification of the amounts used for 
                specific activities within the Federal land unit.''.
    (c) Use of Special Recreation Permit Revenue.--Section 808 of the 
Federal Lands Recreation Enhancement Act (16 U.S.C. 6807) is amended--
            (1) in subsection (a)(3)(F), by striking ``section 6(a)'' 
        and inserting ``section 806(a)'';
            (2) in subsection (d), by striking ``section 5'' each place 
        it appears and inserting ``section 805'';
            (3) by redesignating subsections (b) through (d) as 
        subsections (c) through (e), respectively; and
            (4) by inserting after subsection (a) the following:
    ``(b) Use of Special Recreation Permit Fee Revenue.--Revenue from a 
special recreation permit fee may be used for--
            ``(1) the purposes described in subsection (a); and
            ``(2) expenses--
                    ``(A) associated with issuing and administering 
                special recreation permits; and
                    ``(B) incurred in the improvement of the operation 
                of the special recreation permit system.''.
    (d) Permanent Authorization.--Section 810 of the Federal Lands 
Recreation Enhancement Act (16 U.S.C. 6809) is amended--
            (1) by striking ``The authority'' and inserting the 
        following:
    ``(a) In General.--Except as provided in subsection (b), the 
authority''; and
            (2) by adding at the end the following:
    ``(b) Applicability.--Subsection (a) shall not apply to--
            ``(1) section 802;
            ``(2) subsection (d)(2) or (h) of section 803; or
            ``(3) subsection (a), (b) or (c) of section 808.''.

SEC. 103. PERMITTING PROCESS IMPROVEMENTS.

    (a) In General.--To simplify the process of the issuance and 
renewal of special recreation permits and reduce the cost of 
administering special recreation permits, the Secretary concerned 
shall--
            (1) not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment 
        of this Act--
                    (A) evaluate the special recreation permitting 
                process; and
                    (B) identify opportunities--
                            (i) to eliminate duplicative processes;
                            (ii) to reduce costs; and
                            (iii) to decrease processing times; and
            (2) not later than 1 year after the date on which the 
        Secretary concerned completes the evaluation and identification 
        processes under paragraph (1), revise, as necessary, relevant 
        agency regulations and policy statements to implement the 
        improvements identified under paragraph (1)(B).
    (b) Categorical Exclusions.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 1 year after the date of 
        the enactment of this Act, the Secretary concerned shall--
                    (A) evaluate whether 1 or more additional 
                categorical exclusions developed in compliance with the 
                National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 (42 U.S.C. 
                4321 et seq.) would reduce processing times or costs 
                for the issuance or renewal of special recreation 
                permits without significantly affecting the human 
                environment; and
                    (B) if the Secretary concerned determines under 
                subparagraph (A) that 1 or more additional categorical 
                exclusions would reduce processing times or costs for 
                the issuance or renewal of special recreation permits 
                without significantly affecting the human environment--
                            (i) establish those categorical exclusions 
                        in compliance with the National Environmental 
                        Policy Act of 1969 (42 U.S.C. 4321 et seq.);
                            (ii) fully document that a category of 
                        actions will not individually or cumulatively 
                        have a significant effect on the human 
                        environment; and
                            (iii) revise relevant agency regulations 
                        and policy statements to implement those 
                        categorical exclusions.
            (2) Administration.--
                    (A) In general.--In administering a categorical 
                exclusion established under paragraph (1)(B), the 
                Secretary concerned shall comply with the National 
                Environmental Policy Act of 1969 (42 U.S.C. 4321 et 
                seq.) (including regulations promulgated pursuant to 
                that Act).
                    (B) Extraordinary circumstances.--In determining 
                whether to use a categorical exclusion established 
                under paragraph (1)(B), the Secretary concerned shall 
                apply, as applicable, the extraordinary circumstances 
                procedures described in--
                            (i) section 220.6 of title 36, Code of 
                        Federal Regulations (or a successor 
                        regulation); and
                            (ii) section 46.215 of title 43, Code of 
                        Federal Regulations (or a successor 
                        regulation).
    (c) Needs Assessments.--Except as required under subsection (c) or 
(d) of section 4 of the Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1133), the Secretary 
concerned shall not conduct a needs assessment as a condition of 
issuing a special recreation permit for a Federal land unit under this 
Act.
    (d) Online Applications.--The Secretary concerned shall make 
applications for special recreation permits available to be completed 
and submitted online unless the Secretary concerned determines that 
making applications for special recreation permits available to be 
completed and submitted online would not improve the efficiency or 
accessibility of the permitting process.

SEC. 104. PERMIT FLEXIBILITY.

    (a) Similar Activities.--The Secretary concerned shall establish a 
permit administration protocol that authorizes, to the maximum extent 
practicable, a permittee issued a special recreation permit for a 
Federal land unit under section 803(h) of the Federal Lands Recreation 
Enhancement Act (16 U.S.C. 6802(h)) to engage in a recreational 
activity that is substantially similar to the specific activity 
authorized under the special recreation permit, if the substantially 
similar recreational activity--
            (1) is comparable in type, nature, scope, and ecological 
        setting to the specific activity authorized under the special 
        recreation permit;
            (2) does not result in a greater impact on natural and 
        cultural resources than the authorized activity;
            (3) does not adversely affect any other permittee issued a 
        special recreation permit for a Federal land unit under that 
        subsection;
            (4) does not involve the use of a motor for a previously 
        non-motorized use; and
            (5) is consistent with any laws and regulations (including 
        land use or management plans) applying to a Federal land unit.
    (b) Voluntary Return of Surplus Service Days.--The Secretary 
concerned shall establish a program to allow a permittee issued a 
special recreation permit for a Federal land unit to voluntarily and 
temporarily return to the Secretary concerned 1 or more surplus service 
days, to be made available to any other existing or potential 
permittee.
    (c) Forest Service and Bureau of Land Management Temporary Special 
Recreation Permits.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 180 days after the date of 
        the enactment of this Act, the Secretary concerned shall 
        establish and implement a program to authorize the issuance of 
        temporary special recreation permits for new or additional 
        recreational uses of Federal recreational land and water 
        managed by the Forest Service and the Bureau of Land 
        Management.
            (2) Term of temporary permits.--A temporary special 
        recreation permit issued under paragraph (1) shall be issued 
        for a period of not more than 2 years.
            (3) Conversion to long-term permit.--If the Secretary 
        concerned determines that a permittee under paragraph (1) has 
        completed 2 years of satisfactory operation under the permit 
        proposed to be converted, the Secretary may provide for the 
        conversion of a temporary special recreation permit issued 
        under paragraph (1) to a long-term special recreation permit.
            (4) Effect.--Nothing in this subsection alters or affects 
        the authority of the Secretary to issue a special recreation 
        permit under subsection (h)(1) of section 803 of the Federal 
        Lands Recreation Enhancement Act (16 U.S.C. 6802(h)(1)).

SEC. 105. PERMIT ADMINISTRATION.

    (a) Permit Availability.--
            (1) Notification of permit availability.--
                    (A) In general.--Except as provided in 
                subparagraphs (B) and (C), if the Secretary concerned 
                has determined that the Department of Agriculture or 
                the Department of the Interior, as applicable, is able 
                to issue new special recreation permits to recreation 
                service providers seeking to use a Federal land unit, 
                the Secretary concerned shall publish that information 
                on the website of the agency that administers the 
                relevant Federal land unit.
                    (B) Exception for certain permits.--With respect to 
                a Federal land unit managed by the Forest Service or 
                the Bureau of Land Management, subparagraph (A) shall 
                apply only to a long-term special recreation permit for 
                the Federal land unit.
                    (C) Exception for renewals and reissuances.--
                Subparagraph (A) shall not apply to--
                            (i) a renewal or reissuance of an existing 
                        special recreation permit; or
                            (ii) a new special recreation permit issued 
                        to the purchaser of a recreation service 
                        provider that is the holder of an existing 
                        special recreation permit.
                    (D) Effect.--Nothing in this paragraph creates a 
                prerequisite to the issuance of a special recreation 
                permit or otherwise limits the authority of the 
                Secretary concerned--
                            (i) to issue a new special recreation 
                        permit;
                            (ii) to add a new or additional use to an 
                        existing special recreation permit; or
                            (iii) to make special recreation permits 
                        available to members of the public.
            (2) Updates.--The Secretary concerned shall ensure that 
        information published on the website under this subsection is 
        consistently updated to provide current and correct information 
        to the public.
            (3) Electronic mail notification.--The Secretary concerned 
        shall--
                    (A) establish a system by which potential special 
                recreation permit applicants may subscribe to receive 
                notification of the availability of special recreation 
                permits by electronic mail; and
                    (B) direct employees of the Department of 
                Agriculture or the Department of the Interior, as 
                applicable, to use that system to notify the public of 
                the availability of special recreation permits.
    (b) Permit Application Acknowledgment.--Not later than 60 days 
after the date on which the Secretary of the Interior receives a 
completed application or the Secretary of Agriculture receives a 
complete proposal for a special recreation permit for a Federal land 
unit, the Secretary concerned shall--
            (1) provide to the applicant notice acknowledging receipt 
        of the application or proposal; and
            (2)(A) issue a final decision with respect to the 
        application or proposal; or
            (B) provide to the applicant notice of a projected date for 
        a final decision on the application or proposal.

SEC. 106. PERMITS FOR MULTIJURISDICTIONAL TRIPS.

    (a) Single Joint Special Recreation Permits.--
            (1) In general.--In the case of a multijurisdictional trip, 
        the Federal land management agencies with jurisdiction over the 
        multijurisdictional trip may offer to the applicant a single 
        joint special recreation permit that authorizes the use of each 
        Federal land unit under the jurisdiction of those Federal land 
        management agencies.
            (2) Lead agency.--In offering a single joint special 
        recreation permit under paragraph (1), the applicable Federal 
        land management agencies shall designate a lead agency for 
        administering the single joint special recreation permit based 
        on the following considerations:
                    (A) The length of the multijurisdictional trip and 
                the relative portions of the multijurisdictional trip 
                on each Federal land unit.
                    (B) The congressional or administrative 
                designations that apply to the areas to be used during 
                the multijurisdictional trip and the degree to which 
                those designations impose limitations on recreational 
                use.
                    (C) The relative ability of the Federal land 
                management agencies with jurisdiction over the 
                multijurisdictional trip to respond to the single joint 
                special recreation permit application in a timely 
                manner.
                    (D) Other relevant administrative considerations.
            (3) Application.--An applicant desiring to be offered a 
        single joint special recreation permit under paragraph (1) 
        shall submit to the lead agency an application, as required by 
        the lead agency.
            (4) Option to apply for separate permits.--An applicant for 
        a special recreation permit for a multijurisdictional trip may 
        apply to each applicable Federal land management agency for a 
        separate permit for the portion of the multijurisdictional trip 
        on the Federal land unit managed by each applicable Federal 
        land management agency.
            (5) Prohibitions.--Nothing in this section shall be 
        construed to allow an activity that would otherwise be 
        prohibited on the Federal land unit where the activity would 
        take place.
    (b) Requirements.--In issuing a single joint special recreation 
permit under subsection (a), the lead agency shall--
            (1) coordinate with each associated agency, consistent with 
        the authority of the Secretary concerned under section 330 of 
        the Department of the Interior and Related Agencies 
        Appropriations Act, 2001 (43 U.S.C. 1703), to develop and issue 
        1 joint permit that covers the entirety of the 
        multijurisdictional trip;
            (2) in processing the joint special recreation permit 
        application, incorporate the findings, interests, and needs of 
        the associated agency;
            (3) in issuing the joint special recreation permit, clearly 
        identify the agencies that have the authority to enforce the 
        terms, stipulations, conditions and agreements of the joint 
        special recreation permit, as determined under subsection (d); 
        and
            (4) complete the permitting process within a reasonable 
        timeframe.
    (c) Cost Recovery.--The coordination with the associated agency 
under subsection (b) shall not be subject to cost recovery.
    (d) Enforcement Authority.--
            (1) Delegation of authority to lead agency.--In 
        administering a single joint special recreation permit under 
        subsection (a), the associated agency shall delegate to the 
        lead agency the authority--
                    (A) to enforce the terms, stipulations, conditions, 
                and agreements of the joint special recreation permit, 
                as may be required by the regulations of the Secretary 
                of the associated agency; and
                    (B) to suspend, terminate, or revoke the joint 
                special recreation permit for--
                            (i) noncompliance with Federal, State, or 
                        local laws and regulations;
                            (ii) noncompliance with the terms of the 
                        joint special recreation permit; or
                            (iii) failure of the holder of the joint 
                        special recreation permit to exercise the 
                        privileges granted by the joint special 
                        recreation permit.
            (2) Retention of authority by the associated agency.--The 
        associated agency shall retain the authority to enforce the 
        terms, stipulations, conditions, and agreements in the joint 
        special recreation permit that apply specifically to the use 
        occurring on the Federal land unit managed by the associated 
        agency.
    (e) Withdrawal.--
            (1) In general.--The lead agency or an associated agency 
        may withdraw from a joint special recreation permit at any 
        time.
            (2) Issuance of separate permits.--
                    (A) In general.--In the case of a withdrawal by 1 
                or more agencies under paragraph (1), if the holder of 
                the joint special recreation permit is in compliance 
                with the requirements of the joint special recreation 
                permit, the lead agency and each associated agency 
                shall issue to the holder of the joint special 
                recreation permit a new, separate special recreation 
                permit for any use occurring on the Federal land unit 
                managed by the agency.
                    (B) No new application.--The holder of a joint 
                special recreation permit from which an agency has 
                withdrawn under paragraph (1) shall not be required to 
                submit a new application for a separate special 
                recreation permit under subparagraph (A).
    (f) Treatment of Federal Land Units Charging Entrance Fees.--
Entrance fees may still be collected in addition to any special 
recreation permit fees for any trip that originates on, or outside of 
but passes through, a Federal lands unit that charges such fees.

SEC. 107. FOREST SERVICE PERMIT USE REVIEWS.

    (a) In General.--If the Secretary of Agriculture (referred to in 
this section as the ``Secretary'') conducts a special recreation permit 
use review in renewing a special recreation permit or adjusting 
allocations of use in a special recreation permit, the Secretary 
shall--
            (1) take into consideration the performance of the special 
        recreation permit holder during the reviewed period; and
            (2) if the special recreation permit holder receives a 
        satisfactory performance review, allocate to the special 
        recreation permit holder the highest level of actual annual use 
        during the period under review plus 25 percent of that use, not 
        to exceed the level allocated to the special recreation permit 
        holder on the date on which the special recreation permit was 
        issued.
    (b) Additional Capacity.--
            (1) In general.--If additional use capacity is available 
        the Secretary may, at any time, assign additional use capacity 
        to 1 or more qualified recreation service providers.
            (2) Assignment not subject to cap on use.--Notwithstanding 
        subsection (a), in assigning additional use capacity under 
        paragraph (1), the Secretary may assign additional use capacity 
        to an existing special recreation permit holder even if that 
        assignment would exceed the amount of use allocated to the 
        special recreation permit holder on the date on which the 
        special recreation permit was issued.
    (c) Waiver.--The Secretary may waive a special recreation permit 
use review for any period during which use of the assigned capacity has 
been prevented by a circumstance beyond the control of the special 
recreation permit holder, such as--
            (1) unfavorable weather;
            (2) fire;
            (3) natural disaster;
            (4) wildlife displacement;
            (5) business interruption;
            (6) insufficient availability of hunting and fishing 
        licenses; or
            (7) significant seasonal variability or off-peak periods 
        within the allocated period of use.
    (d) Approval of Non-Use.--
            (1) In general.--In any circumstance for which the holder 
        of a special recreation permit would qualify for a waiver under 
        subsection (c), on request of the holder of the special 
        recreation permit, the Secretary may approve non-use by the 
        holder of the special recreation permit without reducing the 
        number of service days assigned to the special recreation 
        permit.
            (2) Temporary reassignment of use.--The Secretary may 
        temporarily assign any period of non-use approved under 
        paragraph (1) to any other existing or potential permittee.

SEC. 108. LIABILITY.

    (a) Exculpatory Agreements.--
            (1) In general.--A Federal land management agency shall not 
        implement, administer, or enforce any regulation, guidance, or 
        policy regarding the use of an exculpatory agreement between a 
        special recreation permit holder and a customer of the special 
        recreation permit holder relating to services provided under a 
        special recreation permit.
            (2) Savings clause.--Nothing in this subsection preempts, 
        displaces, modifies, or eliminates any State law (including 
        common law) regarding exculpatory agreements.
    (b) Indemnification by Government Entities.--The Secretary 
concerned may not require a recreation service provider to indemnify 
the United States as a condition for issuing a special recreation 
permit for a Federal land unit under this section 803(h) of the Federal 
Lands Recreation Enhancement Act (16 U.S.C. 6802(h)) if--
            (1) the recreation service provider is prohibited by State 
        or local law from providing indemnification to the United 
        States; and
            (2) the recreation service provider--
                    (A) carries the minimum amount of liability 
                insurance coverage required by the issuing agency for 
                the activities conducted under the special recreation 
                permit; or
                    (B) is self-insured for the same amount.

SEC. 109. COST RECOVERY REFORM.

    (a) Revision of Regulations.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 1 year after the date of 
        the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Agriculture shall 
        revise section 251.58 of title 36, Code of Federal Regulations, 
        and the Secretary of the Interior shall revise subsections (e) 
        and (f) of section 2932.31 of title 43, Code of Federal 
        Regulations, to be consistent with this section.
            (2) Limitation.--In carrying out paragraph (1), the 
        Secretary of Agriculture and the Secretary of the Interior 
        shall not include anything in the revised regulations that 
        would limit the authority of the Secretary concerned to issue 
        or renew special recreation permits.
    (b) De Minimis Exemption From Cost Recovery.--
            (1) In general.--Any regulation promulgated by the 
        Secretary of the Interior or the Secretary of Agriculture to 
        establish fees to recover the costs of processing an 
        application for a special recreation permit issued by the U.S. 
        Forest Service or the Bureau of Land Management, or for 
        monitoring an authorization under a special recreation permit 
        issued by the Forest Service or the Bureau of Land Management, 
        shall include an exemption providing that fees may not be 
        recovered for not less than the first 50 hours of work 
        necessary in any 1 year to process the application or monitor 
        the authorization.
            (2) Multiple applications.--In situations involving 
        multiple applications for special recreation permits issued by 
        the Forest Service or the Bureau of Land Management for similar 
        services in the same Federal land unit or area that, in the 
        aggregate, require more hours to process than are exempt under 
        the regulations promulgated under paragraph (1), the Secretary 
        concerned shall, regardless of whether the applications are 
        solicited or unsolicited and whether there is competitive 
        interest--
                    (A) determine the share of the aggregate quantity 
                of hours to be allocated to each application on an 
                equal or prorated basis, as appropriate; and
                    (B) for each application, apply a separate 
                exemption as specified in the regulations promulgated 
                under paragraph (1) to the share of the aggregate hours 
                allocated to the application.
    (c) Cost Reduction.--To the maximum extent practicable, the agency 
processing an application for a special recreation permit shall use 
existing studies and analysis to reduce the quantity of work and costs 
necessary to process the application.

SEC. 110. EXTENSION OF SPECIAL RECREATION PERMITS.

    (a) In General.--Subject to subsection (b), if the holder of a 
long-term special recreation permit makes a timely and sufficient 
request for renewal of the long-term special recreation permit, the 
expiration of the permit shall be tolled in accordance with the 
undesignated matter following section 558(c)(2) of title 5, United 
States Code, until such time as the request for renewal has been 
finally determined by the Secretary concerned.
    (b) Limitation.--Any tolling under subsection (a) shall be for a 
period of not more than 5 years.
    (c) Responsibility of the Secretary Concerned.--Before allowing the 
expiration of a permit to be tolled under subsection (a), the Secretary 
concerned, to the maximum extent practicable, shall complete the 
renewal process.

SEC. 111. AVAILABILITY OF FEDERAL AND STATE RECREATION PASSES.

    (a) In General.--The Federal Lands Recreation Enhancement Act is 
amended by inserting after section 805 (16 U.S.C. 6804) the following:

``SEC. 805A. AVAILABILITY OF FEDERAL AND STATE RECREATION PASSES.

    ``(a) Establishment of Program.--
            ``(1) In general.--To improve the availability of Federal 
        and State outdoor recreation passes, the Secretaries are 
        encouraged to consult with States to coordinate the 
        availability of Federal and State recreation passes to allow a 
        purchaser to buy a Federal recreation pass and a State 
        recreation pass in the same transaction.
            ``(2) Included passes.--Passes covered by the program 
        established under paragraph (1) include--
                    ``(A) an America the Beautiful--the National Parks 
                and Federal Recreational Lands Pass under section 805; 
                and
                    ``(B) any pass covering any fees charged by 
                participating States and localities for entrance and 
                recreational use of parks and public land in the 
                participating States.
    ``(b) Agreements With States.--
            ``(1) In general.--The Secretaries, after consultation with 
        the States, may enter into agreements with States to coordinate 
        the availability of passes as described in subsection (a).
            ``(2) Revenue from pass sales.--The agreements between the 
        Secretaries and the States shall ensure that--
                    ``(A) funds from the sale of State passes are 
                transferred to the appropriate State agency;
                    ``(B) funds from the sale of Federal passes are 
                transferred to the appropriate Federal agency; and
                    ``(C) fund transfers are completed by the end of a 
                fiscal year for all pass sales occurring during the 
                fiscal year.
            ``(3) Notice.--In entering into an agreement under 
        paragraph (1), the Secretaries shall publish in the Federal 
        Register a notice describing the agreement.''.
    (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of contents for the Federal 
Lands Recreation Enhancement Act (16 U.S.C. 6801 et seq.) is amended by 
inserting after the item relating to section 805 the following:

``Sec. 805A. Availability of Federal and State recreation passes.''.

SEC. 112. ONLINE PURCHASES OF AMERICA THE BEAUTIFUL--THE NATIONAL PARKS 
              AND FEDERAL RECREATIONAL LANDS PASS.

    (a) In General.--Section 805(a)(6) of the Federal Lands Recreation 
Enhancement Act (16 U.S.C. 6804(a)(6)) is amended by striking 
subparagraph (A) and inserting the following:
                    ``(A) In general.--The Secretaries shall sell the 
                America the Beautiful--the National Parks and Federal 
                Recreational Lands Pass--
                            ``(i) at all Federal recreational lands and 
                        waters at which an entrance fee or a standard 
                        amenity recreation fee is charged where 
                        feasible to do so;
                            ``(ii) at such other locations as the 
                        Secretaries consider appropriate and feasible; 
                        and
                            ``(iii) through the website of each of the 
                        Federal land management agencies and the 
                        websites of the relevant units and subunits of 
                        those agencies, with--
                                    ``(I) a prominent link on each 
                                website; and
                                    ``(II) information about where and 
                                when passes are needed.''.
    (b) Entrance Pass and Amenity Fees.--The Secretaries shall make 
available for payment online, if appropriate and feasible, for each 
Federal land unit where passes and fees are required--
            (1) all entrance fees under section 803(e) of the Federal 
        Lands Recreation Enhancement Act (16 U.S.C. 6802(e));
            (2) all standard amenity recreation fees under section 
        803(f) of that Act (16 U.S.C. 6802(f)); and
            (3) all expanded amenity recreation fees under section 
        803(g) of that Act (16 U.S.C. 6802(g)).

SEC. 113. SAVINGS PROVISION.

    Nothing in this Act, or in any amendment made by this Act, shall be 
construed as affecting the authority or responsibility of the Secretary 
of the Interior to award concessions contracts for the provision of 
accommodations, facilities, and services, or commercial use 
authorizations to provide services, to visitors to units of the 
National Park System pursuant to the National Park Service Concessions 
Management Improvement Act of 1998, except that sections 103(a), 
103(b), 103(d), 104(a), 104(b), 106, 108(a), and 108(b) of this Act 
shall also apply to commercial use authorizations under that Act.

                 TITLE II--MAKING RECREATION A PRIORITY

SEC. 201. EXTENSION OF SEASONAL RECREATION OPPORTUNITIES.

    (a) In General.--
            (1) Extension of recreational season.--The relevant unit 
        managers of Federal recreational lands and waters managed by 
        the Forest Service, the Bureau of Land Management, and the 
        National Park Service may--
                    (A) identify areas of Federal recreational lands 
                and waters in which recreation use is highly seasonal;
                    (B) where appropriate, extend the recreation season 
                or increase recreation use in a sustainable manner 
                during the offseason; and
                    (C) make information about extended season 
                schedules and related recreational opportunities 
                available to the public and local communities.
            (2) Clarification.--Nothing in this subsection precludes 
        the Secretaries from providing for additional recreational 
        opportunities and uses at times other than those referred to in 
        paragraph (1).
    (b) Inclusions.--An extension under subsection (a)(1) may include--
            (1) the addition of facilities that would increase 
        recreation use during the offseason; and
            (2) improvement of access to the area to extend the season.
    (c) Requirement.--An extension under subsection (a)(1) shall be 
compatible with all applicable Federal laws, regulations, and policies, 
including land use plans.

SEC. 202. RECREATION PERFORMANCE METRICS.

    (a) In General.--The Chief of the Forest Service and the Director 
of the Bureau of Land Management shall evaluate land managers under 
their jurisdiction based on the achievement of applicable agency 
recreational and tourism metrics as described in applicable land 
management plans.
    (b) Metrics.--
            (1) In general.--The metrics used to evaluate recreation 
        and tourism outcomes shall ensure--
                    (A) the advancement of recreation and tourism 
                goals; and
                    (B) the ability of the land manager to enhance the 
                outdoor experience of the visitor.
            (2) Inclusions.--The metrics referred to in paragraph (1) 
        shall include--
                    (A) the extent of positive economic impacts;
                    (B) visitation by families;
                    (C) the number of visiting school and youth groups;
                    (D) the number of available recreational 
                opportunities;
                    (E) the quality of visitor experience;
                    (F) the number of recreational and environmental 
                educational programs offered;
                    (G) visitor satisfaction; and
                    (H) the maintenance and expansion of existing 
                recreation infrastructure.

                 TITLE III--MAINTENANCE OF PUBLIC LAND

SEC. 301. PRIVATE-SECTOR VOLUNTEER ENHANCEMENT PROGRAM.

    (a) Purpose.--The purpose of this section is to promote private-
sector volunteer programs within the Department of the Interior and the 
Department of Agriculture to enhance stewardship, recreation access, 
and sustainability of the resources, values, and facilities of the 
Federal recreational lands and waters managed by the Federal land 
management agencies.
    (b) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Secretary concerned.--The term ``Secretary concerned'' 
        means--
                    (A) the Secretary of Agriculture (acting through 
                the Chief of the Forest Service), with respect to 
                National Forest System land; and
                    (B) the Secretary of the Interior, with respect to 
                land managed by the Bureau of Land Management.
            (2) Volunteer.--The term ``volunteer'' means any individual 
        who performs volunteer services under this section.
    (c) Establishment.--The Secretary concerned shall carry out a 
program under which the Secretary concerned shall--
            (1) enhance private-sector volunteer programs;
            (2) actively promote private-sector volunteer 
        opportunities; and
            (3) provide outreach to, and coordinate with, the private 
        sector for the purposes described in paragraphs (1) and (2).
    (d) Cooperative Agreements for Stewardship of Federal Land.--
            (1) Authority to enter into agreements.--The Secretary 
        concerned may enter into cooperative agreements (in accordance 
        with section 6305 of title 31, United States Code) with private 
        agencies, organizations, institutions, corporations, 
        individuals, or other entities to carry out one or more 
        projects or programs with a Federal land management agency in 
        accordance with this section.
            (2) Project and program instructions.--The Secretary 
        concerned shall include in the cooperative agreement the 
        desired outcomes of the project or program and the guidelines 
        for the volunteers to follow, including--
                    (A) the physical boundaries of the project or 
                program;
                    (B) the equipment the volunteers are authorized to 
                use to complete the project or program;
                    (C) the training the volunteers are required to 
                complete, including agency consideration and 
                incorporation of training offered by qualified 
                nongovernmental organizations and volunteer partner 
                organizations;
                    (D) the actions the volunteers are authorized to 
                take to complete the project or program; and
                    (E) any other information that the Secretary 
                concerned determines necessary for the volunteer group 
                to complete the project or program.
            (3) Authorized projects and programs.--Subject to paragraph 
        (4), the Secretary concerned may use a cooperative agreement to 
        carry out projects and programs for Federal land that--
                    (A) promote the stewardship of resources of Federal 
                land by volunteers;
                    (B) support maintaining the resources, trails, and 
                facilities on Federal land in a sustainable manner;
                    (C) increase awareness, understanding, and 
                stewardship of Federal land through the development, 
                publication, or distribution of educational materials 
                and products; and
                    (D) promote the use of Federal land as outdoor 
                classrooms.
            (4) Conditions on use of authority.--The Secretary 
        concerned may use a cooperative agreement under paragraph (1) 
        to carry out a project or program for the Federal land only if 
        the project or program--
                    (A) complies with all Federal laws (including 
                regulations) and policies;
                    (B) is consistent with an applicable management 
                plan for any Federal recreational lands and waters 
                involved;
                    (C) is monitored by the relevant Federal land 
                management agency during the project and after project 
                completion to determine compliance with the 
                instructions under paragraph (2); and
                    (D) satisfies such other terms and conditions as 
                the Secretary concerned determines to be appropriate.

SEC. 302. ENHANCING OUTDOOR RECREATION THROUGH PUBLIC LANDS SERVICE 
              ORGANIZATIONS.

    In carrying out projects on Federal recreational lands and waters 
that would directly or indirectly enhance recreation, the Secretaries 
shall--
            (1) to the maximum extent practicable--
                    (A) use qualified youth or conservation corps as 
                defined in section 203(11) of the Public Lands Corps 
                Act of 1993 (16 U.S.C. 1722(11)); and
                    (B) use non-profit wilderness and trails 
                stewardship organizations;
            (2) enter into cooperative agreements with the Corps 
        Network, the National Wilderness Stewardship Alliance, American 
        Trails, other public lands stewardship organizations, outdoor 
        recreation businesses, and outdoor recreation university 
        programs, as appropriate, for the purpose of identifying 
        appropriate projects, activities, and workforce development 
        outcomes; and
            (3) waive any matching funds requirements, including under 
        section 212(a)(1) of the Public Lands Corps Act of 1993 (16 
        U.S.C. 1729(a)(1)).
                                 &lt;all&gt;
</pre></body></html>
