<html><body><pre>
[Congressional Bills 110th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[S. 2180 Placed on Calendar Senate (PCS)]






                                                       Calendar No. 425
110th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                S. 2180

 To authorize certain programs and activities in the Department of the 
  Interior, the Forest Service, and the Department of Energy, and to 
 amend the Compact of Free Association Amendments Act of 2003, and for 
                            other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                   IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

                            October 17, 2007

 Mr. Bingaman introduced the following bill; which was read the first 
                                  time

                            October 18, 2007

            Read the second time and placed on the calendar

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
 To authorize certain programs and activities in the Department of the 
  Interior, the Forest Service, and the Department of Energy, and to 
 amend the Compact of Free Association Amendments Act of 2003, and for 
                            other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE; TABLE OF CONTENTS.

    (a) Short Title.--This Act may be cited as the ``Natural Resource 
Projects and Programs Authorization Act of 2007''.
    (b) Table of Contents.--The table of contents of this Act is as 
follows:

Sec. 1. Short title; table of contents.
                   TITLE I--BUREAU OF LAND MANAGEMENT

          Subtitle A--Prehistoric Trackways National Monument

Sec. 101. Findings.
Sec. 102. Definitions.
Sec. 103. Establishment.
Sec. 104. Administration.
Sec. 105. Authorization of appropriations.
  Subtitle B--Fort Stanton-Snowy River Cave National Conservation Area

Sec. 111. Definitions.
Sec. 112. Establishment of Fort Stanton-Snowy River Cave National 
                            Conservation Area.
Sec. 113. Management of the Conservation Area.
Sec. 114. Authorization of appropriations.
           Subtitle C--Paleontological Resources Preservation

Sec. 121. Definitions.
Sec. 122. Management.
Sec. 123. Public awareness and education program.
Sec. 124. Collection of paleontological resources.
Sec. 125. Curation of resources.
Sec. 126. Prohibited acts; criminal penalties.
Sec. 127. Civil penalties.
Sec. 128. Rewards and forfeiture.
Sec. 129. Confidentiality.
Sec. 130. Regulations.
Sec. 131. Savings provisions.
Sec. 132. Authorization of appropriations.
    Subtitle D--Snake River Birds of Prey National Conservation Area

Sec. 141. Snake River Birds of Prey National Conservation Area.
           Subtitle E--National Landscape Conservation System

Sec. 151. Definitions.
Sec. 152. Establishment of the National Landscape Conservation System.
Sec. 153. Authorization of appropriations.
                    TITLE II--NATIONAL PARK SERVICE

       Subtitle A--New Areas, Boundary Modifications, and Studies

Sec. 201. William Jefferson Clinton Birthplace Home National Historic 
                            Site.
Sec. 202. Mesa Verde National Park Boundary expansion.
Sec. 203. Minidoka Internment National Monument.
Sec. 204. Walnut Canyon study.
            Subtitle B--Commissions and Advisory Committees

Sec. 211. Dwight D. Eisenhower Memorial Commission.
Sec. 212. Na Hoa Pili O Kaloko-Honokohau advisory commission.
                      Subtitle C--National Trails

Sec. 221. Ice Age Floods National Geologic Trail.
Sec. 222. Washington-Rochambeau Revolutionary Route National Historic 
                            Trail.
Sec. 223. Revision of feasibility and suitability studies of existing 
                            national historic trails.
Sec. 224. National Trails System willing seller authority.
                  Subtitle D--National Heritage Areas

Sec. 231. National heritage areas partnership.
Sec. 232. Reauthorization of certain national heritage areas.
Sec. 233. Quinebaug and Shetucket Rivers Valley National Heritage 
                            Corridor.
Sec. 234. Journey Through Hallowed Ground National Heritage Area.
Sec. 235. Sangre de Cristo National Heritage Area.
Sec. 236. South Park National Heritage Area.
Sec. 237. Niagara Falls National Heritage Area.
Sec. 238. Abraham Lincoln National Heritage Area.
Sec. 239. Chattahoochee Trace National Heritage Corridor.
Sec. 240. Study of sites relating to Abraham Lincoln in Kentucky.
 TITLE III--BUREAU OF RECLAMATION AND UNITED STATES GEOLOGICAL SURVEY 
                             AUTHORIZATIONS

Sec. 301. Extension of participation of Bureau of Reclamation in 
                            Deschutes River Conservancy.
Sec. 302. Wallowa Lake Dam Rehabilitation Program.
Sec. 303. Little Butte/Bear Creek Subbasins, Oregon, Water resource 
                            study.
Sec. 304. North Unit Irrigation District.
Sec. 305. Central Oklahoma Master Conservancy District feasibility 
                            study.
Sec. 306. Authority to conduct feasibility studies within the Snake, 
                            Boise, and Payette River systems in the 
                            State of Idaho.
Sec. 307. Tumalo Irrigation District Water Conservation Project.
Sec. 308. New Mexico water resources study.
Sec. 309. Water and energy resources.
Sec. 310. Reauthorization of the National Geologic Mapping Act of 1992.
                TITLE IV--FOREST SERVICE AUTHORIZATIONS

                       Subtitle A--Authorizations

Sec. 401. Coffman Cove administrative site conveyance.
Sec. 402. Pecos National Historical Park.
Sec. 403. Watershed restoration and enhancement agreements.
Sec. 404. Wildland firefighter safety.
         Subtitle B--Lewis and Clark Mount Hood Wilderness Area

Sec. 411. Definitions.
Sec. 412. Designation of wilderness areas.
Sec. 413. Designation of streams for wild and scenic river protection 
                            in the Mount Hood area.
Sec. 414. Mount Hood National Recreation Area.
Sec. 415. Protections for Crystal Springs, Upper Big Bottom, and Cultus 
                            Creek.
Sec. 416. Land exchanges.
Sec. 417. Tribal provisions; planning and studies.
              TITLE V--DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY AUTHORIZATIONS

Sec. 501. Technical criteria for clean coal power initiative.
Sec. 502. Additional Assistant Secretary for Department of Energy.
Sec. 503. United States-Israel energy cooperation.
Sec. 504. Alaska natural gas pipeline.
            TITLE VI--COMPACT OF FREE ASSOCIATION AMENDMENTS

Sec. 601. Approval of agreements.
Sec. 602. Conforming amendment.
Sec. 603. Clarifications regarding Palau.
Sec. 604. Availability of legal services.
Sec. 605. Technical amendments.
Sec. 606. Transmission of videotape programming.
Sec. 607. Palau road maintenance.
Sec. 608. Clarification of tax-free status of trust funds.

                   TITLE I--BUREAU OF LAND MANAGEMENT

          Subtitle A--Prehistoric Trackways National Monument

SEC. 101. FINDINGS.

    Congress finds that--
            (1) in 1987, a major deposit of Paleozoic Era fossilized 
        footprint megatrackways was discovered in the Robledo Mountains 
        in southern New Mexico;
            (2) the trackways contain footprints of numerous 
        amphibians, reptiles, and insects (including previously unknown 
        species), plants, and petrified wood dating back approximately 
        280,000,000 years, which collectively provide new opportunities 
        to understand animal behaviors and environments from a time 
        predating the dinosaurs;
            (3) title III of Public Law 101-578 (104 Stat. 2860)--
                    (A) provided interim protection for the site at 
                which the trackways were discovered; and
                    (B) directed the Secretary of the Interior to--
                            (i) prepare a study assessing the 
                        significance of the site; and
                            (ii) based on the study, provide 
                        recommendations for protection of the 
                        paleontological resources at the site;
            (4) the Bureau of Land Management completed the Paleozoic 
        Trackways Scientific Study Report in 1994, which characterized 
        the site as containing ``the most scientifically significant 
        Early Permian tracksites'' in the world;
            (5) despite the conclusion of the study and the 
        recommendations for protection, the site remains unprotected 
        and many irreplaceable trackways specimens have been lost to 
        vandalism or theft; and
            (6) designation of the trackways site as a National 
        Monument would protect the unique fossil resources for present 
        and future generations while allowing for public education and 
        continued scientific research opportunities.

SEC. 102. DEFINITIONS.

    In this subtitle:
            (1) Monument.--The term ``Monument'' means the Prehistoric 
        Trackways National Monument established by section 103(a).
            (2) Public land.--The term ``public land'' has the meaning 
        given the term ``public lands'' in section 103 of the Federal 
        Land Policy and Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1702).
            (3) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary 
        of the Interior.

SEC. 103. ESTABLISHMENT.

    (a) In General.--In order to conserve, protect, and enhance the 
unique and nationally important paleontological, scientific, 
educational, scenic, and recreational resources and values of the 
public land described in subsection (b), there is established the 
Prehistoric Trackways National Monument in the State of New Mexico.
    (b) Description of Land.--The Monument shall consist of 
approximately 5,280 acres of public land in Dona Ana County, New 
Mexico, as generally depicted on the map entitled ``Prehistoric 
Trackways National Monument'' and dated January 25, 2007.
    (c) Map; Legal Description.--
            (1) In general.--As soon as practicable after the date of 
        enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall prepare and submit 
        to Congress an official map and legal description of the 
        Monument.
            (2) Corrections.--The map and legal description submitted 
        under paragraph (1) shall have the same force and effect as if 
        included in this subtitle, except that the Secretary may 
        correct any clerical or typographical errors in the legal 
        description and the map.
            (3) Conflict between map and legal description.--In the 
        case of a conflict between the map and the legal description, 
        the map shall control.
            (4) Availability of map and legal description.--Copies of 
        the map and legal description shall be on file and available 
        for public inspection in the appropriate offices of the Bureau 
        of Land Management.
    (d) Minor Boundary Adjustments.--If additional paleontological 
resources are discovered on public land adjacent to the Monument after 
the date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary may make minor 
boundary adjustments to the Monument to include the resources in the 
Monument.

SEC. 104. ADMINISTRATION.

    (a) Management.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary shall manage the Monument--
                    (A) in a manner that conserves, protects, and 
                enhances the resources and values of the Monument, 
                including the resources and values described in section 
                103(a); and
                    (B) in accordance with--
                            (i) this subtitle;
                            (ii) the Federal Land Policy and Management 
                        Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.); and
                            (iii) other applicable laws.
            (2) National landscape conservation system.--The Monument 
        shall be managed as a component of the National Landscape 
        Conservation System.
    (b) Management Plan.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 3 years after the date of 
        enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall develop a 
        comprehensive management plan for the long-term protection and 
        management of the Monument.
            (2) Components.--The management plan under paragraph (1)--
                    (A) shall--
                            (i) describe the appropriate uses and 
                        management of the Monument, consistent with the 
                        provisions of this subtitle; and
                            (ii) allow for continued scientific 
                        research at the Monument during the development 
                        of the management plan; and
                    (B) may--
                            (i) incorporate any appropriate decisions 
                        contained in any current management or activity 
                        plan for the land described in section 103(b); 
                        and
                            (ii) use information developed in studies 
                        of any land within or adjacent to the Monument 
                        that were conducted before the date of 
                        enactment of this Act.
    (c) Authorized Uses.--The Secretary shall only allow uses of the 
Monument that the Secretary determines would further the purposes for 
which the Monument has been established.
    (d) Interpretation, Education, and Scientific Research.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary shall provide for public 
        interpretation of, and education and scientific research on, 
        the paleontological resources of the Monument, with priority 
        given to exhibiting and curating the resources in Dona Ana 
        County, New Mexico.
            (2) Cooperative agreements.--The Secretary may enter into 
        cooperative agreements with appropriate public entities to 
        carry out paragraph (1).
    (e) Special Management Areas.--
            (1) In general.--The establishment of the Monument shall 
        not change the management status of any area within the 
        boundary of the Monument that is--
                    (A) designated as a wilderness study area and 
                managed in accordance with section 603(c) of the 
                Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 1976 (43 
                U.S.C. 1782(c)); or
                    (B) managed as an area of critical environment 
                concern.
            (2) Conflict of laws.--If there is a conflict between the 
        laws applicable to the areas described in paragraph (1) and 
        this subtitle, the more restrictive provision shall control.
    (f) Motorized Vehicles.--
            (1) In general.--Except as needed for administrative 
        purposes or to respond to an emergency, the use of motorized 
        vehicles in the Monument shall be allowed only on roads and 
        trails designated for use by motorized vehicles under the 
        management plan prepared under subsection (b).
            (2) Permitted events.--The Secretary may issue permits for 
        special recreation events involving motorized vehicles within 
        the boundaries of the Monument, including the ``Chile 
        Challenge''--
                    (A) to the extent the events do not harm 
                paleontological resources; and
                    (B) subject to any terms and conditions that the 
                Secretary determines to be necessary.
    (g) Withdrawals.--Subject to valid existing rights, any Federal 
land within the Monument and any land or interest in land that is 
acquired by the United States for inclusion in the Monument after the 
date of enactment of this Act are withdrawn from--
            (1) entry, appropriation, or disposal under the public land 
        laws;
            (2) location, entry, and patent under the mining laws; and
            (3) operation of the mineral leasing laws, geothermal 
        leasing laws, and minerals materials laws.
    (h) Grazing.--The Secretary may allow grazing to continue in any 
area of the Monument in which grazing is allowed before the date of 
enactment of this Act, subject to applicable laws (including 
regulations).
    (i) Water Rights.--Nothing in this subtitle constitutes an express 
or implied reservation by the United States of any water or water 
rights with respect to the Monument.

SEC. 105. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.

    There are authorized to be appropriated such sums as are necessary 
to carry out this subtitle.

  Subtitle B--Fort Stanton-Snowy River Cave National Conservation Area

SEC. 111. DEFINITIONS.

    In this subtitle:
            (1) Conservation area.--The term ``Conservation Area'' 
        means the Fort Stanton-Snowy River Cave National Conservation 
        Area established by section 112(a).
            (2) Management plan.--The term ``management plan'' means 
        the management plan developed for the Conservation Area under 
        section 113(c).
            (3) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary 
        of the Interior, acting through the Director of the Bureau of 
        Land Management.

SEC. 112. ESTABLISHMENT OF FORT STANTON-SNOWY RIVER CAVE NATIONAL 
              CONSERVATION AREA.

    (a) Establishment; Purposes.--There is established the Fort 
Stanton-Snowy River Cave National Conservation Area in Lincoln County, 
New Mexico, to protect, conserve, and enhance the unique and nationally 
important historic, cultural, scientific, archaeological, natural, and 
educational subterranean cave resources of the Fort Stanton-Snowy River 
cave system.
    (b) Area Included.--The Conservation Area shall include the area 
within the boundaries depicted on the map entitled ``Fort Stanton-Snowy 
River Cave National Conservation Area'' and dated January 25, 2007.
    (c) Map and Legal Description.--
            (1) In general.--As soon as practicable after the date of 
        enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall submit to Congress a 
        map and legal description of the Conservation Area.
            (2) Effect.--The map and legal description of the 
        Conservation Area shall have the same force and effect as if 
        included in this subtitle, except that the Secretary may 
        correct any minor errors in the map and legal description.
            (3) Public availability.--The map and legal description of 
        the Conservation Area shall be available for public inspection 
        in the appropriate offices of the Bureau of Land Management.

SEC. 113. MANAGEMENT OF THE CONSERVATION AREA.

    (a) Management.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary shall manage the 
        Conservation Area--
                    (A) in a manner that conserves, protects, and 
                enhances the resources and values of the Conservation 
                Area, including the resources and values described in 
                section 112(a); and
                    (B) in accordance with--
                            (i) this subtitle;
                            (ii) the Federal Land Policy and Management 
                        Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.); and
                            (iii) any other applicable laws.
            (2) Uses.--The Secretary shall only allow uses of the 
        Conservation Area that are consistent with the protection of 
        the cave resources.
            (3) Requirements.--In administering the Conservation Area, 
        the Secretary shall provide for--
                    (A) the conservation and protection of the natural 
                and unique features and environs for scientific, 
                educational, and other appropriate public uses of the 
                Conservation Area;
                    (B) public access, as appropriate, while providing 
                for the protection of the cave resources and for public 
                safety;
                    (C) the continuation of other existing uses or 
                other new uses of the Conservation Area that do not 
                impair the purposes for which the Conservation Area is 
                established;
                    (D) management of the surface area of the 
                Conservation Area in accordance with the Fort Stanton 
                Area of Critical Environmental Concern Final Activity 
                Plan dated March, 2001, or any amendments to the plan, 
                consistent with this subtitle; and
                    (E) scientific investigation and research 
                opportunities within the Conservation Area, including 
                through partnerships with colleges, universities, 
                schools, scientific institutions, researchers, and 
                scientists to conduct research and provide educational 
                and interpretive services within the Conservation Area.
    (b) Withdrawals.--Subject to valid existing rights, all Federal 
surface and subsurface land within the Conservation Area and all land 
and interests in the land that are acquired by the United States after 
the date of enactment of this Act for inclusion in the Conservation 
Area, are withdrawn from--
            (1) all forms of entry, appropriation, or disposal under 
        the general land laws;
            (2) location, entry, and patent under the mining laws; and
            (3) operation under the mineral leasing and geothermal 
        leasing laws.
    (c) Management Plan.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 2 years after the date of 
        enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall develop a 
        comprehensive plan for the long-term management of the 
        Conservation Area.
            (2) Purposes.--The management plan shall--
                    (A) describe the appropriate uses and management of 
                the Conservation Area;
                    (B) incorporate, as appropriate, decisions 
                contained in any other management or activity plan for 
                the land within or adjacent to the Conservation Area;
                    (C) take into consideration any information 
                developed in studies of the land and resources within 
                or adjacent to the Conservation Area; and
                    (D) provide for a cooperative agreement with 
                Lincoln County, New Mexico, to address the historical 
                involvement of the local community in the 
                interpretation and protection of the resources of the 
                Conservation Area.
    (d) Activities Outside Conservation Area.--The establishment of the 
Conservation Area shall not--
            (1) create a protective perimeter or buffer zone around the 
        Conservation Area; or
            (2) preclude uses or activities outside the Conservation 
        Area that are permitted under other applicable laws, even if 
        the uses or activities are prohibited within the Conservation 
        Area.
    (e) Research and Interpretive Facilities.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary may establish facilities 
        for--
                    (A) the conduct of scientific research; and
                    (B) the interpretation of the historical, cultural, 
                scientific, archaeological, natural, and educational 
                resources of the Conservation Area.
            (2) Cooperative agreements.--The Secretary may, in a manner 
        consistent with this subtitle, enter into cooperative 
        agreements with the State of New Mexico and other institutions 
        and organizations to carry out the purposes of this subtitle.
    (f) Water Rights.--Nothing in this subtitle constitutes an express 
or implied reservation of any water right.

SEC. 114. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.

    There are authorized to be appropriated such sums as are necessary 
to carry out this subtitle.

           Subtitle C--Paleontological Resources Preservation

SEC. 121. DEFINITIONS.

    In this subtitle:
            (1) Casual collecting.--The term ``casual collecting'' 
        means the collecting of a reasonable amount of common 
        invertebrate and plant paleontological resources for non-
        commercial personal use, either by surface collection or the 
        use of non-powered hand tools resulting in only negligible 
        disturbance to the Earth's surface and other resources. As used 
        in this paragraph, the terms ``reasonable amount'', ``common 
        invertebrate and plant paleontological resources'' and 
        ``negligible disturbance'' shall be determined by the 
        Secretary.
            (2) Federal land.--The term ``Federal land'' means--
                    (A) land controlled or administered by the 
                Secretary of the Interior, except Indian land; or
                    (B) National Forest System land controlled or 
                administered by the Secretary of Agriculture.
            (3) Indian land.--The term ``Indian Land'' means land of 
        Indian tribes, or Indian individuals, which are either held in 
        trust by the United States or subject to a restriction against 
        alienation imposed by the United States.
            (4) Paleontological resource.--The term ``paleontological 
        resource'' means any fossilized remains, traces, or imprints of 
        organisms, preserved in or on the earth's crust, that are of 
        paleontological interest and that provide information about the 
        history of life on earth, except that the term does not 
        include--
                    (A) any materials associated with an archaeological 
                resource (as defined in section 3(1) of the 
                Archaeological Resources Protection Act of 1979 (16 
                U.S.C. 470bb(1)); or
                    (B) any cultural item (as defined in section 2 of 
                the Native American Graves Protection and Repatriation 
                Act (25 U.S.C. 3001)).
            (5) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary 
        of the Interior with respect to land controlled or administered 
        by the Secretary of the Interior or the Secretary of 
        Agriculture with respect to National Forest System land 
        controlled or administered by the Secretary of Agriculture.
            (6) State.--The term ``State'' means the 50 States, the 
        District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, and any 
        other territory or possession of the United States.

SEC. 122. MANAGEMENT.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary shall manage and protect 
paleontological resources on Federal land using scientific principles 
and expertise. The Secretary shall develop appropriate plans for 
inventory, monitoring, and the scientific and educational use of 
paleontological resources, in accordance with applicable agency laws, 
regulations, and policies. These plans shall emphasize interagency 
coordination and collaborative efforts where possible with non-Federal 
partners, the scientific community, and the general public.
    (b) Coordination.--To the extent possible, the Secretary of the 
Interior and the Secretary of Agriculture shall coordinate in the 
implementation of this subtitle.

SEC. 123. PUBLIC AWARENESS AND EDUCATION PROGRAM.

    The Secretary shall establish a program to increase public 
awareness about the significance of paleontological resources.

SEC. 124. COLLECTION OF PALEONTOLOGICAL RESOURCES.

    (a) Permit Requirement.--
            (1) In general.--Except as provided in this subtitle, a 
        paleontological resource may not be collected from Federal land 
        without a permit issued under this subtitle by the Secretary.
            (2) Casual collecting exception.--The Secretary may allow 
        casual collecting without a permit on Federal land controlled 
        or administered by the Bureau of Land Management, the Bureau of 
        Reclamation, and the Forest Service, where such collection is 
        consistent with the laws governing the management of those 
        Federal land and this subtitle.
            (3) Previous permit exception.--Nothing in this section 
        shall affect a valid permit issued prior to the date of 
        enactment of this Act.
    (b) Criteria for Issuance of a Permit.--The Secretary may issue a 
permit for the collection of a paleontological resource pursuant to an 
application if the Secretary determines that--
            (1) the applicant is qualified to carry out the permitted 
        activity;
            (2) the permitted activity is undertaken for the purpose of 
        furthering paleontological knowledge or for public education;
            (3) the permitted activity is consistent with any 
        management plan applicable to the Federal land concerned; and
            (4) the proposed methods of collecting will not threaten 
        significant natural or cultural resources.
    (c) Permit Specifications.--A permit for the collection of a 
paleontological resource issued under this section shall contain such 
terms and conditions as the Secretary deems necessary to carry out the 
purposes of this subtitle. Every permit shall include requirements 
that--
            (1) the paleontological resource that is collected from 
        Federal land under the permit will remain the property of the 
        United States;
            (2) the paleontological resource and copies of associated 
        records will be preserved for the public in an approved 
        repository, to be made available for scientific research and 
        public education; and
            (3) specific locality data will not be released by the 
        permittee or repository without the written permission of the 
        Secretary.
    (d) Modification, Suspension, and Revocation of Permits.--
            (1) The Secretary may modify, suspend, or revoke a permit 
        issued under this section--
                    (A) for resource, safety, or other management 
                considerations; or
                    (B) when there is a violation of term or condition 
                of a permit issued pursuant to this section.
            (2) The permit shall be revoked if any person working under 
        the authority of the permit is convicted under section 126 or 
        is assessed a civil penalty under section 127.
    (e) Area Closures.--In order to protect paleontological or other 
resources and to provide for public safety, the Secretary may restrict 
access to or close areas under the Secretary's jurisdiction to the 
collection of paleontological resources.

SEC. 125. CURATION OF RESOURCES.

    Any paleontological resource, and any data and records associated 
with the resource, collected under a permit, shall be deposited in an 
approved repository. The Secretary may enter into agreements with non-
Federal repositories regarding the curation of these resources, data, 
and records.

SEC. 126. PROHIBITED ACTS; CRIMINAL PENALTIES.

    (a) In General.--A person may not--
            (1) excavate, remove, damage, or otherwise alter or deface 
        or attempt to excavate, remove, damage, or otherwise alter or 
        deface any paleontological resources located on Federal land 
        unless such activity is conducted in accordance with this 
        subtitle;
            (2) exchange, transport, export, receive, or offer to 
        exchange, transport, export, or receive any paleontological 
        resource if, in the exercise of due care, the person knew or 
        should have known such resource to have been excavated or 
        removed from Federal land in violation of any provisions, rule, 
        regulation, law, ordinance, or permit in effect under Federal 
        law, including this subtitle; or
            (3) sell or purchase or offer to sell or purchase any 
        paleontological resource if, in the exercise of due care, the 
        person knew or should have known such resource to have been 
        excavated, removed, sold, purchased, exchanged, transported, or 
        received from Federal land.
    (b) False Labeling Offenses.--A person may not make or submit any 
false record, account, or label for, or any false identification of, 
any paleontological resource excavated or removed from Federal land.
    (c) Penalties.--A person who knowingly violates or counsels, 
procures, solicits, or employs another person to violate subsection (a) 
or (b) shall, upon conviction, be fined in accordance with title 18, 
United States Code, or imprisoned not more than 10 years, or both; but 
if the sum of the commercial and paleontological value of the 
paleontological resources involved and the cost of restoration and 
repair of such resources does not exceed $500, such person shall be 
fined in accordance with title 18, United States Code, or imprisoned 
not more than 1 year, or both.
    (d) General Exception.--Nothing in subsection (a) shall apply to 
any person with respect to any paleontological resource which was in 
the lawful possession of such person prior to the date of enactment of 
this Act.

SEC. 127. CIVIL PENALTIES.

    (a) In General.--
            (1) Hearing.--A person who violates any prohibition 
        contained in an applicable regulation or permit issued under 
        this subtitle may be assessed a penalty by the Secretary after 
        the person is given notice and opportunity for a hearing with 
        respect to the violation. Each violation shall be considered a 
        separate offense for purposes of this section.
            (2) Amount of penalty.--The amount of such penalty assessed 
        under paragraph (1) shall be determined under regulations 
        promulgated pursuant to this subtitle, taking into account the 
        following factors:
                    (A) The scientific or fair market value, whichever 
                is greater, of the paleontological resource involved, 
                as determined by the Secretary.
                    (B) The cost of response, restoration, and repair 
                of the resource and the paleontological site involved.
                    (C) Any other factors considered relevant by the 
                Secretary assessing the penalty.
            (3) Multiple offenses.--In the case of a second or 
        subsequent violation by the same person, the amount of a 
        penalty assessed under paragraph (2) may be doubled.
            (4) Limitation.--The amount of any penalty assessed under 
        this subsection for any 1 violation shall not exceed an amount 
        equal to double the cost of response, restoration, and repair 
        of resources and paleontological site damage plus double the 
        scientific or fair market value of resources destroyed or not 
        recovered.
    (b) Petition for Judicial Review; Collection of Unpaid 
Assessments.--
            (1) Judicial review.--Any person against whom an order is 
        issued assessing a penalty under subsection (a) may file a 
        petition for judicial review of the order in the United States 
        District Court for the District of Columbia or in the district 
        in which the violation is alleged to have occurred within the 
        30-day period beginning on the date the order making the 
        assessment was issued. Upon notice of such filing, the 
        Secretary shall promptly file such a certified copy of the 
        record on which the order was issued. The court shall hear the 
        action on the record made before the Secretary and shall 
        sustain the action if it is supported by substantial evidence 
        on the record considered as a whole.
            (2) Failure to pay.--If any person fails to pay a penalty 
        under this section within 30 days--
                    (A) after the order making assessment has become 
                final and the person has not filed a petition for 
                judicial review of the order in accordance with 
                paragraph (1); or
                    (B) after a court in an action brought in paragraph 
                (1) has entered a final judgment upholding the 
                assessment of the penalty, the Secretary may request 
                the Attorney General to institute a civil action in a 
                district court of the United States for any district in 
                which the person if found, resides, or transacts 
                business, to collect the penalty (plus interest at 
                currently prevailing rates from the date of the final 
                order or the date of the final judgment, as the case 
                may be). The district court shall have jurisdiction to 
                hear and decide any such action. In such action, the 
                validity, amount, and appropriateness of such penalty 
                shall not be subject to review. Any person who fails to 
                pay on a timely basis the amount of an assessment of a 
                civil penalty as described in the first sentence of 
                this paragraph shall be required to pay, in addition to 
                such amount and interest, attorneys fees and costs for 
                collection proceedings.
    (c) Hearings.--Hearings held during proceedings instituted under 
subsection (a) shall be conducted in accordance with section 554 of 
title 5, United States Code.
    (d) Use of Recovered Amounts.--Penalties collected under this 
section shall be available to the Secretary and without further 
appropriation may be used only as follows:
            (1) To protect, restore, or repair the paleontological 
        resources and sites which were the subject of the action, or to 
        acquire sites with equivalent resources, and to protect, 
        monitor, and study the resources and sites. Any acquisition 
        shall be subject to any limitations contained in the organic 
        legislation for such Federal land.
            (2) To provide educational materials to the public about 
        paleontological resources and sites.
            (3) To provide for the payment of rewards as provided in 
        section 128.

SEC. 128. REWARDS AND FORFEITURE.

    (a) Rewards.--The Secretary may pay from penalties collected under 
section 126 or 127--
            (1) consistent with amounts established in regulations by 
        the Secretary; or
            (2) if no such regulation exists, an amount equal to the 
        lesser of \1/2\ of the penalty or $500, to any person who 
        furnishes information which leads to the finding of a civil 
        violation, or the conviction of criminal violation, with 
        respect to which the penalty was paid. If several persons 
        provided the information, the amount shall be divided among the 
        persons. No officer or employee of the United States or of any 
        State or local government who furnishes information or renders 
        service in the performance of his official duties shall be 
        eligible for payment under this subsection.
    (b) Forfeiture.--All paleontological resources with respect to 
which a violation under section 126 or 127 occurred and which are in 
the possession of any person, and all vehicles and equipment of any 
person that were used in connection with the violation, shall be 
subject to civil forfeiture, or upon conviction, to criminal 
forfeiture. All provisions of law relating to the seizure, forfeiture, 
and condemnation of property for a violation of this subtitle, the 
disposition of such property or the proceeds from the sale thereof, and 
remission or mitigation of such forfeiture, as well as the procedural 
provisions of chapter 46 of title 18, United States Code, shall apply 
to the seizures and forfeitures incurred or alleged to have incurred 
under the provisions of this subtitle.
    (c) Transfer of Seized Resources.--The Secretary may transfer 
administration of seized paleontological resources to Federal or non-
Federal educational institutions to be used for scientific or 
educational purposes.

SEC. 129. CONFIDENTIALITY.

    Information concerning the nature and specific location of a 
paleontological resource the collection of which requires a permit 
under this subtitle or under any other provision of Federal law shall 
be exempt from disclosure under section 552 of title 5, United States 
Code, and any other law unless the Secretary determines that disclosure 
would--
            (1) further the purposes of this subtitle;
            (2) not create risk of harm to or theft or destruction of 
        the resource or the site containing the resource; and
            (3) be in accordance with other applicable laws.

SEC. 130. REGULATIONS.

    As soon as practical after the date of enactment of this Act, the 
Secretary shall issue such regulations as are appropriate to carry out 
this subtitle, providing opportunities for public notice and comment.

SEC. 131. SAVINGS PROVISIONS.

    Nothing in this subtitle shall be construed to--
            (1) invalidate, modify, or impose any additional 
        restrictions or permitting requirements on any activities 
        permitted at any time under the general mining laws, the 
        mineral or geothermal leasing laws, laws providing for minerals 
        materials disposal, or laws providing for the management or 
        regulation of the activities authorized by the aforementioned 
        laws including but not limited to the Federal Land Policy 
        Management Act (43 U.S.C. 1701-1784), Public Law 94-429 
        (commonly known as the ``Mining in the Parks Act'') (16 U.S.C. 
        1901 et seq.), the Surface Mining Control and Reclamation Act 
        of 1977 (30 U.S.C. 1201-1358), and the Organic Administration 
        Act (16 U.S.C. 478, 482, 551);
            (2) invalidate, modify, or impose any additional 
        restrictions or permitting requirements on any activities 
        permitted at any time under existing laws and authorities 
        relating to reclamation and multiple uses of Federal land;
            (3) apply to, or require a permit for, casual collecting of 
        a rock, mineral, or invertebrate or plant fossil that is not 
        protected under this subtitle;
            (4) affect any land other than Federal land or affect the 
        lawful recovery, collection, or sale of paleontological 
        resources from land other than Federal land;
            (5) alter or diminish the authority of a Federal agency 
        under any other law to provide protection for paleontological 
        resources on Federal land in addition to the protection 
        provided under this subtitle; or
            (6) create any right, privilege, benefit, or entitlement 
        for any person who is not an officer or employee of the United 
        States acting in that capacity. No person who is not an officer 
        or employee of the United States acting in that capacity shall 
        have standing to file any civil action in a court of the United 
        States to enforce any provision or amendment made by this 
        subtitle.

SEC. 132. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.

    There are authorized to be appropriated such sums as may be 
necessary to carry out this subtitle.

    Subtitle D--Snake River Birds of Prey National Conservation Area

SEC. 141. SNAKE RIVER BIRDS OF PREY NATIONAL CONSERVATION AREA.

    (a) Renaming.--Public Law 103-64 is amended--
            (1) in section 2(2) (16 U.S.C. 460iii-1(2)), by inserting 
        ``Morley Nelson'' before ``Snake River Birds of Prey National 
        Conservation Area''; and
            (2) in section 3(a)(1) (16 U.S.C. 460iii-2(a)(1)), by 
        inserting ``Morley Nelson'' before ``Snake River Birds of Prey 
        National Conservation Area''.
    (b) References.--Any reference in a law, map, regulation, document, 
paper, or other record of the United States to the Snake River Birds of 
Prey National Conservation Area shall be deemed to be a reference to 
the Morley Nelson Snake River Birds of Prey National Conservation Area.
    (c) Technical Corrections.--Public Law 103-64 is further amended--
            (1) in section 3(a)(1) (16 U.S.C. 460iii-2(a)(1)), by 
        striking ``(hereafter referred to as the `conservation 
        area')''; and
            (2) in section 4 (16 U.S.C. 460iii-3)--
                    (A) in subsection (a)(2), by striking 
                ``Conservation Area'' and inserting ``conservation 
                area''; and
                    (B) in subsection (d), by striking ``Visitors 
                Center'' and inserting ``visitors center''.

           Subtitle E--National Landscape Conservation System

SEC. 151. DEFINITIONS.

    In this subtitle:
            (1) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary 
        of the Interior.
            (2) System.--The term ``system'' means the National 
        Landscape Conservation System established by section 152(a).

SEC. 152. ESTABLISHMENT OF THE NATIONAL LANDSCAPE CONSERVATION SYSTEM.

    (a) Establishment.--In order to conserve, protect, and restore 
nationally significant landscapes that have outstanding cultural, 
ecological, and scientific values for the benefit of current and future 
generations, there is established in the Bureau of Land Management the 
National Landscape Conservation System.
    (b) Components.--The system shall include each of the following 
areas administered by the Bureau of Land Management:
            (1) Each area that is designated as--
                    (A) a national monument;
                    (B) a national conservation area;
                    (C) a wilderness study area;
                    (D) a national scenic trail or national historic 
                trail designated as a component of the National Trails 
                System;
                    (E) a component of the National Wild and Scenic 
                Rivers System; or
                    (F) a component of the National Wilderness 
                Preservation System.
            (2) Any area designated by Congress to be administered for 
        conservation purposes, including--
                    (A) the Steens Mountain Cooperative Management and 
                Protection Area;
                    (B) the Headwaters Forest Reserve;
                    (C) the Yaquina Head Outstanding Natural Area; and
                    (D) any additional area designated by Congress for 
                inclusion in the system.
    (c) Management.--The Secretary shall manage the system--
            (1) in accordance with any applicable law (including 
        regulations) relating to any component of the system included 
        under subsection (b); and
            (2) in a manner that protects the values for which the 
        components of the system were designated.

SEC. 153. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.

    There are authorized to be appropriated such sums as are necessary 
to carry out this subtitle.

                    TITLE II--NATIONAL PARK SERVICE

       Subtitle A--New Areas, Boundary Modifications, and Studies

SEC. 201. WILLIAM JEFFERSON CLINTON BIRTHPLACE HOME NATIONAL HISTORIC 
              SITE.

    (a) Acquisition of Property; Establishment of Historic Site.--
Should the Secretary of the Interior acquire, by donation only from the 
Clinton Birthplace Foundation, Inc., fee simple, unencumbered title to 
the William Jefferson Clinton Birthplace Home site located at 117 South 
Hervey Street, Hope, Arkansas, 71801, and to any personal property 
related to that site, the Secretary shall designate the William 
Jefferson Clinton Birthplace Home site as a National Historic Site and 
unit of the National Park System, to be known as the ``President 
William Jefferson Clinton Birthplace Home National Historic Site''.
    (b) Applicability of Other Laws.--The Secretary shall administer 
the President William Jefferson Clinton Birthplace Home National 
Historic Site in accordance with the laws generally applicable to 
national historic sites, including the Act entitled ``An Act to 
establish a National Park Service, and for other purposes'', approved 
August 25, 1916 (16 U.S.C. 1-4), and the Act entitled ``An Act to 
provide for the preservation of historic American sites, buildings, 
objects and antiquities of national significance, and for other 
purposes'', approved August 21, 1935 (16 U.S.C. 461 et seq.).

SEC. 202. MESA VERDE NATIONAL PARK BOUNDARY EXPANSION.

    (a) Findings.--Congress finds that--
            (1) on June 29, 1906, Mesa Verde National Park was 
        established as the first national park in the United States to 
        preserve the works of humanity;
            (2) on September 6, 1978, Mesa Verde National Park became 
        the first World Heritage Site designated in the United States; 
        and
            (3) Mesa Verde National Park protects some of the best 
        preserved and notable archeological sites of the ancient 
        Puebloan culture that flourished in the southwestern United 
        States from approximately 600-1300, including the elaborate 
        stone villages in the sheltered alcoves of the canyon walls 
        referred to as ``cliff dwellings''.
    (b) Purposes.--The purposes of this section are--
            (1) to modify the boundary of Mesa Verde National Park--
                    (A) to protect the archeological sites located on 
                property adjacent to the Park boundary;
                    (B) to extend and expand the knowledge and 
                understanding of the ancient Puebloan culture, a major 
                influence in the development of the southwestern United 
                States;
                    (C) to protect from potential development the 
                scenic and biological value of the pinyon-juniper 
                covered hills that--
                            (i) border the Park; and
                            (ii) are in full view of the Park entrance 
                        road; and
                    (D) to protect the largest recorded colony of the 
                globally imperiled Gray's Townsend Daisy, to ensure 
                continuation of a major wildlife corridor, and to 
                protect important habitat for wildlife; and
            (2) to provide greater opportunities to visitors, 
        researchers, and surrounding communities to understand and 
        appreciate the natural environment of Mesa Verde and the 
        contributions of the ancient Puebloan culture to the region by 
        providing the land required to construct a contemporary museum 
        collections storage facility and visitor orientation center.
    (c) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Map.--The term ``map'' means the map entitled ``Mesa 
        Verde National Park Proposed Boundary Adjustment'', numbered 
        307/80,180, and dated March 1, 2007.
            (2) Park.--The term ``Park'' means the Mesa Verde National 
        Park in the State of Colorado.
            (3) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary 
        of the Interior.
    (d) Acquisition of Land.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary may acquire the land or an 
        interest in the land described in subsection (e) for addition 
        to the Park.
            (2) Means.--An acquisition of land under paragraph (1) may 
        be made by donation, purchase from a willing seller with 
        donated or appropriated funds, or exchange.
    (e) Description of Land.--The land referred to in subsection (d)(1) 
is the approximately 360 acres of land adjacent to the Park, as 
generally depicted on the map.
    (f) Availability of Map.--The map shall be on file and available 
for inspection in the appropriate offices of the National Park Service.
    (g) Boundary Modification.--The boundary of the Park shall be 
revised to reflect the acquisition of the land under subsection (d).
    (h) Administration.--The Secretary shall administer any land or 
interest in land acquired under subsection (d)(1) as part of the Park 
in accordance with the laws (including regulations) applicable to the 
Park.
    (i) Authorization of Appropriations.--There are authorized to be 
appropriated such sums as are necessary to carry out this section.

SEC. 203. MINIDOKA INTERNMENT NATIONAL MONUMENT.

    (a) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary 
        of the Interior.
            (2) State.--The term ``State'' means the State of Idaho.
    (b) Bainbridge Island Japanese American Memorial.--
            (1) Boundary adjustment.--
                    (A) In general.--The boundary of the Minidoka 
                Internment National Monument, located in the State and 
                established by Presidential Proclamation 7395 of 
                January 17, 2001, is adjusted to include the Nidoto Nai 
                Yoni (``Let it not happen again'') memorial (referred 
                to in this subsection as the ``memorial''), which--
                            (i) commemorates the Japanese Americans of 
                        Bainbridge Island, Washington, who were the 
                        first to be forcibly removed from their homes 
                        and relocated to internment camps during World 
                        War II under Executive Order No. 9066; and
                            (ii) consists of approximately 8 acres of 
                        land owned by the City of Bainbridge Island, 
                        Washington, as depicted on the map entitled 
                        ``Bainbridge Island Japanese American 
                        Memorial'', numbered 194/80,003, and dated 
                        September, 2006.
                    (B) Map.--The map referred to in subparagraph 
                (A)(ii) shall be kept on file and made available for 
                public inspection in the appropriate offices of the 
                National Park Service.
            (2) Administration of memorial.--
                    (A) In general.--The memorial shall be administered 
                as part of the Minidoka Internment National Monument.
                    (B) Agreements.--To carry out this subsection, the 
                Secretary may enter into agreements with--
                            (i) the City of Bainbridge Island, 
                        Washington;
                            (ii) the Bainbridge Island Metropolitan 
                        Park and Recreational District;
                            (iii) the Bainbridge Island Japanese 
                        American Community Memorial Committee;
                            (iv) the Bainbridge Island Historical 
                        Society; and
                            (v) other appropriate individuals or 
                        entities.
                    (C) Implementation.--To implement an agreement 
                entered into under subparagraph (B), the Secretary 
                may--
                            (i) enter into a cooperative management 
                        agreement relating to the operation and 
                        maintenance of the memorial with the City of 
                        Bainbridge Island, Washington, in accordance 
                        with section 3(l) of Public law 91-383 (16 
                        U.S.C. 1a-2(l)); and
                            (ii) enter into cooperative agreements 
                        with, or make grants to, the City of Bainbridge 
                        Island, Washington, and other non-Federal 
                        entities for the development of facilities, 
                        infrastructure, and interpretive media at the 
                        memorial, if any Federal funds provided by a 
                        grant or through a cooperative agreement are 
                        matched with non-Federal funds.
                    (D) Administration and visitor use site.--The 
                Secretary may operate and maintain a site in the State 
                of Washington for administrative and visitor use 
                purposes associated with the Minidoka Internment 
                National Monument.
    (c) Establishment of Minidoka National Historic Site.--
            (1) Definitions.--In this subsection:
                    (A) Historic site.--The term ``Historic Site'' 
                means the Minidoka National Historic Site established 
                by paragraph (2)(A).
                    (B) Minidoka map.--The term ``Minidoka Map'' means 
                the map entitled ``Minidoka National Historic Site, 
                Proposed Boundary Map'', numbered 194/80,004, and dated 
                December 2006.
            (2) Establishment.--
                    (A) National historic site.--In order to protect, 
                preserve, and interpret the resources associated with 
                the former Minidoka Relocation Center where Japanese 
                Americans were incarcerated during World War II, there 
                is established the Minidoka National Historic Site.
                    (B) Minidoka internment national monument.--
                            (i) In general.--The Minidoka Internment 
                        National Monument (referred to in this 
                        subsection as the ``Monument)'', as described 
                        in Presidential Proclamation 7395 of January 
                        17, 2001, is abolished.
                            (ii) Incorporation.--The land and any 
                        interests in the land at the Monument are 
                        incorporated within, and made part of, the 
                        Historic Site.
                            (iii) Funds.--Any funds available for 
                        purposes of the Monument shall be available for 
                        the Historic Site.
                    (C) References.--Any reference in a law (other than 
                in this subsection), map, regulation, document, record, 
                or other paper of the United States to the ``Minidoka 
                Internment National Monument'' shall be considered to 
                be a reference to the ``Minidoka National Historic 
                Site''.
            (3) Boundary of historic site.--
                    (A) Boundary.--The boundary of the Historic Site 
                shall include--
                            (i) approximately 292 acres of land, as 
                        depicted on the Minidoka Map; and
                            (ii) approximately 8 acres of land, as 
                        described in subsection (b)(1)(A)(ii).
                    (B) Availability of map.--The Minidoka Map shall be 
                on file and available for public inspection in the 
                appropriate offices of the National Park Service.
            (4) Land transfers and acquisition.--
                    (A) Transfer from bureau of reclamation.--
                Administrative jurisdiction over the land identified on 
                the Minidoka Map as ``BOR parcel 1'' and ``BOR parcel 
                2'', including any improvements on, and appurtenances 
                to, the parcels, is transferred from the Bureau of 
                Reclamation to the National Park Service for inclusion 
                in the Historic Site.
                    (B) Transfer from bureau of land management.--
                Administrative jurisdiction over the land identified on 
                the Minidoka Map as ``Public Domain Lands'' is 
                transferred from the Bureau of Land Management to the 
                National Park Service for inclusion in the Historic 
                Site, and the portions of any prior Secretarial orders 
                withdrawing the land are revoked.
                    (C) Acquisition authority.--The Secretary may 
                acquire any land or interest in land located within the 
                boundary of the Historic Site, as depicted on the 
                Minidoka Map, by--
                            (i) donation;
                            (ii) purchase with donated or appropriated 
                        funds from a willing seller; or
                            (iii) exchange.
            (5) Administration.--
                    (A) In general.--The Historic Site shall be 
                administered in accordance with--
                            (i) this section; and
                            (ii) laws (including regulations) generally 
                        applicable to units of the National Park 
                        System, including--
                                    (I) the National Park Service 
                                Organic Act (16 U.S.C. 1 et seq.); and
                                    (II) the Act of August 21, 1935 (16 
                                U.S.C. 461 et seq.).
                    (B) Interpretation and education.--
                            (i) In general.--The Secretary shall 
                        interpret--
                                    (I) the story of the relocation of 
                                Japanese Americans during World War II 
                                to the Minidoka Relocation Center and 
                                other centers across the United States;
                                    (II) the living conditions of the 
                                relocation centers;
                                    (III) the work performed by the 
                                internees at the relocation centers; 
                                and
                                    (IV) the contributions to the 
                                United States military made by Japanese 
                                Americans who had been interned.
                            (ii) Oral histories.--To the extent 
                        feasible, the collection of oral histories and 
                        testimonials from Japanese Americans who were 
                        confined shall be a part of the interpretive 
                        program at the Historic Site.
                            (iii) Coordination.--The Secretary shall 
                        coordinate the development of interpretive and 
                        educational materials and programs for the 
                        Historic Site with the Manzanar National 
                        Historic Site in the State of California.
                    (C) Bainbridge island japanese american memorial.--
                The Bainbridge Island Japanese American Memorial shall 
                be administered in accordance with subsection (b)(2).
                    (D) Continued agricultural use.--In keeping with 
                the historical use of the land following the 
                decommission of the Minidoka Relocation Center, the 
                Secretary may issue a special use permit or enter into 
                a lease to allow agricultural uses within the Historic 
                Site under appropriate terms and conditions, as 
                determined by the Secretary.
            (6) Disclaimer of interest in land.--
                    (A) In general.--The Secretary may issue to Jerome 
                County, Idaho, a document of disclaimer of interest in 
                land for the parcel identified as ``Tract No. 2''--
                            (i) in the final order of condemnation, for 
                        the case numbered 2479, filed on January 31, 
                        1947, in the District Court of the United 
                        States, in and for the District of Idaho, 
                        Southern Division; and
                            (ii) on the Minidoka Map.
                    (B) Process.--The Secretary shall issue the 
                document of disclaimer of interest in land under 
                subparagraph (A) in accordance with section 315(b) of 
                Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 1976 (43 
                U.S.C. 1745(b)).
                    (C) Effect.--The issuance by the Secretary of the 
                document of disclaimer of interest in land under 
                subparagraph (A) shall have the same effect as a quit-
                claim deed issued by the United States.
    (d) Conveyance of American Falls Reservoir District Number 2.--
            (1) Definitions.--In this subsection
                    (A) Agreement.--The term ``Agreement'' means 
                Agreement No. 5-07-10-L1688 between the United States 
                and the District, entitled ``Agreement Between the 
                United States and the American Falls Reservoir District 
                No. 2 to Transfer Title to the Federally Owned Milner-
                Gooding Canal and Certain Property Rights, Title and 
                Interest to the American Falls Reservoir District No. 
                2''.
                    (B) District.--The term ``District'' means the 
                American Falls Reservoir District No. 2, located in 
                Jerome, Lincoln, and Gooding Counties, of the State.
            (2) Authority to convey title.--
                    (A) In general.--In accordance with all applicable 
                law and the terms and conditions set forth in the 
                Agreement, the Secretary may convey--
                            (i) to the District all right, title, and 
                        interest in and to the land and improvements 
                        described in Appendix A of the Agreement, 
                        subject to valid existing rights;
                            (ii) to the city of Gooding, located in 
                        Gooding County, of the State, all right, title, 
                        and interest in and to the 5.0 acres of land 
                        and improvements described in Appendix D of the 
                        Agreement; and
                            (iii) to the Idaho Department of Fish and 
                        Game all right, title, and interest in and to 
                        the 39.72 acres of land and improvements 
                        described in Appendix D of the Agreement.
                    (B) Compliance with agreement.--All parties to the 
                conveyance under subparagraph (A) shall comply with the 
                terms and conditions of the Agreement, to the extent 
                consistent with this subsection.
            (3) Compliance with other laws.--
                    (A) In general.--On conveyance of the land and 
                improvements under paragraph (2)(A)(i), the District 
                shall comply with all applicable Federal, State, and 
                local laws (including regulations) in the operation of 
                each facility transferred.
                    (B) Applicable authority.--Nothing in this 
                subsection modifies or otherwise affects the 
                applicability of Federal reclamation law (the Act of 
                June 17, 1902 (32 Stat. 388, chapter 1093), and Acts 
                supplemental to and amendatory of that Act (43 U.S.C. 
                371 et seq.)) to project water provided to the 
                District.
            (4) Revocation of withdrawals.--
                    (A) In general.--The portions of the Secretarial 
                Orders dated March 18, 1908, October 7, 1908, September 
                29, 1919, October 22, 1925, March 29, 1927, July 23, 
                1927, and May 7, 1963, withdrawing the approximately 
                6,900 acres described in Appendix E of the Agreement 
                for the purpose of the Gooding Division of the Minidoka 
                Project, are revoked.
                    (B) Management of withdrawn land.--The Secretary, 
                acting through the Director of the Bureau of Land 
                Management, shall manage the withdrawn land described 
                in subparagraph (A) subject to valid existing rights.
            (5) Liability.--
                    (A) In general.--Subject to subparagraph (B), upon 
                completion of a conveyance under paragraph (2), the 
                United States shall not be liable for damages of any 
                kind for any injury arising out of an act, omission, or 
                occurrence relating to the land (including any 
                improvements to the land) conveyed under the 
                conveyance.
                    (B) Exception.--Subparagraph (A) shall not apply to 
                liability for damages resulting from an injury caused 
                by any act of negligence committed by the United States 
                (or by any officer, employee, or agent of the United 
                States) before the date of completion of the 
                conveyance.
                    (C) Federal tort claims act.--Nothing in this 
                paragraph increases the liability of the United States 
                beyond that provided in chapter 171 of title 28, United 
                States Code.
            (6) Future benefits.--
                    (A) Responsibility of the district.--After 
                completion of the conveyance of land and improvements 
                to the District under paragraph (2)(A)(i), and 
                consistent with the Agreement, the District shall 
                assume responsibility for all duties and costs 
                associated with the operation, replacement, 
                maintenance, enhancement, and betterment of the 
                transferred land (including any improvements to the 
                land).
                    (B) Eligibility for federal funding.--
                            (i) In general.--Except as provided in 
                        clause (ii), the District shall not be eligible 
                        to receive Federal funding to assist in any 
                        activity described in subparagraph (A) relating 
                        to land and improvements transferred under 
                        paragraph (2)(A)(i).
                            (ii) Exception.--Clause (i) shall not apply 
                        to any funding that would be available to a 
                        similarly situated nonreclamation district, as 
                        determined by the Secretary.
            (7) National environmental policy act.--Before completing 
        any conveyance under this subsection, the Secretary shall 
        complete all actions required under--
                    (A) the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 
                (42 U.S.C. 4321 et seq.);
                    (B) the Endangered Species Act of 1973 (16 U.S.C. 
                1531 et seq.);
                    (C) the National Historic Preservation Act (16 
                U.S.C. 470 et seq.); and
                    (D) all other applicable laws (including 
                regulations).
            (8) Payment.--
                    (A) Fair market value requirement.--As a condition 
                of the conveyance under paragraph (2)(A)(i), the 
                District shall pay the fair market value for the 
                withdrawn land to be acquired by them, in accordance 
                with the terms of the Agreement.
                    (B) Grant for building replacement.--As soon as 
                practicable after the date of enactment of this Act, 
                and in full satisfaction of the Federal obligation to 
                the District for the replacement of the structure in 
                existence on that date of enactment that is to be 
                transferred to the National Park Service for inclusion 
                in the Minidoka National Historic Site, the Secretary, 
                acting through the Commissioner of Reclamation, shall 
                provide to the District a grant in the amount of 
                $52,996, in accordance with the terms of the Agreement.
    (e) Authorization of Appropriations.--There are authorized to be 
appropriated such sums as are necessary to carry out this section.

SEC. 204. WALNUT CANYON STUDY.

    (a) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Map.--The term ``map'' means the map entitled ``Walnut 
        Canyon Proposed Study Area'' and dated July 17, 2007.
            (2) Secretaries.--The term ``Secretaries'' means the 
        Secretary of the Interior and the Secretary of Agriculture, 
        acting jointly.
            (3) Study area.--The term ``study area'' means the area 
        identified on the map as the ``Walnut Canyon Proposed Study 
        Area''.
    (b) Study.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretaries shall conduct a study of 
        the study area to assess--
                    (A) the suitability and feasibility of designating 
                all or part of the study area as an addition to Walnut 
                Canyon National Monument, in accordance with section 
                8(c) of Public Law 91-383 (16 U.S.C. 1a-5(c));
                    (B) continued management of the study area by the 
                Forest Service; or
                    (C) any other designation or management option that 
                would provide for--
                            (i) protection of resources within the 
                        study area; and
                            (ii) continued access to, and use of, the 
                        study area by the public.
            (2) Consultation.--The Secretaries shall provide for public 
        comment in the preparation of the study, including consultation 
        with appropriate Federal, State, and local governmental 
        entities.
            (3) Report.--Not later than 18 months after the date on 
        which funds are made available to carry out this section, the 
        Secretaries shall submit to the Committee on Energy and Natural 
        Resources of the Senate and the Committee on Natural Resources 
        of the House of Representatives a report that describes--
                    (A) the results of the study; and
                    (B) any recommendations of the Secretaries.
            (4) Authorization of appropriations.--There are authorized 
        to be appropriated such sums as are necessary to carry out this 
        section.

            Subtitle B--Commissions and Advisory Committees

SEC. 211. DWIGHT D. EISENHOWER MEMORIAL COMMISSION.

    Section 8162 of the Department of Defense Appropriations Act, 2000 
(Public Law 106-79; 113 Stat. 1274) is amended--
            (1) by striking subsection (j), and inserting the 
        following:
    ``(j) Powers of the Commission.--
            ``(1) In general.--
                    ``(A) Powers.--The Commission may--
                            ``(i) make such expenditures for services 
                        and materials for the purpose of carrying out 
                        this section as the Commission considers 
                        advisable from funds appropriated or received 
                        as gifts for that purpose;
                            ``(ii) solicit and accept contributions to 
                        be used in carrying out this section or to be 
                        used in connection with the construction or 
                        other expenses of the memorial;
                            ``(iii) hold hearings and enter into 
                        contracts;
                            ``(iv) enter into contracts for specialized 
                        or professional services as necessary to carry 
                        out this section; and
                            ``(v) take such actions as are necessary to 
                        carry out this section.
                    ``(B) Specialized or professional services.--
                Services under subparagraph (A)(iv) may be--
                            ``(i) obtained without regard to the 
                        provisions of title 5, United States Code, 
                        including section 3109 of that title; and
                            ``(ii) may be paid without regard to the 
                        provisions of title 5, United States Code, 
                        including chapter 51 and subchapter III of 
                        chapter 53 of that title.
            ``(2) Gifts of property.--The Commission may accept gifts 
        of real or personal property to be used in carrying out this 
        section, including to be used in connection with the 
        construction or other expenses of the memorial.
            ``(3) Federal cooperation.--At the request of the 
        Commission, a Federal department or agency may provide any 
        information or other assistance to the Commission that the head 
        of the Federal department or agency determines to be 
        appropriate.
            ``(4) Powers of members and agents.--
                    ``(A) In general.--If authorized by the Commission, 
                any member or agent of the Commission may take any 
                action that the Commission is authorized to take under 
                this section.
                    ``(B) Architect.--The Commission may appoint an 
                architect as an agent of the Commission to--
                            ``(i) represent the Commission on various 
                        governmental source selection and planning 
                        boards on the selection of the firms that will 
                        design and construct the memorial; and
                            ``(ii) perform other duties as designated 
                        by the Chairperson of the Commission.
                    ``(C) Treatment.--An authorized member or agent of 
                the Commission (including an individual appointed under 
                subparagraph (B)) providing services to the Commission 
                shall be considered an employee of the Federal 
                Government in the performance of those services for the 
                purposes of chapter 171 of title 28, United States 
                Code, relating to tort claims.
            ``(5) Travel.--Each member of the Commission shall be 
        allowed travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of 
        subsistence, at rates authorized for employees of agencies 
        under subchapter I of chapter 57 of title 5, United States 
        Code, while away from their homes or regular places of business 
        in the performance of services for the Commission.'';
            (2) by redesignating subsection (o) as subsection (q); and
            (3) by adding at the end the following:
    ``(o) Staff and Support Services.--
            ``(1) Executive director.--There shall be an Executive 
        Director appointed by the Commission to be paid at a rate not 
        to exceed the maximum rate of basic pay for level IV of the 
        Executive Schedule.
            ``(2) Staff.--
                    ``(A) In general.--The staff of the Commission may 
                be appointed and terminated without regard to the 
                provisions of title 5, United States Code, governing 
                appointments in the competitive service, and may be 
                paid without regard to the provisions of chapter 51 and 
                subchapter III of chapter 53 of that title, relating to 
                classification and General Schedule pay rates, except 
                that an individual appointed under this paragraph may 
                not receive pay in excess of the maximum rate of basic 
                pay for GS-15 of the General Schedule.
                    ``(B) Senior staff.--Notwithstanding subparagraph 
                (A), not more than 3 staff employees of the Commission 
                (in addition to the Executive Director) may be paid at 
                a rate not to exceed the maximum rate of basic pay for 
                level IV of the Executive Schedule
            ``(3) Staff of federal agencies.--On request of the 
        Commission, the head of any Federal department or agency may 
        detail any of the personnel of the department or agency to the 
        Commission to assist the Commission to carry out its duties 
        under this section.
            ``(4) Federal support.--The Commission shall obtain 
        administrative and support services from the General Services 
        Administration on a reimbursable basis. The Commission may use 
        all contracts, schedules, and acquisition vehicles allowed to 
        external clients through the General Services Administration.
            ``(5) Cooperative agreements.--The Commission may enter 
        into cooperative agreements with Federal agencies, State, 
        local, tribal and international governments, and private 
        interests and organizations which will further the goals and 
        purposes of this section.
            ``(6) Temporary, intermittent, and part-time services.--
                    ``(A) In general.--The Commission may obtain 
                temporary, intermittent, and part-time services under 
                section 3109 of title 5, United States Code, at rates 
                not to exceed the maximum annual rate of basic pay 
                payable under section 5376 of that title.
                    ``(B) Non-applicability to certain services.--This 
                paragraph shall not apply to services under subsection 
                (j)(1)(A)(iv).
            ``(7) Volunteer services.--
                    ``(A) In general.--Notwithstanding section 1342 of 
                title 31, United States Code, the Commission may accept 
                and utilize the services of volunteers serving without 
                compensation.
                    ``(B) Reimbursement.--The Commission may reimburse 
                such volunteers for local travel and office supplies, 
                and for other travel expenses, including per diem in 
                lieu of subsistence, as authorized by section 5703 of 
                title 5, United States Code.
                    ``(C) Liability.--
                            ``(i) In general.--Subject to clause (ii), 
                        a volunteer described in subparagraph (A) shall 
                        be considered to be a volunteer for purposes of 
                        the Volunteer Protection Act of 1997 (42 U.S.C. 
                        14501 et seq.).
                            ``(ii) Exception.--Section 4(d) of the 
                        Volunteer Protection Act of 1997 (42 U.S.C. 
                        14503(d)) shall not apply for purposes of a 
                        claim against a volunteer described in 
                        subparagraph (A).
    ``(p) Authorization of Appropriations.--There are authorized to be 
appropriated such sums as necessary to carry out this section.''.

SEC. 212. NA HOA PILI O KALOKO-HONOKOHAU ADVISORY COMMISSION.

    Section 505(f)(7) of the National Parks and Recreation Act of 1978 
(16 U.S.C. 396d(f)(7)) is amended by striking ``ten years after the 
date of enactment of the Na Hoa Pili Kaloko-Honokohau Re-establishment 
Act of 1996'' and inserting ``on Decmber 31, 2017''.

                      Subtitle C--National Trails

SEC. 221. ICE AGE FLOODS NATIONAL GEOLOGIC TRAIL.

    (a) Findings; Purpose.--
            (1) Findings.--Congress finds that--
                    (A) at the end of the last Ice Age, some 12,000 to 
                17,000 years ago, a series of cataclysmic floods 
                occurred in what is now the northwest region of the 
                United States, leaving a lasting mark of dramatic and 
                distinguishing features on the landscape of parts of 
                the States of Montana, Idaho, Washington and Oregon;
                    (B) geological features that have exceptional value 
                and quality to illustrate and interpret this 
                extraordinary natural phenomenon are present on 
                Federal, State, tribal, county, municipal, and private 
                land in the region; and
                    (C) in 2001, a joint study team headed by the 
                National Park Service that included about 70 members 
                from public and private entities completed a study 
                endorsing the establishment of an Ice Age Floods 
                National Geologic Trail--
                            (i) to recognize the national significance 
                        of this phenomenon; and
                            (ii) to coordinate public and private 
                        sector entities in the presentation of the 
                        story of the Ice Age floods.
            (2) Purpose.--The purpose of this section is to designate 
        the Ice Age Floods National Geologic Trail in the States of 
        Montana, Idaho, Washington, and Oregon, enabling the public to 
        view, experience, and learn about the features and story of the 
        Ice Age floods through the collaborative efforts of public and 
        private entities.
    (b) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Ice age floods; floods.--The term ``Ice Age floods'' or 
        ``floods'' means the cataclysmic floods that occurred in what 
        is now the northwestern United States during the last Ice Age 
        from massive, rapid and recurring drainage of Glacial Lake in 
        Missoula, Montana.
            (2) Plan.--The term ``plan'' means the cooperative 
        management and interpretation plan authorized under subsection 
        (f)(5).
            (3) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary 
        of the Interior.
            (4) Trail.--The term ``Trail'' means the Ice Age Floods 
        National Geologic Trail designated by subsection (c).
    (c) Designation.--In order to provide for public appreciation, 
understanding, and enjoyment of the nationally significant natural and 
cultural features of the Ice Age floods and to promote collaborative 
efforts for interpretation and education among public and private 
entities located along the pathways of the floods, there is designated 
the Ice Age Floods National Geologic Trail.
    (d) Location.--
            (1) Map.--The route of the Trail shall be generally 
        depicted on the map entitled ``Ice Age Floods National Geologic 
        Trail,'' numbered P43/80,000 and dated June 2004.
            (2) Route.--The route shall generally follow public roads 
        and highways.
            (3) Revision.--The Secretary may revise the map by 
        publication in the Federal Register of a notice of availability 
        of a new map as part of the plan.
    (e) Map Availability.--The map referred to in subsection (d)(1) 
shall be on file and available for public inspection in the appropriate 
offices of the National Park Service.
    (f) Administration.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary, acting through the Director 
        of the National Park Service, shall administer the Trail in 
        accordance with this section.
            (2) Limitation.--Except as provided in paragraph (6)(B), 
        the Trail shall not be considered to be a unit of the National 
        Park System.
            (3) Trail management office.--To improve management of the 
        Trail and coordinate Trail activities with other public 
        agencies and private entities, the Secretary may establish and 
        operate a trail management office at a central location within 
        the vicinity of the Trail.
            (4) Interpretive facilities.--The Secretary may plan, 
        design, and construct interpretive facilities for sites 
        associated with the Trail if the facilities are constructed in 
        partnership with State, local, tribal, or non-profit entities 
        and are consistent with the plan.
            (5) Management plan.--
                    (A) In general.--Not later than 3 years after funds 
                are made available to carry out this section, the 
                Secretary shall prepare a cooperative management and 
                interpretation plan for the Trail.
                    (B) Consultation.--The Secretary shall prepare the 
                plan in consultation with--
                            (i) State, local, and tribal governments; 
                        and
                            (ii) the Ice Age Floods Institute;
                            (iii) private property owners; and
                            (iv) other interested parties.
                    (C) Contents.--The plan shall--
                            (i) confirm and, if appropriate, expand on 
                        the inventory of features of the floods 
                        contained in the National Park Service study 
                        entitled ``Ice Age Floods, Study of 
                        Alternatives and Environmental Assessment'' 
                        (February 2001) by--
                                    (I) locating features more 
                                accurately;
                                    (II) improving the description of 
                                features; and
                                    (III) reevaluating the features in 
                                terms of their interpretive potential;
                            (ii) review and, if appropriate, modify the 
                        map of the Trail referred to in subsection 
                        (d)(1);
                            (iii) describe strategies for the 
                        coordinated development of the Trail, including 
                        an interpretive plan for facilities, waysides, 
                        roadside pullouts, exhibits, media, and 
                        programs that present the story of the floods 
                        to the public effectively; and
                            (iv) identify potential partnering 
                        opportunities in the development of 
                        interpretive facilities and educational 
                        programs to educate the public about the story 
                        of the floods.
            (6) Cooperative management.--
                    (A) In general.--In order to facilitate the 
                development of coordinated interpretation, education, 
                resource stewardship, visitor facility development and 
                operation, and scientific research associated with the 
                Trail and to promote more efficient administration of 
                the sites associated with the Trail, the Secretary may 
                enter into cooperative management agreements with 
                appropriate officials in the States of Montana, Idaho, 
                Washington, and Oregon in accordance with the authority 
                provided for units of the National Park System under 
                section 3(l) of Public Law 91-383 (16 U.S.C. 1a-2(l)).
                    (B) Authority.--For purposes of this paragraph 
                only, the Trail shall be considered a unit of the 
                National Park System.
            (7) Cooperative agreements.--The Secretary may enter into 
        cooperative agreements with public or private entities to carry 
        out this section.
            (8) Effect on private property rights.--Nothing in this 
        section--
                    (A) requires any private property owner to allow 
                public access (including Federal, State, or local 
                government access) to private property; or
                    (B) modifies any provision of Federal, State, or 
                local law with respect to public access to or use of 
                private land.
            (9) Liability.--Designation of the Trail by subsection (c) 
        does not create any liability for, or affect any liability 
        under any law of, any private property owner with respect to 
        any person injured on the private property.
    (g) Authorization of Appropriations.--There are authorized to be 
appropriated such sums as are necessary to carry out this section, of 
which not more than $12,000,000 may be used for development of the 
Trail.

SEC. 222. WASHINGTON-ROCHAMBEAU REVOLUTIONARY ROUTE NATIONAL HISTORIC 
              TRAIL.

    Section 5(a) of the National Trails System Act (16 U.S.C. 1244(a)) 
is amended by adding at the end the following:
            ``(26) Washington-rochambeau revolutionary route national 
        historic trail.--
                    ``(A) In general.--The Washington-Rochambeau 
                Revolutionary Route National Historic Trail, a corridor 
                of approximately 600 miles following the route taken by 
                the armies of General George Washington and Count 
                Rochambeau between Newport, Rhode Island, and Yorktown, 
                Virginia, in 1781 and 1782, as generally depicted on 
                the map entitled `WASHINGTON-ROCHAMBEAU REVOLUTIONARY 
                ROUTE NATIONAL HISTORIC TRAIL', numbered T01/80,001, 
                and dated June 2007 .
                    ``(B) Map.--The map referred to in subparagraph (A) 
                shall be on file and available for public inspection in 
                the appropriate offices of the National Park Service.
                    ``(C) Administration.--The trail shall be 
                administered by the Secretary of the Interior, in 
                consultation with--
                            ``(i) other Federal, State, tribal, 
                        regional, and local agencies; and
                            ``(ii) the private sector.
                    ``(D) Land acquisition.--The United States shall 
                not acquire for the trail any land or interest in land 
                outside the exterior boundary of any federally-managed 
                area without the consent of the owner of the land or 
                interest in land.''.

SEC. 223. REVISION OF FEASIBILITY AND SUITABILITY STUDIES OF EXISTING 
              NATIONAL HISTORIC TRAILS.

    Section 5 of the National Trails System Act (16 U.S.C. 1244) is 
amended by adding at the end the following:
    ``(g) Revision of Feasibility and Suitability Studies of Existing 
National Historic Trails.--
            ``(1) Definitions.--In this subsection:
                    ``(A) Route.--The term `route' includes a trail 
                segment commonly known as a cutoff.
                    ``(B) Shared route.--The term `shared route' means 
                a route that was a segment of more than 1 historic 
                trail, including a route shared with an existing 
                national historic trail.
            ``(2) Requirements for revision.--
                    ``(A) In general.--The Secretary of the Interior 
                shall revise the feasibility and suitability studies 
                for certain national trails for consideration of 
                possible additions to the trails.
                    ``(B) Study requirements and objectives.--The study 
                requirements and objectives specified in subsection (b) 
                shall apply to a study required by this subsection.
                    ``(C) Completion and submission of study.--A study 
                listed in this subsection shall be completed and 
                submitted to Congress not later than 3 complete fiscal 
                years from the date funds are made available for the 
                study.
            ``(3) Oregon national historic trail.--
                    ``(A) Study required.--The Secretary of the 
                Interior shall undertake a study of the routes of the 
                Oregon Trail listed in subparagraph (B) and generally 
                depicted on the map entitled `Western Emigrant Trails 
                1830/1870' and dated 1991/1993, and of such other 
                routes of the Oregon Trail that the Secretary considers 
                appropriate, to determine the feasibility and 
                suitability of designation of 1 or more of the routes 
                as components of the Oregon National Historic Trail.
                    ``(B) Covered routes.--The routes to be studied 
                under subparagraph (A) shall include the following:
                            ``(i) Whitman Mission route.
                            ``(ii) Upper Columbia River.
                            ``(iii) Cowlitz River route.
                            ``(iv) Meek cutoff.
                            ``(v) Free Emigrant Road.
                            ``(vi) North Alternate Oregon Trail.
                            ``(vii) Goodale's cutoff.
                            ``(viii) North Side alternate route.
                            ``(ix) Cutoff to Barlow road.
                            ``(x) Naches Pass Trail.
            ``(4) Pony express national historic trail.--The Secretary 
        of the Interior shall undertake a study of the approximately 
        20-mile southern alternative route of the Pony Express Trail 
        from Wathena, Kansas, to Troy, Kansas, and such other routes of 
        the Pony Express Trail that the Secretary considers 
        appropriate, to determine the feasibility and suitability of 
        designation of 1 or more of the routes as components of the 
        Pony Express National Historic Trail.
            ``(5) California national historic trail.--
                    ``(A) Study required.--The Secretary of the 
                Interior shall undertake a study of the Missouri 
                Valley, central, and western routes of the California 
                Trail listed in subparagraph (B) and generally depicted 
                on the map entitled `Western Emigrant Trails 1830/1870' 
                and dated 1991/1993, and of such other and shared 
                Missouri Valley, central, and western routes that the 
                Secretary considers appropriate, to determine the 
                feasibility and suitability of designation of 1 or more 
                of the routes as components of the California National 
                Historic Trail.
                    ``(B) Covered routes.--The routes to be studied 
                under subparagraph (A) shall include the following:
                            ``(i) Missouri valley routes.--
                                    ``(I) Blue Mills-Independence Road.
                                    ``(II) Westport Landing Road.
                                    ``(III) Westport-Lawrence Road.
                                    ``(IV) Fort Leavenworth-Blue River 
                                route.
                                    ``(V) Road to Amazonia.
                                    ``(VI) Union Ferry Route.
                                    ``(VII) Old Wyoming-Nebraska City 
                                cutoff.
                                    ``(VIII) Lower Plattsmouth Route.
                                    ``(IX) Lower Bellevue Route.
                                    ``(X) Woodbury cutoff.
                                    ``(XI) Blue Ridge cutoff.
                                    ``(XII) Westport Road.
                                    ``(XIII) Gum Springs-Fort 
                                Leavenworth route.
                                    ``(XIV) Atchison/Independence Creek 
                                routes.
                                    ``(XV) Fort Leavenworth-Kansas 
                                River route.
                                    ``(XVI) Nebraska City cutoff 
                                routes.
                                    ``(XVII) Minersville-Nebraska City 
                                Road.
                                    ``(XVIII) Upper Plattsmouth route.
                                    ``(XIX) Upper Bellevue route.
                            ``(ii) Central routes.--
                                    ``(I) Cherokee Trail, including 
                                splits.
                                    ``(II) Weber Canyon route of 
                                Hastings cutoff.
                                    ``(III) Bishop Creek cutoff.
                                    ``(IV) McAuley cutoff.
                                    ``(V) Diamond Springs cutoff.
                                    ``(VI) Secret Pass.
                                    ``(VII) Greenhorn cutoff.
                                    ``(VIII) Central Overland Trail.
                            ``(iii) Western routes.--
                                    ``(I) Bidwell-Bartleson route.
                                    ``(II) Georgetown/Dagget Pass 
                                Trail.
                                    ``(III) Big Trees Road.
                                    ``(IV) Grizzly Flat cutoff.
                                    ``(V) Nevada City Road.
                                    ``(VI) Yreka Trail.
                                    ``(VII) Henness Pass route.
                                    ``(VIII) Johnson cutoff.
                                    ``(IX) Luther Pass Trail.
                                    ``(X) Volcano Road.
                                    ``(XI) Sacramento-Coloma Wagon 
                                Road.
                                    ``(XII) Burnett cutoff.
                                    ``(XIII) Placer County Road to 
                                Auburn.
            ``(6) Mormon pioneer national historic trail.--
                    ``(A) Study required.--The Secretary of the 
                Interior shall undertake a study of the routes of the 
                Mormon Pioneer Trail listed in subparagraph (B) and 
                generally depicted in the map entitled `Western 
                Emigrant Trails 1830/1870' and dated 1991/1993, and of 
                such other routes of the Mormon Pioneer Trail that the 
                Secretary considers appropriate, to determine the 
                feasibility and suitability of designation of 1 or more 
                of the routes as components of the Mormon Pioneer 
                National Historic Trail.
                    ``(B) Covered routes.--The routes to be studied 
                under subparagraph (A) shall include the following:
                            ``(i) 1846 Subsequent routes A and B (Lucas 
                        and Clarke Counties, Iowa).
                            ``(ii) 1856-57 Handcart route (Iowa City to 
                        Council Bluffs).
                            ``(iii) Keokuk route (Iowa).
                            ``(iv) 1847 Alternative Elkhorn and Loup 
                        River Crossings in Nebraska.
                            ``(v) Fort Leavenworth Road; Ox Bow route 
                        and alternates in Kansas and Missouri (Oregon 
                        and California Trail routes used by Mormon 
                        emigrants).
                            ``(vi) 1850 Golden Pass Road in Utah.
            ``(7) Shared california and oregon trail routes.--
                    ``(A) Study required.--The Secretary of the 
                Interior shall undertake a study of the shared routes 
                of the California Trail and Oregon Trail listed in 
                subparagraph (B) and generally depicted on the map 
                entitled `Western Emigrant Trails 1830/1870' and dated 
                1991/1993, and of such other shared routes that the 
                Secretary considers appropriate, to determine the 
                feasibility and suitability of designation of 1 or more 
                of the routes as shared components of the California 
                National Historic Trail and the Oregon National 
                Historic Trail.
                    ``(B) Covered routes.--The routes to be studied 
                under subparagraph (A) shall include the following:
                            ``(i) St. Joe Road.
                            ``(ii) Council Bluffs Road.
                            ``(iii) Sublette cutoff.
                            ``(iv) Applegate route.
                            ``(v) Old Fort Kearny Road (Oxbow Trail).
                            ``(vi) Childs cutoff.
                            ``(vii) Raft River to Applegate.''.

SEC. 224. NATIONAL TRAILS SYSTEM WILLING SELLER AUTHORITY.

    (a) Authority To Acquire Land From Willing Sellers for Certain 
Trails.--
            (1) Oregon national historic trail.--Section 5(a)(3) of the 
        National Trails System Act (16 U.S.C. 1244(a)(3)) is amended by 
        adding at the end the following: ``No land or interest in land 
        outside the exterior boundaries of any federally administered 
        area may be acquired by the Federal Government for the trail 
        except with the consent of the owner of the land or interest in 
        land. The authority of the Federal Government to acquire fee 
        title under this paragraph shall be limited to an average of 
        not more than \1/4\ mile on either side of the trail.''.
            (2) Mormon pioneer national historic trail.--Section 
        5(a)(4) of the National Trails System Act (16 U.S.C. 
        1244(a)(4)) is amended by adding at the end the following: ``No 
        land or interest in land outside the exterior boundaries of any 
        federally administered area may be acquired by the Federal 
        Government for the trail except with the consent of the owner 
        of the land or interest in land. The authority of the Federal 
        Government to acquire fee title under this paragraph shall be 
        limited to an average of not more than \1/4\ mile on either 
        side of the trail.''.
            (3) Continental divide national scenic trail.--Section 
        5(a)(5) of the National Trails System Act (16 U.S.C. 
        1244(a)(5)) is amended by adding at the end the following: ``No 
        land or interest in land outside the exterior boundaries of any 
        federally administered area may be acquired by the Federal 
        Government for the trail except with the consent of the owner 
        of the land or interest in land. The authority of the Federal 
        Government to acquire fee title under this paragraph shall be 
        limited to an average of not more than \1/4\ mile on either 
        side of the trail.''.
            (4) Lewis and clark national historic trail.--Section 
        5(a)(6) of the National Trails System Act (16 U.S.C. 
        1244(a)(6)) is amended by adding at the end the following: ``No 
        land or interest in land outside the exterior boundaries of any 
        federally administered area may be acquired by the Federal 
        Government for the trail except with the consent of the owner 
        of the land or interest in land. The authority of the Federal 
        Government to acquire fee title under this paragraph shall be 
        limited to an average of not more than \1/4\ mile on either 
        side of the trail.''.
            (5) Iditarod national historic trail.--Section 5(a)(7) of 
        the National Trails System Act (16 U.S.C. 1244(a)(7)) is 
        amended by adding at the end the following: ``No land or 
        interest in land outside the exterior boundaries of any 
        federally administered area may be acquired by the Federal 
        Government for the trail except with the consent of the owner 
        of the land or interest in land. The authority of the Federal 
        Government to acquire fee title under this paragraph shall be 
        limited to an average of not more than \1/4\ mile on either 
        side of the trail.''.
            (6) North country national scenic trail.--Section 5(a)(8) 
        of the National Trails System Act (16 U.S.C. 1244(a)(8)) is 
        amended by adding at the end the following: ``No land or 
        interest in land outside the exterior boundaries of any 
        federally administered area may be acquired by the Federal 
        Government for the trail except with the consent of the owner 
        of the land or interest in land.''.
            (7) Ice age national scenic trail.--Section 5(a)(10) of the 
        National Trails System Act (16 U.S.C. 1244(a)(10)) is amended 
        by adding at the end the following: ``No land or interest in 
        land outside the exterior boundaries of any federally 
        administered area may be acquired by the Federal Government for 
        the trail except with the consent of the owner of the land or 
        interest in land.''.
            (8) Potomac heritage national scenic trail.--Section 
        5(a)(11) of the National Trails System Act (16 U.S.C. 
        1244(a)(11)) is amended--
                    (A) by striking the fourth and fifth sentences; and
                    (B) by adding at the end the following: ``No land 
                or interest in land outside the exterior boundaries of 
                any federally administered area may be acquired by the 
                Federal Government for the trail except with the 
                consent of the owner of the land or interest in 
                land.''.
            (9) Nez perce national historic trail.--Section 5(a)(14) of 
        the National Trails System Act (16 U.S.C. 1244(a)(14)) is 
        amended--
                    (A) by striking the fourth and fifth sentences; and
                    (B) by adding at the end the following: ``No land 
                or interest in land outside the exterior boundaries of 
                any federally administered area may be acquired by the 
                Federal Government for the trail except with the 
                consent of the owner of the land or interest in land. 
                The authority of the Federal Government to acquire fee 
                title under this paragraph shall be limited to an 
                average of not more than \1/4\ mile on either side of 
                the trail.''.
    (b) Conforming Amendment.--Section 10 of the National Trails System 
Act (16 U.S.C. 1249) is amended by striking subsection (c) and 
inserting the following:
    ``(c) Authorization of Appropriations.--
            ``(1) In general.--Except as otherwise provided in this 
        Act, there are authorized to be appropriated such sums as are 
        necessary to implement the provisions of this Act relating to 
        the trails designated by section 5(a).
            ``(2) Natchez trace national scenic trail.--
                    ``(A) In general.--With respect to the Natchez 
                Trace National Scenic Trail (referred to in this 
                paragraph as the `trail') designated by section 
                5(a)(12)--
                            ``(i) not more than $500,000 shall be 
                        appropriated for the acquisition of land or 
                        interests in land for the trail; and
                            ``(ii) not more than $2,000,000 shall be 
                        appropriated for the development of the trail.
                    ``(B) Participation by volunteer trail groups.--The 
                administering agency for the trail shall encourage 
                volunteer trail groups to participate in the 
                development of the trail.''.

                  Subtitle D--National Heritage Areas

SEC. 231. NATIONAL HERITAGE AREAS PARTNERSHIP.

    (a) Purposes.--The purposes of this section are--
            (1) to promote public understanding, appreciation, and 
        enjoyment of many places, events and people that have 
        contributed to the story of the United States;
            (2) to promote innovative and partnership-driven management 
        strategies that recognize regional values, encourage locally 
        tailored resource stewardship and interpretation, and provide 
        for the effective leveraging of Federal funds with other local, 
        State, and private funding sources;
            (3) to unify national standards and processes for 
        conducting feasibility studies, designating a system of 
        National Heritage Areas, and approving management plans for 
        National Heritage Areas;
            (4) to provide appropriate linkages between units of the 
        National Park System and communities, governments, and 
        organizations within National Heritage Areas; and
            (5) to provide financial and technical assistance to 
        National Heritage Area local coordinating entities that act as 
        a catalyst for diverse regions, communities, organizations, and 
        citizens to undertake projects and programs for collaborative 
        resource stewardship and interpretation.
    (b) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Local coordinating entity.--The term ``local 
        coordinating entity'' means the entity designated by Congress--
                    (A) to develop, in partnership with others, the 
                management plan for a National Heritage Area; and
                    (B) to act as a catalyst for the implementation of 
                projects and programs among diverse partners in the 
                National Heritage Area.
            (2) Management plan.--The term ``management plan'' means 
        the plan prepared by the local coordinating entity for a 
        National Heritage Area designated by Congress that specifies 
        actions, policies, strategies, performance goals, and 
        recommendations to meet the goals of the National Heritage 
        Area, in accordance with subsection (f).
            (3) National heritage area.--The term ``National Heritage 
        Area'' means an area designated by Congress that is nationally 
        important to the heritage of the United States and meets the 
        criteria established under subsection (d)(1).
            (4) National importance.--The term ``national importance'' 
        means possession of--
                    (A) unique natural, historical, cultural, 
                educational, scenic, or recreational resources of 
                exceptional value or quality; and
                    (B) a high degree of integrity of location, 
                setting, or association in illustrating or interpreting 
                the heritage of the United States.
            (5) Proposed national heritage area.--The term ``proposed 
        National Heritage Area'' means an area under study by the 
        Secretary or other parties for potential designation by 
        Congress as a National Heritage Area.
            (6) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary 
        of the Interior.
            (7) Study.--The term ``study'' means a study conducted by 
        the Secretary, or conducted by 1 or more other interested 
        parties and reviewed by the Secretary, in accordance with the 
        criteria and processes established under subsection (d), to 
        determine whether an area meets the criteria to be designated 
        as a National Heritage Area by Congress.
            (8) System.--The term ``system'' means the system of 
        National Heritage Areas established under subsection (c)(1).
    (c) National Heritage Areas System.--
            (1) In general.--In order to recognize certain areas of the 
        United States that tell nationally important stories and to 
        protect, enhance, and interpret the natural, historic, scenic, 
        and cultural resources of the areas that together illustrate 
        significant aspects of the heritage of the United States, there 
        is established a system of National Heritage Areas through 
        which the Secretary shall provide technical and financial 
        assistance to local coordinating entities to support the 
        establishment, development, and continuity of the National 
        Heritage Areas.
            (2) System.--The system of National Heritage Areas shall be 
        composed of--
                    (A) National Heritage Areas established by Congress 
                before or on the date of enactment of this Act; and
                    (B) National Heritage Areas established by Congress 
                after the date of enactment of this Act, as provided 
                for in this section.
            (3) Relationship to the national park system.--
                    (A) Relationship to national park units.--The 
                Secretary shall--
                            (i) ensure, to the maximum extent 
                        practicable, participation and assistance by 
                        units of the National Park System located near 
                        or encompassed by National Heritage Areas in 
                        local initiatives for National Heritage Areas 
                        that conserve and interpret resources 
                        consistent with an approved management plan; 
                        and
                            (ii) work with National Heritage Areas to 
                        promote public enjoyment of units of the 
                        National Park System and park-related 
                        resources.
                    (B) Applicability of laws.--National Heritage Areas 
                shall not be--
                            (i) considered to be units of the National 
                        Park System; or
                            (ii) subject to the laws applicable to 
                        units of the National Park System.
            (4) Duties.--Under the system, the Secretary shall--
                    (A)(i) conduct studies, as directed by Congress, to 
                assess the suitability and feasibility of designating 
                proposed National Heritage Areas; or
                    (ii) review and comment on studies undertaken by 
                other parties to make such assessment;
                    (B) provide technical and financial assistance, on 
                a reimbursable or non-reimbursable basis (as determined 
                by the Secretary), for the development and 
                implementation of management plans for designated 
                National Heritage Areas;
                    (C) enter into cooperative agreements with 
                interested parties to carry out this section;
                    (D) provide information, promote understanding, and 
                encourage research on National Heritage Areas in 
                partnership with local coordinating entities;
                    (E) provide national oversight, analysis, 
                coordination, and technical and financial assistance 
                and support to ensure consistency and accountability 
                under the system;
                    (F) submit annually to the Committee on Natural 
                Resources of the House of Representatives and the 
                Committee on Energy and Natural Resources of the Senate 
                a report describing the allocation and expenditure of 
                funds for activities conducted with respect to National 
                Heritage Areas under this section; and
                    (G) conduct an evaluation of, and prepare a report 
                on, National Heritage Areas in accordance with 
                subsection (g).
    (d) Studies.--
            (1) Criteria.--In conducting or reviewing a study, the 
        Secretary shall apply the following criteria to determine the 
        suitability and feasibility of designating a proposed National 
        Heritage Area:
                    (A) An area--
                            (i) has an assemblage of natural, historic, 
                        cultural, educational, scenic, or recreational 
                        resources that together are nationally 
                        important to the heritage of the United States;
                            (ii) represents distinctive aspects of the 
                        heritage of the United States worthy of 
                        recognition, conservation, interpretation, and 
                        continuing use;
                            (iii) is best managed as such an assemblage 
                        through partnerships among public and private 
                        entities at the local or regional level;
                            (iv) reflects traditions, customs, beliefs, 
                        and folklife that are a valuable part of the 
                        heritage of the United States;
                            (v) provides outstanding opportunities to 
                        conserve natural, historical, cultural, or 
                        scenic features;
                            (vi) provides outstanding recreational or 
                        educational opportunities; and
                            (vii) has resources and traditional uses 
                        that have national importance.
                    (B) Residents, business interests, nonprofit 
                organizations, and governments (including relevant 
                Federal land management agencies) within the proposed 
                area are involved in the planning and have demonstrated 
                significant support through letters and other means for 
                National Heritage Area designation and management.
                    (C) The local coordinating entity responsible for 
                preparing and implementing the management plan is 
                identified.
                    (D) The proposed local coordinating entity and 
                units of government supporting the designation are 
                willing and have documented a significant commitment to 
                work in partnership to protect, enhance, interpret, 
                fund, manage, and develop resources within the National 
                Heritage Area.
                    (E) The proposed local coordinating entity has 
                developed a conceptual financial plan that outlines the 
                roles of all participants (including the Federal 
                Government) in the management of the National Heritage 
                Area.
                    (F) The proposal is consistent with continued 
                economic activity within the area.
                    (G) A conceptual boundary map has been developed 
                and is supported by the public and participating 
                Federal agencies.
            (2) Consultation.--In conducting or reviewing a study, the 
        Secretary shall consult with the managers of any Federal land 
        within the proposed National Heritage Area and secure the 
        concurrence of the managers with the findings of the study 
        before making a determination for designation.
            (3) Approval.--On completion or receipt of a study for a 
        National Heritage Area, the Secretary shall--
                    (A) review, comment on, and determine if the study 
                meets the criteria specified in paragraph (1) for 
                designation as a National Heritage Area;
                    (B) consult with the Governor of each State in 
                which the proposed National Heritage Area is located; 
                and
                    (C) transmit to the Committee on Natural Resources 
                of the House of Representatives and the Committee on 
                Energy and Natural Resources of the Senate, the study, 
                including--
                            (i) any comments received from the Governor 
                        of each State in which the proposed National 
                        Heritage Area is located; and
                            (ii) a finding as to whether the proposed 
                        National Heritage Area meets the criteria for 
                        designation.
            (4) Disapproval.--If the Secretary determines that any 
        proposed National Heritage Area does not meet the criteria for 
        designation, the Secretary shall include within the study 
        submitted under paragraph (3)(C) a description of the reasons 
        for the determination.
    (e) Designation of National Heritage Areas.--
            (1) In general.--The designation of a National Heritage 
        Area shall be--
                    (A) by Act of Congress; and
                    (B) contingent on the prior completion of a study 
                and an affirmative determination by the Secretary that 
                the area meets the criteria established under 
                subsection (d)(1).
            (2) Component of the system.--Any National Heritage Area 
        designated under paragraph (1) shall be a component of the 
        system.
    (f) Management Plans.--
            (1) Requirements.--The management plan for any National 
        Heritage Area shall--
                    (A) describe comprehensive policies, goals, 
                strategies, and recommendations for telling the story 
                of the heritage of the area covered by the National 
                Heritage Area and encouraging long-term resource 
                protection, enhancement, interpretation, funding, 
                management, and development of the National Heritage 
                Area;
                    (B) include a description of actions and 
                commitments that governments, private organizations, 
                and citizens will take to protect, enhance, interpret, 
                fund, manage, and develop the natural, historical, 
                cultural, educational, scenic, and recreational 
                resources of the National Heritage Area;
                    (C) specify existing and potential sources of 
                funding or economic development strategies to protect, 
                enhance, interpret, fund, manage, and develop the 
                National Heritage Area;
                    (D) include an inventory of the natural, 
                historical, cultural, educational, scenic, and 
                recreational resources of the National Heritage Area 
                related to the national importance and themes of the 
                National Heritage Area that should be protected, 
                enhanced, interpreted, managed, funded, and developed;
                    (E) recommend policies and strategies for resource 
                management, including the development of 
                intergovernmental and interagency agreements to 
                protect, enhance, interpret, fund, manage, and develop 
                the natural, historical, cultural, educational, scenic, 
                and recreational resources of the National Heritage 
                Area;
                    (F) describe a program for implementation for the 
                management plan, including--
                            (i) performance goals;
                            (ii) plans for resource protection, 
                        enhancement, interpretation, funding, 
                        management, and development; and
                            (iii) specific commitments for 
                        implementation that have been made by the local 
                        coordinating entity or any government agency, 
                        organization, business, or individual;
                    (G) include an analysis of, and recommendations 
                for, means by which Federal, State, and local programs 
                may best be coordinated (including the role of the 
                National Park Service and other Federal agencies 
                associated with the National Heritage Area) to further 
                the purposes of this section; and
                    (H) include a business plan that--
                            (i) describes the role, operation, 
                        financing, and functions of the local 
                        coordinating entity and of each of the major 
                        activities contained in the management plan; 
                        and
                            (ii) provides adequate assurances that the 
                        local coordinating entity has the partnerships 
                        and financial and other resources necessary to 
                        implement the management plan for the National 
                        Heritage Area.
            (2) Deadline.--
                    (A) In general.--Not later than 3 years after the 
                date on which funds are first made available to develop 
                the management plan after designation as a National 
                Heritage Area, the local coordinating entity shall 
                submit the management plan to the Secretary for 
                approval.
                    (B) Termination of funding.--If the management plan 
                is not submitted to the Secretary in accordance with 
                subparagraph (A), the local coordinating entity shall 
                not qualify for any additional financial assistance 
                under this section until such time as the management 
                plan is submitted to and approved by the Secretary.
            (3) Approval of management plan.--
                    (A) Review.--Not later than 180 days after 
                receiving the plan, the Secretary shall review and 
                approve or disapprove the management plan for a 
                National Heritage Area on the basis of the criteria 
                established under subparagraph (C).
                    (B) Consultation.--The Secretary shall consult with 
                the Governor of each State in which the National 
                Heritage Area is located before approving a management 
                plan for the National Heritage Area.
                    (C) Criteria for approval.--In determining whether 
                to approve a management plan for a National Heritage 
                Area, the Secretary shall consider whether--
                            (i) the local coordinating entity 
                        represents the diverse interests of the 
                        National Heritage Area, including governments, 
                        natural and historic resource protection 
                        organizations, educational institutions, 
                        businesses, recreational organizations, 
                        community residents, and private property 
                        owners;
                            (ii) the local coordinating entity--
                                    (I) has afforded adequate 
                                opportunity for public and governmental 
                                involvement (including through 
                                workshops and hearings) in the 
                                preparation of the management plan; and
                                    (II) provides for at least 
                                semiannual public meetings to ensure 
                                adequate implementation of the 
                                management plan;
                            (iii) the resource protection, enhancement, 
                        interpretation, funding, management, and 
                        development strategies described in the 
                        management plan, if implemented, would 
                        adequately protect, enhance, interpret, fund, 
                        manage, and develop the natural, historic, 
                        cultural, educational, scenic, and recreational 
                        resources of the National Heritage Area;
                            (iv) the management plan would not 
                        adversely affect any activities authorized on 
                        Federal land under public land laws or land use 
                        plans;
                            (v) the local coordinating entity has 
                        demonstrated the financial capability, in 
                        partnership with others, to carry out the plan;
                            (vi) the Secretary has received adequate 
                        assurances from the appropriate State and local 
                        officials whose support is needed to ensure the 
                        effective implementation of the State and local 
                        elements of the management plan; and
                            (vii) the management plan demonstrates 
                        partnerships among the local coordinating 
                        entity, Federal, State, and local governments, 
                        regional planning organizations, nonprofit 
                        organizations, or private sector parties for 
                        implementation of the management plan.
                    (D) Disapproval.--
                            (i) In general.--If the Secretary 
                        disapproves the management plan, the 
                        Secretary--
                                    (I) shall advise the local 
                                coordinating entity in writing of the 
                                reasons for the disapproval; and
                                    (II) may make recommendations to 
                                the local coordinating entity for 
                                revisions to the management plan.
                            (ii) Deadline.--Not later than 180 days 
                        after receiving a revised management plan, the 
                        Secretary shall approve or disapprove the 
                        revised management plan.
                    (E) Amendments.--
                            (i) In general.--An amendment to the 
                        management plan that substantially alters the 
                        purposes of the National Heritage Area shall be 
                        reviewed by the Secretary and approved or 
                        disapproved in the same manner as the original 
                        management plan.
                            (ii) Implementation.--The local 
                        coordinating entity shall not use Federal funds 
                        authorized by this section to implement an 
                        amendment to the management plan until the 
                        Secretary approves the amendment.
    (g) Evaluation; Report.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 3 years before the date on 
        which authority for Federal funding terminates for a National 
        Heritage Area under subsection (l)(2)(B), the Secretary shall--
                    (A) conduct an evaluation of the accomplishments of 
                the National Heritage Area; and
                    (B) prepare a report in accordance with paragraph 
                (3).
            (2) Evaluation.--An evaluation conducted under paragraph 
        (1)(A) shall--
                    (A) assess the progress of the local coordinating 
                entity with respect to--
                            (i) accomplishing the purposes of the 
                        authorizing legislation for the National 
                        Heritage Area; and
                            (ii) achieving the goals and objectives of 
                        the approved management plan for the National 
                        Heritage Area;
                    (B) analyze the Federal, State, local, and private 
                investments in the National Heritage Area to determine 
                the leverage and impact of the investments; and
                    (C) review the management structure, partnership 
                relationships, and funding of the National Heritage 
                Area for purposes of identifying the critical 
                components for sustainability of the National Heritage 
                Area.
            (3) Report.--
                    (A) In general.--Based on the evaluation conducted 
                under paragraph (1)(A), the Secretary shall prepare a 
                report that includes recommendations for the future 
                role of the National Park Service, if any, with respect 
                to the National Heritage Area.
                    (B) Required analysis.--If the report prepared 
                under subparagraph (A) recommends that Federal funding 
                for the National Heritage Area be reauthorized, the 
                report shall include an analysis of--
                            (i) ways in which Federal funding for the 
                        National Heritage Area may be reduced or 
                        eliminated; and
                            (ii) the appropriate time period necessary 
                        to achieve the recommended reduction or 
                        elimination.
                    (C) Submission to congress.--On completion of the 
                report, the Secretary shall submit the report to--
                            (i) the Committee on Energy and Natural 
                        Resources of the Senate; and
                            (ii) the Committee on Natural Resources of 
                        the House of Representatives.
    (h) Local Coordinating Entities.--
            (1) Duties.--To further the purposes of the National 
        Heritage Area, the local coordinating entity shall--
                    (A) prepare a management plan for the National 
                Heritage Area, and submit the management plan to the 
                Secretary, in accordance with subsection (f);
                    (B) submit an annual report to the Secretary for 
                each fiscal year for which the local coordinating 
                entity receives Federal funds under this section, 
                specifying--
                            (i) the specific performance goals and 
                        accomplishments of the local coordinating 
                        entity;
                            (ii) the expenses and income of the local 
                        coordinating entity;
                            (iii) the amounts and sources of matching 
                        funds;
                            (iv) the amounts leveraged with Federal 
                        funds and sources of the leveraging; and
                            (v) grants made to any other entities 
                        during the fiscal year;
                    (C) make available for audit for each fiscal year 
                for which the local coordinating entity receives 
                Federal funds under this section, all information 
                pertaining to the expenditure of the funds and any 
                matching funds; and
                    (D) encourage economic viability and sustainability 
                that is consistent with the purposes of the National 
                Heritage Area.
            (2) Authorities.--For the purposes of preparing and 
        implementing the approved management plan for the National 
        Heritage Area, the local coordinating entity may use Federal 
        funds made available under this section to--
                    (A) make grants to political jurisdictions, 
                nonprofit organizations, and other parties within the 
                National Heritage Area;
                    (B) enter into cooperative agreements with or 
                provide technical assistance to political 
                jurisdictions, nonprofit organizations, Federal 
                agencies, and other interested parties;
                    (C) hire and compensate staff, including 
                individuals with expertise in--
                            (i) natural, historical, cultural, 
                        educational, scenic, and recreational resource 
                        conservation;
                            (ii) economic and community development; 
                        and
                            (iii) heritage planning;
                    (D) obtain funds or services from any source, 
                including other Federal laws or programs;
                    (E) contract for goods or services; and
                    (F) support activities of partners and any other 
                activities that further the purposes of the National 
                Heritage Area and are consistent with the approved 
                management plan.
            (3) Prohibition on acquisition of real property.--The local 
        coordinating entity may not use Federal funds authorized under 
        this section to acquire any interest in real property.
    (i) Relationship to Other Federal Agencies.--
            (1) In general.--Nothing in this section affects the 
        authority of a Federal agency to provide technical or financial 
        assistance under any other law.
            (2) Consultation and coordination.--The head of any Federal 
        agency planning to conduct activities that may have an impact 
        on a National Heritage Area is encouraged to consult and 
        coordinate the activities with the Secretary and the local 
        coordinating entity to the maximum extent practicable.
            (3) Other federal agencies.--Nothing in this section--
                    (A) modifies, alters, or amends any law or 
                regulation authorizing a Federal agency to manage 
                Federal land under the jurisdiction of the Federal 
                agency;
                    (B) limits the discretion of a Federal land manager 
                to implement an approved land use plan within the 
                boundaries of a National Heritage Area; or
                    (C) modifies, alters, or amends any authorized use 
                of Federal land under the jurisdiction of a Federal 
                agency.
    (j) Private Property and Regulatory Protections.--Nothing in this 
section--
            (1) abridges the rights of any property owner (whether 
        public or private), including the right to refrain from 
        participating in any plan, project, program, or activity 
        conducted within the National Heritage Area;
            (2) requires any property owner to permit public access 
        (including access by Federal, State, or local agencies) to the 
        property of the property owner, or to modify public access or 
        use of property of the property owner under any other Federal, 
        State, or local law;
            (3) alters any duly adopted land use regulation, approved 
        land use plan, or other regulatory authority of any Federal, 
        State or local agency, or conveys any land use or other 
        regulatory authority to any local coordinating entity;
            (4) authorizes or implies the reservation or appropriation 
        of water or water rights;
            (5) diminishes the authority of the State to manage fish 
        and wildlife, including the regulation of fishing and hunting 
        within the National Heritage Area; or
            (6) creates any liability, or affects any liability under 
        any other law, of any private property owner with respect to 
        any person injured on the private property.
    (k) Partnership Support.--
            (1) Technical assistance.--On termination of the 15-year 
        period for which assistance is provided under subsection (l), 
        the Secretary may, on request of a local coordinating entity, 
        continue to provide technical assistance to a National Heritage 
        Area under subsection (c).
            (2) Grant assistance.--
                    (A) In general.--The Secretary may establish a 
                grant program under which the Secretary provides 
                grants, on a competitive basis, to local coordinating 
                entities for the conduct of individual projects at 
                National Heritage Areas for which financial assistance 
                has terminated under subsection (l).
                    (B) Conditions.--The provision of a grant under 
                subparagraph (A) shall be subject to the condition 
                that--
                            (i) a project must be approved by the local 
                        coordinating entity as promoting the purposes 
                        of the management plan required under 
                        subsection (f);
                            (ii) a project may receive only 1 grant of 
                        no more than $250,000 in any 1 fiscal year;
                            (iii) a maximum of $250,000 may be received 
                        by a local coordinating entity for projects 
                        funded under this paragraph in any 1 fiscal 
                        year; and
                            (iv) a project shall not be eligible for 
                        funding under this section in any fiscal year 
                        that a local coordinating entity receives an 
                        appropriation through the National Park Service 
                        (excluding technical assistance) for the 
                        National Heritage Area at which the project is 
                        being conducted.
            (3) Report.--For each fiscal year in which assistance is 
        provided under this subsection, the Secretary shall submit to 
        the Committee on Appropriations of the House of Representatives 
        and the Committee on Appropriations of the Senate a list of the 
        projects provided assistance for the fiscal year.
    (l) Authorization of Appropriations.--
            (1) Studies.--There is authorized to be appropriated to 
        conduct and review studies under subsection (d) $750,000 for 
        each fiscal year, of which not more than $250,000 for any 
        fiscal year may be used for any individual study for a proposed 
        National Heritage Area.
            (2) Local coordinating entities.--
                    (A) In general.--There is authorized to be 
                appropriated to carry out subsection (h) $25,000,000 
                for each fiscal year, of which not more than--
                            (i) $1,000,000 may be made available for 
                        any fiscal year for any individual National 
                        Heritage Area, to remain available until 
                        expended; and
                            (ii) a total of $10,000,000 may be made 
                        available for all such fiscal years for any 
                        individual National Heritage Area.
                    (B) Termination date.--
                            (i) In general.--The authority of the 
                        Secretary to provide financial assistance to an 
                        individual local coordinating entity under this 
                        subsection (excluding technical assistance and 
                        administrative oversight) shall terminate on 
                        the date that is 15 years after the date of 
                        enactment of this Act.
                            (ii) Designation.--A National Heritage Area 
                        shall retain the designation as a National 
                        Heritage Area after the termination date 
                        prescribed in clause (i).
                    (C) Administration.--Not more than 5 percent of the 
                amount of funds made available under subparagraph (A) 
                for a fiscal year may be used by the Secretary for 
                technical assistance, oversight, and administrative 
                purposes.
            (3) Heritage partnership grant assistance.--There is 
        authorized to be appropriated to the Secretary to carry out 
        subsection (k) $5,000,000 for each fiscal year.
            (4) Matching funds.--
                    (A) In general.--As a condition of receiving a 
                grant under this section, the recipient of the grant 
                shall provide matching funds in an amount that is equal 
                to the amount of the grant.
                    (B) Administration.--The recipient matching funds--
                            (i) shall be derived from non-Federal 
                        sources; and
                            (ii) may be made in the form of in-kind 
                        contributions of goods or services fairly 
                        valued.

SEC. 232. REAUTHORIZATION OF CERTAIN NATIONAL HERITAGE AREAS.

    (a) Boundaries of the Rivers of Steel National Heritage Area.--
Section 403(b) of the Steel Industry American Heritage Area Act of 1996 
(16 U.S.C. 461 note; Public Law 104-333) is amended by inserting 
``Butler,'' before ``Fayette''.
    (b) Ohio & Erie National Heritage Canalway Technical Corrections.--
The Ohio & Erie Canal National Heritage Corridor Act of 1996 (16 U.S.C. 
461 note; Public Law 104-333) is amended--
            (1) by striking ``Canal National Heritage Corridor'' each 
        place it appears and inserting ``National Heritage Canalway'';
            (2) by striking ``the corridor'' each place it appears and 
        inserting ``the Canalway'';
            (3) in section 803--
                    (A) in paragraph (1), by striking ``The term 
                `corridor''' and inserting ``The term `Canalway''' ;
                    (B) by striking paragraph (2);
                    (C) by redesignating paragraphs (3), (4), (5), (6), 
                and (7) as paragraphs (2), (3), (4), (5), and (6), 
                respectively;
                    (D) in paragraph (2) (as redesignated by 
                subparagraph (C)), by striking ``808'' and inserting 
                ``806''; and
                    (E) in paragraph (6) (as redesignated by 
                subparagraph (C)), by striking ``807(a)'' and inserting 
                ``805(a)'';
            (4) in section 804--
                    (A) in the second sentence of subsection (b)(1), by 
                striking ``808'' and inserting ``806''; and
                    (B) in subsection (c), by striking ``The corridor'' 
                and inserting ``The Canalway'';
            (5) by striking sections 805 and 806;
            (6) by redesignating sections 807, 808, 809, 810, 811, and 
        812 as sections 805, 806, 807, 808, 809, and 810, respectively;
            (7) in section 805(c)(2) (as redesignated by paragraph 
        (6)), by striking ``808'' and inserting ``806'';
            (8) in section 806 (as redesignated by paragraph (6))--
                    (A) in subsection (a)(1)--
                            (i) in the heading, by striking 
                        ``Committee'' and inserting ``Secretary''; and
                            (ii) by striking ``Committee'' and 
                        inserting ``Secretary'';
                    (B) in subsection (a)(3)--
                            (i) in subparagraph (A), by striking ``from 
                        the Committee.'' and inserting a comma; and
                            (ii) in the first sentence of subparagraph 
                        (B), by striking ``Committee'' and inserting 
                        ``management entity'';
                    (C) in subsection (e), by striking ``807(d)(1)'' 
                and inserting ``805(d)(1)''; and
                    (D) in subsection (f), by striking ``807(d)(1)'' 
                and inserting ``805(d)(1)'';
            (9) in section 807(c) (as redesignated by paragraph (6)), 
        by striking ``Cuyahoga Valley National Recreation Area'' and 
        inserting ``Cuyahoga Valley National Park'';
            (10) in section 808 (as redesignated by paragraph (6))--
                    (A) in subsection (b), by striking ``Committee 
                or''; and
                    (B) in subsection (c), in the matter before 
                paragraph (1), by striking ``Committee'' and inserting 
                ``management entity''; and
            (11) in section 809 (as redesignated by paragraph (6)), by 
        inserting ``financial'' before ``assistance''.
    (c) Delaware And Lehigh National Heritage Corridor Local 
Coordinating Entity.--The Delaware and Lehigh National Heritage 
Corridor Act of 1988 (16 U.S.C. 461 note; Public Law 100-692) is 
amended--
            (1) in section 9--
                    (A) by striking ``The Commission'' and inserting 
                the following:
    ``(a) In General.--The Commission''; and
                    (B) by adding at the end the following:
    ``(b) Corporation as Local Coordinating Entity.--Beginning on the 
date of enactment of the Natural Resource Projects and Programs 
Authorization Act of 2007, the Corporation shall be the local 
coordinating entity for the Corridor.
    ``(c) Implementation of Management Plan.--The Corporation shall 
assume the duties of the Commission for the implementation of the Plan.
    ``(d) Use of Funds.--The Corporation may use Federal funds made 
available under this Act--
            ``(1) to make grants to, and enter into cooperative 
        agreements with, the Federal Government, the Commonwealth, 
        political subdivisions of the Commonwealth, nonprofit 
        organizations, and individuals;
            ``(2) to hire, train, and compensate staff; and
            ``(3) to enter into contracts for goods and services.
    ``(e) Restriction on Use of Funds.--The Corporation may not use 
Federal funds made available under this Act to acquire land or an 
interest in land.'';
            (2) in section 10--
                    (A) in the first sentence of subsection (c), by 
                striking ``shall assist the Commission'' and inserting 
                ``shall, on the request of the Corporation, assist'';
                    (B) in subsection (d)--
                            (i) by striking ``Commission'' each place 
                        it appears and inserting ``Corporation'';
                            (ii) by striking ``The Secretary'' and 
                        inserting the following:
            ``(1) In general.--The Secretary''; and
                            (iii) by adding at the end the following:
            ``(2) Cooperative agreements.--The Secretary may enter into 
        cooperative agreements with the Corporation and other public or 
        private entities for the purpose of providing technical 
        assistance and grants under paragraph (1).
            ``(3) Priority.--In providing assistance to the Corporation 
        under paragraph (1), the Secretary shall give priority to 
        activities that assist in--
                    ``(A) conserving the significant natural, historic, 
                cultural, and scenic resources of the Corridor; and
                    ``(B) providing educational, interpretive, and 
                recreational opportunities consistent with the purposes 
                of the Corridor.''; and
                    (C) by adding at the end the following:
    ``(e) Transition Memorandum of Understanding.--The Secretary shall 
enter into a memorandum of understanding with the Corporation to 
ensure--
            ``(1) appropriate transition of management of the Corridor 
        from the Commission to the Corporation; and
            ``(2) coordination regarding the implementation of the 
        Plan.'';
            (3) in section 11, in the matter preceding paragraph (1), 
        by striking ``directly affecting'';
            (4) in section 12--
                    (A) in subsection (a), by striking ``Commission'' 
                each place it appears and inserting ``Corporation'';
                    (B) in subsection (c)(1), by striking ``2007'' and 
                inserting ``2012''; and
                    (C) by adding at the end the following:
    ``(d) Termination of Assistance.--The authority of the Secretary to 
provide financial assistance under this Act terminates on the date that 
is 5 years after the date of enactment of this subsection.''; and
            (5) in section 14--
                    (A) by redesignating paragraphs (4), (5), and (6) 
                as paragraphs (5), (6), and (7), respectively; and
                    (B) by inserting after paragraph (3) the following:
            ``(4) the term `Corporation' means the Delaware & Lehigh 
        National Heritage Corridor, Incorporated, an organization 
        described in section 501(c)(3), and exempt from Federal tax 
        under section 501(a), of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986;''.
    (d) Additional Authorization of Appropriations for Certain National 
Heritage Areas and National Heritage Corridors.--
            (1) Authorization of appropriations.--Division II of the 
        Omnibus Parks and Public Lands Management Act of 1996 (Public 
        Law 104-333; 110 Stat. 4243) is amended in sections 409(a), 
        508(a), 608(a), and 810(a) (as redesignated by section 
        (3)(a)(5)), by striking ``$10,000,000'' each place it appears 
        and inserting ``$15,000,000''.
            (2) Evaluations.--
                    (A) In general.--Not later than 3 years before the 
                date on which authority for Federal funding terminates 
                for each of the Ohio & Erie Canal National Heritage 
                Corridor, the Rivers Of Steel National Heritage Area, 
                the Essex National Heritage Area, and the South 
                Carolina National Heritage Corridor, the Secretary of 
                the Interior shall conduct an evaluation of, and 
                prepare a report on, the accomplishments of the 
                applicable national heritage area.
                    (B) Components.--An evaluation prepared under 
                subparagraph (A) shall--
                            (i) assess the progress of the management 
                        entity with respect to--
                                    (I) accomplishing the purposes of 
                                the authorizing legislation for the 
                                national heritage area; and
                                    (II) achieving the goals and 
                                objectives of the approved management 
                                plan or heritage plan for the national 
                                heritage area;
                            (ii) analyze the Federal, State, local, and 
                        private investments in the national heritage 
                        area to determine the leverage and impact of 
                        the investments; and
                            (iii) review the management structure, 
                        partnership relationships, and funding of the 
                        national heritage area for purposes of 
                        identifying the critical components for the 
                        sustainability of the national heritage area.
                    (C) Recommendations.--
                            (i) In general.--Based on the evaluation 
                        conducted under subparagraph (A), the Secretary 
                        shall include in the report recommendations for 
                        what role, if any, the National Park Service 
                        should have with respect to the national 
                        heritage area.
                            (ii) Required analysis.--If the Secretary 
                        recommends in the report that Federal funding 
                        for national heritage area be reauthorized, the 
                        report shall include an analysis of--
                                    (I) ways in which Federal funding 
                                for the national heritage area may be 
                                reduced or eliminated; and
                                    (II) the appropriate time period 
                                necessary to achieve the recommended 
                                reduction or elimination.
                    (D) Submission to congress.--On completion of a 
                report under this subsection, the Secretary of the 
                Interior shall submit the report to--
                            (i) the Committee on Energy and Natural 
                        Resources of the Senate; and
                            (ii) the Committee on Natural Resources of 
                        the House of Representatives.
    (e) National Coal Heritage Area Technical Corrections.--
            (1) In general.--The National Coal Heritage Area Act of 
        1996 (16 U.S.C. 461 note; Public Law 104-333) is amended--
                    (A) in section 103(b)--
                            (i) by striking ``shall be shall be 
                        comprised'' and inserting ``shall be 
                        comprised''; and
                            (ii) by striking ``counties; and'' and 
                        inserting ``counties'';
                    (B) in section 105--
                            (i) in the first sentence--
                                    (I) by striking ``The resources'' 
                                and inserting the following:
    ``(a) In General.--The resources'';
                                    (II) by striking ``paragraph (2) 
                                of''; and
                                    (III) by striking ``include those 
                                set forth in'' and inserting 
                                ``include--
            ``(1) resources in Lincoln County, West Virginia, and Paint 
        Creek and Cabin Creek in Kanawha County, West Virginia, as 
        determined to be appropriate by the National Coal Heritage Area 
        Authority; and
            ``(2) resources described in''; and
                            (ii) in the second sentence, by striking 
                        ``Priority consideration'' and inserting the 
                        following:
    ``(b) Priority.--Priority consideration''; and
                    (C) in section 106--
                            (i) in subsection (a)--
                                    (I) in the matter preceding 
                                paragraph (1), by striking ``Governor'' 
                                and all that follows through ``Parks,'' 
                                and inserting ``National Coal Heritage 
                                Area Authority''; and
                                    (II) in paragraph (3), by striking 
                                ``State of West Virginia'' and all that 
                                follows through ``entities, or'' and 
                                inserting ``National Coal Heritage Area 
                                Authority or''; and
                            (ii) in subsection (b), by inserting 
                        ``not'' before ``meet''.
            (2) Continuation of agreement.--The contractual agreement 
        entered into under section 104 of the National Coal Heritage 
        Area Act of 1996 (16 U.S.C. 461 note; Public Law 104-333), as 
        in effect on the day before the date of enactment of this Act, 
        shall continue to be in effect, except that the contractual 
        agreement shall be between the Secretary of the Interior and 
        the National Coal Heritage Area Authority rather than the 
        Secretary of the Interior and the Governor of West Virginia.

SEC. 233. QUINEBAUG AND SHETUCKET RIVERS VALLEY NATIONAL HERITAGE 
              CORRIDOR.

    (a) Termination of Authority.--Section 106(b) of the Quinebaug and 
Shetucket Rivers Valley National Heritage Corridor Act of 1994 (16 
U.S.C. 461 note; Public Law 103-449) is amended by striking ``September 
30, 2009'' and inserting ``September 30, 2015''.
    (b) Evaluation; Report.--Section 106 of the Quinebaug and Shetucket 
Rivers Valley National Heritage Corridor Act of 1994 (16 U.S.C. 461 
note; Public Law 103-449) is amended by adding at the end the 
following:
    ``(c) Evaluation; Report.--
            ``(1) In general.--Not later than 3 years before the date 
        on which authority for Federal funding terminates for the 
        Corridor, the Secretary shall--
                    ``(A) conduct an evaluation of the accomplishments 
                of the Corridor; and
                    ``(B) prepare a report in accordance with paragraph 
                (3).
            ``(2) Evaluation.--An evaluation conducted under paragraph 
        (1)(A) shall--
                    ``(A) assess the progress of the management entity 
                with respect to--
                            ``(i) accomplishing the purposes of this 
                        title for the Corridor; and
                            ``(ii) achieving the goals and objectives 
                        of the management plan for the Corridor;
                    ``(B) analyze the Federal, State, local, and 
                private investments in the Corridor to determine the 
                leverage and impact of the investments; and
                    ``(C) review the management structure, partnership 
                relationships, and funding of the Corridor for purposes 
                of identifying the critical components for 
                sustainability of the Corridor.
            ``(3) Report.--
                    ``(A) In general.--Based on the evaluation 
                conducted under paragraph (1)(A), the Secretary shall 
                prepare a report that includes recommendations for the 
                future role of the National Park Service, if any, with 
                respect to the Corridor.
                    ``(B) Required analysis.--If the report prepared 
                under subparagraph (A) recommends that Federal funding 
                for the Corridor be reauthorized, the report shall 
                include an analysis of--
                            ``(i) ways in which Federal funding for the 
                        Corridor may be reduced or eliminated; and
                            ``(ii) the appropriate time period 
                        necessary to achieve the recommended reduction 
                        or elimination.
                    ``(C) Submission to congress.--On completion of the 
                report, the Secretary shall submit the report to--
                            ``(i) the Committee on Energy and Natural 
                        Resources of the Senate; and
                            ``(ii) the Committee on Natural Resources 
                        of the House of Representatives.''.
    (c) Authorization of Appropriations.--Section 109(a) of the 
Quinebaug and Shetucket Rivers Valley National Heritage Corridor Act of 
1994 (16 U.S.C. 461 note; Public Law 103-449) is amended by striking 
``$10,000,000'' and inserting ``$15,000,000''.

SEC. 234. JOURNEY THROUGH HALLOWED GROUND NATIONAL HERITAGE AREA.

    (a) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Heritage area.--The term ``Heritage Area'' means the 
        Journey Through Hallowed Ground National Heritage Area.
            (2) Management entity.--The term ``management entity'' 
        means The Journey Through Hallowed Ground Partnership, a 
        Virginia nonprofit corporation referred to in subsection 
        (b)(3), or its successor entity.
            (3) Management plan.--The term ``management plan'' means 
        the management plan for the Heritage Area.
            (4) Partner.--The term ``partner'' means--
                    (A) a Federal, State, or local governmental entity; 
                and
                    (B) an organization, private industry, or 
                individual involved in promoting the conservation and 
                preservation of the historical, cultural, and 
                recreational resources of the Heritage Area.
            (5) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary 
        of the Interior.
    (b) Journey Through Hallowed Ground National Heritage Area.--
            (1) Establishment.--There is hereby established the Journey 
        Through Hallowed Ground National Heritage Area.
            (2) Boundaries.--
                    (A) In general.--The Heritage Area shall consist of 
                the 175-mile region generally following the Route 15 
                corridor and surrounding areas, as generally depicted 
                on the map entitled ``Journey Through Hallowed Ground 
                National Heritage Area'', numbered P90/80,000, and 
                dated October 2006.
                    (B) Map.--The map referred to in subparagraph (A) 
                shall be on file in the appropriate offices of the 
                National Park Service.
            (3) Management entity.--The management entity for the 
        Heritage Area shall be The Journey Through Hallowed Ground 
        Partnership, a Virginia nonprofit corporation.
            (4) Board of trustees.--The board of trustees of the 
        management entity shall include representatives from a broad 
        cross-section of the individuals, agencies, organizations, 
        States, and governments that--
                    (A) are partners of the management entity; and
                    (B) will oversee the development and implementation 
                of the management plan.
    (c) Authorities and Duties of Management Entity.--
            (1) Authorities of the management entity.--
                    (A) Authority to accept funds.--The management 
                entity may accept funds from any Federal source and 
                from States and their political subdivisions, private 
                organizations, nonprofit organizations, or any other 
                person to carry out its authorities and duties under 
                this section.
                    (B) Use of funds.--The management entity may use 
                funds made available under this section for purposes of 
                preparing, updating, and implementing the management 
                plan. Such purposes may include the following:
                            (i) Making grants to, and entering into 
                        cooperative agreements with, States and their 
                        political subdivisions, private organizations, 
                        non-profit organizations or any other person.
                            (ii) Hiring and compensating staff.
                            (iii) Entering into contracts for goods, 
                        services, and leases for office space.
                            (iv) Undertaking any other initiatives that 
                        advance the purposes of the Heritage Area that 
                        are recommended in the management plan.
            (2) Management plan.--The management entity shall develop a 
        management plan for the Heritage Area that--
                    (A) presents comprehensive strategies and 
                recommendations for conservation, funding, management, 
                and development of the Heritage Area;
                    (B) takes into consideration existing State, 
                county, and local plans and involves residents, public 
                agencies, and private organizations working in the 
                Heritage Area;
                    (C) includes a description of actions that units of 
                government and private organizations and individuals 
                have decided to undertake in furtherance of the 
                purposes of this section;
                    (D) specifies the existing and potential sources of 
                funding to protect, support, manage, and develop the 
                Heritage Area;
                    (E) includes an inventory of the natural, 
                historical, cultural, architectural, scenic, and 
                recreational resources in the Heritage Area that wish 
                to be preserved, restored, supported, managed, 
                developed, or maintained, because of the national 
                historic significance of the resources;
                    (F) includes an analysis of ways in which local, 
                State, and Federal programs may coordinate to promote 
                the purposes of this section; including recommendations 
                from the Commonwealth of Virginia, the States of 
                Maryland and West Virginia, and the Commonwealth of 
                Pennsylvania (and political subdivisions thereof) for 
                the management, protection, support, and interpretation 
                of the natural, cultural, and historical resources of 
                the Heritage Area;
                    (G) identifies appropriate partners and 
                partnerships among Federal, State, and local 
                governments, regional entities, and the private sector 
                in furtherance of the purposes of this section;
                    (H) includes locations for visitor contact and 
                major interpretive facilities;
                    (I) includes provisions for appropriate living 
                history demonstrations and battlefield reenactments;
                    (J) includes provisions for implementing a 
                continuing program of interpretation for resident, 
                student, and visitor education concerning the resources 
                and values of the Heritage Area;
                    (K) includes provisions for a uniform historical 
                marker and wayside exhibit program in the Heritage 
                Area, including a provision for marking, with the 
                consent of the owner, historic structures and 
                properties that are contained within the historic core 
                areas and contribute to the understanding of the 
                Heritage Area;
                    (L) includes provisions for the protection and 
                interpretation of the natural, cultural, and historic 
                resources of the Heritage Area consistent with this 
                section; and
                    (M) includes provisions for the development of 
                educational outreach programs for students of all ages 
                to further the understanding of the vast resources 
                within the Heritage Area.
            (3) Deadline for submission; prerequisites.--
                    (A) Deadline.--The management entity shall submit 
                the management plan to the Secretary not later than the 
                end of the 3-year period beginning on the date on which 
                funds are first made available for this section.
                    (B) Prerequisites.--Before submitting the 
                management plan to the Secretary, the management entity 
                shall ensure that--
                            (i) the Commonwealth of Virginia, the 
                        States of Maryland and West Virginia, the 
                        Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, and any political 
                        subdivision thereof that would be affected by 
                        the management plan, receives a copy of the 
                        management plan;
                            (ii) adequate notice of availability of the 
                        management plan is provided through publication 
                        in appropriate local newspapers in the area of 
                        the Heritage Area;
                            (iii) at least 1 public hearing is 
                        conducted by the management entity at a 
                        location within the Heritage Area in each 
                        congressional district included in whole or in 
                        part in the Heritage Area to review and receive 
                        comments on the management plan; and
                            (iv) a committee made up of elected 
                        officials of local governments within the 
                        boundaries of the Heritage Area, including 
                        mayors, town and county council chairs, and 
                        members of borough commissions and boards of 
                        supervisors, has had an opportunity to review, 
                        comment on, and approve (by majority vote) the 
                        management plan.
            (4) Termination of funding.--If a management plan is not 
        submitted to the Secretary in accordance with paragraph (3), 
        the Secretary shall not, after the end of the period specified 
        in such paragraph, provide any grant or other assistance under 
        this section with respect to the Heritage Area until a 
        management plan for the Heritage Area is submitted to the 
        Secretary.
            (5) Duties of management entity.--The management entity 
        shall--
                    (A) give priority to implementing actions set forth 
                in the management plan;
                    (B) assist units of government, regional planning 
                organizations, and nonprofit organizations in--
                            (i) establishing and maintaining 
                        interpretive materials and exhibits in the 
                        Heritage Area;
                            (ii) developing historical and cultural 
                        resources and educational programs in the 
                        Heritage Area;
                            (iii) increasing public awareness of and 
                        appreciation for the natural, historical, 
                        cultural, architectural, scenic, and 
                        recreational resources and sites in the 
                        Heritage Area;
                            (iv) the restoration of any historic 
                        building relating to the themes of the Heritage 
                        Area;
                            (v) ensuring that clear signs identifying 
                        access points and sites of interest are put in 
                        place throughout the Heritage Area; and
                            (vi) carrying out other actions that the 
                        management entity determines to be advisable to 
                        fulfill the purposes of this section;
                    (C) encourage by appropriate means economic 
                viability in the Heritage Area consistent with the 
                purposes of this section;
                    (D) consider the interests of diverse governmental, 
                business, nonprofit groups, and individuals within the 
                Heritage Area; and
                    (E) for any year in which Federal funds have been 
                provided to implement the management plan--
                            (i) conduct public meetings at least 
                        annually regarding the implementation of the 
                        management plan;
                            (ii) submit an annual report to the 
                        Secretary setting forth accomplishments, 
                        expenses and income, and each person to which 
                        any grant was made by the management entity in 
                        the year for which the report is made; and
                            (iii) require, for all agreements entered 
                        into by the management entity authorizing 
                        expenditure of Federal funds by any other 
                        person, that the person making the expenditure 
                        make available to the management entity for 
                        audit all records pertaining to the expenditure 
                        of such funds.
            (6) Prohibition on the acquisition of real property.--The 
        management entity may not use Federal funds received under this 
        section to acquire real property or any interest in real 
        property. No State or local subdivision of a State shall use 
        any Federal funds received pursuant to this section to acquire 
        any interest in real property by condemnation or otherwise.
    (d) Approval or Disapproval of Management Plan.--
            (1) Time for consideration; criteria.--The Secretary, in 
        consultation with the Governors of the Commonwealth of 
        Virginia, the States of Maryland and West Virginia, and the 
        Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, shall approve or disapprove a 
        management plan submitted under subsection (c) not later than 
        180 days after receiving the plan. In considering the plan, the 
        Secretary shall take into consideration the following criteria:
                    (A) The extent to which the management plan, when 
                implemented, would adequately preserve, support and 
                protect the significant historical, cultural and 
                recreational resources of the Heritage Area.
                    (B) The level of public participation in the 
                development of the management plan.
                    (C) The extent to which the board of trustees of 
                the management entity is representative of the local 
                governments affected and a wide range of interested 
                organizations and citizens.
            (2) Action following disapproval.--If the Secretary 
        disapproves a management plan, the Secretary shall advise the 
        management entity in writing of the reasons for the disapproval 
        and shall make recommendations for revisions in the management 
        plan. The Secretary shall approve or disapprove a proposed 
        revision within 180 days after the date it is submitted.
            (3) Approving changes.--The Secretary shall review and 
        approve or disapprove any amendment to the management plan that 
        would make a substantial change to the management plan, as 
        determined by the Secretary. The review and approval or 
        disapproval of an amendment shall be conducted in the manner 
        provided under paragraphs (1) and (2). Funds appropriated under 
        this section may not be expended to implement the changes made 
        by such an amendment unless and until the Secretary approves 
        the amendment.
            (4) Availability of annual reports.--The management entity 
        shall post each annual report prepared under subsection 
        (c)(5)(E)(ii) on a website maintained by the management entity.
    (e) Provision of Financial and Technical Assistance.--
            (1) Overall assistance.--Upon the request of the management 
        entity and subject to the availability of appropriations, the 
        Secretary may provide technical and financial assistance to the 
        management entity to carry out its duties under this section, 
        including updating and implementing the management plan and, 
        prior to approval of the management plan, providing assistance 
        for initiatives.
            (2) Technical assistance.--
                    (A) In general.--The Secretary, on request of the 
                management entity, may provide technical assistance to 
                the management entity to carry out the duties of the 
                management entity under this section, including 
                updating and implementing the management plan and, 
                prior to approval of the management plan, providing 
                assistance for initiatives.
                    (B) Limitation.--Technical assistance provided 
                under this paragraph shall be provided on a 
                reimbursable basis, except that this paragraph does not 
                preclude the Secretary from providing nonreimbursable 
                assistance under paragraph (1).
            (3) Priority.--In assisting the management entity, the 
        Secretary shall give priority to actions that assist in--
                    (A) the implementation of the management plan;
                    (B) the provision of educational assistance and 
                advice regarding management of the significant historic 
                resources of the region;
                    (C) the development and application of techniques 
                promoting the preservation of cultural, recreational 
                and historic properties;
                    (D) the preservation, restoration, and reuse of 
                publicly and privately owned historic buildings;
                    (E) the design and fabrication of a wide range of 
                interpretive materials based on the management plan, 
                including, among other things, guide brochures, visitor 
                displays, audio-visual, books, interpretive dialogues, 
                interactive exhibits, and educational curriculum 
                materials for public education; and
                    (F) the implementation of initiatives prior to 
                approval of the management plan.
            (4) Matching funds.--As a condition of providing financial 
        assistance under this subsection to the management entity, the 
        Secretary shall require the recipient to provide matching funds 
        in an amount equal to the amount of the financial assistance 
        provided by the Secretary. Recipient matching funds--
                    (A) shall be derived from non-Federal sources; and
                    (B) may be made in the form of in-kind 
                contributions of goods and services fairly valued.
    (f) Duties of Other Federal Entities.--Any Federal entity 
conducting or supporting activities directly and significantly 
affecting the Heritage Area shall--
            (1) consult with the Secretary and the management entity 
        with respect to the activities;
            (2) cooperate with the Secretary and the management entity 
        in carrying out the duties of the Secretary and the management 
        entity under this section and, to the maximum extent 
        practicable, coordinate the activities with the carrying out of 
        the duties; and
            (3) to the maximum extent practicable, conduct or support 
        the activities in a manner that shall not have an adverse 
        effect on the Heritage Area.
    (g) Private Property and Regulatory Protections.--Nothing in this 
section--
            (1) abridges the rights of any property owner (whether 
        public or private), including the right to refrain from 
        participating in any plan, project, program, or activity 
        conducted within the Heritage Area;
            (2) requires any property owner to permit public access 
        (including access by Federal, State, or local agencies) to the 
        property of the property owner, or to modify public access or 
        use of property of the property owner under any other Federal, 
        State, or local law;
            (3) alters any duly adopted land use regulation, approved 
        land use plan, or other regulatory authority of any Federal, 
        State or local agency, or conveys any land use or other 
        regulatory authority to the management entity;
            (4) authorizes or implies the reservation or appropriation 
        of water or water rights;
            (5) diminishes the authority of the State to manage fish 
        and wildlife, including the regulation of fishing and hunting 
        within the Heritage Area; or
            (6) creates any liability, or affects any liability under 
        any other law, of any private property owner with respect to 
        any person injured on the private property.
    (h) Evaluation; Report.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 3 years before the date on 
        which authority for Federal funding terminates for the Heritage 
        Area, the Secretary shall--
                    (A) conduct an evaluation of the accomplishments of 
                the Heritage Area; and
                    (B) prepare a report in accordance with paragraph 
                (3).
            (2) Evaluation.--An evaluation conducted under paragraph 
        (1)(A) shall--
                    (A) assess the progress of the management entity 
                with respect to--
                            (i) accomplishing the purposes of the 
                        authorizing legislation for the Heritage Area; 
                        and
                            (ii) achieving the goals and objectives of 
                        the approved management plan for the Heritage 
                        Area;
                    (B) analyze the Federal, State, local, and private 
                investments in the Heritage Area to determine the 
                leverage and impact of the investments; and
                    (C) review the management structure, partnership 
                relationships, and funding of the Heritage Area for 
                purposes of identifying the critical components for 
                sustainability of the Heritage Area.
            (3) Report.--
                    (A) In general.--Based on the evaluation conducted 
                under paragraph (1)(A), the Secretary shall prepare a 
                report that includes recommendations for the future 
                role of the National Park Service, if any, with respect 
                to the Heritage Area.
                    (B) Required analysis.--If the report prepared 
                under subparagraph (A) recommends that Federal funding 
                for the Heritage Area be reauthorized, the report shall 
                include an analysis of--
                            (i) ways in which Federal funding for the 
                        Heritage Area may be reduced or eliminated; and
                            (ii) the appropriate time period necessary 
                        to achieve the recommended reduction or 
                        elimination.
                    (C) Submission to congress.--On completion of the 
                report, the Secretary shall submit the report to--
                            (i) the Committee on Energy and Natural 
                        Resources of the Senate; and
                            (ii) the Committee on Natural Resources of 
                        the House of Representatives.
    (i) Use of Federal Funds From Other Sources.--Nothing in this 
section preclude the management entity from using Federal funds 
available under Acts other than this section for the purposes for which 
those funds were authorized.
    (j) Sunset for Grants and Other Assistance.--The Secretary may not 
make any grant or provide any other financial assistance under this 
section after the expiration of the 15-year period beginning on the 
date of enactment of this Act.
    (k) Authorization of Appropriations.--
            (1) Authorization of appropriations.--Subject to paragraph 
        (2), there are authorized to be appropriated to carry out this 
        section not more than $1,000,000 for any fiscal year. Funds so 
        appropriated shall remain available until expended.
            (2) Limitation on total amounts appropriated.--Not more 
        than $10,000,000 may be appropriated to carry out this section.

SEC. 235. SANGRE DE CRISTO NATIONAL HERITAGE AREA.

    (a) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Heritage area.--The term ``Heritage Area'' means the 
        Sangre de Cristo National Heritage Area established by 
        subsection (b)(1).
            (2) Management entity.--The term ``management entity'' 
        means the management entity for the Heritage Area designated by 
        subsection (b)(4).
            (3) Management plan.--The term ``management plan'' means 
        the management plan for the Heritage Area required under 
        subsection (d).
            (4) Map.--The term ``map'' means the map entitled 
        ``Proposed Sangre De Cristo National Heritage Area'' and dated 
        November 2005.
            (5) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary 
        of the Interior.
            (6) State.--The term ``State'' means the State of Colorado.
    (b) Sangre De Cristo National Heritage Area.--
            (1) Establishment.--There is established in the State the 
        Sangre de Cristo National Heritage Area.
            (2) Boundaries.--The Heritage Area shall consist of--
                    (A) the counties of Alamosa, Conejos, and Costilla; 
                and
                    (B) the Monte Vista National Wildlife Refuge, the 
                Baca National Wildlife Refuge, the Great Sand Dunes 
                National Park and Preserve, and other areas included in 
                the map.
            (3) Map.--A map of the Heritage Area shall be--
                    (A) included in the management plan; and
                    (B) on file and available for public inspection in 
                the appropriate offices of the National Park Service.
            (4) Management entity.--
                    (A) In general.--The management entity for the 
                Heritage Area shall be the Sangre de Cristo National 
                Heritage Area Board of Directors.
                    (B) Membership requirements.--Members of the Board 
                shall include representatives from a broad cross-
                section of the individuals, agencies, organizations, 
                and governments that were involved in the planning and 
                development of the Heritage Area before the date of 
                enactment of this Act.
    (c) Administration.--
            (1) Authorities.--For purposes of carrying out the 
        management plan, the Secretary, acting through the management 
        entity, may use amounts made available under this section to--
                    (A) make grants to the State or a political 
                subdivision of the State, nonprofit organizations, and 
                other persons;
                    (B) enter into cooperative agreements with, or 
                provide technical assistance to, the State or a 
                political subdivision of the State, nonprofit 
                organizations, and other interested parties;
                    (C) hire and compensate staff, which shall include 
                individuals with expertise in natural, cultural, and 
                historical resources protection, and heritage 
                programming;
                    (D) obtain money or services from any source 
                including any that are provided under any other Federal 
                law or program;
                    (E) contract for goods or services; and
                    (F) undertake to be a catalyst for any other 
                activity that furthers the Heritage Area and is 
                consistent with the approved management plan.
            (2) Duties.--The management entity shall--
                    (A) in accordance with subsection (d), prepare and 
                submit a management plan for the Heritage Area to the 
                Secretary;
                    (B) assist units of local government, regional 
                planning organizations, and nonprofit organizations in 
                carrying out the approved management plan by--
                            (i) carrying out programs and projects that 
                        recognize, protect, and enhance important 
                        resource values in the Heritage Area;
                            (ii) establishing and maintaining 
                        interpretive exhibits and programs in the 
                        Heritage Area;
                            (iii) developing recreational and 
                        educational opportunities in the Heritage Area;
                            (iv) increasing public awareness of, and 
                        appreciation for, natural, historical, scenic, 
                        and cultural resources of the Heritage Area;
                            (v) protecting and restoring historic sites 
                        and buildings in the Heritage Area that are 
                        consistent with Heritage Area themes;
                            (vi) ensuring that clear, consistent, and 
                        appropriate signs identifying points of public 
                        access, and sites of interest are posted 
                        throughout the Heritage Area; and
                            (vii) promoting a wide range of 
                        partnerships among governments, organizations, 
                        and individuals to further the Heritage Area;
                    (C) consider the interests of diverse units of 
                government, businesses, organizations, and individuals 
                in the Heritage Area in the preparation and 
                implementation of the management plan;
                    (D) conduct meetings open to the public at least 
                semiannually regarding the development and 
                implementation of the management plan;
                    (E) for any year that Federal funds have been 
                received under this section--
                            (i) submit an annual report to the 
                        Secretary that describes the activities, 
                        expenses, and income of the management entity 
                        (including grants to any other entities during 
                        the year that the report is made);
                            (ii) make available to the Secretary for 
                        audit all records relating to the expenditure 
                        of the funds and any matching funds; and
                            (iii) require, with respect to all 
                        agreements authorizing expenditure of Federal 
                        funds by other organizations, that the 
                        organizations receiving the funds make 
                        available to the Secretary for audit all 
                        records concerning the expenditure of the 
                        funds; and
                    (F) encourage by appropriate means economic 
                viability that is consistent with the Heritage Area.
            (3) Prohibition on the acquisition of real property.--The 
        management entity shall not use Federal funds made available 
        under this section to acquire real property or any interest in 
        real property.
            (4) Cost-sharing requirement.--The Federal share of the 
        cost of any activity carried out using any assistance made 
        available under this section shall be 50 percent.
    (d) Management Plan.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 3 years after the date of 
        enactment of this Act, the management entity shall submit to 
        the Secretary for approval a proposed management plan for the 
        Heritage Area.
            (2) Requirements.--The management plan shall--
                    (A) incorporate an integrated and cooperative 
                approach for the protection, enhancement, and 
                interpretation of the natural, cultural, historic, 
                scenic, and recreational resources of the Heritage 
                Area;
                    (B) take into consideration State and local plans;
                    (C) include--
                            (i) an inventory of--
                                    (I) the resources located in the 
                                core area described in subsection 
                                (b)(2); and
                                    (II) any other property in the core 
                                area that--
                                            (aa) is related to the 
                                        themes of the Heritage Area; 
                                        and
                                            (bb) should be preserved, 
                                        restored, managed, or 
                                        maintained because of the 
                                        significance of the property;
                            (ii) comprehensive policies, strategies and 
                        recommendations for conservation, funding, 
                        management, and development of the Heritage 
                        Area;
                            (iii) a description of actions that 
                        governments, private organizations, and 
                        individuals have agreed to take to protect the 
                        natural, historical and cultural resources of 
                        the Heritage Area;
                            (iv) a program of implementation for the 
                        management plan by the management entity that 
                        includes a description of--
                                    (I) actions to facilitate ongoing 
                                collaboration among partners to promote 
                                plans for resource protection, 
                                restoration, and construction; and
                                    (II) specific commitments for 
                                implementation that have been made by 
                                the management entity or any 
                                government, organization, or individual 
                                for the first 5 years of operation;
                            (v) the identification of sources of 
                        funding for carrying out the management plan;
                            (vi) analysis and recommendations for means 
                        by which local, State, and Federal programs, 
                        including the role of the National Park Service 
                        in the Heritage Area, may best be coordinated 
                        to carry out this section; and
                            (vii) an interpretive plan for the Heritage 
                        Area; and
                    (D) recommend policies and strategies for resource 
                management that consider and detail the application of 
                appropriate land and water management techniques, 
                including the development of intergovernmental and 
                interagency cooperative agreements to protect the 
                natural, historical, cultural, educational, scenic, and 
                recreational resources of the Heritage Area.
            (3) Deadline.--If a proposed management plan is not 
        submitted to the Secretary by the date that is 3 years after 
        the date of enactment of this Act, the management entity shall 
        be ineligible to receive additional funding under this section 
        until the date that the Secretary receives and approves the 
        management plan.
            (4) Approval or disapproval of management plan.--
                    (A) In general.--Not later than 180 days after the 
                date of receipt of the management plan under paragraph 
                (1), the Secretary, in consultation with the State, 
                shall approve or disapprove the management plan.
                    (B) Criteria for approval.--In determining whether 
                to approve the management plan, the Secretary shall 
                consider whether--
                            (i) the management entity is representative 
                        of the diverse interests of the Heritage Area, 
                        including governments, natural and historic 
                        resource protection organizations, educational 
                        institutions, businesses, and recreational 
                        organizations;
                            (ii) the management entity has afforded 
                        adequate opportunity, including public 
                        hearings, for public and governmental 
                        involvement in the preparation of the 
                        management plan; and
                            (iii) the resource protection and 
                        interpretation strategies contained in the 
                        management plan, if implemented, would 
                        adequately protect the natural, historical, and 
                        cultural resources of the Heritage Area.
                    (C) Action following disapproval.--If the Secretary 
                disapproves the management plan under subparagraph (A), 
                the Secretary shall--
                            (i) advise the management entity in writing 
                        of the reasons for the disapproval;
                            (ii) make recommendations for revisions to 
                        the management plan; and
                            (iii) not later than 180 days after the 
                        receipt of any proposed revision of the 
                        management plan from the management entity, 
                        approve or disapprove the proposed revision.
                    (D) Amendments.--
                            (i) In general.--The Secretary shall 
                        approve or disapprove each amendment to the 
                        management plan that the Secretary determines 
                        make a substantial change to the management 
                        plan.
                            (ii) Use of funds.--The management entity 
                        shall not use Federal funds authorized by this 
                        section to carry out any amendments to the 
                        management plan until the Secretary has 
                        approved the amendments.
    (e) Relationship to Other Federal Agencies.--
            (1) In general.--Nothing in this section affects the 
        authority of a Federal agency to provide technical or financial 
        assistance under any other law.
            (2) Consultation and coordination.--The head of any Federal 
        agency planning to conduct activities that may have an impact 
        on the Heritage Area is encouraged to consult and coordinate 
        the activities with the Secretary and the management entity to 
        the maximum extent practicable.
            (3) Other federal agencies.--Nothing in this section--
                    (A) modifies, alters, or amends any law or 
                regulation authorizing a Federal agency to manage 
                Federal land under the jurisdiction of the Federal 
                agency;
                    (B) limits the discretion of a Federal land manager 
                to implement an approved land use plan within the 
                boundaries of the Heritage Area; or
                    (C) modifies, alters, or amends any authorized use 
                of Federal land under the jurisdiction of a Federal 
                agency.
    (f) Private Property and Regulatory Protections.--Nothing in this 
section--
            (1) abridges the rights of any property owner (whether 
        public or private), including the right to refrain from 
        participating in any plan, project, program, or activity 
        conducted within the Heritage Area;
            (2) requires any property owner to permit public access 
        (including access by Federal, State, or local agencies) to the 
        property of the property owner, or to modify public access or 
        use of property of the property owner under any other Federal, 
        State, or local law;
            (3) alters any duly adopted land use regulation, approved 
        land use plan, or other regulatory authority of any Federal, 
        State or local agency, or conveys any land use or other 
        regulatory authority to the management entity;
            (4) authorizes or implies the reservation or appropriation 
        of water or water rights;
            (5) diminishes the authority of the State to manage fish 
        and wildlife, including the regulation of fishing and hunting 
        within the Heritage Area; or
            (6) creates any liability, or affects any liability under 
        any other law, of any private property owner with respect to 
        any person injured on the private property.
    (g) Evaluation; Report.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 3 years before the date on 
        which authority for Federal funding terminates for the Heritage 
        Area, the Secretary shall--
                    (A) conduct an evaluation of the accomplishments of 
                the Heritage Area; and
                    (B) prepare a report in accordance with paragraph 
                (3).
            (2) Evaluation.--An evaluation conducted under paragraph 
        (1)(A) shall--
                    (A) assess the progress of the management entity 
                with respect to--
                            (i) accomplishing the purposes of this 
                        section for the Heritage Area; and
                            (ii) achieving the goals and objectives of 
                        the approved management plan for the Heritage 
                        Area;
                    (B) analyze the Federal, State, local, and private 
                investments in the Heritage Area to determine the 
                leverage and impact of the investments; and
                    (C) review the management structure, partnership 
                relationships, and funding of the Heritage Area for 
                purposes of identifying the critical components for 
                sustainability of the Heritage Area.
            (3) Report.--
                    (A) In general.--Based on the evaluation conducted 
                under paragraph (1)(A), the Secretary shall prepare a 
                report that includes recommendations for the future 
                role of the National Park Service, if any, with respect 
                to the Heritage Area.
                    (B) Required analysis.--If the report prepared 
                under subparagraph (A) recommends that Federal funding 
                for the Heritage Area be reauthorized, the report shall 
                include an analysis of--
                            (i) ways in which Federal funding for the 
                        Heritage Area may be reduced or eliminated; and
                            (ii) the appropriate time period necessary 
                        to achieve the recommended reduction or 
                        elimination.
                    (C) Submission to congress.--On completion of the 
                report, the Secretary shall submit the report to--
                            (i) the Committee on Energy and Natural 
                        Resources of the Senate; and
                            (ii) the Committee on Natural Resources of 
                        the House of Representatives.
    (h) Authorization of Appropriations.--There is authorized to be 
appropriated to carry out this section $10,000,000, of which not more 
than $1,000,000 may be made available for any fiscal year.
    (i) Termination of Authority.--The authority of the Secretary to 
provide assistance under this section terminates on the date that is 15 
years after the date of enactment of this Act.

SEC. 236. SOUTH PARK NATIONAL HERITAGE AREA.

    (a) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Board.--The term ``Board'' means the Board of Directors 
        of the South Park National Heritage Area, comprised initially 
        of the individuals, agencies, organizations, and governments 
        that were involved in the planning and development of the 
        Heritage Area before the date of enactment of this Act.
            (2) Heritage area.--The term ``Heritage Area'' means the 
        South Park National Heritage Area established by subsection 
        (b)(1).
            (3) Management entity.--The term ``management entity'' 
        means the management entity for the Heritage Area designated by 
        subsection (b)(4)(A).
            (4) Management plan.--The term ``management plan'' means 
        the management plan for the Heritage Area required by 
        subsection (d).
            (5) Map.--The term ``map'' means the map entitled ``South 
        Park National Heritage Area Map (Proposed)'', dated January 30, 
        2006.
            (6) Partner.--The term ``partner'' means a Federal, State, 
        or local governmental entity, organization, private industry, 
        educational institution, or individual involved in the 
        conservation, preservation, interpretation, development or 
        promotion of heritage sites or resources of the Heritage Area.
            (7) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary 
        of the Interior.
            (8) State.--The term ``State'' means the State of Colorado.
            (9) Technical assistance.--The term ``technical 
        assistance'' means any guidance, advice, help, or aid, other 
        than financial assistance, provided by the Secretary.
    (b) South Park National Heritage Area.--
            (1) Establishment.--There is established in the State the 
        South Park National Heritage Area.
            (2) Boundaries.--The Heritage Area shall consist of the 
        areas included in the map.
            (3) Map.--A map of the Heritage Area shall be--
                    (A) included in the management plan; and
                    (B) on file and available for public inspection in 
                the appropriate offices of the National Park Service.
            (4) Management entity.--
                    (A) In general.--The management entity for the 
                Heritage Area shall be the Park County Tourism & 
                Community Development Office, in conjunction with the 
                South Park National Heritage Area Board of Directors.
                    (B) Membership requirements.--Members of the Board 
                shall include representatives from a broad cross-
                section of individuals, agencies, organizations, and 
                governments that were involved in the planning and 
                development of the Heritage Area before the date of 
                enactment of this Act.
    (c) Administration.--
            (1) Prohibition on the acquisition of real property.--The 
        management entity shall not use Federal funds made available 
        under this section to acquire real property or any interest in 
        real property.
            (2) Authorities.--For purposes of carrying out the 
        management plan, the Secretary, acting through the management 
        entity, may use amounts made available under this section to--
                    (A) make grants to the State or a political 
                subdivision of the State, nonprofit organizations, and 
                other persons;
                    (B) enter into cooperative agreements with, or 
                provide technical assistance to, the State or a 
                political subdivision of the State, nonprofit 
                organizations, and other interested parties;
                    (C) hire and compensate staff, which shall include 
                individuals with expertise in natural, cultural, and 
                historical resources protection, fundraising, heritage 
                facility planning and development, and heritage tourism 
                programming;
                    (D) obtain funds or services from any source, 
                including funds or services that are provided under any 
                other Federal law or program;
                    (E) enter into contracts for goods or services; and
                    (F) facilitate the conduct of other projects and 
                activities that further the Heritage Area and are 
                consistent with the approved management plan.
            (3) Duties.--The management entity shall--
                    (A) in accordance with subsection (d), prepare and 
                submit a management plan for the Heritage Area to the 
                Secretary;
                    (B) assist units of local government, local 
                property owners and businesses, and nonprofit 
                organizations in carrying out the approved management 
                plan by--
                            (i) carrying out programs and projects that 
                        recognize, protect, enhance, and promote 
                        important resource values in the Heritage Area;
                            (ii) establishing and maintaining 
                        interpretive exhibits and programs in the 
                        Heritage Area;
                            (iii) developing economic, recreational and 
                        educational opportunities in the Heritage Area;
                            (iv) increasing public awareness of, and 
                        appreciation for, historical, cultural, scenic, 
                        recreational, agricultural, and natural 
                        resources of the Heritage Area;
                            (v) protecting and restoring historic sites 
                        and buildings in the Heritage Area that are 
                        consistent with Heritage Area themes;
                            (vi) ensuring that clear, consistent, and 
                        appropriate signs identifying points of public 
                        access, and sites of interest are posted 
                        throughout the Heritage Area;
                            (vii) promoting a wide range of 
                        partnerships among governments, organizations, 
                        and individuals to further the Heritage Area; 
                        and
                            (viii) planning and developing new heritage 
                        attractions, products and services;
                    (C) consider the interests of diverse units of 
                government, businesses, organizations, and individuals 
                in the Heritage Area in the preparation and 
                implementation of the management plan;
                    (D) conduct meetings open to the public at least 
                semiannually regarding the development and 
                implementation of the management plan;
                    (E) for any year for which Federal funds have been 
                received under this section--
                            (i) submit to the Secretary an annual 
                        report that describes the activities, expenses, 
                        and income of the management entity (including 
                        grants to any other entities during the year 
                        that the report is made);
                            (ii) make available to the Secretary for 
                        audit all records relating to the expenditure 
                        of the Federal funds and any matching funds; 
                        and
                            (iii) require, with respect to all 
                        agreements authorizing expenditure of Federal 
                        funds by other organizations, that the 
                        organizations receiving the funds make 
                        available to the Secretary for audit all 
                        records concerning the expenditure of the 
                        funds; and
                    (F) encourage by appropriate means economic 
                viability that is consistent with the Heritage Area.
            (4) Cost-sharing requirement.--The Federal share of the 
        cost of any activity carried out using any assistance made 
        available under this section shall be 50 percent.
    (d) Management Plan.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 3 years after the date of 
        enactment of this Act, the management entity, with public 
        participation, shall submit to the Secretary for approval a 
        proposed management plan for the Heritage Area.
            (2) Requirements.--The management plan shall--
                    (A) incorporate an integrated and cooperative 
                approach for the protection, enhancement, 
                interpretation, development, and promotion of the 
                historical, cultural, scenic, recreational, 
                agricultural, and natural resources of the Heritage 
                Area;
                    (B) take into consideration State and local plans;
                    (C) include--
                            (i) an inventory of--
                                    (I) the resources located within 
                                the areas included in the map; and
                                    (II) any other eligible and 
                                participating property within the areas 
                                included in the map that--
                                            (aa) is related to the 
                                        themes of the Heritage Area; 
                                        and
                                            (bb) should be preserved, 
                                        restored, managed, maintained, 
                                        developed, or promoted because 
                                        of the significance of the 
                                        property;
                            (ii) comprehensive policies, strategies, 
                        and recommendations for conservation, funding, 
                        management, development, and promotion of the 
                        Heritage Area;
                            (iii) a description of actions that 
                        governments, private organizations, and 
                        individuals have agreed to take to manage 
                        protect the historical, cultural, scenic, 
                        recreational, agricultural, and natural 
                        resources of the Heritage Area;
                            (iv) a program of implementation for the 
                        management plan by the management entity that 
                        includes a description of--
                                    (I) actions to facilitate ongoing 
                                and effective collaboration among 
                                partners to promote plans for resource 
                                protection, enhancement, 
                                interpretation, restoration, and 
                                construction; and
                                    (II) specific commitments for 
                                implementation that have been made by 
                                the management entity or any 
                                government, organization, or individual 
                                for the first 5 years of operation;
                            (v) the identification of sources of 
                        funding for carrying out the management plan;
                            (vi) an analysis of and recommendations for 
                        means by which Federal, State, and local 
                        programs, including the role of the National 
                        Park Service in the Heritage Area, may best be 
                        coordinated to carry out this section; and
                            (vii) an interpretive plan for the Heritage 
                        Area; and
                    (D) recommend policies and strategies for resource 
                management that consider and detail the application of 
                appropriate land and water management techniques, 
                including the development of intergovernmental and 
                interagency cooperative agreements to protect the 
                historical, cultural, scenic, recreational, 
                agricultural, and natural resources of the Heritage 
                Area.
            (3) Deadline.--If a proposed management plan is not 
        submitted to the Secretary by the date that is 3 years after 
        the date of enactment of this Act, the management entity shall 
        be ineligible to receive additional funding under this section 
        until the date on which the Secretary receives and approves the 
        management plan.
            (4) Approval or disapproval of management plan.--
                    (A) In general.--Not later than 180 days after the 
                date of receipt of the management plan under paragraph 
                (1), the Secretary, in consultation with the State, 
                shall approve or disapprove the management plan.
                    (B) Criteria for approval.--In determining whether 
                to approve the management plan, the Secretary shall 
                consider whether--
                            (i) the management entity is representative 
                        of the diverse interests of the Heritage Area, 
                        including governments, natural and historical 
                        resource protection organizations, educational 
                        institutions, local businesses and industries, 
                        community organizations, recreational 
                        organizations, and tourism organizations;
                            (ii) the management entity has afforded 
                        adequate opportunity, including public 
                        hearings, for public and governmental 
                        involvement in the preparation of the 
                        management plan; and
                            (iii) strategies contained in the 
                        management plan, if implemented, would 
                        adequately balance the voluntary protection, 
                        development, and interpretation of the natural, 
                        historical, cultural, scenic, recreational, and 
                        agricultural resources of the Heritage Area.
                    (C) Action following disapproval.--If the Secretary 
                disapproves the management plan under subparagraph (A), 
                the Secretary shall--
                            (i) advise the management entity in writing 
                        of the reasons for the disapproval;
                            (ii) make recommendations for revisions to 
                        the management plan; and
                            (iii) not later than 180 days after the 
                        receipt of any proposed revision of the 
                        management plan from the management entity, 
                        approve or disapprove the proposed revision.
                    (D) Amendments.--
                            (i) In general.--The Secretary shall 
                        approve or disapprove each amendment to the 
                        management plan that the Secretary determines 
                        makes a substantial change to the management 
                        plan.
                            (ii) Use of funds.--The management entity 
                        shall not use Federal funds authorized by this 
                        section to carry out any amendments to the 
                        management plan until the Secretary has 
                        approved the amendments.
    (e) Relationship to Other Federal Agencies.--
            (1) In general.--Nothing in this section affects the 
        authority of a Federal agency to provide technical or financial 
        assistance under any other law.
            (2) Consultation and coordination.--The head of any Federal 
        agency planning to conduct activities that may have an impact 
        on the Heritage Area is encouraged to consult and coordinate 
        the activities with the Secretary and the management entity to 
        the maximum extent practicable.
            (3) Other federal agencies.--Nothing in this section--
                    (A) modifies, alters, or amends any law or 
                regulation authorizing a Federal agency to manage 
                Federal land under the jurisdiction of the Federal 
                agency;
                    (B) limits the discretion of a Federal land manager 
                to implement an approved land use plan within the 
                boundaries of the Heritage Area; or
                    (C) modifies, alters, or amends any authorized use 
                of Federal land under the jurisdiction of a Federal 
                agency.
    (f) Private Property and Regulatory Protections.--Nothing in this 
section--
            (1) abridges the rights of any property owner (whether 
        public or private), including the right to refrain from 
        participating in any plan, project, program, or activity 
        conducted within the Heritage Area;
            (2) requires any property owner to permit public access 
        (including access by Federal, State, or local agencies) to the 
        property of the property owner, or to modify public access or 
        use of property of the property owner under any other Federal, 
        State, or local law;
            (3) alters any duly adopted land use regulation, approved 
        land use plan, or other regulatory authority of any Federal, 
        State or local agency, or conveys any land use or other 
        regulatory authority to the management entity;
            (4) authorizes or implies the reservation or appropriation 
        of water or water rights;
            (5) diminishes the authority of the State to manage fish 
        and wildlife, including the regulation of fishing and hunting 
        within the Heritage Area; or
            (6) creates any liability, or affects any liability under 
        any other law, of any private property owner with respect to 
        any person injured on the private property.
    (g) Evaluation; Report.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 3 years before the date on 
        which authority for Federal funding terminates for the Heritage 
        Area, the Secretary shall--
                    (A) conduct an evaluation of the accomplishments of 
                the Heritage Area; and
                    (B) prepare a report in accordance with paragraph 
                (3).
            (2) Evaluation.--An evaluation conducted under paragraph 
        (1)(A) shall--
                    (A) assess the progress of the management entity 
                with respect to--
                            (i) accomplishing the purposes of this 
                        section for the Heritage Area; and
                            (ii) achieving the goals and objectives of 
                        the approved management plan for the Heritage 
                        Area;
                    (B) analyze the Federal, State, local, and private 
                investments in the Heritage Area to determine the 
                leverage and impact of the investments; and
                    (C) review the management structure, partnership 
                relationships, and funding of the Heritage Area for 
                purposes of identifying the critical components for 
                sustainability of the Heritage Area.
            (3) Report.--
                    (A) In general.--Based on the evaluation conducted 
                under paragraph (1)(A), the Secretary shall prepare a 
                report that includes recommendations for the future 
                role of the National Park Service, if any, with respect 
                to the Heritage Area.
                    (B) Required analysis.--If the report prepared 
                under subparagraph (A) recommends that Federal funding 
                for the Heritage Area be reauthorized, the report shall 
                include an analysis of--
                            (i) ways in which Federal funding for the 
                        Heritage Area may be reduced or eliminated; and
                            (ii) the appropriate time period necessary 
                        to achieve the recommended reduction or 
                        elimination.
                    (C) Submission to congress.--On completion of the 
                report, the Secretary shall submit the report to--
                            (i) the Committee on Energy and Natural 
                        Resources of the Senate; and
                            (ii) the Committee on Natural Resources of 
                        the House of Representatives.
    (h) Authorization of Appropriations.--There is authorized to be 
appropriated to carry out this section $10,000,000, of which not more 
than $1,000,000 may be made available for any fiscal year.
    (i) Termination of Authority.--The authority of the Secretary to 
provide assistance under this section terminates on the date that is 15 
years after the date of enactment of this Act.

SEC. 237. NIAGARA FALLS NATIONAL HERITAGE AREA.

    (a) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Commission.--The term ``Commission'' means the Niagara 
        Falls National Heritage Area Commission established by 
        subsection (c)(1).
            (2) Governor.--The term ``Governor'' means the Governor of 
        the State.
            (3) Heritage area.--The term ``Heritage Area'' means the 
        Niagara Falls National Heritage Area established by subsection 
        (b)(1).
            (4) Local coordinating entity.--The term ``local 
        coordinating entity'' means the local coordinating entity for 
        the Heritage Area designated by subsection (b)(4)(A).
            (5) Management plan.--The term ``management plan'' means 
        the management plan for the Heritage Area developed under 
        subsection (d).
            (6) Map.--The term ``map'' means the map entitled ``Niagara 
        Falls National Heritage Area'', numbered P76/80,000, and dated 
        July 2006.
            (7) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary 
        of the Interior.
            (8) State.--The term ``State'' means the State of New York.
    (b) Niagara Falls National Heritage Area.--
            (1) Establishment.--There is established in the State the 
        Niagara Falls National Heritage Area.
            (2) Boundaries.--The National Heritage Area shall consist 
        of--
                    (A) the area from the western boundary of the town 
                of Wheatfield, New York, extending to the mouth of the 
                Niagara River on Lake Ontario, as depicted on the map, 
                including--
                            (i) the city of Niagara Falls, New York;
                            (ii) the villages of Youngstown and 
                        Lewiston, New York; and
                            (iii) land and water within the boundaries 
                        of the Heritage Area in Niagara County, New 
                        York; and
                    (B) any additional thematically related sites 
                within Erie and Niagara Counties, New York, that are 
                identified in the management plan under subsection 
                (d)(2)(F).
            (3) Availability of map.--The map shall be on file and 
        available for public inspection in the appropriate offices of 
        the National Park Service.
            (4) Local coordinating entity.--
                    (A) Designation.--The local coordinating entity for 
                the Heritage Area shall be--
                            (i) for the 5-year period beginning on the 
                        date of enactment of this Act, the Commission; 
                        and
                            (ii) on expiration of the 5-year period 
                        described in clause (i), a private nonprofit or 
                        governmental organization designated by the 
                        Commission.
                    (B) Authorities.--For purposes of implementing the 
                management plan, the local coordinating entity 
                designated under subparagraph (A)(ii) may use funds 
                made available under this section to--
                            (i) make grants to, and enter into 
                        cooperative agreements with, the State 
                        (including a political subdivision of the 
                        State), nonprofit organizations, or any person;
                            (ii) hire and compensate staff; and
                            (iii) enter into contracts for goods and 
                        services.
                    (C) Duties.--Beginning on the date described in 
                subparagraph (A)(ii), the local coordinating entity 
                designated by the Commission under subparagraph (A)(ii) 
                shall assume the duties of the Commission described in 
                subsection (c)(8), other than the duties described in 
                subparagraphs (A) and (H) of subsection (c)(8).
    (c) Niagara Falls National Heritage Area Commission.--
            (1) Establishment.--There is established within the 
        Department of the Interior the Niagara Falls National Heritage 
        Area Commission.
            (2) Membership.--The Commission shall be composed of 17 
        members, of whom--
                    (A) 1 member shall be the Director of the National 
                Park Service (or a designee);
                    (B) 5 members shall be appointed by the Secretary, 
                after considering the recommendation of the Governor, 
                from among individuals with knowledge and experience 
                of--
                            (i) the New York State Office of Parks, 
                        Recreation and Historic Preservation, the 
                        Niagara River Greenway Commission, the New York 
                        Power Authority, the USA Niagara Development 
                        Corporation, and the Niagara Tourism and 
                        Convention Corporation; or
                            (ii) any successors of the agencies 
                        described in clause (i);
                    (C) 1 member shall be appointed by the Secretary, 
                after considering the recommendation of the mayor of 
                Niagara Falls, New York;
                    (D) 1 member shall be appointed by the Secretary, 
                after considering the recommendation of the mayor of 
                the village of Youngstown, New York;
                    (E) 1 member shall be appointed by the Secretary, 
                after considering the recommendation of the mayor of 
                the village of Lewiston, New York;
                    (F) 1 member shall be appointed by the Secretary, 
                after considering the recommendation of the Tuscarora 
                Nation;
                    (G) 1 member shall be appointed by the Secretary, 
                after considering the recommendation of the Seneca 
                Nation of Indians; and
                    (H) 6 members shall be individuals that have an 
                interest in, support for, and expertise appropriate to 
                tourism, regional planning, history and historic 
                preservation, cultural or natural resource management, 
                conservation, recreation, and education, or museum 
                services, of whom--
                            (i) 4 members shall be appointed by the 
                        Secretary, after considering the recommendation 
                        of the 2 members of the Senate from the State; 
                        and
                            (ii) 2 members shall be appointed by the 
                        Secretary, after considering the recommendation 
                        of the member of the House of Representatives 
                        whose district encompasses the Heritage Area.
            (3) Terms; vacancies.--
                    (A) Term.--A member of the Commission shall be 
                appointed for a term not to exceed 5 years.
                    (B) Vacancies.--
                            (i) Partial term.--A member appointed to 
                        fill a vacancy on the Commission shall serve 
                        for the remainder of the term for which the 
                        predecessor of the member was appointed.
                            (ii) In general.--A vacancy on the 
                        Commission shall be filled in the same manner 
                        as the original appointment was made.
            (4) Chairperson and vice chairperson.--
                    (A) Selection.--The Commission shall select a 
                Chairperson and Vice Chairperson from among the members 
                of the Commission.
                    (B) Vice chairperson.--The Vice Chairperson shall 
                serve as the Chairperson in the absence of the 
                Chairperson.
            (5) Quorum.--
                    (A) In general.--A majority of the members of the 
                Commission shall constitute a quorum.
                    (B) Transaction.--For the transaction of any 
                business or the exercise of any power of the 
                Commission, the Commission shall have the power to act 
                by a majority vote of the members present at any 
                meeting at which a quorum is in attendance.
            (6) Meetings.--
                    (A) In general.--The Commission shall meet at least 
                quarterly at the call of--
                            (i) the Chairperson; or
                            (ii) a majority of the members of the 
                        Commission.
                    (B) Notice.--Notice of Commission meetings and 
                agendas for the meetings shall be published in local 
                newspapers that are distributed throughout the Heritage 
                Area.
                    (C) Applicable law.--Meetings of the Commission 
                shall be subject to section 552b of title 5, United 
                States Code.
            (7) Powers of the commission.--To the extent that Federal 
        funds are appropriated, the Commission may--
                    (A) enter into contracts and execute any 
                instruments necessary or appropriate to carry out the 
                purposes for which the Commission is established, 
                including the authority to procure temporary and 
                intermittent services and administrative facilities at 
                rates determined to be reasonable by the Commission to 
                carry out the duties of the Commission;
                    (B) appoint and fix the compensation of any staff 
                that may be necessary to carry out the duties of the 
                Commission;
                    (C) request and accept from the head of any Federal 
                agency, on a reimbursable or nonreimbursable basis, any 
                personnel of the Federal agency to the Commission to 
                assist in carrying out the duties of the Commission;
                    (D) request and accept from the head of any State 
                agency or any agency of a political subdivision of the 
                State, on a reimbursable or nonreimbursable basis, any 
                personnel of the agency to the Commission to assist in 
                carrying out the duties of the Commission;
                    (E) make grants to assist in the development and 
                implementation of the management plan;
                    (F) negotiate and enter into any cooperative 
                agreement, lease, contract, or other arrangement with 
                any person, firm, association, organization, 
                corporation, or governmental entity, including Federal, 
                State, tribal, and local government entities, that is 
                necessary to carry out the activities of the 
                Commission;
                    (G) seek, accept, and dispose of gifts, bequests, 
                grants, or donations of money, personal property, or 
                services;
                    (H) assist in--
                            (i) developing educational, informational, 
                        and interpretive programs and facilities; and
                            (ii) any other activities that may promote 
                        the implementation of the management plan;
                    (I) use the United States mails in the same manner 
                as other agencies of the Federal Government;
                    (J) establish any advisory groups that the 
                Commission determines to be necessary; and
                    (K) adopt, amend, and enforce bylaws and rules 
                governing the manner in which--
                            (i) the business of the Commission may be 
                        conducted; and
                            (ii) the powers vested in the Commission 
                        may be exercised.
            (8) Duties of the commission.--To further the purposes of 
        the Heritage Area, the Commission shall--
                    (A) in accordance with subsection (d), develop and 
                submit to the Secretary for approval a management plan;
                    (B) assist units of local government, regional 
                planning organizations, and nonprofit organizations in 
                implementing the management plan by--
                            (i) carrying out programs and projects that 
                        recognize, protect, and enhance important 
                        resource values within the Heritage Area;
                            (ii) establishing and maintaining 
                        interpretive exhibits and programs within the 
                        Heritage Area;
                            (iii) developing recreational and 
                        educational opportunities in the Heritage Area;
                            (iv) increasing public awareness of, and 
                        appreciation for, natural, historic, scenic, 
                        and cultural resources of the Heritage Area;
                            (v) protecting and restoring historic sites 
                        and buildings in the Heritage Area that are 
                        consistent with the themes of the Heritage 
                        Area;
                            (vi) ensuring that clear, consistent, and 
                        appropriate signs identifying points of public 
                        access and sites of interest are posted 
                        throughout the Heritage Area; and
                            (vii) promoting a wide range of 
                        partnerships among governments, organizations, 
                        and individuals to further the purposes of the 
                        Heritage Area;
                    (C) consider the interests of diverse units of 
                government, businesses, organizations, and individuals 
                in the Heritage Area in the development and 
                implementation of the management plan;
                    (D) conduct meetings open to the public regarding 
                the development and implementation of the management 
                plan;
                    (E) coordinate projects, activities, and programs 
                with the Erie Canalway National Heritage Corridor;
                    (F) for any fiscal year for which Federal funds 
                have been received by the Commission under this 
                section--
                            (i) submit an annual report to the 
                        Secretary that describes--
                                    (I) the specific performance goals 
                                and accomplishments of the local 
                                coordinating entity;
                                    (II) the expenses and income of the 
                                local coordinating entity;
                                    (III) the amounts and sources of 
                                matching funds;
                                    (IV) the amounts leveraged with 
                                Federal funds and the sources of the 
                                leveraging; and
                                    (V) any grants made to any other 
                                entities during the fiscal year;
                            (ii) make available to the Secretary for 
                        audit any records containing information 
                        relating to the expenditure of Federal funds 
                        and any matching funds; and
                            (iii) require, with respect to all 
                        agreements authorizing the expenditure of 
                        Federal funds by other organizations, that the 
                        organization receiving the funds make available 
                        to the Secretary for audit all records and 
                        other information concerning the expenditure of 
                        the funds;
                    (G) encourage, by appropriate means and consistent 
                with the purposes of the Heritage Area, the economic 
                viability of the Heritage Area; and
                    (H) assist in the transition of the management of 
                the Heritage Area from the Commission to the local 
                coordinating entity designated under subsection 
                (b)(4)(A)(ii).
            (9) Compensation of members.--
                    (A) In general.--A member of the Commission shall 
                serve without compensation.
                    (B) Travel expenses.--A member of the Commission 
                shall be allowed travel expenses, including per diem in 
                lieu of subsistence, at rates authorized for an 
                employee of an agency under subchapter I of chapter 57 
                of title 5, United States Code, while away from the 
                home or regular place of business of the member in the 
                performance of the duties of the Commission.
            (10) Gifts.--For purposes of section 170(c) of the Internal 
        Revenue Code of 1986, any gift or charitable contribution to 
        the Commission shall be considered to be a charitable 
        contribution or gift to the United States.
            (11) Use of federal funds.--Except as provided for the 
        leasing of administrative facilities under paragraph (7)(A), 
        the Commission may not use Federal funds made available to the 
        Commission under this section to acquire any real property or 
        interest in real property.
    (d) Management Plan.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 3 years after the date on 
        which funds are first made available to carry out this section, 
        the Commission shall submit to the Secretary for approval a 
        management plan for the Heritage Area.
            (2) Requirements.--The management plan shall--
                    (A) include comprehensive policies, strategies, and 
                recommendations for conserving, funding, managing, and 
                developing the Heritage Area;
                    (B) take into consideration existing State, county, 
                and local plans;
                    (C) include a description of actions that 
                governments, private organizations, and individuals 
                have agreed to take to protect the natural, historic, 
                and cultural resources of the Heritage Area;
                    (D) identify any existing and potential sources of 
                funding or economic development strategies to protect, 
                manage, and develop the Heritage Area;
                    (E) include an inventory of the natural, historic, 
                scenic, cultural, educational, and recreational 
                resources of the Heritage Area relating to the themes 
                of the Heritage Area that should be preserved, 
                restored, managed, developed, or maintained;
                    (F) establish criteria and identify thematically 
                related sites in Niagara and Erie Counties, New York, 
                that--
                            (i) may participate in the Heritage Area; 
                        and
                            (ii) shall be included in the boundary of 
                        the Heritage Area;
                    (G) include recommended policies and strategies for 
                resource management that consider the application of 
                appropriate land and water management techniques, 
                including the development of intergovernmental and 
                interagency cooperative agreements to protect the 
                natural, historic, scenic, cultural, educational, and 
                recreational resources of the Heritage Area;
                    (H) describe a program of implementation for the 
                management plan, including a description of--
                            (i) performance goals;
                            (ii) plans for resource protection, 
                        restoration, interpretation, enhancement, 
                        management, and development; and
                            (iii) any specific commitments for 
                        implementation that have been made by the local 
                        coordinating entity or any government, 
                        organization, or individual;
                    (I) include an analysis of, and recommendations for 
                ways in which, Federal, State, tribal, and local 
                programs would best be coordinated to further the 
                purposes of this section, including an analysis of the 
                role of the National Park Service in the Heritage Area;
                    (J) include an interpretive plan for the Heritage 
                Area;
                    (K) include a business plan that--
                            (i) describes the role, operation, 
                        financing, and functions of--
                                    (I) the local coordinating entity; 
                                and
                                    (II) each of the major activities 
                                addressed in the management plan; and
                            (ii) provides adequate assurances that the 
                        local coordinating entity has the partnerships 
                        and financial and other resources necessary to 
                        implement the management plan; and
                    (L) includes provisions for--
                            (i) the designation under subsection 
                        (b)(4)(A)(ii) of a nonprofit or governmental 
                        organization as the local coordinating entity 
                        to administer the Heritage Area consistent with 
                        the management plan; and
                            (ii) the transition of the management of 
                        the Heritage Area from the Commission to the 
                        organization designated as the local 
                        coordinating entity at the end of the 5-year 
                        period specified in subsection (b)(4)(A)(i).
            (3) Termination of funding.--If the Commission does not 
        submit the management plan to the Secretary by the date that is 
        3 years after the date on which funds are first made available 
        to carry out this section, the local coordinating entity shall 
        be ineligible to receive additional funding under this section 
        until the date on which the management plan is submitted to and 
        approved by the Secretary.
            (4) Approval and disapproval of management plan.--
                    (A) In general.--Not later than 180 days after the 
                date of receipt of the management plan under paragraph 
                (1), the Secretary shall approve or disapprove the 
                management plan.
                    (B) Considerations.--In determining whether to 
                approve or disapprove the management plan under 
                subparagraph (A), the Secretary shall consider 
                whether--
                            (i) the organization proposed to succeed 
                        the Commission as the local coordinating entity 
                        would be representative of the diverse 
                        interests of the Heritage Area, including 
                        governments, natural and historic resource 
                        protection organizations, educational 
                        institutions, businesses, and recreational 
                        organizations;
                            (ii) the local coordinating entity has 
                        afforded adequate opportunity for public and 
                        governmental involvement, including public 
                        meetings, in the preparation of the management 
                        plan;
                            (iii) the resource protection and 
                        interpretation strategies contained in the 
                        management plan, if implemented, would 
                        adequately protect the natural, historic, and 
                        cultural resources of the Heritage Area;
                            (iv) the Secretary has received adequate 
                        assurances from the appropriate State, tribal, 
                        and local officials whose support is needed to 
                        ensure the effective implementation of the 
                        State, tribal, and local aspects of the 
                        management plan; and
                            (v) the local coordinating entity has 
                        demonstrated the financial capability, in 
                        partnership with others, to carry out the plan.
                    (C) Action following disapproval.--If the Secretary 
                disapproves the management plan under subparagraph (A), 
                the Secretary shall--
                            (i) advise the local coordinating entity in 
                        writing of the reasons for the disapproval;
                            (ii) make recommendations for revisions to 
                        the management plan; and
                            (iii) not later than 180 days after the 
                        receipt of any proposed revision of the 
                        management plan, approve or disapprove the 
                        proposed revision.
            (5) Amendments.--
                    (A) In general.--The Secretary shall review and 
                approve any substantial amendments to the management 
                plan in accordance with paragraph (4).
                    (B) Use of funds.--Funds made available under this 
                section shall not be expended by the local coordinating 
                entity to implement any changes made by an amendment 
                described in subparagraph (A) until the Secretary 
                approves the amendment.
    (e) Duties and Authorities of the Secretary.--
            (1) Technical and financial assistance.--
                    (A) In general.--On request of the local 
                coordinating entity, the Secretary may provide 
                technical and financial assistance, on a reimbursable 
                or nonreimbursable basis, to the Heritage Area for the 
                development and implementation of the management plan.
                    (B) Cooperative agreements.--The Secretary may 
                enter into cooperative agreements with the local 
                coordinating entity and other public or private 
                entities to provide assistance under subparagraph (A).
                    (C) Priority for assistance.--In providing 
                assistance under subparagraph (A), the Secretary shall 
                give priority to actions that assist in--
                            (i) conserving the significant natural, 
                        historic, scenic, and cultural resources of the 
                        Heritage Area; and
                            (ii) providing educational, interpretive, 
                        and recreational opportunities, consistent with 
                        the purposes of the Heritage Area.
            (2) Detail of department of the interior employees.--
                    (A) In general.--On request of the Commission, the 
                Secretary may detail to the Commission for each fiscal 
                year in which the Commission is in existence, on a 
                nonreimbursable basis, 2 employees of the Department of 
                the Interior to enable the Commission to carry out the 
                duties of the Commission.
                    (B) Civil service status.--The detail of an 
                employee under subparagraph (A) shall be without 
                interruption or loss of civil service status or 
                privilege.
    (f) Relationship to Other Federal Agencies.--
            (1) In general.--Nothing in this section affects the 
        authority of a Federal agency to provide technical or financial 
        assistance under any other law.
            (2) Consultation and coordination.--The head of any Federal 
        agency planning to conduct activities that may have an impact 
        on the Heritage Area is encouraged to consult and coordinate 
        the activities with the Secretary and the local coordinating 
        entity to the maximum extent practicable.
            (3) Other federal agencies.--Nothing in this section--
                    (A) modifies, alters, or amends any law or 
                regulation authorizing a Federal agency to manage 
                Federal land under the jurisdiction of the Federal 
                agency;
                    (B) limits the discretion of a Federal land manager 
                to implement an approved land use plan within the 
                boundaries of the Heritage Area; or
                    (C) modifies, alters, or amends any authorized use 
                of Federal land under the jurisdiction of a Federal 
                agency.
    (g) Private Property and Regulatory Protections.--Nothing in this 
section--
            (1) abridges the rights of any property owner (whether 
        public or private), including the right to refrain from 
        participating in any plan, project, program, or activity 
        conducted within the Heritage Area;
            (2) requires any property owner to permit public access 
        (including access by Federal, State, or local agencies) to the 
        property of the property owner, or to modify public access or 
        use of property of the property owner under any other Federal, 
        State, or local law;
            (3) alters any duly adopted land use regulation, approved 
        land use plan, or other regulatory authority of any Federal, 
        State, or local agency, or conveys any land use or other 
        regulatory authority to the local coordinating entity;
            (4) authorizes or implies the reservation or appropriation 
        of water or water rights;
            (5) diminishes the authority of the State to manage fish 
        and wildlife, including the regulation of fishing and hunting 
        within the Heritage Area; or
            (6) creates any liability, or affects any liability under 
        any other law, of any private property owner with respect to 
        any person injured on the private property.
    (h) Evaluation; Report.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 3 years before the date on 
        which authority for Federal funding terminates for the Heritage 
        Area, the Secretary shall--
                    (A) conduct an evaluation of the accomplishments of 
                the Heritage Area; and
                    (B) prepare a report in accordance with paragraph 
                (3).
            (2) Evaluation.--An evaluation conducted under paragraph 
        (1)(A) shall--
                    (A) assess the progress of the local coordinating 
                entity with respect to--
                            (i) accomplishing the purposes of this 
                        section for the Heritage Area; and
                            (ii) achieving the goals and objectives of 
                        the approved management plan for the Heritage 
                        Area;
                    (B) analyze the Federal, State, local, and private 
                investments in the Heritage Area to determine the 
                leverage and impact of the investments; and
                    (C) review the management structure, partnership 
                relationships, and funding of the Heritage Area for 
                purposes of identifying the critical components for 
                sustainability of the Heritage Area.
            (3) Report.--
                    (A) In general.--Based on the evaluation conducted 
                under paragraph (1)(A), the Secretary shall prepare a 
                report that includes recommendations for the future 
                role of the National Park Service, if any, with respect 
                to the Heritage Area.
                    (B) Required analysis.--If the report prepared 
                under subparagraph (A) recommends that Federal funding 
                for the Heritage Area be reauthorized, the report shall 
                include an analysis of--
                            (i) ways in which Federal funding for the 
                        Heritage Area may be reduced or eliminated; and
                            (ii) the appropriate time period necessary 
                        to achieve the recommended reduction or 
                        elimination.
                    (C) Submission to congress.--On completion of the 
                report, the Secretary shall submit the report to--
                            (i) the Committee on Energy and Natural 
                        Resources of the Senate; and
                            (ii) the Committee on Natural Resources of 
                        the House of Representatives.
    (i) Authorization of Appropriations.--
            (1) In general.--There is authorized to be appropriated to 
        carry out this section $10,000,000, of which not more than 
        $1,000,000 may be appropriated for any fiscal year.
            (2) Cost-sharing requirement.--The Federal share of the 
        cost of any activity carried out using any assistance made 
        available under this section shall be not more than 50 percent.
    (j) Termination of Authority.--The authority of the Secretary to 
provide financial assistance under this section terminates on the date 
that is 15 years after the date of enactment of this Act.

SEC. 238. ABRAHAM LINCOLN NATIONAL HERITAGE AREA.

    (a) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Heritage area.--The term ``Heritage Area'' means the 
        Abraham Lincoln National Heritage Area established by 
        subsection (b)(1).
            (2) Management entity.--The term ``management entity'' 
        means the management entity for the Heritage Area designated by 
        subsection (c)(1).
            (3) Management plan.--The term ``management plan'' means 
        the plan developed by the management entity under subsection 
        (d)(1).
            (4) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary 
        of the Interior.
            (5) State.--The term ``State'' means the State of Illinois.
    (b) Establishment of Abraham Lincoln National Heritage Area.--
            (1) In general.--There is established in the State the 
        Abraham Lincoln National Heritage Area.
            (2) Boundaries.--The Heritage Area shall include--
                    (A) a core area located in central Illinois, 
                consisting of Adams, Brown, Calhoun, Cass, Champaign, 
                Christian, Clark, Coles, Cumberland, Dewitt, Douglas, 
                Edgar, Fayette, Fulton, Greene, Hancock, Henderson, 
                Jersey, Knox, LaSalle, Logan, Macon, Macoupin, Madison, 
                Mason, McDonough, McLean, Menard, Montgomery, Morgan, 
                Moultrie, Peoria, Piatt, Pike, Sangamon, Schuyler, 
                Scott, Shelby, Tazwell, Vermillion, Warren, and 
                Woodford counties;
                    (B) any sites, buildings, and districts within the 
                core area that are recommended in the management plan; 
                and
                    (C) each of the following sites:
                            (i) Lincoln Home National Historic Site.
                            (ii) Lincoln Tomb State Historic Site.
                            (iii) Lincoln's New Salem State Historic 
                        Site.
                            (iv) Abraham Lincoln Presidential Library & 
                        Museum.
                            (v) Thomas and Sara Bush Lincoln Log Cabin 
                        and Living History Farm State Historic Site.
                            (vi) Mt. Pulaski, Postville State Historic 
                        Sites and Metamora Courthouse.
                            (vii) Lincoln-Herndon Law Offices State 
                        Historic Site.
                            (viii) David Davis Mansion State Historic 
                        Site.
                            (ix) Vandalia Statehouse State Historic 
                        Site.
                            (x) Lincoln Douglas Debate Museum.
                            (xi) Macon County Log Court House.
                            (xii) Richard J. Oglesby Mansion.
                            (xiii) Lincoln Trail Homestead State 
                        Memorial.
                            (xiv) Governor John Wood Mansion.
                            (xv) Beardstown Courthouse.
                            (xvi) Old Main at Knox College.
                            (xvii) Carl Sandburg Home State Historic 
                        Site.
                            (xviii) Bryant Cottage State Historic Site.
                            (xix) Dr. William Fithian Home.
                            (xx) Vermillion County Museum.
            (3) Map.--A map of the Heritage Area shall be--
                    (A) included in the management plan; and
                    (B) on file in the appropriate offices of the 
                National Park Service.
    (c) Designation of Coalition as Management Entity.--
            (1) Management entity.--The Looking for Lincoln Heritage 
        Coalition shall be the management entity for the Heritage Area.
            (2) Authorities of management entity.--The management 
        entity may, for purposes of preparing and implementing the 
        management plan, use Federal funds made available under this 
        section--
                    (A) to prepare reports, studies, interpretive 
                exhibits and programs, historic preservation projects, 
                and other activities recommended in the management plan 
                for the Heritage Area;
                    (B) to pay for operational expenses of the 
                management entity;
                    (C) to make grants to the State, political 
                subdivisions of the State, nonprofit organizations, and 
                other persons;
                    (D) to enter into cooperative agreements with the 
                State, political subdivisions of the State, nonprofit 
                organizations, and other organizations;
                    (E) to hire and compensate staff;
                    (F) to obtain funds or services from any source, 
                including funds and services provided under any other 
                Federal program or law; and
                    (G) to contract for goods and services.
            (3) Duties of management entity.--To further the purposes 
        of the Heritage Area, the management entity shall--
                    (A) prepare a management plan for the Heritage Area 
                in accordance with subsection (d);
                    (B) give priority to the implementation of actions, 
                goals, and strategies set forth in the management plan, 
                including assisting units of government and other 
                persons in--
                            (i) carrying out programs and projects that 
                        recognize and protect important resource values 
                        in the Heritage Area;
                            (ii) encouraging economic viability in the 
                        Heritage Area in accordance with the goals of 
                        the management plan;
                            (iii) establishing and maintaining 
                        interpretive exhibits in the Heritage Area;
                            (iv) developing heritage-based recreational 
                        and educational opportunities for residents and 
                        visitors in the Heritage Area;
                            (v) increasing public awareness of and 
                        appreciation for the natural, historic, and 
                        cultural resources of the Heritage Area;
                            (vi) restoring historic buildings that 
                        are--
                                    (I) located in the Heritage Area; 
                                and
                                    (II) related to the themes of the 
                                Heritage Area; and
                            (vii) installing throughout the Heritage 
                        Area clear, consistent, and appropriate signs 
                        identifying public access points and sites of 
                        interest;
                    (C) consider the interests of diverse units of 
                government, businesses, tourism officials, private 
                property owners, and nonprofit groups within the 
                Heritage Area in developing and implementing the 
                management plan;
                    (D) conduct public meetings at least semiannually 
                regarding the development and implementation of the 
                management plan; and
                    (E) for any fiscal year for which Federal funds are 
                received under this section--
                            (i) submit to the Secretary an annual 
                        report that describes--
                                    (I) the accomplishments of the 
                                management entity;
                                    (II) the expenses and income of the 
                                management entity; and
                                    (III) the entities to which the 
                                management entity made any grants;
                            (ii) make available for audit all records 
                        relating to the expenditure of the Federal 
                        funds and any matching funds; and
                            (iii) require, with respect to all 
                        agreements authorizing the expenditure of 
                        Federal funds by other organizations, that the 
                        receiving organizations make available for 
                        audit all records relating to the expenditure 
                        of the Federal funds.
            (4) Prohibition on acquisition of real property.--
                    (A) In general.--The management entity shall not 
                use Federal funds received under this section to 
                acquire real property or any interest in real property.
                    (B) Other sources.--Nothing in this section 
                precludes the management entity from using Federal 
                funds from other sources for authorized purposes, 
                including the acquisition of real property or any 
                interest in real property.
    (d) Management Plan.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 3 years after the date on 
        which funds are first made available to carry out this section, 
        the management entity shall prepare and submit for review to 
        the Secretary a management plan for the Heritage Area.
            (2) Contents.--The management plan for the Heritage Area 
        shall--
                    (A) include comprehensive policies, strategies, and 
                recommendations for the conservation, funding, 
                management, and development of the Heritage Area;
                    (B) take into consideration existing State, county, 
                and local plans;
                    (C) specify the existing and potential sources of 
                funding to protect, manage, and develop the Heritage 
                Area during the first 5 years of implementation of the 
                management plan;
                    (D) include--
                            (i) a description of actions that 
                        governments, private organizations, and 
                        individuals have agreed to take to protect the 
                        natural, historic, and cultural resources of 
                        the Heritage Area;
                            (ii) an inventory of the natural, historic, 
                        cultural, education, scenic, and recreational 
                        resources of the Heritage Area relating to the 
                        themes of the Heritage Area that should be 
                        preserved, restored, managed, developed or 
                        maintained; and
                            (iii) an interpretive plan for the Heritage 
                        Area; and
                    (E) describe a program of implementation for the 
                management plan, including--
                            (i) plans for resource protection, 
                        restoration, and construction; and
                            (ii) specific commitments for 
                        implementation during the first 5 years of 
                        implementation.
            (3) Disqualification from funding.--If a proposed 
        management plan is not submitted to the Secretary by the date 
        that is 3 years after the date on which funds are first made 
        available to carry out this section, the management entity may 
        not receive additional funding under this section until the 
        date on which the Secretary receives and approves the proposed 
        management plan.
            (4) Approval and disapproval of management plan.--
                    (A) In general.--Not later than 180 days after the 
                date on which the management entity submits the 
                management plan to the Secretary, the Secretary shall 
                approve or disapprove the proposed management plan.
                    (B) Considerations.--In determining whether to 
                approve or disapprove the management plan, the 
                Secretary shall consider whether--
                            (i) the management entity is representative 
                        of the diverse interests of the Heritage Area, 
                        including governments, natural and historic 
                        resource protection organizations, educational 
                        institutions, businesses, and recreational 
                        organizations;
                            (ii) the management entity has provided 
                        adequate opportunities (including public 
                        hearings) for public and governmental 
                        involvement in the preparation of the 
                        management plan;
                            (iii) the resource protection and 
                        interpretation strategies contained in the 
                        management plan, if implemented, would 
                        adequately protect the natural, historic, and 
                        cultural resources of the Heritage Area; and
                            (iv) the management plan is supported by 
                        the appropriate State and local officials, the 
                        cooperation of which is needed to ensure the 
                        effective implementation of the State and local 
                        aspects of the management plan.
                    (C) Disapproval and revisions.--
                            (i) In general.--If the Secretary 
                        disapproves a proposed management plan, the 
                        Secretary shall--
                                    (I) advise the management entity, 
                                in writing, of the reasons for the 
                                disapproval; and
                                    (II) make recommendations for 
                                revision of the proposed management 
                                plan.
                            (ii) Approval or disapproval.--The 
                        Secretary shall approve or disapprove a revised 
                        management plan not later than 180 days after 
                        the date on which the revised management plan 
                        is submitted.
            (5) Approval of amendments.--
                    (A) In general.--The Secretary shall review and 
                approve or disapprove substantial amendments to the 
                management plan in accordance with paragraph (4).
                    (B) Funding.--Funds appropriated under this section 
                may not be expended to implement any changes made by an 
                amendment to the management plan until the Secretary 
                approves the amendment.
    (e) Relationship to Other Federal Agencies.--
            (1) In general.--Nothing in this section affects the 
        authority of a Federal agency to provide technical or financial 
        assistance under any other law.
            (2) Consultation and coordination.--The head of any Federal 
        agency planning to conduct activities that may have an impact 
        on the Heritage Area is encouraged to consult and coordinate 
        the activities with the Secretary and the management entity to 
        the maximum extent practicable.
            (3) Other federal agencies.--Nothing in this section--
                    (A) modifies, alters, or amends any law or 
                regulation authorizing a Federal agency to manage 
                Federal land under the jurisdiction of the Federal 
                agency;
                    (B) limits the discretion of a Federal land manager 
                to implement an approved land use plan within the 
                boundaries of the Heritage Area; or
                    (C) modifies, alters, or amends any authorized use 
                of Federal land under the jurisdiction of a Federal 
                agency.
    (f) Private Property and Regulatory Protections.--Nothing in this 
section--
            (1) abridges the rights of any property owner (whether 
        public or private), including the right to refrain from 
        participating in any plan, project, program, or activity 
        conducted within the Heritage Area;
            (2) requires any property owner to permit public access 
        (including access by Federal, State, or local agencies) to the 
        property of the property owner, or to modify public access or 
        use of property of the property owner under any other Federal, 
        State, or local law;
            (3) alters any duly adopted land use regulation, approved 
        land use plan, or other regulatory authority of any Federal, 
        State, or local agency, or conveys any land use or other 
        regulatory authority to the management entity;
            (4) authorizes or implies the reservation or appropriation 
        of water or water rights;
            (5) diminishes the authority of the State to manage fish 
        and wildlife, including the regulation of fishing and hunting 
        within the Heritage Area; or
            (6) creates any liability, or affects any liability under 
        any other law, of any private property owner with respect to 
        any person injured on the private property.
    (g) Evaluation; Report.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 3 years before the date on 
        which authority for Federal funding terminates for the Heritage 
        Area, the Secretary shall--
                    (A) conduct an evaluation of the accomplishments of 
                the Heritage Area; and
                    (B) prepare a report in accordance with paragraph 
                (3).
            (2) Evaluation.--An evaluation conducted under paragraph 
        (1)(A) shall--
                    (A) assess the progress of the management entity 
                with respect to--
                            (i) accomplishing the purposes of this 
                        section for the Heritage Area; and
                            (ii) achieving the goals and objectives of 
                        the approved management plan for the Heritage 
                        Area;
                    (B) analyze the Federal, State, local, and private 
                investments in the Heritage Area to determine the 
                leverage and impact of the investments; and
                    (C) review the management structure, partnership 
                relationships, and funding of the Heritage Area for 
                purposes of identifying the critical components for 
                sustainability of the Heritage Area.
            (3) Report.--
                    (A) In general.--Based on the evaluation conducted 
                under paragraph (1)(A), the Secretary shall prepare a 
                report that includes recommendations for the future 
                role of the National Park Service, if any, with respect 
                to the Heritage Area.
                    (B) Required analysis.--If the report prepared 
                under subparagraph (A) recommends that Federal funding 
                for the Heritage Area be reauthorized, the report shall 
                include an analysis of--
                            (i) ways in which Federal funding for the 
                        Heritage Area may be reduced or eliminated; and
                            (ii) the appropriate time period necessary 
                        to achieve the recommended reduction or 
                        elimination.
                    (C) Submission to congress.--On completion of the 
                report, the Secretary shall submit the report to--
                            (i) the Committee on Energy and Natural 
                        Resources of the Senate; and
                            (ii) the Committee on Natural Resources of 
                        the House of Representatives.
    (h) Authorization of Appropriations.--
            (1) In general.--There is authorized to be appropriated to 
        carry out this section $10,000,000, of which not more than 
        $1,000,000 may be authorized to be appropriated for any fiscal 
        year.
            (2) Cost-sharing requirement.--The Federal share of the 
        cost of any activity carried out using funds made available 
        under this section shall be not more than 50 percent.
    (i) Termination of Authority.--The authority of the Secretary to 
provide financial assistance under this section terminates on the date 
that is 15 years after the date of enactment of this Act.

SEC. 239. CHATTAHOOCHEE TRACE NATIONAL HERITAGE CORRIDOR.

    (a) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Corridor.--The term ``Corridor'' means the 
        Chattahoochee Trace National Heritage Corridor.
            (2) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary 
        of the Interior.
            (3) Study area.--The term ``study area'' means the study 
        area described in subsection (b)(2).
    (b) Study.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary, in consultation with State 
        historic preservation officers, State historical societies, 
        State tourism offices, and other appropriate organizations or 
        agencies, shall conduct a study to assess the suitability and 
        feasibility of designating the study area as the Chattahoochee 
        Trace National Heritage Corridor.
            (2) Study area.--The study area includes--
                    (A) the portion of the Apalachicola-Chattahoochee-
                Flint River Basin and surrounding areas, as generally 
                depicted on the map entitled ``Chattahoochee Trace 
                National Heritage Corridor, Alabama/Georgia'', numbered 
                T05/80000, and dated July 2007; and
                    (B) any other areas in the State of Alabama or 
                Georgia that--
                            (i) have heritage aspects that are similar 
                        to the areas depicted on the map described in 
                        subparagraph (A); and
                            (ii) are adjacent to, or in the vicinity 
                        of, those areas.
            (3) Requirements.--The study shall include analysis, 
        documentation, and determinations on whether the study area--
                    (A) has an assemblage of natural, historic, and 
                cultural resources that--
                            (i) represent distinctive aspects of the 
                        heritage of the United States;
                            (ii) are worthy of recognition, 
                        conservation, interpretation, and continuing 
                        use; and
                            (iii) would be best managed--
                                    (I) through partnerships among 
                                public and private entities; and
                                    (II) by linking diverse and 
                                sometimes noncontiguous resources and 
                                active communities;
                    (B) reflects traditions, customs, beliefs, and 
                folklife that are a valuable part of the story of the 
                United States;
                    (C) provides--
                            (i) outstanding opportunities to conserve 
                        natural, historic, cultural, or scenic 
                        features; and
                            (ii) outstanding recreational and 
                        educational opportunities;
                    (D) contains resources that--
                            (i) are important to any identified themes 
                        of the study area; and
                            (ii) retain a degree of integrity capable 
                        of supporting interpretation;
                    (E) includes residents, business interests, 
                nonprofit organizations, and State and local 
                governments that--
                            (i) are involved in the planning of the 
                        Corridor;
                            (ii) have developed a conceptual financial 
                        plan that outlines the roles of all 
                        participants in the Corridor, including the 
                        Federal Government; and
                            (iii) have demonstrated support for the 
                        designation of the Corridor;
                    (F) has a potential management entity to work in 
                partnership with the individuals and entities described 
                in subparagraph (E) to develop the Corridor while 
                encouraging State and local economic activity; and
                    (G) has a conceptual boundary map that is supported 
                by the public.
    (c) Report.--Not later than the 3rd fiscal year after the date on 
which funds are first made available to carry out this section, the 
Secretary shall submit to the Committee on Natural Resources of the 
House of Representatives and the Committee on Energy and Natural 
Resources of the Senate a report that describes--
            (1) the findings of the study; and
            (2) any conclusions and recommendations of the Secretary.

SEC. 240. STUDY OF SITES RELATING TO ABRAHAM LINCOLN IN KENTUCKY.

    (a) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Heritage area.--The term ``Heritage Area'' means a 
        National Heritage Area in the State to honor Abraham Lincoln.
            (2) State.--The term ``State'' means the Commonwealth of 
        Kentucky.
            (3) Study area.--The term ``study area'' means the study 
        area described in subsection (b)(2).
    (b) Study.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary, in consultation with the 
        Kentucky Historical Society, other State historical societies, 
        the State Historic Preservation Officer, State tourism offices, 
        and other appropriate organizations and agencies, shall conduct 
        a study to assess the suitability and feasibility of 
        designating the study area as a National Heritage Area in the 
        State to honor Abraham Lincoln.
            (2) Description of study area.--The study area shall 
        include--
                    (A) Boyle, Breckinridge, Fayette, Franklin, Hardin, 
                Jefferson, Jessamine, Larue, Madison, Mercer, and 
                Washington Counties in the State; and
                    (B) the following sites in the State:
                            (i) The Abraham Lincoln Birthplace National 
                        Historic Site.
                            (ii) The Abraham Lincoln Boyhood Home Unit.
                            (iii) Downtown Hodgenville, Kentucky, 
                        including the Lincoln Museum and Adolph A. 
                        Weinman statue.
                            (iv) Lincoln Homestead State Park and 
                        Mordecai Lincoln House.
                            (v) Camp Nelson Heritage Park.
                            (vi) Farmington Historic Home.
                            (vii) The Mary Todd Lincoln House.
                            (viii) Ashland, which is the Henry Clay 
                        Estate.
                            (ix) The Old State Capitol.
                            (x) The Kentucky Military History Museum.
                            (xi) The Thomas D. Clark Center for 
                        Kentucky History.
                            (xii) The New State Capitol.
                            (xiii) Whitehall.
                            (xiv) Perryville Battlefield State Historic 
                        Site.
                            (xv) The Joseph Holt House.
                            (xvi) Elizabethtown, Kentucky, including 
                        the Lincoln Heritage House.
                            (xvii) Lincoln Marriage Temple at Fort 
                        Harrod.
            (3) Requirements.--The study shall include analysis, 
        documentation, and determinations on whether the study area--
                    (A) has an assemblage of natural, historic, and 
                cultural resources that--
                            (i) interpret--
                                    (I) the life of Abraham Lincoln; 
                                and
                                    (II) the contributions of Abraham 
                                Lincoln to the United States;
                            (ii) represent distinctive aspects of the 
                        heritage of the United States;
                            (iii) are worthy of recognition, 
                        conservation, interpretation, and continuing 
                        use; and
                            (iv) would be best managed--
                                    (I) through partnerships among 
                                public and private entities; and
                                    (II) by linking diverse and 
                                sometimes noncontiguous resources and 
                                active communities;
                    (B) reflects traditions, customs, beliefs, and 
                historical events that are a valuable part of the story 
                of the United State;
                    (C) provides--
                            (i) outstanding opportunities to conserve 
                        natural, historic, cultural, or scenic 
                        features; and
                            (ii) outstanding educational opportunities;
                    (D) contains resources that--
                            (i) are important to any identified themes 
                        of the study area; and
                            (ii) retain a degree of integrity capable 
                        of supporting interpretation;
                    (E) includes residents, business interests, 
                nonprofit organizations, and State and local 
                governments that--
                            (i) are involved in the planning of the 
                        Heritage Area;
                            (ii) have developed a conceptual financial 
                        plan that outlines the roles of all 
                        participants in the Heritage Area, including 
                        the Federal Government; and
                            (iii) have demonstrated support for 
                        designation of the Heritage Area;
                    (F) has a potential management entity to work in 
                partnership with the individuals and entities described 
                in subparagraph (E) to develop the Heritage Area while 
                encouraging State and local economic activity; and
                    (G) has a conceptual boundary map that is supported 
                by the public.
    (c) Report.--Not later than the third fiscal year after the date on 
which funds are first made available to carry out this section, the 
Secretary shall submit to the Committee on Natural Resources of the 
House of Representatives and the Committee on Energy and Natural 
Resources of the Senate a report that describes--
            (1) the findings of the study; and
            (2) any conclusions and recommendations of the Secretary.

 TITLE III--BUREAU OF RECLAMATION AND UNITED STATES GEOLOGICAL SURVEY 
                             AUTHORIZATIONS

SEC. 301. EXTENSION OF PARTICIPATION OF BUREAU OF RECLAMATION IN 
              DESCHUTES RIVER CONSERVANCY.

    Section 301 of the Oregon Resource Conservation Act of 1996 
(division B of Public Law 104-208; 110 Stat. 3009-534) is amended--
            (1) in subsection (a)--
                    (A) in paragraph (1), by striking ``Deschutes River 
                Basin Working Group'' and inserting ``Deschutes River 
                Conservancy Working Group''; and
                    (B) by striking paragraph (5) and inserting the 
                following:
            ``(5) Quorum.--The term `quorum' means 8 of those qualified 
        Working Group members appointed and eligible to serve.'';
            (2) in subsection (b)(3), by inserting before the period at 
        the end the following: ``, and up to a total amount of 
        $2,000,000 during each of fiscal years 2007 through 2016''; and
            (3) in subsection (h), by inserting before the period at 
        the end the following: ``, and $2,000,000 for each of fiscal 
        years 2007 through 2016''.

SEC. 302. WALLOWA LAKE DAM REHABILITATION PROGRAM.

    (a) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Associated ditch companies, incorporated.--The term 
        ``Associated Ditch Companies, Incorporated'' means the 
        nonprofit corporation established under the laws of the State 
        of Oregon that operates Wallowa Lake Dam.
            (2) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary 
        of the Interior, acting through the Commissioner of 
        Reclamation.
            (3) Wallowa lake dam rehabilitation program.--The term 
        ``Wallowa Lake Dam Rehabilitation Program'' means the program 
        for the rehabilitation of the Wallowa Lake Dam in Oregon, as 
        contained in the engineering document entitled, ``Phase I Dam 
        Assessment and Preliminary Engineering Design'', dated December 
        2002, and on file with the Bureau of Reclamation.
    (b) Authorization To Participate in Program.--
            (1) Grants and cooperative agreements.--The Secretary may 
        provide grants to, or enter into cooperative or other 
        agreements with, tribal, State, and local governmental entities 
        and the Associated Ditch Companies, Incorporated, to plan, 
        design, and construct facilities needed to implement the 
        Wallowa Lake Dam Rehabilitation Program.
            (2) Conditions.--As a condition of providing funds under 
        paragraph (1), the Secretary shall ensure that--
                    (A) the Wallowa Lake Dam Rehabilitation Program and 
                any activities under this section meet the standards of 
                the dam safety program of the State of Oregon;
                    (B) the Associated Ditch Companies, Incorporated, 
                agrees to assume liability for any work performed, or 
                supervised, with Federal funds provided to Associated 
                Ditch Companies, Incorporated, under this section; and
                    (C) the United States shall not be liable for 
                damages of any kind arising out of any act, omission, 
                or occurrence relating to a facility rehabilitated or 
                constructed with Federal funds provided under this 
                section, regardless of whether the damages arose during 
                or after the rehabilitation or construction.
            (3) Cost sharing.--
                    (A) In general.--The Federal share of the costs of 
                activities authorized under this section shall not 
                exceed 50 percent.
                    (B) Exclusions from federal share.--There shall not 
                be credited against the Federal share of the costs of 
                activities authorized under this section--
                            (i) any expenditure by the Bonneville Power 
                        Administration in the Wallowa River watershed; 
                        and
                            (ii) expenditures made by individual 
                        agricultural producers in any Federal commodity 
                        or conservation program.
            (4) Compliance with state law.--In carrying out this 
        section, the Secretary shall comply with applicable Oregon 
        State water law.
            (5) Prohibition on holding title.--The Federal Government 
        shall not hold title to any facility rehabilitated or 
        constructed under this section.
            (6) Prohibition on operation and maintenance.--The Federal 
        Government shall not be responsible for the operation and 
        maintenance of any facility constructed or rehabilitated under 
        this section.
    (c) Relationship to Other Law.--Activities funded under this 
section shall not be considered a supplemental or additional benefit 
under Federal reclamation law (the Act of June 17, 1902 (32 Stat. 388, 
chapter 1093), and Acts supplemental to and amendatory of that Act (43 
U.S.C. 371 et seq.)).
    (d) Authorization of Appropriations.--There is authorized to be 
appropriated to the Secretary to pay the Federal share of the costs of 
activities authorized under this section $6,000,000.
    (e) Termination of Authority.--The authority of the Secretary to 
carry out any provisions of this section shall terminate 10 years after 
the date of enactment of this Act.

SEC. 303. LITTLE BUTTE/BEAR CREEK SUBBASINS, OREGON, WATER RESOURCE 
              STUDY.

    (a) Authorization.--The Secretary of the Interior, acting through 
the Bureau of Reclamation, may participate in the Water for Irrigation, 
Streams and the Economy Project water management feasibility study and 
environmental impact statement in accordance with the ``Memorandum of 
Agreement Between City of Medford and Bureau of Reclamation for the 
Water for Irrigation, Streams, and the Economy Project'', dated July 2, 
2004.
    (b) Authorization of Appropriations.--
            (1) In general.--There is authorized to be appropriated to 
        the Bureau of Reclamation $500,000 to carry out activities 
        under this section.
            (2) Non-federal share.--
                    (A) In general.--The non-Federal share shall be 50 
                percent of the total costs of the Bureau of Reclamation 
                in carrying out subsection (a).
                    (B) Form.--The non-Federal share required under 
                subparagraph (A) may be in the form of any in-kind 
                services that the Secretary of the Interior determines 
                would contribute substantially toward the conduct and 
                completion of the study and environmental impact 
                statement required under subsection (a).

SEC. 304. NORTH UNIT IRRIGATION DISTRICT.

    The Act of August 10, 1954 (68 Stat. 679, chapter 663), is 
amended--
            (1) in the first section--
                    (A) by inserting ``(referred to in this Act as the 
                `District')'' after ``irrigation district''; and
                    (B) by inserting ``(referred to in this Act as the 
                `Contract')'' after ``1953''; and
            (2) by adding at the end the following:

``SEC. 3. ADDITIONAL TERMS.

    ``On approval of the District directors and notwithstanding project 
authorizing legislation to the contrary, the Contract is modified, 
without further action by the Secretary of the Interior, to include the 
following modifications:
            ``(1) In Article 8(a) of the Contract, by deleting `a 
        maximum of 50,000' and inserting `approximately 59,000' after 
        `irrigation service to'.
            ``(2) In Article 11(a) of the Contract, by deleting `The 
        classified irrigable lands within the project comprise 
        49,817.75 irrigable acres, of which 35,773.75 acres are in 
        Class A and 14,044.40 in Class B. These lands and the standards 
        upon which the classification was made are described in the 
        document entitled ``Land Classification, North Unit, Deschutes 
        Project, 1953'' which is on file in the office of the Regional 
        Director, Bureau of Reclamation, Boise, Idaho, and in the 
        office of the District' and inserting `The classified irrigable 
        land within the project comprises 58,902.8 irrigable acres, all 
        of which are authorized to receive irrigation water pursuant to 
        water rights issued by the State of Oregon and have in the past 
        received water pursuant to such State water rights.'.
            ``(3) In Article 11(c) of the Contract, by deleting `, with 
        the approval of the Secretary,' after `District may', by 
        deleting `the 49,817.75 acre maximum limit on the irrigable 
        area is not exceeded' and inserting `irrigation service is 
        provided to no more than approximately 59,000 acres and no 
        amendment to the District boundary is required' after `time so 
        long as'.
            ``(4) In Article 11(d) of the Contract, by inserting `, and 
        may further be used for instream purposes, including fish or 
        wildlife purposes, to the extent that such use is required by 
        Oregon State law in order for the District to engage in, or 
        take advantage of, conserved water projects as authorized by 
        Oregon State law' after `herein provided'.
            ``(5) By adding at the end of Article 12(d) the following: 
        `(e) Notwithstanding the above subsections of this Article or 
        Article 13 below, beginning with the irrigation season 
        immediately following the date of enactment of the Federal Land 
        and Reclamation Resources Act of 2007, the annual installment 
        for each year, for the District, under the Contract, on account 
        of the District's construction charge obligation, shall be a 
        fixed and equal annual amount payable on June 30 the year 
        following the year for which it is applicable, such that the 
        District's total construction charge obligation shall be 
        completely paid by June 30, 2044.'.
            ``(6) In Article 14(a) of the Contract, by inserting `and 
        for instream purposes, including fish or wildlife purposes, to 
        the extent that such use is required by Oregon State law in 
        order for the District to engage in, or take advantage of, 
        conserved water projects as authorized by Oregon State law,' 
        after `and incidental stock and domestic uses', by inserting 
        `and for instream purposes as described above,' after 
        `irrigation, stock and domestic uses', and by inserting `, 
        including natural flow rights out of the Crooked River held by 
        the District' after `irrigation system'.
            ``(7) In Article 29(a) of the Contract, by inserting `and 
        for instream purposes, including fish or wildlife purposes, to 
        the extent that such use is required by Oregon State law in 
        order for the District to engage in, or take advantage of, 
        conserved water projects as authorized by Oregon State law' 
        after `provided in article 11'.
            ``(8) In Article 34 of the Contract, by deleting `The 
        District, after the election and upon the execution of this 
        contract, shall promptly secure final decree of the proper 
        State court approving and confirming this contract and 
        decreeing and adjudging it to be a lawful, valid, and binding 
        general obligation of the District. The District shall furnish 
        to the United States certified copies of such decrees and of 
        all pertinent supporting records.' after `for that purpose.'.

``SEC. 4. FUTURE AUTHORITY TO RENEGOTIATE.

    ``The Secretary of the Interior (acting through the Commissioner of 
Reclamation) may in the future renegotiate with the District such terms 
of the Contract as the District directors determine to be necessary, 
only upon the written request of the District directors and the consent 
of the Commissioner of Reclamation.''.

SEC. 305. CENTRAL OKLAHOMA MASTER CONSERVANCY DISTRICT FEASIBILITY 
              STUDY.

    (a) Study.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 3 years after the date of 
        enactment of this Act, the Secretary of the Interior, acting 
        through the Commissioner of Reclamation (referred to in this 
        section as the ``Secretary''), shall conduct a feasibility 
        study of alternatives to augment the water supplies of--
                    (A) the Central Oklahoma Master Conservatory 
                District (referred to in this section as the 
                ``District)''; and
                    (B) cities served by the District.
            (2) Inclusions.--The study under paragraph (1) shall 
        include recommendations of the Secretary, if any, relating to 
        the alternatives studied.
    (b) Cost-Sharing Requirement.--
            (1) In general.--The Federal share of the total costs of 
        the study under subsection (a) shall not exceed 50 percent.
            (2) Form of non-federal share.--The non-Federal share 
        required under paragraph (1) may be in the form of any in-kind 
        services that the Secretary determines would contribute 
        substantially toward the conduct and completion of the study.
    (c) Authorization of Appropriations.--There is authorized to be 
appropriated to the Secretary to conduct the study under subsection (a) 
$900,000.

SEC. 306. AUTHORITY TO CONDUCT FEASIBILITY STUDIES WITHIN THE SNAKE, 
              BOISE, AND PAYETTE RIVER SYSTEMS IN THE STATE OF IDAHO.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary of the Interior, acting through the 
Bureau of Reclamation, may conduct feasibility studies on projects that 
address water shortages within the Snake, Boise, and Payette River 
systems in the State of Idaho, and are considered appropriate for 
further study by the Bureau of Reclamation Boise Payette water storage 
assessment report issued during 2006.
    (b) Bureau of Reclamation.--A study conducted under this section 
shall comply with Bureau of Reclamation policy standards and guidelines 
for studies.
    (c) Authorization of Appropriations.--There is authorized to be 
appropriated to the Secretary of the Interior to carry out this section 
$3,000,000.
    (d) Termination of Effectiveness.--The authority provided by this 
section terminates on the date that is 10 years after the date of 
enactment of this Act.

SEC. 307. TUMALO IRRIGATION DISTRICT WATER CONSERVATION PROJECT.

    (a) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) District.--The term ``District'' means the Tumalo 
        Irrigation District, Oregon.
            (2) Project.--The term ``Project'' means the Tumalo 
        Irrigation District Water Conservation Project authorized under 
        subsection (b)(1).
            (3) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary 
        of the Interior.
    (b) Authorization To Plan, Design and Construct the Tumalo 
Irrigation District Water Conservation Project.--
            (1) Authorization.--The Secretary, in cooperation with the 
        District--
                    (A) may participate in the planning, design, and 
                construction of the Tumalo Irrigation District Water 
                Conservation Project in Deschutes County, Oregon; and
                    (B) for purposes of planning and designing the 
                Project, shall take into account any appropriate 
                studies and reports prepared by the District.
            (2) Cost-sharing requirement.--
                    (A) Federal share.--The Federal share of the total 
                cost of the Project shall be 25 percent, which shall be 
                nonreimbursable to the United States.
                    (B) Credit toward non-federal share.--The Secretary 
                shall credit toward the non-Federal share of the 
                Project any amounts that the District provides toward 
                the design, planning, and construction before the date 
                of enactment of this Act.
            (3) Title.--The District shall hold title to any facilities 
        constructed under this section.
            (4) Operation and maintenance costs.--The District shall 
        pay the operation and maintenance costs of the Project.
            (5) Effect.--Any assistance provided under this section 
        shall not be considered to be a supplemental or additional 
        benefit under Federal reclamation law (the Act of June 17, 1902 
        (32 Stat. 388, chapter 1093), and Acts supplemental to and 
        amendatory of that Act (43 U.S.C. 371 et seq.).
    (c) Authorization of Appropriations.--There is authorized to be 
appropriated to the Secretary for the Federal share of the cost of the 
Project $4,000,000.
    (d) Termination of Authority.--The authority of the Secretary to 
carry out this section shall expire on the date that is 10 years after 
the date of enactment of this Act.

SEC. 308. NEW MEXICO WATER RESOURCES STUDY.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary of the Interior, acting through the 
Director of the United States Geological Survey (referred to in this 
section as the ``Secretary''), in coordination with the State of New 
Mexico (referred to in this section as the ``State'') and any other 
entities that the Secretary determines to be appropriate (including 
other Federal agencies and institutions of higher education), shall, in 
accordance with this section and any other applicable law, conduct a 
study of water resources in the State, including--
            (1) a survey of groundwater resources, including an 
        analysis of--
                    (A) aquifers in the State, including the quantity 
                of water in the aquifers;
                    (B) the availability of groundwater resources for 
                human use;
                    (C) the salinity of groundwater resources;
                    (D) the potential of the groundwater resources to 
                recharge;
                    (E) the interaction between groundwater and surface 
                water;
                    (F) the susceptibility of the aquifers to 
                contamination; and
                    (G) any other relevant criteria; and
            (2) a characterization of surface and bedrock geology, 
        including the effect of the geology on groundwater yield and 
        quality.
    (b) Study Areas.--The study carried out under subsection (a) shall 
include the Estancia Basin, Salt Basin, Tularosa Basin, Hueco Basin, 
and middle Rio Grande Basin in the State.
    (c) Report.--Not later than 2 years after the date of enactment of 
this Act, the Secretary shall submit to the Committee on Energy and 
Natural Resources of the Senate and the Committee on Natural Resources 
of the House of Representatives a report that describes the results of 
the study.
    (d) Authorization of Appropriations.--There are authorized to be 
appropriated such sums as are necessary to carry out this section.

SEC. 309. WATER AND ENERGY RESOURCES.

    (a) Findings.--Congress finds that--
            (1) development of energy resources, including oil, natural 
        gas, coalbed methane, and geothermal resources, frequently 
        results in bringing to the surface water extracted from 
        underground sources;
            (2) some of that produced water is used for irrigation or 
        other purposes, but most of the water is returned to the 
        subsurface or otherwise disposed of as waste;
            (3) reducing the quantity of produced water returned to the 
        subsurface and increasing the quantity of produced water that 
        is made available for irrigation and other uses--
                    (A) would augment water supplies;
                    (B) could reduce the costs to energy developers for 
                disposing of the water; and
                    (C) in some cases, could increase the efficiency of 
                energy development activities; and
            (4) it is in the national interest--
                    (A) to limit the quantity of produced water 
                disposed of as waste;
                    (B) to optimize the production of energy resources; 
                and
                    (C) to remove or reduce obstacles to use of 
                produced water for irrigation or other purposes in ways 
                that will not adversely affect water quality or the 
                environment.
            (5) Purposes.--The purposes of this section are--
                    (A) to optimize the production of energy 
                resources--
                            (i) by minimizing the quantity of produced 
                        water; and
                            (ii) by facilitating the use of produced 
                        water for irrigation and other purposes without 
                        adversely affecting water quality or the 
                        environment; and
                    (B) to demonstrate means of accomplishing those 
                results.
    (b) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Lower basin state.--The term ``Lower Basin State'' 
        means any of the States of--
                    (A) Arizona;
                    (B) California; and
                    (C) Nevada.
            (2) Produced water.--The term ``produced water'' means 
        water from an underground source that is brought to the surface 
        as part of the process of exploration for, or development of--
                    (A) oil;
                    (B) natural gas;
                    (C) coalbed methane; or
                    (D) any other substance to be used as an energy 
                source.
            (3) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary 
        of the Interior.
            (4) Upper basin state.--The term ``Upper Basin State'' 
        means any of the States of--
                    (A) Colorado;
                    (B) New Mexico;
                    (C) Utah; and
                    (D) Wyoming.
    (c) Identification of Problems and Solutions.--
            (1) Study.--The Secretary shall conduct a study to 
        identify--
                    (A) the technical, economic, environmental, and 
                other obstacles to reducing the quantity of produced 
                water;
                    (B) the technical, economic, environmental, legal, 
                and other obstacles to increasing the extent to which 
                produced water can be used for irrigation and other 
                purposes without adversely affecting water quality, 
                public health, or the environment;
                    (C) the legislative, administrative, and other 
                actions that could reduce or eliminate the obstacles 
                identified in subparagraphs (A) and (B); and
                    (D) the costs and benefits associated with reducing 
                or eliminating the obstacles identified in 
                subparagraphs (A) and (B).
            (2) Report.--Not later than 1 year after the date of 
        enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall submit to the 
        Committee on Natural Resources of the House of Representatives 
        and the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources of the Senate 
        a report describing the results of the study under paragraph 
        (1).
    (d) Implementation.--
            (1) Grants.--Subject to the availability of appropriations, 
        the Secretary shall provide financial assistance for the 
        development of facilities, technologies, and processes to 
        demonstrate the feasibility, effectiveness, and safety of--
                    (A) optimizing energy resource production by 
                reducing the quantity of produced water generated; or
                    (B) increasing the extent to which produced water 
                may be recovered and made suitable for use for 
                irrigation, municipal, or industrial uses, or other 
                purposes without adversely affecting water quality or 
                the environment.
            (2) Limitations.--Assistance under this subsection--
                    (A) shall be provided for--
                            (i) at least 1 project in each of the Upper 
                        Basin States; and
                            (ii) at least 1 project in at least 1 of 
                        the Lower Basin States;
                    (B) shall not exceed $1,000,000 for any project;
                    (C) shall be used to pay not more than 50 percent 
                of the total cost of a project;
                    (D) shall not be used for the operation or 
                maintenance of any facility; and
                    (E) may be in addition to assistance provided by 
                the Federal Government pursuant to other provisions of 
                law.
    (e) Consultation, Advice, and Comments.--In carrying out this 
section, including in preparing the report under subsection (c)(2) and 
establishing criteria to be used in connection with an award of 
financial assistance under subsection (d), the Secretary shall--
            (1) consult with the Secretary of Energy, the Administrator 
        of the Environmental Protection Agency, and appropriate 
        Governors and local officials;
            (2)(A) review any relevant information developed in 
        connection with research carried out by others, including 
        research carried out pursuant to subtitle J of title IX of the 
        Energy Policy Act of 2005 (42 U.S.C. 16371 et seq.); and
            (B) to the extent the Secretary determines to be advisable, 
        include that information in the report under subsection (c)(2);
            (3) seek the advice of--
                    (A) individuals with relevant professional or 
                academic expertise; and
                    (B) individuals or representatives of entities with 
                industrial experience, particularly experience relating 
                to production of oil, natural gas, coalbed methane, or 
                other energy resources (including geothermal 
                resources); and
            (4) solicit comments and suggestions from the public.
    (f) Relation to Other Laws.--Nothing in this section supersedes, 
modifies, abrogates, or limits--
            (1) the effect of any State law or any interstate authority 
        or compact relating to--
                    (A) any use of water; or
                    (B) the regulation of water quantity or quality; or
            (2) the applicability or effect of any Federal law 
        (including regulations).
    (g) Authorization of Appropriations.--There are authorized to be 
appropriated--
            (1) $1,000,000 to carry out subsection (c); and
            (2) $7,500,000 to carry out subsection (d).

SEC. 310. REAUTHORIZATION OF THE NATIONAL GEOLOGIC MAPPING ACT OF 1992.

    (a) Findings.--Section 2(a) of the National Geologic Mapping Act of 
1992 (43 U.S.C. 31a(a)) is amended--
            (1) by striking paragraph (1) and inserting the following:
            ``(1) although significant progress has been made in the 
        production of geologic maps since the establishment of the 
        national cooperative geologic mapping program in 1992, no 
        modern, digital, geologic map exists for approximately 75 
        percent of the United States;''; and
            (2) in paragraph (2)--
                    (A) in subparagraph (C), by inserting ``homeland 
                and'' after ``planning for'';
                    (B) in subparagraph (E), by striking ``predicting'' 
                and inserting ``identifying'';
                    (C) in subparagraph (I), by striking ``and'' after 
                the semicolon at the end;
                    (D) by redesignating subparagraph (J) as 
                subparagraph (K); and
                    (E) by inserting after subparagraph (I) the 
                following:
                    ``(J) recreation and public awareness; and''; and
            (3) in paragraph (9), by striking ``important'' and 
        inserting ``available''.
    (b) Purpose.--Section 2(b) of the National Geologic Mapping Act of 
1992 (43 U.S.C. 31a(b)) is amended by inserting ``and management'' 
before the period at the end.
    (c) Deadlines for Actions by the United States Geological Survey.--
Section 4(b)(1) of the National Geologic Mapping Act of 1992 (43 U.S.C. 
31c(b)(1)) is amended in the second sentence--
            (1) in subparagraph (A), by striking ``not later than'' and 
        all that follows through the semicolon and inserting ``not 
        later than 1 year after the date of enactment of the Natural 
        Resource Projects and Programs Authorization Act of 2007;'';
            (2) in subparagraph (B), by striking ``not later than'' and 
        all that follows through ``in accordance'' and inserting ``not 
        later than 1 year after the date of enactment of the Natural 
        Resource Projects and Programs Authorization Act of 2007 in 
        accordance''; and
            (3) in the matter preceding clause (i) of subparagraph (C), 
        by striking ``not later than'' and all that follows through 
        ``submit'' and inserting ``submit biennially''.
    (d) Geologic Mapping Program Objectives.--Section 4(c)(2) of the 
National Geologic Mapping Act of 1992 (43 U.S.C. 31c(c)(2)) is 
amended--
            (1) by striking ``geophysical-map data base, geochemical-
        map data base, and a''; and
            (2) by striking ``provide'' and inserting ``provides''.
    (e) Geologic Mapping Program Components.--Section 4(d)(1)(B)(ii) of 
the National Geologic Mapping Act of 1992 (43 U.S.C. 31c(d)(1)(B)(ii)) 
is amended--
            (1) in subclause (I), by striking ``and'' after the 
        semicolon at the end;
            (2) in subclause (II), by striking the period at the end 
        and inserting ``; and''; and
            (3) by adding at the end the following:
                                    ``(III) the needs of land 
                                management agencies of the Department 
                                of the Interior.''.
    (f) Geologic Mapping Advisory Committee.--
            (1) Membership.--Section 5(a) of the National Geologic 
        Mapping Act of 1992 (43 U.S.C. 31d(a)) is amended--
                    (A) in paragraph (2)--
                            (i) by inserting ``the Secretary of the 
                        Interior or a designee from a land management 
                        agency of the Department of the Interior,'' 
                        after ``Administrator of the Environmental 
                        Protection Agency or a designee,'';
                            (ii) by inserting ``and'' after ``Energy or 
                        a designee,''; and
                            (iii) by striking ``, and the Assistant to 
                        the President for Science and Technology or a 
                        designee''; and
                    (B) in paragraph (3)--
                            (i) by striking ``Not later than'' and all 
                        that follows through ``consultation'' and 
                        inserting ``In consultation'';
                            (ii) by striking ``Chief Geologist, as 
                        Chairman'' and inserting ``Associate Director 
                        for Geology, as Chair''; and
                            (iii) by striking ``one representative from 
                        the private sector'' and inserting ``2 
                        representatives from the private sector''.
            (2) Duties.--Section 5(b) of the National Geologic Mapping 
        Act of 1992 (43 U.S.C. 31d(b)) is amended--
                    (A) in paragraph (2), by striking ``and'' at the 
                end;
                    (B) by redesignating paragraph (3) as paragraph 
                (4); and
                    (C) by inserting after paragraph (2) the following:
            ``(3) provide a scientific overview of geologic maps 
        (including maps of geologic-based hazards) used or disseminated 
        by Federal agencies for regulation or land-use planning; and''.
            (3) Conforming amendment.--Section 5(a)(1) of the National 
        Geologic Mapping Act of 1992 (43 U.S.C. 31d(a)(1)) is amended 
        by striking ``10-member'' and inserting ``11-member''.
    (g) Functions of National Geologic-Map Database.--Section 7(a) of 
the National Geologic Mapping Act of 1992 (43 U.S.C. 31f(a)) is 
amended--
            (1) in paragraph (1), by striking ``geologic map'' and 
        inserting ``geologic-map''; and
            (2) in paragraph (2), by striking subparagraph (A) and 
        inserting the following:
                    ``(A) all maps developed with funding provided by 
                the National Cooperative Geologic Mapping Program, 
                including under the Federal, State, and education 
                components;''.
    (h) Biennial Report.--Section 8 of the National Geologic Mapping 
Act of 1992 (43 U.S.C. 31g) is amended by striking ``Not later'' and 
all that follows through ``biennially'' and inserting ``Not later than 
3 years after the date of enactment of the Natural Resource Projects 
and Programs Authorization Act of 2007 and biennially''.
    (i) Authorization of Appropriations; Allocation.--Section 9 of the 
National Geologic Mapping Act of 1992 (43 U.S.C. 31h) is amended--
            (1) by striking subsection (a) and inserting the following:
    ``(a) In General.--There is authorized to be appropriated to carry 
out this Act $64,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2007 through 2016.''; 
and
            (2) in subsection (b)--
                    (A) in the matter preceding paragraph (1), by 
                striking ``2000'' and inserting ``2005'';
                    (B) in paragraph (1), by striking ``48'' and 
                inserting ``50''; and
                    (C) in paragraph (2), by striking 2 and inserting 
                ``4''.

                TITLE IV--FOREST SERVICE AUTHORIZATIONS

                       Subtitle A--Authorizations

SEC. 401. COFFMAN COVE ADMINISTRATIVE SITE CONVEYANCE.

    (a) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) City.--The term ``City'' means the city of Coffman 
        Cove, Alaska.
            (2) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary 
        of Agriculture.
    (b) Conveyance.--
            (1) In general.--Subject to valid existing rights, the 
        Secretary shall convey to the City, without consideration and 
        by quitclaim deed all right, title, and interest of the United 
        States, except as provided in paragraphs (3) and (4), in and to 
        the parcel of National Forest System land described in 
        paragraph (2).
            (2) Description of land.--
                    (A) In general.--The parcel of National Forest 
                System land referred to in paragraph (1) is the 
                approximately 12 acres of land identified in U.S. 
                Survey 10099, as depicted on the plat entitled 
                ``Subdivision of U.S. Survey No. 10099'' and recorded 
                as Plat 2003-1 on January 21, 2003, Petersburg 
                Recording District, Alaska.
                    (B) Excluded land.--The parcel of National Forest 
                System land conveyed under paragraph (1) does not 
                include the portion of U.S. Survey 10099 that is north 
                of the right-of-way for Forest Development Road 3030-
                295 and southeast of Tract CC-8.
            (3) Right-of-way.--The United States may reserve a right-
        of-way to provide access to the National Forest System land 
        excluded from the conveyance to the City under paragraph 
        (2)(B).
            (4) Reversion.--If any portion of the land conveyed under 
        paragraph (1) (other than a portion of land sold under 
        paragraph (5)) ceases to be used for public purposes, the land 
        shall, at the option of the Secretary, revert to the United 
        States.
            (5) Conditions on subsequent conveyances.--If the City 
        sells any portion of the land conveyed to the City under 
        paragraph (1)--
                    (A) the amount of consideration for the sale shall 
                reflect fair market value, as determined by an 
                appraisal; and
                    (B) the City shall pay to the Secretary an amount 
                equal to the gross proceeds of the sale, which shall be 
                available, without further appropriation, for the 
                Tongass National Forest.

SEC. 402. PECOS NATIONAL HISTORICAL PARK.

    (a) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Federal land.--The term ``Federal land'' means the 
        approximately 160 acres of Federal land within the Santa Fe 
        National Forest in the State, as depicted on the map.
            (2) Landowner.--The term ``landowner'' means the 1 or more 
        owners of the non-Federal land.
            (3) Map.--The term ``map'' means the map entitled 
        ``Proposed Land Exchange for Pecos National Historical Park'', 
        numbered 430/80,054, dated November 19, 1999, and revised 
        September 18, 2000.
            (4) Non-federal land.--The term ``non-Federal land'' means 
        the approximately 154 acres of non-Federal land in the Park, as 
        depicted on the map.
            (5) Park.--The term ``Park'' means the Pecos National 
        Historical Park in the State.
            (6) Secretaries.--The term ``Secretaries'' means the 
        Secretary of the Interior and the Secretary of Agriculture, 
        acting jointly.
            (7) State.--The term ``State'' means the State of New 
        Mexico.
    (b) Land Exchange.--
            (1) In general.--On conveyance by the landowner to the 
        Secretary of the Interior of the non-Federal land, title to 
        which is acceptable to the Secretary of the Interior--
                    (A) the Secretary of Agriculture shall, subject to 
                the conditions of this section, convey to the landowner 
                the Federal land; and
                    (B) the Secretary of the Interior shall, subject to 
                the conditions of this section, grant to the landowner 
                the easement described in paragraph (2).
            (2) Easement.--
                    (A) In general.--The easement referred to in 
                paragraph (1)(B) is an easement (including an easement 
                for service access) for water pipelines to 2 well sites 
                located in the Park, as generally depicted on the map.
                    (B) Route.--The Secretary of the Interior, in 
                consultation with the landowner, shall determine the 
                appropriate route of the easement through the Park.
                    (C) Terms and conditions.--The easement shall 
                include such terms and conditions relating to the use 
                of, and access to, the well sites and pipeline, as the 
                Secretary of the Interior, in consultation with the 
                landowner, determines to be appropriate.
                    (D) Applicable law.--The easement shall be 
                established, operated, and maintained in compliance 
                with applicable Federal law.
            (3) Valuation, appraisals, and equalization.--
                    (A) In general.--The value of the Federal land and 
                non-Federal land--
                            (i) shall be equal, as determined by 
                        appraisals conducted in accordance with 
                        subparagraph (B); or
                            (ii) if the value is not equal, shall be 
                        equalized in accordance with subparagraph (C).
                    (B) Appraisals.--
                            (i) In general.--The Federal land and non-
                        Federal land shall be appraised by an 
                        independent appraiser selected by the 
                        Secretaries.
                            (ii) Requirements.--An appraisal conducted 
                        under clause (i) shall be conducted in 
                        accordance with--
                                    (I) the Uniform Appraisal Standards 
                                for Federal Land Acquisition; and
                                    (II) the Uniform Standards of 
                                Professional Appraisal Practice.
                            (iii) Approval.--The appraisals conducted 
                        under this subparagraph shall be submitted to 
                        the Secretaries for approval.
                    (C) Equalization of values.--
                            (i) In general.--If the values of the non-
                        Federal land and the Federal land are not 
                        equal, the values may be equalized by--
                                    (I) the Secretary of the Interior 
                                making a cash equalization payment to 
                                the landowner;
                                    (II) the landowner making a cash 
                                equalization payment to the Secretary 
                                of Agriculture; or
                                    (III) reducing the acreage of the 
                                non-Federal land or the Federal land, 
                                as appropriate.
                            (ii) Cash equalization payments.--Any 
                        amounts received by the Secretary of 
                        Agriculture as a cash equalization payment 
                        under section 206(b) of the Federal Land Policy 
                        and Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1716(b)) 
                        shall--
                                    (I) be deposited in the fund 
                                established by Public Law 90-171 
                                (commonly known as the ``Sisk Act'') 
                                (16 U.S.C. 484a); and
                                    (II) be available for expenditure, 
                                without further appropriation, for the 
                                acquisition of land and interests in 
                                land in the State.
            (4) Costs.--Before the completion of the exchange under 
        this subsection, the Secretaries and the landowner shall enter 
        into an agreement that allocates the costs of the exchange 
        among the Secretaries and the landowner.
            (5) Applicable law.--Except as otherwise provided in this 
        section, the exchange of land and interests in land under this 
        section shall be in accordance with--
                    (A) section 206 of the Federal Land Policy and 
                Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1716); and
                    (B) other applicable laws, including the National 
                Environmental Policy Act of 1969 (42 U.S.C. 4321 et 
                seq.).
            (6) Additional terms and conditions.--The Secretaries may 
        require, in addition to any requirements under this section, 
        such terms and conditions relating to the exchange of Federal 
        land and non-Federal land and the granting of easements under 
        this section as the Secretaries determine to be appropriate to 
        protect the interests of the United States.
            (7) Completion of the exchange.--
                    (A) In general.--The exchange of Federal land and 
                non-Federal land shall be completed not later than 180 
                days after the later of--
                            (i) the date on which the requirements of 
                        the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 
                        (42 U.S.C. 4321 et seq.) have been met;
                            (ii) the date on which the Secretary of the 
                        Interior approves the appraisals under 
                        paragraph (3)(B)(iii); or
                            (iii) the date on which the Secretaries and 
                        the landowner agree on the costs of the 
                        exchange and any other terms and conditions of 
                        the exchange under this subsection.
                    (B) Notice.--The Secretaries shall submit to the 
                Committee on Energy and Natural Resources of the Senate 
                and the Committee on Natural Resources of the House of 
                Representatives notice of the completion of the 
                exchange of Federal land and non-Federal land under 
                this section.
    (c) Administration.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary of the Interior shall 
        administer the non-Federal land acquired under this section in 
        accordance with the laws generally applicable to units of the 
        National Park System, including the Act of August 25, 1916 
        (commonly known as the ``National Park Service Organic Act'') 
        (16 U.S.C. 1 et seq.).
            (2) Maps.--
                    (A) In general.--The map shall be on file and 
                available for public inspection in the appropriate 
                offices of the Secretaries.
                    (B) Transmittal of revised map to congress.--Not 
                later than 180 days after completion of the exchange, 
                the Secretaries shall transmit to the Committee on 
                Energy and Natural Resources of the Senate and the 
                Committee on Natural Resources of the House of 
                Representatives a revised map that depicts--
                            (i) the Federal land and non-Federal land 
                        exchanged under this section; and
                            (ii) the easement described in subsection 
                        (b)(2).

SEC. 403. WATERSHED RESTORATION AND ENHANCEMENT AGREEMENTS.

    Section 323 of the Department of the Interior and Related Agencies 
Appropriations Act, 1999 (16 U.S.C. 1011 note; Public Law 105-277), is 
amended--
            (1) in subsection (a), by striking ``each of fiscal years 
        2006 through 2011'' and inserting ``fiscal year 2006 and each 
        fiscal year thereafter'';
            (2) by redesignating subsection (d) as subsection (e); and
            (3) by inserting after subsection (c) the following:
    ``(d) Applicable Law.--Chapter 63 of title 31, United States Code, 
shall not apply to--
            ``(1) a watershed restoration and enhancement agreement 
        entered into under this section; or
            ``(2) an agreement entered into under the first section of 
        Public Law 94-148 (16 U.S.C. 565a-1).''.

SEC. 404. WILDLAND FIREFIGHTER SAFETY.

    (a) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Secretaries.--The term ``Secretaries'' means--
                    (A) the Secretary of the Interior, acting through 
                the Directors of the Bureau of Land Management, the 
                United States Fish and Wildlife Service, the National 
                Park Service, and the Bureau of Indian Affairs; and
                    (B) the Secretary of Agriculture, acting through 
                the Chief of the Forest Service.
            (2) Wildland firefighter.--The term ``wildland 
        firefighter'' means any person who participates in wildland 
        firefighting activities--
                    (A) under the direction of either of the 
                Secretaries; or
                    (B) under a contract or compact with a federally 
                recognized Indian tribe.
    (b) Annual Report to Congress.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretaries shall jointly submit to 
        Congress an annual report on the wildland firefighter safety 
        practices of the Secretaries, including training programs and 
        activities for wildland fire suppression, prescribed burning, 
        and wildland fire use, during the preceding calendar year.
            (2) Timeline.--Each report under paragraph (1) shall--
                    (A) be submitted by not later than March of the 
                year following the calendar year covered by the report; 
                and
                    (B) include--
                            (i) a description of, and any changes to, 
                        wildland firefighter safety practices, 
                        including training programs and activities for 
                        wildland fire suppression, prescribed burning, 
                        and wildland fire use;
                            (ii) statistics and trend analyses;
                            (iii) an estimate of the amount of Federal 
                        funds expended by the Secretaries on wildland 
                        firefighter safety practices, including 
                        training programs and activities for wildland 
                        fire suppression, prescribed burning, and 
                        wildland fire use;
                            (iv) progress made in implementing 
                        recommendations from the Inspector General, the 
                        Government Accountability Office, the 
                        Occupational Safety and Health Administration, 
                        or an agency report relating to a wildland 
                        firefighting fatality issued during the 
                        preceding 10 years; and
                            (v) a description of--
                                    (I) the provisions relating to 
                                wildland firefighter safety practices 
                                in any Federal contract or other 
                                agreement governing the provision of 
                                wildland firefighters by a non-Federal 
                                entity;
                                    (II) a summary of any actions taken 
                                by the Secretaries to ensure that the 
                                provisions relating to safety 
                                practices, including training, are 
                                complied with by the non-Federal 
                                entity; and
                                    (III) the results of those actions.

         Subtitle B--Lewis and Clark Mount Hood Wilderness Area

SEC. 411. DEFINITIONS.

    In this subtitle:
            (1) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary 
        of Agriculture.
            (2) State.--The term ``State'' means the State of Oregon.

SEC. 412. DESIGNATION OF WILDERNESS AREAS.

    (a) Designation of Lewis and Clark Mount Hood Wilderness Areas.--In 
accordance with the Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1131 et seq.), the 
following areas in the State of Oregon are designated as wilderness 
areas and as components of the National Wilderness Preservation System:
            (1) Badger creek wilderness additions.--Certain Federal 
        land managed by the Forest Service, comprising approximately 
        4,140 acres, as generally depicted on the maps entitled 
        ``Badger Creek Wilderness--Badger Creek Additions'' and 
        ``Badger Creek Wilderness--Bonney Butte'', dated July 16, 2007, 
        which is incorporated in, and considered to be a part of, the 
        Badger Creek Wilderness, as designated by section 3(3) of the 
        Oregon Wilderness Act of 1984 (16 U.S.C. 1132 note; 98 Stat. 
        273).
            (2) Bull of the woods wilderness addition.--Certain Federal 
        land managed by the Forest Service, comprising approximately 
        10,180 acres, as generally depicted on the map entitled ``Bull 
        of the Woods Wilderness--Bull of the Woods Additions'', dated 
        July 16, 2007, which is incorporated in, and considered to be a 
        part of, the Bull of the Woods Wilderness, as designated by 
        section 3(4) of the Oregon Wilderness Act of 1984 (16 U.S.C. 
        1132 note; 98 Stat. 273).
            (3) Clackamas wilderness.--Certain Federal land managed by 
        the Forest Service, comprising approximately 9,470 acres, as 
        generally depicted on the maps entitled ``Clackamas 
        Wilderness--Big Bottom'', ``Clackamas Wilderness--Clackamas 
        Canyon'', ``Clackamas Wilderness--Memaloose Lake'', ``Clackamas 
        Wilderness--Sisi Butte'', and ``Clackamas Wilderness--South 
        Fork Clackamas'', dated July 16, 2007, which shall be known as 
        the ``Clackamas Wilderness''.
            (4) Mark o. hatfield wilderness additions.--Certain Federal 
        land managed by the Forest Service, comprising approximately 
        25,960 acres, as generally depicted on the maps entitled ``Mark 
        O. Hatfield Wilderness--Gorge Face'' and ``Mark O. Hatfield 
        Wilderness--Larch Mountain'', dated July 16, 2007, which is 
        incorporated in, and considered to be a part of, the Mark O. 
        Hatfield Wilderness, as designated by section 3(1) of the 
        Oregon Wilderness Act of 1984 (16 U.S.C. 1132 note; 98 Stat. 
        273).
            (5) Mount hood wilderness additions.--Certain Federal land 
        managed by the Forest Service, comprising approximately 18,450 
        acres, as generally depicted on the maps entitled ``Mount Hood 
        Wilderness--Barlow Butte'', ``Mount Hood Wilderness--Elk Cove/
        Mazama'', ``Mount Hood Wilderness--Richard L. Kohnstamm 
        Memorial Area'', ``Mount Hood Wilderness--Sand Canyon'', 
        ``Mount Hood Wilderness--Sandy Additions'', ``Mount Hood 
        Wilderness--Twin Lakes'', and ``Mount Hood Wilderness--White 
        River'', dated July 16, 2007, and the map entitled ``Mount Hood 
        Wilderness--Cloud Cap'', dated July 20, 2007, which is 
        incorporated in, and considered to be a part of, the Mount Hood 
        Wilderness, as designated under section 3(a) of the Wilderness 
        Act (16 U.S.C. 1132(a)) and enlarged by section 3(d) of the 
        Endangered American Wilderness Act of 1978 (16 U.S.C. 1132 
        note; 92 Stat. 43).
            (6) Roaring river wilderness.--Certain Federal land managed 
        by the Forest Service, comprising approximately 36,550 acres, 
        as generally depicted on the map entitled ``Roaring River 
        Wilderness--Roaring River Wilderness'', dated July 16, 2007, 
        which shall be known as the ``Roaring River Wilderness''.
            (7) Salmon-huckleberry wilderness additions.--Certain 
        Federal land managed by the Forest Service, comprising 
        approximately 16,620 acres, as generally depicted on the maps 
        entitled ``Salmon-Huckleberry Wilderness--Alder Creek 
        Additions'', ``Salmon-Huckleberry Wilderness--Eagle Creek 
        Addition'', ``Salmon-Huckleberry Wilderness--Hunchback 
        Mountain'', ``Salmon-Huckleberry Wilderness--Inch Creek'', 
        ``Salmon-Huckleberry Wilderness--Mirror Lake'', and ``Salmon-
        Huckleberry Wilderness--Salmon River Meadows'', dated July 16, 
        2007, which is incorporated in, and considered to be a part of, 
        the Salmon-Huckleberry Wilderness, as designated by section 
        3(2) of the Oregon Wilderness Act of 1984 (16 U.S.C. 1132 note; 
        98 Stat. 273).
            (8) Lower white river wilderness.--Certain Federal land 
        managed by the Forest Service and Bureau of Land Management, 
        comprising approximately 2,870 acres, as generally depicted on 
        the map entitled ``Lower White River Wilderness--Lower White 
        River'', dated July 16, 2007, which shall be known as the 
        ``Lower White River Wilderness''.
    (b) Richard L. Kohnstamm Memorial Area.--Certain Federal land 
managed by the Forest Service, as generally depicted on the map 
entitled ``Mount Hood Wilderness--Richard L. Kohnstamm Memorial Area'', 
dated July 16, 2007, is designated as the ``Richard L. Kohnstamm 
Memorial Area''.
    (c) Potential Wilderness Area; Additions to Wilderness Areas.--
            (1) Roaring river potential wilderness area.--
                    (A) In general.--In furtherance of the purposes of 
                the Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1131 et seq.), certain 
                Federal land managed by the Forest Service, comprising 
                approximately 900 acres identified as ``Potential 
                Wilderness'' on the map entitled ``Roaring River 
                Wilderness'', dated July 16, 2007, is designated as a 
                potential wilderness area.
                    (B) Management.--The potential wilderness area 
                designated by subparagraph (A) shall be managed in 
                accordance with section 4 of the Wilderness Act (16 
                U.S.C. 1133).
                    (C) Designation as wilderness.--On the date on 
                which the Secretary publishes in the Federal Register 
                notice that the conditions in the potential wilderness 
                area designated by subparagraph (A) are compatible with 
                the Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1131 et seq.), the 
                potential wilderness shall be--
                            (i) designated as wilderness and as a 
                        component of the National Wilderness 
                        Preservation System; and
                            (ii) incorporated into the Roaring River 
                        Wilderness designated by subsection (a)(6).
            (2) Addition to the mount hood wilderness.--On completion 
        of the land exchange under section 416(a)(2), certain Federal 
        land managed by the Forest Service, comprising approximately 
        1,710 acres, as generally depicted on the map entitled ``Mount 
        Hood Wilderness--Tilly Jane'', dated July 20, 2007, shall be 
        incorporated in, and considered to be a part of, the Mount Hood 
        Wilderness, as designated under section 3(a) of the Wilderness 
        Act (16 U.S.C. 1132(a)) and enlarged by section 3(d) of the 
        Endangered American Wilderness Act of 1978 (16 U.S.C. 1132 
        note; 92 Stat. 43) and subsection (a)(5).
            (3) Addition to the salmon-huckleberry wilderness.--On 
        acquisition by the United States, the approximately 160 acres 
        of land identified as ``Land to be acquired by USFS'' on the 
        map entitled ``Hunchback Mountain Land Exchange, Clackamas 
        County'', dated June 2006, shall be incorporated in, and 
        considered to be a part of, the Salmon-Huckleberry Wilderness, 
        as designated by section 3(2) of the Oregon Wilderness Act of 
        1984 (16 U.S.C. 1132 note; 98 Stat. 273) and enlarged by 
        subsection (a)(7).
    (d) Maps and Legal Descriptions.--
            (1) In general.--As soon as practicable after the date of 
        enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall file a map and a 
        legal description of each wilderness area and potential 
        wilderness area designated by this section, with--
                    (A) the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources 
                of the Senate; and
                    (B) the Committee on Natural Resources of the House 
                of Representatives.
            (2) Force of law.--The maps and legal descriptions filed 
        under paragraph (1) shall have the same force and effect as if 
        included in this subtitle, except that the Secretary may 
        correct typographical errors in the maps and legal 
        descriptions.
            (3) Public availability.--Each map and legal description 
        filed under paragraph (1) shall be on file and available for 
        public inspection in the appropriate offices of the Forest 
        Service and Bureau of Land Management.
            (4) Description of land.--The boundaries of the areas 
        designated as wilderness by subsection (a) that are immediately 
        adjacent to a utility right-of-way or a Federal Energy 
        Regulatory Commission project boundary shall be 100 feet from 
        the boundary of the right-of-way or the project boundary.
    (e) Administration.--
            (1) In general.--Subject to valid existing rights, each 
        area designated as wilderness by this section shall be 
        administered by the Secretary that has jurisdiction over the 
        land within the wilderness, in accordance with the Wilderness 
        Act (16 U.S.C. 1131 et seq.), except that--
                    (A) any reference in that Act to the effective date 
                shall be considered to be a reference to the date of 
                enactment of this Act; and
                    (B) any reference in that Act to the Secretary of 
                Agriculture shall be considered to be a reference to 
                the Secretary that has jurisdiction over the land 
                within the wilderness.
            (2) Incorporation of acquired land and interests.--Any land 
        within the boundary of a wilderness area designated by this 
        section that is acquired by the United States shall--
                    (A) become part of the wilderness area in which the 
                land is located; and
                    (B) be managed in accordance with this section, the 
                Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1131 et seq.), and any other 
                applicable law.
    (f) Buffer Zones.--
            (1) In general.--As provided in the Oregon Wilderness Act 
        of 1984 (16 U.S.C. 1132 note; Public Law 98-328), Congress does 
        not intend for designation of wilderness areas in the State 
        under this section to lead to the creation of protective 
        perimeters or buffer zones around each wilderness area.
            (2) Activities or uses up to boundaries.--The fact that 
        nonwilderness activities or uses can be seen or heard from 
        within a wilderness area shall not, of itself, preclude the 
        activities or uses up to the boundary of the wilderness area.
    (g) Fish and Wildlife.--Nothing in this section affects the 
jurisdiction or responsibilities of the State with respect to fish and 
wildlife.
    (h) Fire, Insects, and Diseases.--As provided in section 4(d)(1) of 
the Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1133(d)(1)), within the wilderness areas 
designated by this section, the Secretary that has jurisdiction over 
the land within the wilderness (referred to in this subsection as the 
``Secretary'') may take such measures as are necessary to control fire, 
insects, and diseases, subject to such terms and conditions as the 
Secretary determines to be desirable and appropriate.
    (i) Withdrawal.--Subject to valid rights in existence on the date 
of enactment of this Act, the Federal land designated as wilderness by 
this section is withdrawn from all forms of--
            (1) entry, appropriation, or disposal under the public land 
        laws;
            (2) location, entry, and patent under the mining laws; and
            (3) disposition under all laws pertaining to mineral and 
        geothermal leasing or mineral materials.

SEC. 413. DESIGNATION OF STREAMS FOR WILD AND SCENIC RIVER PROTECTION 
              IN THE MOUNT HOOD AREA.

    (a) Wild and Scenic River Designations, Mount Hood National 
Forest.--
            (1) In general.--Section 3(a) of the Wild and Scenic Rivers 
        Act (16 U.S.C. 1274(a)) is amended--
                    (A) by redesignating paragraph (167) (relating to 
                the Musconetcong River, New Jersey) as paragraph (169);
                    (B) by designating the undesignated paragraph 
                relating to the White Salmon River, Washington, as 
                paragraph (167);
                    (C) by designating the undesignated paragraph 
                relating to the Black Butte River, California, as 
                paragraph (168); and
                    (D) by adding at the end the following:
            ``(170) South fork clackamas river.--The 4.2-mile segment 
        of the South Fork Clackamas River from its confluence with the 
        East Fork of the South Fork Clackamas to its confluence with 
        the Clackamas River, to be administered by the Secretary of 
        Agriculture as a wild river.
            ``(171) Eagle creek.--The 8.3-mile segment of Eagle Creek 
        from its headwaters to the Mount Hood National Forest boundary, 
        to be administered by the Secretary of Agriculture as a wild 
        river.
            ``(172) Middle fork hood river.--The 3.7-mile segment of 
        the Middle Fork Hood River from the confluence of Clear and Coe 
        Branches to the north section line of section 11, township 1 
        south, range 9 east, to be administered by the Secretary of 
        Agriculture as a scenic river.
            ``(173) South fork roaring river.--The 4.6-mile segment of 
        the South Fork Roaring River from its headwaters to its 
        confluence with Roaring River, to be administered by the 
        Secretary of Agriculture as a wild river.
            ``(174) Zig zag river.--The 4.3-mile segment of the Zig Zag 
        River from its headwaters to the Mount Hood Wilderness 
        boundary, to be administered by the Secretary of Agriculture as 
        a wild river.
            ``(175) Fifteenmile creek.--
                    ``(A) In general.--The 11.1-mile segment of 
                Fifteenmile Creek from its source at Senecal Spring to 
                the southern edge of the northwest quarter of the 
                northwest quarter of section 20, township 2 south, 
                range 12 east, to be administered by the Secretary of 
                Agriculture in the following classes:
                            ``(i) The 2.6-mile segment from its source 
                        at Senecal Spring to the Badger Creek 
                        Wilderness boundary, as a wild river.
                            ``(ii) The 0.4-mile segment from the Badger 
                        Creek Wilderness boundary to the point 0.4 
                        miles downstream, as a scenic river.
                            ``(iii) The 7.9-mile segment from the point 
                        0.4 miles downstream of the Badger Creek 
                        Wilderness boundary to the western edge of 
                        section 20, township 2 south, range 12 east as 
                        a wild river.
                            ``(iv) The 0.2-mile segment from the 
                        western edge of section 20, township 2 south, 
                        range 12 east, to the southern edge of the 
                        northwest quarter of the northwest quarter of 
                        section 20, township 2 south, range 12 east as 
                        a scenic river.
                    ``(B) Inclusions.--Notwithstanding section 3(b), 
                the lateral boundaries of both the wild river area and 
                the scenic river area along Fifteenmile Creek shall 
                include an average of not more than 640 acres per mile 
                measured from the ordinary high water mark on both 
                sides of the river.
            ``(176) East fork hood river.--The 13.5-mile segment of the 
        East Fork Hood River from Oregon State Highway 35 to the Mount 
        Hood National Forest boundary, to be administered by the 
        Secretary of Agriculture as a recreational river.
            ``(177) Collawash river.--The 17.8-mile segment of the 
        Collawash River from the headwaters of the East Fork Collawash 
        to the confluence of the mainstream of the Collawash River with 
        the Clackamas River, to be administered by the Secretary of 
        Agriculture in the following classes:
                    ``(A) The 11.0-mile segment from the headwaters of 
                the East Fork Collawash River to Buckeye Creek, as a 
                scenic river.
                    ``(B) The 6.8-mile segment from Buckeye Creek to 
                the Clackamas River, as a recreational river.
            ``(178) Fish creek.--The 13.5-mile segment of Fish Creek 
        from its headwaters to the confluence with the Clackamas River, 
        to be administered by the Secretary of Agriculture as a 
        recreational river.''.
            (2) Effect.--The amendments made by paragraph (1) do not 
        affect valid existing water rights.
    (b) Protection for Hood River, Oregon.--Section 13(a)(4) of the 
``Columbia River Gorge National Scenic Area Act'' (16 U.S.C. 
544k(a)(4)) is amended by striking ``for a period not to exceed twenty 
years from the date of enactment of this Act,''.

SEC. 414. MOUNT HOOD NATIONAL RECREATION AREA.

    (a) Designation.--To provide for the protection, preservation, and 
enhancement of recreational, ecological, scenic, cultural, watershed, 
and fish and wildlife values, there is established the Mount Hood 
National Recreation Area within the Mount Hood National Forest.
    (b) Boundary.--The Mount Hood National Recreation Area shall 
consist of certain Federal land managed by the Forest Service and 
Bureau of Land Management, comprising approximately 34,550 acres, as 
generally depicted on the maps entitled ``National Recreation Areas--
Mount Hood NRA'', ``National Recreation Areas--Fifteenmile Creek NRA'', 
and ``National Recreation Areas--Shellrock Mountain'', dated February 
2007.
    (c) Map and Legal Description.--
            (1) Submission of legal description.--As soon as 
        practicable after the date of enactment of this Act, the 
        Secretary shall file a map and a legal description of the Mount 
        Hood National Recreation Area with--
                    (A) the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources 
                of the Senate; and
                    (B) the Committee on Natural Resources of the House 
                of Representatives.
            (2) Force of law.--The map and legal description filed 
        under paragraph (1) shall have the same force and effect as if 
        included in this subtitle, except that the Secretary may 
        correct typographical errors in the map and the legal 
        description.
            (3) Public availability.--The map and legal description 
        filed under paragraph (1) shall be on file and available for 
        public inspection in the appropriate offices of the Forest 
        Service.
    (d) Administration.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary shall--
                    (A) administer the Mount Hood National Recreation 
                Area--
                            (i) in accordance with the laws (including 
                        regulations) and rules applicable to the 
                        National Forest System; and
                            (ii) consistent with the purposes described 
                        in subsection (a); and
                    (B) only allow uses of the Mount Hood National 
                Recreation Area that are consistent with the purposes 
                described in subsection (a).
            (2) Applicable law.--Any portion of a wilderness area 
        designated by section 412 that is located within the Mount Hood 
        National Recreation Area shall be administered in accordance 
        with the Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1131 et seq.).
    (e) Timber.--The cutting, sale, or removal of timber within the 
Mount Hood National Recreation Area may be permitted--
            (1) to the extent necessary to improve the health of the 
        forest in a manner that--
                    (A) maximizes the retention of large trees--
                            (i) as appropriate to the forest type; and
                            (ii) to the extent that the trees promote 
                        stands that are fire-resilient and healthy;
                    (B) improves the habitats of threatened, 
                endangered, or sensitive species; or
                    (C) maintains or restores the composition and 
                structure of the ecosystem by reducing the risk of 
                uncharacteristic wildfire;
            (2) to accomplish an approved management activity in 
        furtherance of the purposes established by this section, if the 
        cutting, sale, or removal of timber is incidental to the 
        management activity; or
            (3) for de minimus personal or administrative use within 
        the Mount Hood National Recreation Area, where such use will 
        not impair the purposes established by this section.
    (f) Road Construction.--No new or temporary roads shall be 
constructed or reconstructed within the Mount Hood National Recreation 
Area except as necessary--
            (1) to protect the health and safety of individuals in 
        cases of an imminent threat of flood, fire, or any other 
        catastrophic event that, without intervention, would cause the 
        loss of life or property;
            (2) to conduct environmental cleanup required by the United 
        States;
            (3) to allow for the exercise of reserved or outstanding 
        rights provided for by a statute or treaty;
            (4) to prevent irreparable resource damage by an existing 
        road; or
            (5) to rectify a hazardous road condition.
    (g) Withdrawal.--Subject to valid existing rights, all Federal land 
within the Mount Hood National Recreation Area is withdrawn from--
            (1) all forms of entry, appropriation, or disposal under 
        the public land laws;
            (2) location, entry, and patent under the mining laws; and
            (3) disposition under all laws relating to mineral and 
        geothermal leasing.
    (h) Transfer of Administrative Jurisdiction.--
            (1) In general.--Administrative jurisdiction over the 
        Federal land described in paragraph (2) is transferred from the 
        Bureau of Land Management to the Forest Service.
            (2) Description of land.--The land referred to in paragraph 
        (1) is the approximately 130 acres of land administered by the 
        Bureau of Land Management within or adjacent to the Mount Hood 
        National Recreation Area that is identified as ``BLM Lands'' on 
        the map entitled ``National Recreation Areas--Shellrock 
        Mountain'', dated February 2007.

SEC. 415. PROTECTIONS FOR CRYSTAL SPRINGS, UPPER BIG BOTTOM, AND CULTUS 
              CREEK.

    (a) Crystal Springs Watershed Special Resources Management Unit.--
            (1) Establishment.--
                    (A) In general.--On completion of the land exchange 
                under section 416(a)(2), there shall be established a 
                special resources management unit in the State 
                consisting of certain Federal land managed by the 
                Forest Service, as generally depicted on the map 
                entitled ``Crystal Springs Watershed Special Resources 
                Management Unit'', dated June 2006 (referred to in this 
                subsection as the ``map''), to be known as the 
                ``Crystal Springs Watershed Special Resources 
                Management Unit'' (referred to in this subsection as 
                the ``Management Unit'').
                    (B) Exclusion of certain land.--The Management Unit 
                does not include any National Forest System land 
                otherwise covered by subparagraph (A) that is 
                designated as wilderness by section 412.
                    (C) Withdrawal.--
                            (i) In general.--Subject to valid rights in 
                        existence on the date of enactment of this Act, 
                        the Federal land designated as the Management 
                        Unit is withdrawn from all forms of--
                                    (I) entry, appropriation, or 
                                disposal under the public land laws;
                                    (II) location, entry, and patent 
                                under the mining laws; and
                                    (III) disposition under all laws 
                                pertaining to mineral and geothermal 
                                leasing or mineral materials.
                            (ii) Exception.--Clause (i)(I) does not 
                        apply to the parcel of land generally depicted 
                        as ``HES 151'' on the map.
            (2) Purposes.--The purposes of the Management Unit are--
                    (A) to ensure the protection of the quality and 
                quantity of the Crystal Springs watershed as a clean 
                drinking water source for the residents of Hood River 
                County, Oregon; and
                    (B) to allow visitors to enjoy the special scenic, 
                natural, cultural, and wildlife values of the Crystal 
                Springs watershed.
            (3) Map and legal description.--
                    (A) Submission of legal description.--As soon as 
                practicable after the date of enactment of this Act, 
                the Secretary shall file a map and a legal description 
                of the Management Unit with--
                            (i) the Committee on Energy and Natural 
                        Resources of the Senate; and
                            (ii) the Committee on Natural Resources of 
                        the House of Representatives.
                    (B) Force of law.--The map and legal description 
                filed under subparagraph (A) shall have the same force 
                and effect as if included in this subtitle, except that 
                the Secretary may correct typographical errors in the 
                map and legal description.
                    (C) Public availability.--The map and legal 
                description filed under subparagraph (A) shall be on 
                file and available for public inspection in the 
                appropriate offices of the Forest Service.
            (4) Administration.--
                    (A) In general.--The Secretary shall--
                            (i) administer the Management Unit--
                                    (I) in accordance with the laws 
                                (including regulations) and rules 
                                applicable to units of the National 
                                Forest System; and
                                    (II) consistent with the purposes 
                                described in paragraph (2); and
                            (ii) only allow uses of the Management Unit 
                        that are consistent with the purposes described 
                        in paragraph (2).
                    (B) Fuel reduction in proximity to improvements and 
                primary public roads.--To protect the water quality, 
                water quantity, and scenic, cultural, natural, and 
                wildlife values of the Management Unit, the Secretary 
                may conduct fuel reduction and forest health management 
                treatments to maintain and restore fire-resilient 
                forest structures containing late successional forest 
                structure characterized by large trees and multistoried 
                canopies, as ecologically appropriate, on National 
                Forest System land in the Management Unit--
                            (i) in any area located not more than 400 
                        feet from structures located on--
                                    (I) National Forest System land; or
                                    (II) private land adjacent to 
                                National Forest System land;
                            (ii) in any area located not more than 400 
                        feet from the Cooper Spur Road, the Cloud Cap 
                        Road, or the Cooper Spur Ski Area Loop Road; 
                        and
                            (iii) on any other National Forest System 
                        land in the Management Unit, with priority 
                        given to activities that restore previously 
                        harvested stands, including the removal of 
                        logging slash, smaller diameter material, and 
                        ladder fuels.
            (5) Prohibited activities.--Subject to valid existing 
        rights, the following activities shall be prohibited on 
        National Forest System land in the Management Unit:
                    (A) New road construction or renovation of existing 
                non-System roads, except as necessary to protect public 
                health and safety.
                    (B) Projects undertaken for the purpose of 
                harvesting commercial timber (other than activities 
                relating to the harvest of merchantable products that 
                are byproducts of activities conducted to further the 
                purposes described in paragraph (2)).
                    (C) Commercial livestock grazing.
                    (D) The placement of new fuel storage tanks.
                    (E) Except to the extent necessary to further the 
                purposes described in paragraph (2), the application of 
                any toxic chemicals (other than fire retardants), 
                including pesticides, rodenticides, or herbicides.
            (6) Forest road closures.--
                    (A) In general.--Except as provided in subparagraph 
                (B), the Secretary may provide for the closure or 
                gating to the general public of any Forest Service road 
                within the Management Unit.
                    (B) Exception.--Nothing in this subsection requires 
                the Secretary to close the road commonly known as 
                ``Cloud Cap Road'', which shall be administered in 
                accordance with otherwise applicable law.
            (7) Private land.--
                    (A) Effect.--Nothing in this subsection affects the 
                use of, or access to, any private property within the 
                area identified on the map as the ``Crystal Springs 
                Zone of Contribution'' by--
                            (i) the owners of the private property; and
                            (ii) guests to the private property.
                    (B) Cooperation.--The Secretary is encouraged to 
                work with private landowners who have agreed to 
                cooperate with the Secretary to further the purposes of 
                this subsection.
            (8) Acquisition of land.--
                    (A) In general.--The Secretary may acquire from 
                willing landowners any land located within the area 
                identified on the map as the ``Crystal Springs Zone of 
                Contribution''.
                    (B) Inclusion in management unit.--On the date of 
                acquisition, any land acquired under subparagraph (A) 
                shall be incorporated in, and be managed as part of, 
                the Management Unit.
    (b) Protections for Upper Big Bottom and Cultus Creek.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary shall manage the Federal 
        land administered by the Forest Service described in paragraph 
        (2) in a manner that preserves the natural and primitive 
        character of the land for recreational, scenic, and scientific 
        use.
            (2) Description of land.--The Federal land referred to in 
        paragraph (1) is--
                    (A) the approximately 1,580 acres, as generally 
                depicted on the map entitled ``Upper Big Bottom'', 
                dated July 16, 2007; and
                    (B) the approximately 280 acres identified as 
                ``Cultus Creek'' on the map entitled ``Clackamas 
                Wilderness--South Fork Clackamas'', dated July 16, 
                2007.
            (3) Maps and legal descriptions.--
                    (A) In general.--As soon as practicable after the 
                date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall file 
                maps and legal descriptions of the Federal land 
                described in paragraph (2) with--
                            (i) the Committee on Energy and Natural 
                        Resources of the Senate; and
                            (ii) the Committee on Natural Resources of 
                        the House of Representatives.
                    (B) Force of law.--The maps and legal descriptions 
                filed under subparagraph (A) shall have the same force 
                and effect as if included in this subtitle, except that 
                the Secretary may correct typographical errors in the 
                maps and legal descriptions.
                    (C) Public availability.--Each map and legal 
                description filed under subparagraph (A) shall be on 
                file and available for public inspection in the 
                appropriate offices of the Forest Service.
            (4) Use of land.--
                    (A) In general.--Subject to valid existing rights, 
                with respect to the Federal land described in paragraph 
                (2), the Secretary shall only allow uses that are 
                consistent with the purposes identified in paragraph 
                (1).
                    (B) Prohibited uses.--The following shall be 
                prohibited on the Federal land described in paragraph 
                (2):
                            (i) Permanent roads.
                            (ii) Commercial enterprises.
                            (iii) Except as necessary to meet the 
                        minimum requirements for the administration of 
                        the Federal land and to protect public health 
                        and safety--
                                    (I) the use of motor vehicles; or
                                    (II) the establishment of temporary 
                                roads.
            (5) Withdrawal.--Subject to valid existing rights, the 
        Federal land described in paragraph (2) is withdrawn from--
                    (A) all forms of entry, appropriation, or disposal 
                under the public land laws;
                    (B) location, entry, and patent under the mining 
                laws; and
                    (C) disposition under all laws relating to mineral 
                and geothermal leasing.

SEC. 416. LAND EXCHANGES.

    (a) Cooper Spur-Government Camp Land Exchange.--
            (1) Definitions.--In this subsection:
                    (A) County.--The term ``County'' means Hood River 
                County, Oregon.
                    (B) Exchange map.--The term ``exchange map'' means 
                the map entitled ``Cooper Spur/Government Camp Land 
                Exchange'', dated June 2006.
                    (C) Federal land.--The term ``Federal land'' means 
                the approximately 120 acres of National Forest System 
                land in the Mount Hood National Forest in Government 
                Camp, Clackamas County, Oregon, identified as ``USFS 
                Land to be Conveyed'' on the exchange map.
                    (D) Mt. hood meadows.--The term ``Mt. Hood 
                Meadows'' means the Mt. Hood Meadows Oregon, Limited 
                Partnership.
                    (E) Non-federal land.--The term ``non-Federal 
                land'' means--
                            (i) the parcel of approximately 770 acres 
                        of private land at Cooper Spur identified as 
                        ``Land to be acquired by USFS'' on the exchange 
                        map; and
                            (ii) any buildings, furniture, fixtures, 
                        and equipment at the Inn at Cooper Spur and the 
                        Cooper Spur Ski Area covered by an appraisal 
                        described in paragraph (2)(D).
            (2) Cooper spur-government camp land exchange.--
                    (A) Conveyance of land.--Subject to the provisions 
                of this subsection, if Mt. Hood Meadows offers to 
                convey to the United States all right, title, and 
                interest of Mt. Hood Meadows in and to the non-Federal 
                land, the Secretary shall convey to Mt. Hood Meadows 
                all right, title, and interest of the United States in 
                and to the Federal land (other than any easements 
                reserved under subparagraph (G)), subject to valid 
                existing rights.
                    (B) Compliance with existing law.--Except as 
                otherwise provided in this subsection, the Secretary 
                shall carry out the land exchange under this subsection 
                in accordance with section 206 of the Federal Land 
                Policy and Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1716).
                    (C) Conditions on acceptance.--
                            (i) Title.--As a condition of the land 
                        exchange under this subsection, title to the 
                        non-Federal land to be acquired by the 
                        Secretary under this subsection shall be 
                        acceptable to the Secretary.
                            (ii) Terms and conditions.--The conveyance 
                        of the Federal land and non-Federal land shall 
                        be subject to such terms and conditions as the 
                        Secretary may require.
                    (D) Appraisals.--
                            (i) In general.--As soon as practicable 
                        after the date of enactment of this Act, the 
                        Secretary and Mt. Hood Meadows shall select an 
                        appraiser to conduct an appraisal of the 
                        Federal land and non-Federal land.
                            (ii) Requirements.--An appraisal under 
                        clause (i) shall be conducted in accordance 
                        with nationally recognized appraisal standards, 
                        including--
                                    (I) the Uniform Appraisal Standards 
                                for Federal Land Acquisitions; and
                                    (II) the Uniform Standards of 
                                Professional Appraisal Practice.
                    (E) Surveys.--
                            (i) In general.--The exact acreage and 
                        legal description of the Federal land and non-
                        Federal land shall be determined by surveys 
                        approved by the Secretary.
                            (ii) Costs.--The responsibility for the 
                        costs of any surveys conducted under clause 
                        (i), and any other administrative costs of 
                        carrying out the land exchange, shall be 
                        determined by the Secretary and Mt. Hood 
                        Meadows.
                    (F) Deadline for completion of land exchange.--It 
                is the intent of Congress that the land exchange under 
                this subsection shall be completed not later than 16 
                months after the date of enactment of this Act.
                    (G) Reservation of easements.--As a condition of 
                the conveyance of the Federal land, the Secretary shall 
                reserve--
                            (i) a conservation easement to the Federal 
                        land to protect existing wetland, as identified 
                        by the Oregon Department of State Lands, that 
                        allows equivalent wetland mitigation measures 
                        to compensate for minor wetland encroachments 
                        necessary for the orderly development of the 
                        Federal land; and
                            (ii) a trail easement to the Federal land 
                        that allows--
                                    (I) nonmotorized use by the public 
                                of existing trails;
                                    (II) roads, utilities, and 
                                infrastructure facilities to cross the 
                                trails; and
                                    (III) improvement or relocation of 
                                the trails to accommodate development 
                                of the Federal land.
    (b) Port of Cascade Locks Land Exchange.--
            (1) Definitions.--In this subsection:
                    (A) Exchange map.--The term ``exchange map'' means 
                the map entitled ``Port of Cascade Locks/Pacific Crest 
                National Scenic Trail Land Exchange'', dated June 2006.
                    (B) Federal land.--The term ``Federal land'' means 
                the parcel of land consisting of approximately 10 acres 
                of National Forest System land in the Columbia River 
                Gorge National Scenic Area identified as ``USFS Land to 
                be conveyed'' on the exchange map.
                    (C) Non-federal land.--The term ``non-Federal 
                land'' means the parcels of land consisting of 
                approximately 40 acres identified as ``Land to be 
                acquired by USFS'' on the exchange map.
                    (D) Port.--The term ``Port'' means the Port of 
                Cascade Locks, Cascade Locks, Oregon.
            (2) Land exchange, port of cascade locks-pacific crest 
        national scenic trail.--
                    (A) Conveyance of land.--Subject to the provisions 
                of this subsection, if the Port offers to convey to the 
                United States all right, title, and interest of the 
                Port in and to the non-Federal land, the Secretary 
                shall, subject to valid existing rights, convey to the 
                Port all right, title, and interest of the United 
                States in and to the Federal land.
                    (B) Compliance with existing law.--Except as 
                otherwise provided in this subsection, the Secretary 
                shall carry out the land exchange under this subsection 
                in accordance with section 206 of the Federal Land 
                Policy and Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1716).
            (3) Conditions on acceptance.--
                    (A) Title.--As a condition of the land exchange 
                under this subsection, title to the non-Federal land to 
                be acquired by the Secretary under this subsection 
                shall be acceptable to the Secretary.
                    (B) Terms and conditions.--The conveyance of the 
                Federal land and non-Federal land shall be subject to 
                such terms and conditions as the Secretary may require.
            (4) Appraisals.--
                    (A) In general.--As soon as practicable after the 
                date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall 
                select an appraiser to conduct an appraisal of the 
                Federal land and non-Federal land.
                    (B) Requirements.--An appraisal under subparagraph 
                (A) shall be conducted in accordance with nationally 
                recognized appraisal standards, including--
                            (i) the Uniform Appraisal Standards for 
                        Federal Land Acquisitions; and
                            (ii) the Uniform Standards of Professional 
                        Appraisal Practice.
            (5) Surveys.--
                    (A) In general.--The exact acreage and legal 
                description of the Federal land and non-Federal land 
                shall be determined by surveys approved by the 
                Secretary.
                    (B) Costs.--The responsibility for the costs of any 
                surveys conducted under subparagraph (A), and any other 
                administrative costs of carrying out the land exchange, 
                shall be determined by the Secretary and the Port.
            (6) Deadline for completion of land exchange.--It is the 
        intent of Congress that the land exchange under this subsection 
        shall be completed not later than 16 months after the date of 
        enactment of this Act.
    (c) Hunchback Mountain Land Exchange and Boundary Adjustment.--
            (1) Definitions.--In this subsection:
                    (A) County.--The term ``County'' means Clackamas 
                County, Oregon.
                    (B) Exchange map.--The term ``exchange map'' means 
                the map entitled ``Hunchback Mountain Land Exchange, 
                Clackamas County'', dated June 2006.
                    (C) Federal land.--The term ``Federal land'' means 
                the parcel of land consisting of approximately 160 
                acres of National Forest System land in the Mount Hood 
                National Forest identified as ``USFS Land to be 
                Conveyed'' on the exchange map.
                    (D) Non-federal land.--The term ``non-Federal 
                land'' means the parcel of land consisting of 
                approximately 160 acres identified as ``Land to be 
                acquired by USFS'' on the exchange map.
            (2) Hunchback mountain land exchange.--
                    (A) Conveyance of land.--Subject to the provisions 
                of this paragraph, if the County offers to convey to 
                the United States all right, title, and interest of the 
                County in and to the non-Federal land, the Secretary 
                shall, subject to valid existing rights, convey to the 
                County all right, title, and interest of the United 
                States in and to the Federal land.
                    (B) Compliance with existing law.--Except as 
                otherwise provided in this paragraph, the Secretary 
                shall carry out the land exchange under this paragraph 
                in accordance with section 206 of the Federal Land 
                Policy and Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1716).
                    (C) Conditions on acceptance.--
                            (i) Title.--As a condition of the land 
                        exchange under this paragraph, title to the 
                        non-Federal land to be acquired by the 
                        Secretary under this paragraph shall be 
                        acceptable to the Secretary.
                            (ii) Terms and conditions.--The conveyance 
                        of the Federal land and non-Federal land shall 
                        be subject to such terms and conditions as the 
                        Secretary may require.
                    (D) Appraisals.--
                            (i) In general.--As soon as practicable 
                        after the date of enactment of this Act, the 
                        Secretary shall select an appraiser to conduct 
                        an appraisal of the Federal land and non-
                        Federal land.
                            (ii) Requirements.--An appraisal under 
                        clause (i) shall be conducted in accordance 
                        with nationally recognized appraisal standards, 
                        including--
                                    (I) the Uniform Appraisal Standards 
                                for Federal Land Acquisitions; and
                                    (II) the Uniform Standards of 
                                Professional Appraisal Practice.
                    (E) Surveys.--
                            (i) In general.--The exact acreage and 
                        legal description of the Federal land and non-
                        Federal land shall be determined by surveys 
                        approved by the Secretary.
                            (ii) Costs.--The responsibility for the 
                        costs of any surveys conducted under clause 
                        (i), and any other administrative costs of 
                        carrying out the land exchange, shall be 
                        determined by the Secretary and the County.
                    (F) Deadline for completion of land exchange.--It 
                is the intent of Congress that the land exchange under 
                this paragraph shall be completed not later than 16 
                months after the date of enactment of this Act.
            (3) Boundary adjustment.--
                    (A) In general.--The boundary of the Mount Hood 
                National Forest shall be adjusted to incorporate--
                            (i) any land conveyed to the United States 
                        under paragraph (2); and
                            (ii) the land transferred to the Forest 
                        Service by section 414(h)(1).
                    (B) Additions to the national forest system.--The 
                Secretary shall administer the land described in 
                subparagraph (A)--
                            (i) in accordance with--
                                    (I) the Act of March 1, 1911 
                                (commonly known as the ``Weeks Law'') 
                                (16 U.S.C. 480 et seq.); and
                                    (II) any laws (including 
                                regulations) applicable to the National 
                                Forest System; and
                            (ii) subject to sections 412(c)(3) and 
                        414(d), as applicable.
                    (C) Land and water conservation fund.--For the 
                purposes of section 7 of the Land and Water 
                Conservation Fund Act of 1965 (16 U.S.C. 460l-9), the 
                boundaries of the Mount Hood National Forest modified 
                by this paragraph shall be considered to be the 
                boundaries of the Mount Hood National Forest in 
                existence as of January 1, 1965.
    (d) Conditions on Development of Federal Land.--
            (1) Requirements applicable to the conveyance of federal 
        land.--
                    (A) In general.--As a condition of each of the 
                conveyances of Federal land under this section, the 
                Secretary shall include in the deed of conveyance a 
                requirement that applicable construction activities and 
                alterations shall be conducted in accordance with--
                            (i) nationally recognized building and 
                        property maintenance codes; and
                            (ii) nationally recognized codes for 
                        development in the wildland-urban interface and 
                        wildfire hazard mitigation.
                    (B) Applicable law.--To the maximum extent 
                practicable, the codes required under subparagraph (A) 
                shall be consistent with the nationally recognized 
                codes adopted or referenced by the State or political 
                subdivisions of the State.
                    (C) Enforcement.--The requirements under 
                subparagraph (A) may be enforced by the same entities 
                otherwise enforcing codes, ordinances, and standards.
            (2) Compliance with codes on federal land.--The Secretary 
        shall ensure that applicable construction activities and 
        alterations undertaken or permitted by the Secretary on 
        National Forest System land in the Mount Hood National Forest 
        are conducted in accordance with--
                    (A) nationally recognized building and property 
                maintenance codes; and
                    (B) nationally recognized codes for development in 
                the wildland-urban interface development and wildfire 
                hazard mitigation.
            (3) Effect on enforcement by states and political 
        subdivisions.--Nothing in this subsection alters or limits the 
        power of the State or a political subdivision of the State to 
        implement or enforce any law (including regulations), rule, or 
        standard relating to development or fire prevention and 
        control.

SEC. 417. TRIBAL PROVISIONS; PLANNING AND STUDIES.

    (a) Transportation Plan.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary shall seek to participate in 
        the development of an integrated, multimodal transportation 
        plan developed by the Oregon Department of Transportation for 
        the Mount Hood region to achieve comprehensive solutions to 
        transportation challenges in the Mount Hood region--
                    (A) to promote appropriate economic development;
                    (B) to preserve the landscape of the Mount Hood 
                region; and
                    (C) to enhance public safety.
            (2) Issues to be addressed.--In participating in the 
        development of the transportation plan under paragraph (1), the 
        Secretary shall seek to address--
                    (A) transportation alternatives between and among 
                recreation areas and gateway communities that are 
                located within the Mount Hood region;
                    (B) establishing park-and-ride facilities that 
                shall be located at gateway communities;
                    (C) establishing intermodal transportation centers 
                to link public transportation, parking, and recreation 
                destinations;
                    (D) creating a new interchange on Oregon State 
                Highway 26 located adjacent to or within Government 
                Camp;
                    (E) designating, maintaining, and improving 
                alternative routes using Forest Service or State roads 
                for--
                            (i) providing emergency routes; or
                            (ii) improving access to, and travel 
                        within, the Mount Hood region;
                    (F) the feasibility of establishing--
                            (i) a gondola connection that--
                                    (I) connects Timberline Lodge to 
                                Government Camp; and
                                    (II) is located in close proximity 
                                to the site of the historic gondola 
                                corridor; and
                            (ii) an intermodal transportation center to 
                        be located in close proximity to Government 
                        Camp;
                    (G) burying power lines located in, or adjacent to, 
                the Mount Hood National Forest along Interstate 84 near 
                the City of Cascade Locks, Oregon; and
                    (H) creating mechanisms for funding the 
                implementation of the transportation plan under 
                paragraph (1), including--
                            (i) funds provided by the Federal 
                        Government;
                            (ii) public-private partnerships;
                            (iii) incremental tax financing; and
                            (iv) other financing tools that link 
                        transportation infrastructure improvements with 
                        development.
    (b) Mount Hood National Forest Stewardship Strategy.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary shall prepare a report on, 
        and implementation schedule for, the vegetation management 
        strategy (including recommendations for biomass utilization) 
        for the Mount Hood National Forest being developed by the 
        Forest Service.
            (2) Submission to congress.--
                    (A) Report.--Not later than 1 year after the date 
                of enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall submit 
                the report to--
                            (i) the Committee on Energy and Natural 
                        Resources of the Senate; and
                            (ii) the Committee on Natural Resources of 
                        the House of Representatives.
                    (B) Implementation schedule.--Not later than 1 year 
                after the date on which the vegetation management 
                strategy referred to in paragraph (1) is completed, the 
                Secretary shall submit the implementation schedule to--
                            (i) the Committee on Energy and Natural 
                        Resources of the Senate; and
                            (ii) the Committee on Natural Resources of 
                        the House of Representatives.
    (c) Local and Tribal Relationships.--
            (1) Management plan.--
                    (A) In general.--The Secretary, in consultation 
                with Indian tribes with treaty-reserved gathering 
                rights on land encompassed by the Mount Hood National 
                Forest and in a manner consistent with the memorandum 
                of understanding entered into between the Department of 
                Agriculture, the Bureau of Land Management, the Bureau 
                of Indian Affairs, and the Confederated Tribes of the 
                Warm Springs Reservation of Oregon, dated April 25, 
                2003, as modified, shall develop and implement a 
                management plan that meets the cultural foods 
                obligations of the United States under applicable 
                treaties, including the Treaty with the Tribes of 
                Middle Oregon of June 25, 1855 (12 Stat. 963).
                    (B) Effect.--This paragraph shall be considered to 
                be consistent with, and is intended to implement, the 
                gathering rights reserved by the treaty described in 
                subparagraph (A).
            (2) Savings provisions regarding relations with indian 
        tribes.--
                    (A) Treaty rights.--Nothing in this subtitle 
                alters, modifies, enlarges, diminishes, or extinguishes 
                the treaty rights of any Indian tribe, including the 
                off-reservation reserved rights established by the 
                Treaty with the Tribes of Middle Oregon of June 25, 
                1855 (12 Stat. 963).
                    (B) Tribal land.--Nothing in this subtitle affects 
                land held in trust by the Secretary of the Interior for 
                Indian tribes or individual members of Indian tribes or 
                other land acquired by the Army Corps of Engineers and 
                administered by the Secretary of the Interior for the 
                benefit of Indian tribes and individual members of 
                Indian tribes.
    (d) Recreational Uses.--
            (1) Mount hood national forest recreational working 
        group.--The Secretary may establish a working group for the 
        purpose of providing advice and recommendations to the Forest 
        Service on planning and implementing recreation enhancements in 
        the Mount Hood National Forest.
            (2) Consideration of conversion of forest roads to 
        recreational uses.--In considering a Forest Service road in the 
        Mount Hood National Forest for possible closure and 
        decommissioning after the date of enactment of this Act, the 
        Secretary, in accordance with applicable law, shall consider, 
        as an alternative to decommissioning the road, converting the 
        road to recreational uses to enhance recreational opportunities 
        in the Mount Hood National Forest.
            (3) Improved trail access for persons with disabilities.--
        The Secretary, in consultation with the public, may design and 
        construct a trail at a location selected by the Secretary in 
        Mount Hood National Forest suitable for use by persons with 
        disabilities.

              TITLE V--DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY AUTHORIZATIONS

SEC. 501. TECHNICAL CRITERIA FOR CLEAN COAL POWER INITIATIVE.

    Section 402(b)(1)(B)(ii) of the Energy Policy Act of 2005 (42 
U.S.C. 15962(b)(1)(B)(ii)) is amended by striking subclause (I) and 
inserting the following:
                                    ``(I)(aa) to remove at least 99 
                                percent of sulfur dioxide; or
                                    ``(bb) to emit not more than 0.04 
                                pound SO&lt;INF&gt;2&lt;/INF&gt; per million Btu, 
                                based on a 30-day average;''.

SEC. 502. ADDITIONAL ASSISTANT SECRETARY FOR DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY.

    (a) In General.--Section 203(a) of the Department of Energy 
Organization Act (42 U.S.C. 7133(a)) is amended in the first sentence 
by striking ``7 Assistant Secretaries'' and inserting ``8 Assistant 
Secretaries''.
    (b) Conforming Amendment.--Section 5315 of title 5, United States 
Code, is amended by striking ``Assistant Secretaries of Energy (7)'' 
and inserting ``Assistant Secretaries of Energy (8)''.
    (c) Sense of Congress.--It is the sense of Congress that leadership 
for missions of the Department of Energy relating to electricity 
delivery and reliability should be at the Assistant Secretary level.

SEC. 503. UNITED STATES-ISRAEL ENERGY COOPERATION.

    (a) Findings.--Congress finds that--
            (1) it is in the highest national security interests of the 
        United States to develop renewable energy sources;
            (2) the State of Israel is a steadfast ally of the United 
        States;
            (3) the special relationship between the United States and 
        Israel is manifested in a variety of cooperative scientific 
        research and development programs, such as--
                    (A) the United States-Israel Binational Science 
                Foundation; and
                    (B) the United States-Israel Binational Industrial 
                Research and Development Foundation;
            (4) those programs have made possible many scientific, 
        technological, and commercial breakthroughs in the fields of 
        life sciences, medicine, bioengineering, agriculture, 
        biotechnology, communications, and others;
            (5) on February 1, 1996, the Secretary of Energy and the 
        Israeli Minister of Energy and Infrastructure signed an 
        agreement to establish a framework for collaboration between 
        the United States and Israel in energy research and development 
        activities;
            (6) Israeli scientists and engineers are at the forefront 
        of research and development in the field of renewable energy 
        sources; and
            (7) enhanced cooperation between the United States and 
        Israel for the purpose of research and development of renewable 
        energy sources would be in the national interests of both 
        countries.
    (b) Grant Program.--
            (1) Establishment.--In implementing the agreement entitled 
        the ``Agreement between the Department of Energy of the United 
        States of America and the Ministry of Energy and Infrastructure 
        of Israel Concerning Energy Cooperation'', dated February 1, 
        1996, the Secretary of Energy (referred to in this section as 
        the ``Secretary'') shall establish a grant program in 
        accordance with the requirements of sections 988 and 989 of the 
        Energy Policy Act of 2005 (42 U.S.C. 16352, 16353) to support 
        research, development, and commercialization of renewable 
        energy or energy efficiency.
            (2) Types of energy.--In carrying out paragraph (1), the 
        Secretary may make grants to promote--
                    (A) solar energy;
                    (B) biomass energy;
                    (C) energy efficiency;
                    (D) wind energy;
                    (E) geothermal energy;
                    (F) wave and tidal energy; and
                    (G) advanced battery technology.
            (3) Eligible applicants.--An applicant shall be eligible to 
        receive a grant under this subsection if the project of the 
        applicant--
                    (A) addresses a requirement in the area of improved 
                energy efficiency or renewable energy sources, as 
                determined by the Secretary; or
                    (B) is a joint venture between--
                            (i)(I) a for-profit business entity, 
                        academic institution, National Laboratory (as 
                        defined in section 2 of the Energy Policy Act 
                        of 2005 (42 U.S.C. 15801)), or nonprofit entity 
                        in the United States; and
                            (II) a for-profit business entity, academic 
                        institution, or nonprofit entity in Israel; or
                            (ii)(I) the Federal Government; and
                            (II) the Government of Israel.
            (4) Applications.--To be eligible to receive a grant under 
        this subsection, an applicant shall submit to the Secretary an 
        application for the grant in accordance with procedures 
        established by the Secretary, in consultation with the advisory 
        board established under paragraph (5).
            (5) Advisory board.--
                    (A) Establishment.--The Secretary shall establish 
                an advisory board--
                            (i) to monitor the method by which grants 
                        are awarded under this subsection; and
                            (ii) to provide to the Secretary periodic 
                        performance reviews of actions taken to carry 
                        out this subsection.
                    (B) Composition.--The advisory board established 
                under subparagraph (A) shall be composed of 3 members, 
                to be appointed by the Secretary, of whom--
                            (i) 1 shall be a representative of the 
                        Federal Government;
                            (ii) 1 shall be selected from a list of 
                        nominees provided by the United States-Israel 
                        Binational Science Foundation; and
                            (iii) 1 shall be selected from a list of 
                        nominees provided by the United States-Israel 
                        Binational Industrial Research and Development 
                        Foundation.
            (6) Contributed funds.--Notwithstanding section 3302 of 
        title 31, United States Code, the Secretary may accept, retain, 
        and use funds contributed by any person, government entity, or 
        organization for purposes of carrying out this subsection--
                    (A) without further appropriation; and
                    (B) without fiscal year limitation.
            (7) Report.--Not later than 180 days after the date of 
        completion of a project for which a grant is provided under 
        this subsection, the grant recipient shall submit to the 
        Secretary a report that contains--
                    (A) a description of the method by which the 
                recipient used the grant funds; and
                    (B) an evaluation of the level of success of each 
                project funded by the grant.
            (8) Classification.--Grants shall be awarded under this 
        subsection only for projects that are considered to be 
        unclassified by both the United States and Israel.
    (c) Termination.--The grant program and the advisory committee 
established under this section terminate on the date that is 7 years 
after the date of enactment of this Act.
    (d) Authorization of Appropriations.--The Secretary shall use 
amounts authorized to be appropriated under section 931 of the Energy 
Policy Act of 2005 (42 U.S.C. 16231) to carry out this section.

SEC. 504. ALASKA NATURAL GAS PIPELINE.

    (a) Administration.--Section 106 of the Alaska Natural Gas Pipeline 
Act (15 U.S.C. 720d) is amended by adding at the end the following:
    ``(h) Administration.--
            ``(1) Personnel appointments.--
                    ``(A) In general.--The Federal Coordinator may 
                appoint and terminate such personnel as the Federal 
                Coordinator determines to be appropriate.
                    ``(B) Authority of federal coordinator.--Personnel 
                appointed by the Federal Coordinator under subparagraph 
                (A) shall be appointed without regard to the provisions 
                of title 5, United States Code, governing appointments 
                in the competitive service.
            ``(2) Compensation.--
                    ``(A) In general.--Subject to subparagraph (B), 
                personnel appointed by the Federal Coordinator under 
                paragraph (1)(A) shall be paid without regard to the 
                provisions of chapter 51 and subchapter III of chapter 
                53 of title 5, United States Code (relating to 
                classification and General Schedule pay rates).
                    ``(B) Maximum level of compensation.--The rate of 
                pay for personnel appointed by the Federal Coordinator 
                under paragraph (1)(A) shall not exceed the maximum 
                level of rate payable for level III of the Executive 
                Schedule.
                    ``(C) Applicability of section 5941.--Section 5941 
                of title 5, United States Code, shall apply to 
                personnel appointed by the Federal Coordinator under 
                paragraph (1)(A).
            ``(3) Temporary services.--
                    ``(A) In general.--The Federal Coordinator may 
                procure temporary and intermittent services in 
                accordance with section 3109(b) of title 5, United 
                States Code.
                    ``(B) Maximum level of compensation.--The level of 
                compensation of an individual employed on a temporary 
                or intermittent basis under subparagraph (A) shall not 
                exceed the maximum level of rate payable for level III 
                of the Executive Schedule.
            ``(4) Fees, charges, and commissions.--
                    ``(A) In general.--The Federal Coordinator shall 
                have the authority to establish, change, and abolish 
                reasonable filing and service fees, charges, and 
                commissions, require deposits of payments, and provide 
                refunds as provided to the Secretary of the Interior in 
                section 304 of the Federal Land Policy and Management 
                Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1734), except that the authority 
                shall be with respect to the duties of the Federal 
                Coordinator, as described in this Act.
                    ``(B) Authority of secretary of the interior.--
                Subparagraph (A) shall not affect the authority of the 
                Secretary of the Interior to establish, change, and 
                abolish reasonable filing and service fees, charges, 
                and commissions, require deposits of payments, and 
                provide refunds under section 304 of the Federal Land 
                Policy and Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1734).
                    ``(C) Use of funds.--The Federal Coordinator is 
                authorized to use, without further appropriation, 
                amounts collected under subparagraph (A) to carry out 
                this section.''.
    (b) Clarification of Authority.--Section 107(a) of the Alaska 
Natural Gas Pipeline Act (15 U.S.C. 720e(a)) is amended by striking 
paragraph (3) and inserting the following:
            ``(3) the validity of any determination, permit, approval, 
        authorization, review, or other related action taken under any 
        provision of law relating to a gas transportation project 
        constructed and operated in accordance with section 103, 
        including--
                    ``(A) subchapter II of chapter 5, and chapter 7, of 
                title 5, United States Code (commonly known as the 
                `Administrative Procedure Act');
                    ``(B) the Endangered Species Act of 1973 (16 U.S.C. 
                1531 et seq.);
                    ``(C) the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 
                (42 U.S.C. 4321 et seq.);
                    ``(D) the National Historic Preservation Act (16 
                U.S.C. 470 et seq.); and
                    ``(E) the Alaska National Interest Lands 
                Conservation Act (16 U.S.C. 3101 et seq.).''.

            TITLE VI--COMPACT OF FREE ASSOCIATION AMENDMENTS

SEC. 601. APPROVAL OF AGREEMENTS.

    Section 101 of the Compact of Free Association Amendments Act of 
2003 (48 U.S.C. 1921) is amended--
            (1) in the first sentence of subsection (a), by inserting 
        before the period at the end the following: ``, including 
        Article X of the Federal Programs and Services Agreement 
        Between the Government of the United States and the Government 
        of the Federated States of Micronesia, as amended under the 
        Agreement to Amend Article X that was signed by those two 
        Governments on June 30, 2004, which shall serve as the 
        authority to implement the provisions thereof''; and
            (2) in the first sentence of subsection (b), by inserting 
        before the period at the end the following: ``, including 
        Article X of the Federal Programs and Services Agreement 
        Between the Government of the United States and the Government 
        of the Republic of the Marshall Islands, as amended under the 
        Agreement to Amend Article X that was signed by those two 
        Governments on June 18, 2004, which shall serve as the 
        authority to implement the provisions thereof''.

SEC. 602. CONFORMING AMENDMENT.

    Section 105(f)(1) of the Compact of Free Association Amendments Act 
of 2003 (48 U.S.C. 1921d(f)(1)) is amended by striking subparagraph (A) 
and inserting the following:
                    ``(A) Emergency and disaster assistance.--
                            ``(i) In general.--Subject to clause (ii), 
                        section 221(a)(6) of the U.S.-FSM Compact and 
                        section 221(a)(5) of the U.S.-RMI Compact shall 
                        each be construed and applied in accordance 
                        with the two Agreements to Amend Article X of 
                        the Federal Programs and Service Agreements 
                        signed on June 30, 2004, and on June 18, 2004, 
                        respectively.
                            ``(ii) Definition of will provide 
                        funding.--In the second sentence of paragraph 
                        12 of each of the Agreements described in 
                        clause (i), the term `will provide funding' 
                        means will provide funding through a transfer 
                        of funds using Standard Form 1151 or a similar 
                        document or through an interagency, 
                        reimbursable agreement.''.

SEC. 603. CLARIFICATIONS REGARDING PALAU.

    Section 105(f)(1)(B) of the Compact of Free Association Amendments 
Act of 2003 (48 U.S.C. 1921d(f)(1)(B)) is amended--
            (1) in clause (ii)(II), by striking ``and its territories'' 
        and inserting ``, its territories, and the Republic of Palau'';
            (2) in clause (iii)(II), by striking ``, or the Republic of 
        the Marshall Islands'' and inserting ``, the Republic of the 
        Marshall Islands, or the Republic of Palau''; and
            (3) in clause (ix)--
                    (A) by striking ``Republic'' both places it appears 
                and inserting ``government, institutions, and people'';
                    (B) by striking ``2007'' and inserting ``2009''; 
                and
                    (C) by striking ``was'' and inserting ``were''.

SEC. 604. AVAILABILITY OF LEGAL SERVICES.

    Section 105(f)(1)(C) of the Compact of Free Association Amendments 
Act of 2003 (48 U.S.C. 1921d(f)(1)(C)) is amended by inserting before 
the period at the end the following: ``, which shall also continue to 
be available to the citizens of the Federated States of Micronesia, the 
Republic of Palau, and the Republic of the Marshall Islands who legally 
reside in the United States (including territories and possessions)''.

SEC. 605. TECHNICAL AMENDMENTS.

    (a) Title I.--
            (1) Section 177 agreement.--Section 103(c)(1) of the 
        Compact of Free Association Amendments Act of 2003 (48 U.S.C. 
        1921b(c)(1)) is amended by striking ``section 177'' and 
        inserting ``Section 177''.
            (2) Interpretation and united states policy.--Section 104 
        of the Compact of Free Association Amendments Act of 2003 (48 
        U.S.C. 1921c) is amended--
                    (A) in subsection (b)(1), by inserting ``the'' 
                before ``U.S.-RMI Compact,'';
                    (B) in subsection (e)--
                            (i) in the matter preceding subparagraph 
                        (A) of paragraph (8), by striking ``to 
                        include'' and inserting ``and include'';
                            (ii) in paragraph (9)(A), by inserting a 
                        comma after ``may''; and
                            (iii) in paragraph (10), by striking 
                        ``related to service'' and inserting ``related 
                        to such services''; and
                    (C) in the first sentence of subsection (j), by 
                inserting ``the'' before ``Interior''.
            (3) Supplemental provisions.--Section 105(b)(1) of the 
        Compact of Free Association Amendments Act of 2003 (48 U.S.C. 
        1921d(b)(1)) is amended by striking ``Trust Fund'' and 
        inserting ``Trust Funds''.
    (b) Title II.--
            (1) U.S.-FSM compact.--The Compact of Free Association, as 
        amended, between the Government of the United States of America 
        and the Government of the Federated States of Micronesia (as 
        provided in section 201(a) of the Compact of Free Association 
        Amendments Act of 2003 (117 Stat. 2757)) is amended--
                    (A) in section 174--
                            (i) in subsection (a), by striking 
                        ``courts'' and inserting ``court''; and
                            (ii) in subsection (b)(2), by striking 
                        ``the'' before ``November'';
                    (B) in section 177(a), by striking ``, or Palau'' 
                and inserting ``(or Palau)'';
                    (C) in section 179(b), by striking ``amended 
                Compact'' and inserting ``Compact, as amended,'';
                    (D) in section 211--
                            (i) in the fourth sentence of subsection 
                        (a), by striking ``Compact, as Amended, of Free 
                        Association'' and inserting ``Compact of Free 
                        Association, as amended'';
                            (ii) in the fifth sentence of subsection 
                        (a), by striking ``Trust Fund Agreement,'' and 
                        inserting ``Agreement Between the Government of 
                        the United States of America and the Government 
                        of the Federated States of Micronesia 
                        Implementing Section 215 and Section 216 of the 
                        Compact, as Amended, Regarding a Trust Fund 
                        (Trust Fund Agreement),'';
                            (iii) in subsection (b)--
                                    (I) in the first sentence, by 
                                striking ``Government of the'' before 
                                ``Federated''; and
                                    (II) in the second sentence, by 
                                striking ``Sections 321 and 323 of the 
                                Compact of Free Association, as 
                                Amended'' and inserting ``Sections 
                                211(b), 321, and 323 of the Compact of 
                                Free Association, as amended,''; and
                            (iv) in the last sentence of subsection 
                        (d), by inserting before the period at the end 
                        the following: ``and the Federal Programs and 
                        Services Agreement referred to in section 
                        231'';
                    (E) in the first sentence of section 215(b), by 
                striking ``subsection(a)'' and inserting ``subsection 
                (a)'';
                    (F) in section 221--
                            (i) in subsection (a)(6), by inserting 
                        ``(Federal Emergency Management Agency)'' after 
                        ``Homeland Security''; and
                            (ii) in the first sentence of subsection 
                        (c), by striking ``agreements'' and inserting 
                        ``agreement'';
                    (G) in the second sentence of section 222, by 
                inserting ``in'' after ``referred to'';
                    (H) in the second sentence of section 232, by 
                striking ``sections 102 (c)'' and all that follows 
                through ``January 14, 1986)'' and inserting ``section 
                102(b) of Public Law 108-188, 117 Stat. 2726, December 
                17, 2003'';
                    (I) in the second sentence of section 252, by 
                inserting ``, as amended,'' after ``Compact'';
                    (J) in the first sentence of the first undesignated 
                paragraph of section 341, by striking ``Section 141'' 
                and inserting ``section 141'';
                    (K) in section 342--
                            (i) in subsection (a), by striking ``14 
                        U.S.C. 195'' and inserting ``section 195 of 
                        title 14, United States Code''; and
                            (ii) in subsection (b)--
                                    (I) by striking ``46 U.S.C. 
                                1295(b)(6)'' and inserting ``section 
                                1303(b)(6) of the Merchant Marine Act, 
                                1936 (46 U.S.C. 1295b(b)(6))''; and
                                    (II) by striking ``46 U.S.C. 
                                1295b(b)(6)(C)'' and inserting 
                                ``section 1303(b)(6)(C) of that Act'';
                    (L) in the third sentence of section 354(a), by 
                striking ``section 442 and 452'' and inserting 
                ``sections 442 and 452'';
                    (M) in section 461(h), by striking 
                ``Telecommunications'' and inserting 
                ``Telecommunication'';
                    (N) in section 462(b)(4), by striking ``of Free 
                Association'' the second place it appears; and
                    (O) in section 463(b), by striking ``Articles IV'' 
                and inserting ``Article IV''.
            (2) U.S.-RMI compact.--The Compact of Free Association, as 
        amended, between the Government of the United States of America 
        and the Government of the Republic of the Marshall Islands (as 
        provided in section 201(b) of the Compact of Free Association 
        Amendments Act of 2003 (117 Stat. 2795)) is amended--
                    (A) in section 174(a), by striking ``court'' and 
                inserting ``courts'';
                    (B) in section 177(a), by striking the comma before 
                ``(or Palau)'';
                    (C) in section 179(b), by striking ``amended 
                Compact,'' and inserting ``Compact, as amended,'';
                    (D) in section 211--
                            (i) in the fourth sentence of subsection 
                        (a), by striking ``Compact, as Amended, of Free 
                        Association'' and inserting ``Compact of Free 
                        Association, as amended'';
                            (ii) in the first sentence of subsection 
                        (b), by striking ``Agreement between the 
                        Government of the United States and the 
                        Government of the Republic of the Marshall 
                        Islands Regarding Miliary Use and Operating 
                        Rights'' and inserting ``Agreement Regarding 
                        the Military Use and Operating Rights of the 
                        Government of the United States in the Republic 
                        of the Marshall Islands concluded Pursuant to 
                        Sections 321 and 323 of the Compact of Free 
                        Association, as Amended (Agreement between the 
                        Government of the United States and the 
                        Government of the Republic of the Marshall 
                        Islands Regarding Military Use and Operating 
                        Rights)''; and
                            (iii) in the last sentence of subsection 
                        (e), by inserting before the period at the end 
                        the following: ``and the Federal Programs and 
                        Services Agreement referred to in section 
                        231'';
                    (E) in section 221(a)--
                            (i) in the matter preceding paragraph (1), 
                        by striking ``Section 231'' and inserting 
                        ``section 231''; and
                            (ii) in paragraph (5), by inserting 
                        ``(Federal Emergency Management Agency)'' after 
                        ``Homeland Security'';
                    (F) in the second sentence of section 232, by 
                striking ``sections 103(m)'' and all that follows 
                through ``(January 14, 1986)'' and inserting ``section 
                103(k) of Public Law 108-188, 117 Stat. 2734, December 
                17, 2003'';
                    (G) in the first sentence of section 341, by 
                striking ``Section 141'' and inserting ``section 141'';
                    (H) in section 342--
                            (i) in subsection (a), by striking ``14 
                        U.S.C. 195'' and inserting ``section 195 of 
                        title 14, United States Code''; and
                            (ii) in subsection (b)--
                                    (I) by striking ``46 U.S.C. 
                                1295(b)(6)'' and inserting ``section 
                                1303(b)(6) of the Merchant Marine Act, 
                                1936 (46 U.S.C. 1295b(b)(6))''; and
                                    (II) by striking ``46 U.S.C. 
                                1295b(b)(6)(C)'' and inserting 
                                ``section 1303(b)(6)(C) of that Act'';
                    (I) in the third sentence of section 354(a), by 
                striking ``section 442 and 452'' and inserting 
                ``sections 442 and 452'';
                    (J) in the first sentence of section 443, by 
                inserting ``, as amended.'' after ``the Compact'';
                    (K) in the matter preceding paragraph (1) of 
                section 461(h)--
                            (i) by striking ``1978'' and inserting 
                        ``1998''; and
                            (ii) by striking ``Telecommunications'' and 
                        inserting ``Telecommunication Union''; and
                    (L) in section 463(b), by striking ``Article'' and 
                inserting ``Articles''.

SEC. 606. TRANSMISSION OF VIDEOTAPE PROGRAMMING.

    Section 111(e)(2) of title 17, United States Code, is amended by 
striking ``or the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands'' and 
inserting ``the Federated States of Micronesia, the Republic of Palau, 
or the Republic of the Marshall Islands''.

SEC. 607. PALAU ROAD MAINTENANCE.

    The Government of the Republic of Palau may deposit the payment 
otherwise payable to the Government of the United States under section 
111 of Public Law 101-219 (48 U.S.C. 1960) into a trust fund if--
            (1) the earnings of the trust fund are expended solely for 
        maintenance of the road system constructed pursuant to section 
        212 of the Compact of Free Association between the Government 
        of the United States of America and the Government of Palau (48 
        U.S.C. 1931 note); and
            (2) the trust fund is established and operated pursuant to 
        an agreement entered into between the Government of the United 
        States and the Government of the Republic of Palau.

SEC. 608. CLARIFICATION OF TAX-FREE STATUS OF TRUST FUNDS.

    In the U.S.-RMI Compact, the U.S.-FSM Compact, and their respective 
trust fund subsidiary agreements, for the purposes of taxation by the 
United States or its subsidiary jurisdictions, the term ``State'' means 
``State, territory, or the District of Columbia''.
                                                       Calendar No. 425

110th CONGRESS

  1st Session

                                S. 2180

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL

 To authorize certain programs and activities in the Department of the 
  Interior, the Forest Service, and the Department of Energy, and to 
 amend the Compact of Free Association Amendments Act of 2003, and for 
                            other purposes.

_______________________________________________________________________

                            October 18, 2007

            Read the second time and placed on the calendar
</pre></body></html>
