<html><body><pre>
[Congressional Bills 110th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[S. 2179 Placed on Calendar Senate (PCS)]






                                                       Calendar No. 424
110th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                S. 2179

To authorize certain programs and activities in the Forest Service, the 
Department of the Interior, and the Department of Energy, and for other 
                               purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                   IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

                            October 17, 2007

 Mr. Bingaman introduced the following bill; which was read the first 
                                  time

                            October 18, 2007

            Read the second time and placed on the calendar

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
To authorize certain programs and activities in the Forest Service, the 
Department of the Interior, and the Department of Energy, and for other 
                               purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE; TABLE OF CONTENTS.

    (a) Short Title.--This Act may be cited as the ``National Forests, 
Parks, Public Land, and Reclamation Projects Authorization Act of 
2007''.
    (b) Table of Contents.--The table of contents of this Act is as 
follows:

Sec. 1. Short title; table of contents.
                 TITLE I--FOREST SERVICE AUTHORIZATIONS

Sec. 101. Wild Sky Wilderness.
Sec. 102. Designation of national recreational trail, Willamette 
                            National Forest, Oregon, in honor of Jim 
                            Weaver, a former Member of the House of 
                            Representatives.
           TITLE II--BUREAU OF LAND MANAGEMENT AUTHORIZATIONS

Sec. 201. Piedras Blancas Historic Light Station.
            TITLE III--NATIONAL PARK SERVICE AUTHORIZATIONS

                   Subtitle A--Cooperative Agreements

Sec. 301. Cooperative agreements for national park natural resource 
                            protection.
         Subtitle B--Carl Sandburg Home National Historic Site

Sec. 311. Carl Sandburg Home National Historic Site boundary 
                            adjustment.
                          Subtitle C--Studies

Sec. 321. National Park System special resource study, Newtonia Civil 
                            War Battlefields, Missouri.
Sec. 322. National Park Service study regarding the Soldiers' Memorial 
                            Military Museum.
Sec. 323. Columbia-Pacific National Heritage Area study.
            Subtitle D--Memorials, Commissions, and Museums

Sec. 331. Commemorative work to honor Brigadier General Francis Marion 
                            and his family.
Sec. 332. Extension of authority for establishing disabled veterans 
                            memorial.
Sec. 333. Commission to Study the Potential Creation of a National 
                            Museum of the American Latino.
Sec. 334. Hudson-Fulton-Champlain Quadricentennial Commemoration 
                            Commission.
Sec. 335. Sense of Congress regarding the designation of the National 
                            Museum of Wildlife Art of the United 
                            States.
                     Subtitle E--Trails and Rivers

Sec. 341. Authorization and administration of Star-Spangled Banner 
                            National Historic Trail.
Sec. 342. Land conveyance, Lewis and Clark National Historic Trail, 
                            Nebraska.
Sec. 343. Wild and Scenic River designation, Eightmile River, 
                            Connecticut.
  TITLE IV--BUREAU OF RECLAMATION AND UNITED STATES GEOLOGICAL SURVEY 
                             AUTHORIZATIONS

Sec. 401. Alaska water resources study.
Sec. 402. Renegotiation of payment schedule, Redwood Valley County 
                            Water District.
Sec. 403. American River Pump Station Project transfer.
Sec. 404. Arthur V. Watkins Dam enlargement.
Sec. 405. New Mexico water planning assistance.
Sec. 406. Conveyance of certain buildings and lands of the Yakima 
                            Project, Washington.
Sec. 407. Conjunctive use of surface and groundwater in Juab County, 
                            Utah.
Sec. 408. Early repayment of A & B Irrigation District construction 
                            costs.
              TITLE V--DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY AUTHORIZATIONS

Sec. 501. Energy technology transfer.
Sec. 502. Amendments to the Steel and Aluminum Energy Conservation and 
                            Technology Competitiveness Act of 1988.

                 TITLE I--FOREST SERVICE AUTHORIZATIONS

SEC. 101. WILD SKY WILDERNESS.

    (a) Additions to the National Wilderness Preservation System.--
            (1) Additions.--The following Federal lands in the State of 
        Washington are hereby designated as wilderness and, therefore, 
        as components of the National Wilderness Preservation System: 
        certain lands which comprise approximately 106,000 acres, as 
        generally depicted on a map entitled ``Wild Sky Wilderness 
        Proposal'' and dated February 6, 2007, which shall be known as 
        the ``Wild Sky Wilderness''.
            (2) Map and legal descriptions.--As soon as practicable 
        after the date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary of 
        Agriculture shall file a map and a legal description for the 
        wilderness area designated under this section with the 
        Committee on Energy and Natural Resources of the Senate and the 
        Committee on Natural Resources of the House of Representatives. 
        The map and description shall have the same force and effect as 
        if included in this section, except that the Secretary of 
        Agriculture may correct clerical and typographical errors in 
        the legal description and map. The map and legal description 
        shall be on file and available for public inspection in the 
        office of the Chief of the Forest Service, Department of 
        Agriculture.
    (b) Administration Provisions.--
            (1) In general.--
                    (A) Subject to valid existing rights, lands 
                designated as wilderness by this section shall be 
                managed by the Secretary of Agriculture in accordance 
                with the Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1131 et seq.) and 
                this section, except that, with respect to any 
                wilderness areas designated by this section, any 
                reference in the Wilderness Act to the effective date 
                of the Wilderness Act shall be deemed to be a reference 
                to the date of enactment of this Act.
                    (B) To fulfill the purposes of this section and the 
                Wilderness Act and to achieve administrative 
                efficiencies, the Secretary of Agriculture may manage 
                the area designated by this section as a comprehensive 
                part of the larger complex of adjacent and nearby 
                wilderness areas.
            (2) New trails.--
                    (A) The Secretary of Agriculture shall consult with 
                interested parties and shall establish a trail plan for 
                Forest Service lands in order to develop--
                            (i) a system of hiking and equestrian 
                        trails within the wilderness designated by this 
                        section in a manner consistent with the 
                        Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1131 et seq.); and
                            (ii) a system of trails adjacent to or to 
                        provide access to the wilderness designated by 
                        this section.
                    (B) Within 2 years after the date of enactment of 
                this Act, the Secretary of Agriculture shall complete a 
                report on the implementation of the trail plan required 
                under this section. This report shall include the 
                identification of priority trails for development.
            (3) Repeater site.--Within the Wild Sky Wilderness, the 
        Secretary of Agriculture is authorized to use helicopter access 
        to construct and maintain a joint Forest Service and Snohomish 
        County telecommunications repeater site, in compliance with a 
        Forest Service approved communications site plan, for the 
        purposes of improving communications for safety, health, and 
        emergency services.
            (4) Float plane access.--As provided by section 4(d)(1) of 
        the Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1133(d)(1)), the use of 
        floatplanes on Lake Isabel, where such use has already become 
        established, shall be permitted to continue subject to such 
        reasonable restrictions as the Secretary of Agriculture 
        determines to be desirable.
            (5) Evergreen mountain lookout.--The designation under this 
        section shall not preclude the operation and maintenance of the 
        existing Evergreen Mountain Lookout in the same manner and 
        degree in which the operation and maintenance of such lookout 
        was occurring as of the date of enactment of this Act.
    (c) Authorization for Land Acquisition.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary of Agriculture is authorized 
        to acquire lands and interests therein, by purchase, donation, 
        or exchange, and shall give priority consideration to those 
        lands identified as ``Priority Acquisition Lands'' on the map 
        described in subsection (a)(1). The boundaries of the Mt. 
        Baker-Snoqualmie National Forest and the Wild Sky Wilderness 
        shall be adjusted to encompass any lands acquired pursuant to 
        this section.
            (2) Access.--Consistent with section 5(a) of the Wilderness 
        Act (16 U.S.C. 1134(a)), the Secretary of Agriculture shall 
        ensure adequate access to private inholdings within the Wild 
        Sky Wilderness.
            (3) Appraisal.--Valuation of private lands shall be 
        determined without reference to any restrictions on access or 
        use which arise out of designation as a wilderness area as a 
        result of this section.
    (d) Land Exchanges.--The Secretary of Agriculture shall exchange 
lands and interests in lands, as generally depicted on a map entitled 
``Chelan County Public Utility District Exchange'' and dated May 22, 
2002, with the Chelan County Public Utility District in accordance with 
the following provisions:
            (1) If the Chelan County Public Utility District, within 90 
        days after the date of enactment of this Act, offers to the 
        Secretary of Agriculture approximately 371.8 acres within the 
        Mt. Baker-Snoqualmie National Forest in the State of 
        Washington, the Secretary shall accept such lands.
            (2) Upon acceptance of title by the Secretary of 
        Agriculture to such lands and interests therein, the Secretary 
        of Agriculture shall convey to the Chelan County Public Utility 
        District a permanent easement, including helicopter access, 
        consistent with such levels as used as of the date of enactment 
        of this Act, to maintain an existing telemetry site to monitor 
        snow pack on 1.82 acres on the Wenatchee National Forest in the 
        State of Washington.
            (3) The exchange directed by this section shall be 
        consummated if Chelan County Public Utility District conveys 
        title acceptable to the Secretary and provided there is no 
        hazardous material on the site, which is objectionable to the 
        Secretary.
            (4) In the event Chelan County Public Utility District 
        determines there is no longer a need to maintain a telemetry 
        site to monitor the snow pack for calculating expected runoff 
        into the Lake Chelan hydroelectric project and the 
        hydroelectric projects in the Columbia River Basin, the 
        Secretary shall be notified in writing and the easement shall 
        be extinguished and all rights conveyed by this exchange shall 
        revert to the United States.

SEC. 102. DESIGNATION OF NATIONAL RECREATIONAL TRAIL, WILLAMETTE 
              NATIONAL FOREST, OREGON, IN HONOR OF JIM WEAVER, A FORMER 
              MEMBER OF THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.

    (a) Designation.--Forest Service trail number 3590 in the 
Willamette National Forest in Lane County, Oregon, which is a 19.6 mile 
trail that begins and ends at North Waldo Campground and 
circumnavigates Waldo Lake, is hereby designated as a national 
recreation trail under section 4 of the National Trails System Act (16 
U.S.C. 1243) and shall be known as the ``Jim Weaver Loop Trail''.
    (b) Interpretive Sign.--Using funds available for the Forest 
Service, the Secretary of Agriculture shall prepare, install, and 
maintain an appropriate sign at the trailhead of the Jim Weaver Loop 
Trail to indicate the name of the trail and to provide information 
regarding the life and career of Congressman Jim Weaver.

           TITLE II--BUREAU OF LAND MANAGEMENT AUTHORIZATIONS

SEC. 201. PIEDRAS BLANCAS HISTORIC LIGHT STATION.

    (a) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Light station.--The term ``Light Station'' means 
        Piedras Blancas Light Station.
            (2) Outstanding natural area.--The term ``Outstanding 
        Natural Area'' means the Piedras Blancas Historic Light Station 
        Outstanding Natural Area established pursuant to subsection 
        (c).
            (3) Public lands.--The term ``public lands'' has the 
        meaning stated in section 103(e) of the Federal Land Policy and 
        Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1703(e)).
            (4) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary 
        of the Interior.
    (b) Findings.--Congress finds as follows:
            (1) The publicly owned Piedras Blancas Light Station has 
        nationally recognized historical structures that should be 
        preserved for present and future generations.
            (2) The coastline adjacent to the Light Station is 
        internationally recognized as having significant wildlife and 
        marine habitat that provides critical information to research 
        institutions throughout the world.
            (3) The Light Station tells an important story about 
        California's coastal prehistory and history in the context of 
        the surrounding region and communities.
            (4) The coastal area surrounding the Light Station was 
        traditionally used by Indian people, including the Chumash and 
        Salinan Indian tribes.
            (5) The Light Station is historically associated with the 
        nearby world-famous Hearst Castle (Hearst San Simeon State 
        Historical Monument), now administered by the State of 
        California.
            (6) The Light Station represents a model partnership where 
        future management can be successfully accomplished among the 
        Federal Government, the State of California, San Luis Obispo 
        County, local communities, and private groups.
            (7) Piedras Blancas Historic Light Station Outstanding 
        Natural Area would make a significant addition to the National 
        Landscape Conservation System administered by the Department of 
        the Interior's Bureau of Land Management.
            (8) Statutory protection is needed for the Light Station 
        and its surrounding Federal lands to ensure that it remains a 
        part of our historic, cultural, and natural heritage and to be 
        a source of inspiration for the people of the United States.
    (c) Designation of the Piedras Blancas Historic Light Station 
Outstanding Natural Area.--
            (1) In general.--In order to protect, conserve, and enhance 
        for the benefit and enjoyment of present and future generations 
        the unique and nationally important historical, natural, 
        cultural, scientific, educational, scenic, and recreational 
        values of certain lands in and around the Piedras Blancas Light 
        Station, in San Luis Obispo County, California, while allowing 
        certain recreational and research activities to continue, there 
        is established, subject to valid existing rights, the Piedras 
        Blancas Historic Light Station Outstanding Natural Area.
            (2) Maps and legal descriptions.--The boundaries of the 
        Outstanding Natural Area as those shown on the map entitled 
        ``Piedras Blancas Historic Light Station: Outstanding Natural 
        Area'', dated May 5, 2004, which shall be on file and available 
        for public inspection in the Office of the Director, Bureau of 
        Land Management, United States Department of the Interior, and 
        the State office of the Bureau of Land Management in the State 
        of California.
            (3) Basis of management.--The Secretary shall manage the 
        Outstanding Natural Area as part of the National Landscape 
        Conservation System to protect the resources of the area, and 
        shall allow only those uses that further the purposes for the 
        establishment of the Outstanding Natural Area, the Federal Land 
        Policy and Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.), and 
        other applicable laws.
            (4) Withdrawal.--Subject to valid existing rights, and in 
        accordance with the existing withdrawal as set forth in Public 
        Land Order 7501 (Oct. 12, 2001, Vol. 66, No. 198, Federal 
        Register 52149), the Federal lands and interests in lands 
        included within the Outstanding Natural Area are hereby 
        withdrawn from--
                    (A) all forms of entry, appropriation, or disposal 
                under the public land laws;
                    (B) location, entry, and patent under the public 
                land mining laws; and
                    (C) operation of the mineral leasing and geothermal 
                leasing laws and the mineral materials laws.
    (d) Management of the Piedras Blancas Historic Light Station 
Outstanding Natural Area.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary shall manage the Outstanding 
        Natural Area in a manner that conserves, protects, and enhances 
        the unique and nationally important historical, natural, 
        cultural, scientific, educational, scenic, and recreational 
        values of that area, including an emphasis on preserving and 
        restoring the Light Station facilities, consistent with the 
        requirements of subsection (c)(3).
            (2) Uses.--Subject to valid existing rights, the Secretary 
        shall only allow such uses of the Outstanding Natural Area as 
        the Secretary finds are likely to further the purposes for 
        which the Outstanding Natural Area is established as set forth 
        in subsection (c)(1).
            (3) Management plan.--Not later than 3 years after of the 
        date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall complete a 
        comprehensive management plan consistent with the requirements 
        of section 202 of the Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 
        1976 (43 U.S.C. 1712) to provide long-term management guidance 
        for the public lands within the Outstanding Natural Area and 
        fulfill the purposes for which it is established, as set forth 
        in subsection (c)(1). The management plan shall be developed in 
        consultation with appropriate Federal, State, and local 
        government agencies, with full public participation, and the 
        contents shall include--
                    (A) provisions designed to ensure the protection of 
                the resources and values described in subsection 
                (c)(1);
                    (B) objectives to restore the historic Light 
                Station and ancillary buildings;
                    (C) an implementation plan for a continuing program 
                of interpretation and public education about the Light 
                Station and its importance to the surrounding 
                community;
                    (D) a proposal for minimal administrative and 
                public facilities to be developed or improved at a 
                level compatible with achieving the resources 
                objectives for the Outstanding Natural Area as 
                described in paragraph (1) and with other proposed 
                management activities to accommodate visitors and 
                researchers to the Outstanding Natural Area; and
                    (E) cultural resources management strategies for 
                the Outstanding Natural Area, prepared in consultation 
                with appropriate departments of the State of 
                California, with emphasis on the preservation of the 
                resources of the Outstanding Natural Area and the 
                interpretive, education, and long-term scientific uses 
                of the resources, giving priority to the enforcement of 
                the Archaeological Resources Protection Act of 1979 (16 
                U.S.C. 470aa et seq.) and the National Historic 
                Preservation Act (16 U.S.C. 470 et seq.) within the 
                Outstanding Natural Area.
            (4) Cooperative agreements.--In order to better implement 
        the management plan and to continue the successful partnerships 
        with the local communities and the Hearst San Simeon State 
        Historical Monument, administered by the California Department 
        of Parks and Recreation, the Secretary may enter into 
        cooperative agreements with the appropriate Federal, State, and 
        local agencies pursuant to section 307(b) of the Federal Land 
        Management Policy and Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 
        1737(b)).
            (5) Research activities.--In order to continue the 
        successful partnership with research organizations and agencies 
        and to assist in the development and implementation of the 
        management plan, the Secretary may authorize within the 
        Outstanding Natural Area appropriate research activities for 
        the purposes identified in subsection (c)(1) and pursuant to 
        section 307(a) of the Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 
        1976 (43 U.S.C. 1737(a)).
            (6) Acquisition.--State and privately held lands or 
        interests in lands adjacent to the Outstanding Natural Area and 
        identified as appropriate for acquisition in the management 
        plan may be acquired by the Secretary as part of the 
        Outstanding Natural Area only by--
                    (A) donation;
                    (B) exchange with a willing party; or
                    (C) purchase from a willing seller.
            (7) Additions to the outstanding natural area.--Any lands 
        or interest in lands adjacent to the Outstanding Natural Area 
        acquired by the United States after the date of enactment of 
        this Act shall be added to and administered as part of the 
        Outstanding Natural Area.
            (8) Overflights.--Nothing in this section or the management 
        plan shall be construed to--
                    (A) restrict or preclude overflights, including low 
                level overflights, military, commercial, and general 
                aviation overflights that can be seen or heard within 
                the Outstanding Natural Area;
                    (B) restrict or preclude the designation or 
                creation of new units of special use airspace or the 
                establishment of military flight training routes over 
                the Outstanding Natural Area; or
                    (C) modify regulations governing low-level 
                overflights above the adjacent Monterey Bay National 
                Marine Sanctuary.
            (9) Law enforcement activities.--Nothing in this section 
        shall be construed to preclude or otherwise affect coastal 
        border security operations or other law enforcement activities 
        by the Coast Guard or other agencies within the Department of 
        Homeland Security, the Department of Justice, or any other 
        Federal, State, and local law enforcement agencies within the 
        Outstanding Natural Area.
            (10) Native american uses and interests.--In recognition of 
        the past use of the Outstanding Natural Area by Indians and 
        Indian tribes for traditional cultural and religious purposes, 
        the Secretary shall ensure access to the Outstanding Natural 
        Area by Indians and Indian tribes for such traditional cultural 
        and religious purposes. In implementing this subsection, the 
        Secretary, upon the request of an Indian tribe or Indian 
        religious community, shall temporarily close to the general 
        public use of one or more specific portions of the Outstanding 
        Natural Area in order to protect the privacy of traditional 
        cultural and religious activities in such areas by the Indian 
        tribe or Indian religious community. Any such closure shall be 
        made to affect the smallest practicable area for the minimum 
        period necessary for such purposes. Such access shall be 
        consistent with the purpose and intent of Public Law 95-341 (42 
        U.S.C. 1996 et seq.; commonly referred to as the ``American 
        Indian Religious Freedom Act'').
            (11) No buffer zones.--The designation of the Outstanding 
        Natural Area is not intended to lead to the creation of 
        protective perimeters or buffer zones around area. The fact 
        that activities outside the Outstanding Natural Area and not 
        consistent with the purposes of this section can be seen or 
        heard within the Outstanding Natural Area shall not, of itself, 
        preclude such activities or uses up to the boundary of the 
        Outstanding Natural Area.
    (e) Authorization of Appropriations.--There are authorized to be 
appropriated such sums as are necessary to carry out this section.

            TITLE III--NATIONAL PARK SERVICE AUTHORIZATIONS

                   Subtitle A--Cooperative Agreements

SEC. 301. COOPERATIVE AGREEMENTS FOR NATIONAL PARK NATURAL RESOURCE 
              PROTECTION.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary of the Interior (referred to in this 
section as the ``Secretary'') may enter into cooperative agreements 
with State, local, or tribal governments, other Federal agencies, other 
public entities, educational institutions, private nonprofit 
organizations, or participating private landowners for the purpose of 
protecting natural resources of units of the National Park System 
through collaborative efforts on land inside and outside of National 
Park System units.
    (b) Terms and Conditions.--A cooperative agreement entered into 
under subsection (a) shall provide clear and direct benefits to park 
natural resources and--
            (1) provide for--
                    (A) the preservation, conservation, and restoration 
                of coastal and riparian systems, watersheds, and 
                wetlands;
                    (B) preventing, controlling, or eradicating 
                invasive exotic species that are within a unit of the 
                National Park System or adjacent to a unit of the 
                National Park System; or
                    (C) restoration of natural resources, including 
                native wildlife habitat or ecosystems;
            (2) include a statement of purpose demonstrating how the 
        agreement will--
                    (A) enhance science-based natural resource 
                stewardship at the unit of the National Park System; 
                and
                    (B) benefit the parties to the agreement;
            (3) specify any staff required and technical assistance to 
        be provided by the Secretary or other parties to the agreement 
        in support of activities inside and outside the unit of the 
        National Park System that will--
                    (A) protect natural resources of the unit of the 
                National Park System; and
                    (B) benefit the parties to the agreement;
            (4) identify any materials, supplies, or equipment and any 
        other resources that will be contributed by the parties to the 
        agreement or by other Federal agencies;
            (5) describe any financial assistance to be provided by the 
        Secretary or the partners to implement the agreement;
            (6) ensure that any expenditure by the Secretary pursuant 
        to the agreement is determined by the Secretary to support the 
        purposes of natural resource stewardship at a unit of the 
        National Park System; and
            (7) include such other terms and conditions as are agreed 
        to by the Secretary and the other parties to the agreement.
    (c) Limitations.--The Secretary shall not use any funds associated 
with an agreement entered into under subsection (a) for the purposes of 
land acquisition, regulatory activity, or the development, maintenance, 
or operation of infrastructure, except for ancillary support facilities 
that the Secretary determines to be necessary for the completion of 
projects or activities identified in the agreement.
    (d) Authorization of Appropriations.--There are authorized to be 
appropriated such sums as are necessary to carry out this section.

         Subtitle B--Carl Sandburg Home National Historic Site

SEC. 311. CARL SANDBURG HOME NATIONAL HISTORIC SITE BOUNDARY 
              ADJUSTMENT.

    (a) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Historic site.--The term ``Historic Site'' means Carl 
        Sandburg Home National Historic Site.
            (2) Map.--The term ``map'' means the map entitled 
        ``Sandburg Center Alternative'' numbered 445/80,017 and dated 
        April 2007.
            (3) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary 
        of the Interior.
    (b) Acquisition Authority.--The Secretary may acquire from willing 
sellers by donation, purchase with donated or appropriated funds, or 
exchange not more than 110 acres of land, water, or interests in land 
and water, within the area depicted on the map, to be added to the 
Historic Site.
    (c) Visitor Center.--To preserve the historic character and 
landscape of the site, the Secretary may also acquire up to five acres 
for the development of a visitor center and visitor parking area 
adjacent to or in the general vicinity of the Historic Site.
    (d) Boundary Revision.--Upon acquisition of any land or interest in 
land under this section, the Secretary shall revise the boundary of the 
Historic Site to reflect the acquisition.
    (e) Availability of Map.--The map shall be on file and available 
for public inspection in the appropriate offices of the National Park 
Service.
    (f) Administration.--Land added to the Historic Site by this 
section shall be administered as part of the Historic Site in 
accordance with applicable laws and regulations.

                          Subtitle C--Studies

SEC. 321. NATIONAL PARK SYSTEM SPECIAL RESOURCE STUDY, NEWTONIA CIVIL 
              WAR BATTLEFIELDS, MISSOURI.

    (a) Special Resource Study.--The Secretary of the Interior shall 
conduct a special resource study relating to the First Battle of 
Newtonia in Newton County, Missouri, which occurred on September 30, 
1862, and the Second Battle of Newtonia, which occurred on October 28, 
1864, during the Missouri Expedition of Confederate General Sterling 
Price in September and October 1864.
    (b) Contents.--In conducting the study under subsection (a), the 
Secretary shall--
            (1) evaluate the national significance of the Newtonia 
        battlefields and their related sites;
            (2) consider the findings and recommendations contained in 
        the document entitled ``Vision Plan for Newtonia Battlefield 
        Preservation'' and dated June 2004, which was prepared by the 
        Newtonia Battlefields Protection Association;
            (3) evaluate the suitability and feasibility of adding the 
        battlefields and related sites as part of Wilson's Creek 
        National Battlefield or designating the battlefields and 
        related sites as a unit of the National Park System;
            (4) analyze the potential impact that the inclusion of the 
        battlefields and related sites as part of Wilson's Creek 
        National Battlefield or their designation as a unit of the 
        National Park System is likely to have on land within or 
        bordering the battlefields and related sites that is privately 
        owned at the time of the study is conducted;
            (5) consider alternatives for preservation, protection, and 
        interpretation of the battlefields and related sites by the 
        National Park Service, other Federal, State, or local 
        governmental entities, or private and nonprofit organizations; 
        and
            (6) identify cost estimates for any necessary acquisition, 
        development, interpretation, operation, and maintenance 
        associated with the alternatives referred to in paragraph (5).
    (c) Criteria.--The criteria for the study of areas for potential 
inclusion in the National Park System contained in section 8 of Public 
Law 91-383 (16 U.S.C. 1a-5) shall apply to the study under subsection 
(a).
    (d) Transmission to Congress.--Not later than three years after the 
date on which funds are first made available for the study under 
subsection (a), the Secretary shall submit to the Committee on Natural 
Resources of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Energy 
and Natural Resources of the Senate a report containing--
            (1) the results of the study; and
            (2) any conclusions and recommendations of the Secretary.

SEC. 322. NATIONAL PARK SERVICE STUDY REGARDING THE SOLDIERS' MEMORIAL 
              MILITARY MUSEUM.

    (a) Findings.--Congress finds as follows:
            (1) The Soldiers' Memorial is a tribute to all veterans 
        located in the greater St. Louis area, including Southern 
        Illinois.
            (2) The current annual budget for the memorial is $185,000 
        and is paid for exclusively by the City of St. Louis.
            (3) In 1923, the City of St. Louis voted to spend 
        $6,000,000 to purchase a memorial plaza and building dedicated 
        to citizens of St. Louis who lost their lives in World War I.
            (4) The purchase of the 7 block site exhausted the funds 
        and no money remained to construct a monument.
            (5) In 1933, Mayor Bernard F. Dickmann appealed to citizens 
        and the city government to raise $1,000,000 to construct a 
        memorial building and general improvement of the plaza area and 
        the construction of Soldiers' Memorial began on October 21, 
        1935.
            (6) On October 14, 1936, President Franklin D. Roosevelt 
        officially dedicated the site.
            (7) On Memorial Day in 1938, Mayor Dickmann opened the 
        building to the public.
    (b) Study.--The Secretary of the Interior shall carry out a study 
to determine the suitability and feasibility of designating the 
Soldiers' Memorial Military Museum, located at 1315 Chestnut, St. 
Louis, Missouri, as a unit of the National Park System.
    (c) Study Process and Completion.--Section 8(c) of Public Law 91-
383 (16 U.S.C. 1a-5(c)) shall apply to the conduct and completion of 
the study required by this section.
    (d) Report.--The Secretary shall submit a report describing the 
results the study required by this section to the Committee on Natural 
Resources of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Energy 
and Natural Resources of the Senate.

SEC. 323. COLUMBIA-PACIFIC NATIONAL HERITAGE AREA STUDY.

    (a) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary 
        of the Interior.
            (2) Study area.--The term ``study area'' means--
                    (A) the coastal areas of Clatsop and Pacific 
                Counties (also known as the North Beach Peninsula); and
                    (B) areas relating to Native American history, 
                local history, Euro-American settlement culture, and 
                related economic activities of the Columbia River 
                within a corridor along the Columbia River eastward in 
                Clatsop, Pacific, Columbia, and Wahkiakum Counties.
    (b) Columbia-Pacific National Heritage Area Study.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary, in consultation with the 
        managers of any Federal land within the study area, appropriate 
        State and local governmental agencies, tribal governments, and 
        any interested organizations, shall conduct a study to 
        determine the feasibility of designating the study area as the 
        Columbia-Pacific National Heritage Area.
            (2) Requirements.--The study shall include analysis, 
        documentation, and determinations on whether the study area--
                    (A) has an assemblage of natural, historic, and 
                cultural resources that together represent distinctive 
                aspects of American heritage worthy of recognition, 
                conservation, interpretation, and continuing use, and 
                are best managed through partnerships among public and 
                private entities and by combining diverse and sometimes 
                noncontiguous resources and active communities;
                    (B) reflects traditions, customs, beliefs, and 
                folklife that are a valuable part of the national 
                story;
                    (C) provides outstanding opportunities to conserve 
                natural, historic, cultural, or scenic features;
                    (D) provides outstanding recreational and 
                educational opportunities;
                    (E) contains resources important to the identified 
                theme or themes of the study area that retain a degree 
                of integrity capable of supporting interpretation;
                    (F) includes residents, business interests, 
                nonprofit organizations, and local and State 
                governments that are involved in the planning, have 
                developed a conceptual financial plan that outlines the 
                roles for all participants, including the Federal 
                Government, and have demonstrated support for the 
                concept of a national heritage area;
                    (G) has a potential local coordinating entity to 
                work in partnership with residents, business interests, 
                nonprofit organizations, and local and State 
                governments to develop a national heritage area 
                consistent with continued local and State economic 
                activity; and
                    (H) has a conceptual boundary map that is supported 
                by the public.
            (3) Private property.--In conducting the study required by 
        this subsection, the Secretary shall analyze the potential 
        impact that designation of the area as a national heritage area 
        is likely to have on land within the proposed area or bordering 
        the proposed area that is privately owned at the time that the 
        study is conducted.
    (c) Report.--Not later than 3 fiscal years after the date on which 
funds are made available to carry out the study, the Secretary shall 
submit to the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources of the Senate 
and the Committee on Natural Resources of the House of Representatives 
a report that describes the findings, conclusions, and recommendations 
of the Secretary with respect to the study.

            Subtitle D--Memorials, Commissions, and Museums

SEC. 331. COMMEMORATIVE WORK TO HONOR BRIGADIER GENERAL FRANCIS MARION 
              AND HIS FAMILY.

    (a) Findings.--The Congress finds the following:
            (1) Francis Marion was born in 1732 in St. John's Parish, 
        Berkeley County, South Carolina. He married Mary Esther Videau 
        on April 20th, 1786. Francis and Mary Esther Marion had no 
        children, but raised a son of a relative as their own, and gave 
        the child Francis Marion's name.
            (2) Brigadier General Marion commanded the Williamsburg 
        Militia Revolutionary force in South Carolina and was 
        instrumental in delaying the advance of British forces by 
        leading his troops in disrupting supply lines.
            (3) Brigadier General Marion's tactics, which were unheard 
        of in rules of warfare at the time, included lightning raids on 
        British convoys, after which he and his forces would retreat 
        into the swamps to avoid capture. British Lieutenant Colonel 
        Tarleton stated that ``as for this damned old swamp fox, the 
        devil himself could not catch him''. Thus, the legend of the 
        ``Swamp Fox'' was born.
            (4) His victory at the Battle of Eutaw Springs in September 
        of 1781 was officially recognized by Congress.
            (5) Brigadier General Marion's troops are believed to be 
        the first racially integrated force fighting for the United 
        States, as his band was a mix of Whites, Blacks, both free and 
        slave, and Native Americans.
            (6) As a statesman, he represented his parish in the South 
        Carolina senate as well as his State at the Constitutional 
        Convention.
            (7) Although the Congress has authorized the establishment 
        of commemorative works on Federal lands in the District of 
        Columbia honoring such celebrated Americans as George 
        Washington, Thomas Jefferson, and Abraham Lincoln, the National 
        Capital has no comparable memorial to Brigadier General Francis 
        Marion for his bravery and leadership during the Revolutionary 
        War, without which the United States would not exist.
            (8) Brigadier General Marion's legacy must live on. Since 
        1878, United States Reservation 18 has been officially referred 
        to as Marion Park. Located between 4th and 6th Streets, S.E., 
        at the intersection of E Street and South Carolina Avenue, 
        S.E., in Washington, DC, the park lacks a formal commemoration 
        to this South Carolina hero who was important to the initiation 
        of the Nation's heritage.
            (9) The time has come to correct this oversight so that 
        future generations of Americans will know and understand the 
        preeminent historical and lasting significance to the Nation of 
        Brigadier General Marion's contributions. Such a South Carolina 
        hero deserves to be given the proper recognition.
    (b) Authority To Establish Commemorative Work.--The Marion Park 
Project, a committee of the Palmetto Conservation Foundation, may 
establish a commemorative work on Federal land in the District of 
Columbia and its environs to honor Brigadier General Francis Marion and 
his service.
    (c) Compliance With Standards for Commemorative Works.--The 
commemorative work authorized by subsection (b) shall be established in 
accordance with chapter 89 of title 40, United States Code (commonly 
known as the ``Commemorative Works Act'').
    (d) Use of Federal Funds Prohibited.--Federal funds may not be used 
to pay any expense of the establishment of the commemorative work 
authorized by subsection (b). The Marion Park Project, a committee of 
the Palmetto Conservation Foundation, shall be solely responsible for 
acceptance of contributions for, and payment of the expenses of, the 
establishment of that commemorative work.
    (e) Deposit of Excess Funds.--If, upon payment of all expenses of 
the establishment of the commemorative work authorized by subsection 
(b) (including the maintenance and preservation amount provided for in 
section 8906(b) of title 40, United States Code), or upon expiration of 
the authority for the commemorative work under chapter 89 of title 40, 
United States Code, there remains a balance of funds received for the 
establishment of that commemorative work, the Marion Park Project, a 
committee of the Palmetto Conservation Foundation, shall transmit the 
amount of the balance to the Secretary of the Treasury for deposit in 
the account provided for in section 8906(b)(1) of such title.
    (f) Definitions.--For the purposes of this section, the terms 
``commemorative work'' and ``the District of Columbia and its 
environs'' have the meanings given to such terms in section 8902(a) of 
title 40, United States Code.

SEC. 332. EXTENSION OF AUTHORITY FOR ESTABLISHING DISABLED VETERANS 
              MEMORIAL.

    Public Law 106-348 is amended--
            (1) in subsection (b)--
                    (A) by striking ``The establishment'' and inserting 
                ``Except as provided in subsection (e), the 
                establishment''; and
                    (B) by striking ``the Commemorative Works Act (40 
                U.S.C. 1001 et seq.)'' and inserting ``chapter 89 of 
                title 40, United States Code'';
            (2) in subsection (d)--
                    (A) by striking ``section 8(b) of the Commemorative 
                Works Act (40 U.S.C. 1008(b))'' and inserting ``section 
                8906 of title 40, United States Code'';
                    (B) by striking ``or upon expiration of the 
                authority for the memorial under section 10(b) of such 
                Act (40 U.S.C. 1010(b)),''; and
                    (C) by striking ``section 8(b)(1) of such Act (40 
                U.S.C. 1008(b)(1)'' and inserting ``8906(b)(2) or (3) 
                of such title''; and
            (3) by adding at the end the following new subsection:
    ``(e) Termination of Authority.--Notwithstanding section 8903(e) of 
title 40, United States Code, the authority to establish a memorial 
under this section shall expire on October 24, 2015.''.

SEC. 333. COMMISSION TO STUDY THE POTENTIAL CREATION OF A NATIONAL 
              MUSEUM OF THE AMERICAN LATINO.

    (a) Establishment of Commission.--
            (1) In general.--There is established the Commission to 
        Study the Potential Creation of a National Museum of the 
        American Latino (hereafter in this section referred to as the 
        ``Commission'').
            (2) Membership.--The Commission shall consist of 23 members 
        appointed not later than 6 months after the date of enactment 
        of this Act as follows:
                    (A) The President shall appoint 7 voting members.
                    (B) The Speaker of the House of Representatives, 
                the minority leader of the House of Representatives, 
                the majority leader of the Senate, and the minority 
                leader of the Senate shall each appoint 3 voting 
                members.
                    (C) In addition to the members appointed under 
                subparagraph (B), the Speaker of the House of 
                Representatives, the minority leader of the House of 
                Representatives, the majority leader of the Senate, and 
                the minority leader of the Senate shall each appoint 1 
                nonvoting member.
            (3) Qualifications.--Members of the Commission shall be 
        chosen from among individuals, or representatives of 
        institutions or entities, who possess either--
                    (A) a demonstrated commitment to the research, 
                study, or promotion of American Latino life, art, 
                history, political or economic status, or culture, 
                together with--
                            (i) expertise in museum administration;
                            (ii) expertise in fundraising for nonprofit 
                        or cultural institutions;
                            (iii) experience in the study and teaching 
                        of Latino culture and history at the post-
                        secondary level;
                            (iv) experience in studying the issue of 
                        the Smithsonian Institution's representation of 
                        American Latino art, life, history, and 
                        culture; or
                            (v) extensive experience in public or 
                        elected service; or
                    (B) experience in the administration of, or the 
                planning for the establishment of, museums devoted to 
                the study and promotion of the role of ethnic, racial, 
                or cultural groups in American history.
    (b) Functions of the Commission.--
            (1) Plan of action for establishment and maintenance of 
        museum.--The Commission shall submit a report to the President 
        and the Congress containing its recommendations with respect to 
        a plan of action for the establishment and maintenance of a 
        National Museum of the American Latino in Washington, DC 
        (hereafter in this section referred to as the ``Museum'').
            (2) Fundraising plan.--The Commission shall develop a 
        fundraising plan for supporting the creation and maintenance of 
        the Museum through contributions by the American people, and a 
        separate plan on fundraising by the American Latino community.
            (3) Report on issues.--The Commission shall examine (in 
        consultation with the Secretary of the Smithsonian 
        Institution), and submit a report to the President and the 
        Congress on, the following issues:
                    (A) The availability and cost of collections to be 
                acquired and housed in the Museum.
                    (B) The impact of the Museum on regional Hispanic- 
                and Latino-related museums.
                    (C) Possible locations for the Museum in 
                Washington, DC and its environs, to be considered in 
                consultation with the National Capital Planning 
                Commission and the Commission of Fine Arts, the 
                Department of the Interior and Smithsonian Institution.
                    (D) Whether the Museum should be located within the 
                Smithsonian Institution.
                    (E) The governance and organizational structure 
                from which the Museum should operate.
                    (F) How to engage the American Latino community in 
                the development and design of the Museum.
                    (G) The cost of constructing, operating, and 
                maintaining the Museum.
            (4) Legislation to carry out plan of action.--Based on the 
        recommendations contained in the report submitted under 
        paragraph (1) and the report submitted under paragraph (3), the 
        Commission shall submit for consideration to the Committee on 
        Transportation and Infrastructure of the House of 
        Representatives, the Committee on House Administration of the 
        House of Representatives, the Committee on Rules and 
        Administration of the Senate, the Committee on Natural 
        Resources of the House of Representatives, the Committee on 
        Energy and Natural Resources of the Senate, and the Committees 
        on Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the 
        Senate recommendations for a legislative plan of action to 
        create and construct the Museum.
            (5) National conference.--In carrying out its functions 
        under this section, the Commission may convene a national 
        conference on the Museum, comprised of individuals committed to 
        the advancement of American Latino life, art, history, and 
        culture, not later than 18 months after the commission members 
        are selected.
    (c) Administrative Provisions.--
            (1) Facilities and support of department of the interior.--
        The Department of the Interior shall provide from funds 
        appropriated for this purpose administrative services, 
        facilities, and funds necessary for the performance of the 
        Commission's functions. These funds shall be made available 
        prior to any meetings of the Commission.
            (2) Compensation.--Each member of the Commission who is not 
        an officer or employee of the Federal Government may receive 
        compensation for each day on which the member is engaged in the 
        work of the Commission, at a daily rate to be determined by the 
        Secretary of the Interior.
            (3) Travel expenses.--Each member shall be entitled to 
        travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, in 
        accordance with applicable provisions under subchapter I of 
        chapter 57 of title 5, United States Code.
            (4) Federal advisory committee act.--The Commission is not 
        subject to the provisions of the Federal Advisory Committee 
        Act.
    (d) Deadline for Submission of Reports; Termination.--
            (1) Deadline.--The Commission shall submit final versions 
        of the reports and plans required under subsection (b) not 
        later than 24 months after the date of the Commission's first 
        meeting.
            (2) Termination.--The Commission shall terminate not later 
        than 30 days after submitting the final versions of reports and 
        plans pursuant to paragraph (1).
    (e) Authorization of Appropriations.--There are authorized to be 
appropriated for carrying out the activities of the Commission 
$2,100,000 for the first fiscal year beginning after the date of 
enactment of this Act and $1,100,000 for the second fiscal year 
beginning after the date of enactment of this Act.

SEC. 334. HUDSON-FULTON-CHAMPLAIN QUADRICENTENNIAL COMMEMORATION 
              COMMISSION.

    (a) Coordination.--Each commission established under this section 
shall coordinate with the other respective commission established under 
this section to ensure that commemorations of Henry Hudson, Robert 
Fulton, and Samuel de Champlain are--
            (1) consistent with the plans and programs of the 
        commemorative commissions established by the States of New York 
        and Vermont; and
            (2) well-organized and successful.
    (b) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Champlain commemoration.--The term ``Champlain 
        commemoration'' means the commemoration of the 400th 
        anniversary of the voyage of Samuel de Champlain.
            (2) Champlain commission.--The term ``Champlain 
        Commission'' means the Champlain Quadricentennial Commemoration 
        Commission established by subsection (c)(1).
            (3) Commission.--The term ``Commission'' means each of the 
        Champlain Commission and the Hudson-Fulton Commission.
            (4) Hudson-fulton commemoration.--The term ``Hudson-Fulton 
        commemoration'' means the commemoration of--
                    (A) the 200th anniversary of the voyage of Robert 
                Fulton in the Clermont; and
                    (B) the 400th anniversary of the voyage of Henry 
                Hudson in the Half Moon.
            (5) Hudson-fulton commission.--The term ``Hudson-Fulton 
        Commission'' means the Hudson-Fulton 400th Commemoration 
        Commission established by subsection (d)(1).
            (6) Lake champlain basin program.--The term ``Lake 
        Champlain Basin Program'' means the partnership established by 
        section 120 of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act (33 
        U.S.C. 1270) between the States of New York and Vermont and 
        Federal agencies to carry out the Lake Champlain management 
        plan entitled, ``Opportunities for Action: An Evolving Plan for 
        the Lake Champlain Basin''.
            (7) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary 
        of the Interior.
    (c) Establishment of Champlain Commission.--
            (1) In general.--There is established a commission to be 
        known as the ``Champlain Quadricentennial Commemoration 
        Commission''.
            (2) Membership.--
                    (A) Composition.--The Champlain Commission shall be 
                composed of 10 members, of whom--
                            (i) 1 member shall be the Director of the 
                        National Park Service (or a designee);
                            (ii) 4 members shall be appointed by the 
                        Secretary from among individuals who, on the 
                        date of enactment of this Act, are--
                                    (I) serving as members of the 
                                Hudson-Fulton-Champlain 
                                Quadricentennial Commission of the 
                                State of New York; and
                                    (II) residents of Champlain Valley, 
                                New York;
                            (iii) 4 members shall be appointed by the 
                        Secretary from among individuals who, on the 
                        date of enactment of this Act, are--
                                    (I) serving as members of the Lake 
                                Champlain Quadricentennial Commission 
                                of the State of Vermont; and
                                    (II) residents of the State of 
                                Vermont; and
                            (iv) 1 member shall be appointed by the 
                        Secretary, and shall be an individual who has--
                                    (I) an interest in, support for, 
                                and expertise appropriate with respect 
                                to, the Champlain commemoration; and
                                    (II) knowledge relating to the 
                                history of the Champlain Valley.
                    (B) Term; vacancies.--
                            (i) Term.--A member of the Champlain 
                        Commission shall be appointed for the life of 
                        the Champlain Commission.
                            (ii) Vacancies.--A vacancy on the Champlain 
                        Commission shall be filled in the same manner 
                        in which the original appointment was made.
            (3) Duties.--The Champlain Commission shall--
                    (A) plan, develop, and execute programs and 
                activities appropriate to commemorate the 400th 
                anniversary of the voyage of Samuel de Champlain, the 
                first European to discover and explore Lake Champlain;
                    (B) facilitate activities relating to the Champlain 
                Quadricentennial throughout the United States;
                    (C) coordinate the activities of the Champlain 
                Commission with--
                            (i) State commemoration commissions;
                            (ii) appropriate Federal agencies;
                            (iii) the Lake Champlain Basin Program;
                            (iv) the National Endowment for the Arts; 
                        and
                            (v) the Smithsonian Institution;
                    (D) encourage civic, patriotic, historical, 
                educational, artistic, religious, economic, and other 
                organizations throughout the United States to organize 
                and participate in anniversary activities to expand the 
                understanding and appreciation of the significance of 
                the voyage of Samuel de Champlain;
                    (E) provide technical assistance to States, 
                localities, and nonprofit organizations to further the 
                Champlain commemoration;
                    (F) coordinate and facilitate for the public 
                scholarly research on, publication about, and 
                interpretation of, the voyage of Samuel de Champlain;
                    (G) ensure that the Champlain 2009 anniversary 
                provides a lasting legacy and a long-term public 
                benefit by assisting in the development of appropriate 
                programs and facilities;
                    (H) help ensure that the observances of the voyage 
                of Samuel de Champlain are inclusive and appropriately 
                recognize the experiences and heritage of all people 
                present when Samuel de Champlain arrived in the 
                Champlain Valley; and
                    (I) consult and coordinate with the Lake Champlain 
                Basin Program and other relevant organizations to plan 
                and develop programs and activities to commemorate the 
                voyage of Samuel de Champlain.
    (d) Establishment of Hudson-Fulton Commission.--
            (1) Establishment.--There is established a commission to be 
        known as the ``Hudson-Fulton 400th Commemoration Commission''.
            (2) Membership.--
                    (A) Composition.--The Hudson-Fulton Commission 
                shall be composed of 15 members, of whom--
                            (i) 1 member shall be the Director of the 
                        National Park Service (or a designee);
                            (ii) 1 member shall be appointed by the 
                        Secretary, after considering the recommendation 
                        of the Governor of the State of New York;
                            (iii) 6 members shall be appointed by the 
                        Secretary, after considering the 
                        recommendations of the Members of the House of 
                        Representatives whose districts encompass the 
                        Hudson River Valley;
                            (iv) 2 members shall be appointed by the 
                        Secretary, after considering the 
                        recommendations of the Members of the Senate 
                        from the State of New York;
                            (v) 2 members shall be--
                                    (I) appointed by the Secretary; and
                                    (II) individuals who have an 
                                interest in, support for, and expertise 
                                appropriate with respect to, the 
                                Hudson-Fulton commemoration, of whom--
                                            (aa) 1 member shall be an 
                                        individual with expertise in 
                                        the Hudson River Valley 
                                        National Heritage Area; and
                                            (bb) 1 member shall be an 
                                        individual with expertise in 
                                        the State of New York, as it 
                                        relates to the Hudson-Fulton 
                                        commemoration;
                            (vi) 1 member shall be the Chairperson of a 
                        commemorative commission formed by the State of 
                        New York (or the designee of the Chairperson); 
                        and
                            (vii) 2 members shall be appointed by the 
                        Secretary, after--
                                    (I) considering the recommendation 
                                of the Mayor of the city of New York; 
                                and
                                    (II) consulting the Members of the 
                                House of Representatives whose 
                                districts encompass the city of New 
                                York.
                    (B) Term; vacancies.--
                            (i) Term.--A member of the Hudson-Fulton 
                        Commission shall be appointed for the life of 
                        the Hudson-Fulton Commission.
                            (ii) Vacancies.--A vacancy on the Hudson-
                        Fulton Commission shall be filled in the same 
                        manner in which the original appointment was 
                        made.
            (3) Duties.--The Hudson-Fulton Commission shall--
                    (A) plan, develop, and execute programs and 
                activities appropriate to commemorate--
                            (i) the 400th anniversary of the voyage of 
                        Henry Hudson, the first European to sail up the 
                        Hudson River; and
                            (ii) the 200th anniversary of the voyage of 
                        Robert Fulton, the first person to use steam 
                        navigation on a commercial basis;
                    (B) facilitate activities relating to the Hudson-
                Fulton-Champlain Quadricentennial throughout the United 
                States;
                    (C) coordinate the activities of the Hudson-Fulton 
                Commission with--
                            (i) State commemoration commissions;
                            (ii) appropriate Federal agencies;
                            (iii) the National Park Service, with 
                        respect to the Hudson River Valley National 
                        Heritage Area;
                            (iv) the American Heritage Rivers 
                        Initiative Interagency Committee established by 
                        Executive Order 13061, dated September 11, 
                        1997;
                            (v) the National Endowment for the 
                        Humanities;
                            (vi) the National Endowment for the Arts; 
                        and
                            (vii) the Smithsonian Institution;
                    (D) encourage civic, patriotic, historical, 
                educational, artistic, religious, economic, and other 
                organizations throughout the United States to organize 
                and participate in anniversary activities to expand the 
                understanding and appreciation of the significance of 
                the voyages of Henry Hudson and Robert Fulton;
                    (E) provide technical assistance to States, 
                localities, and nonprofit organizations to further the 
                Hudson-Fulton commemoration;
                    (F) coordinate and facilitate for the public 
                scholarly research on, publication about, and 
                interpretation of, the voyages of Henry Hudson and 
                Robert Fulton;
                    (G) ensure that the Hudson-Fulton 2009 
                commemorations provide a lasting legacy and long-term 
                public benefit by assisting in the development of 
                appropriate programs and facilities; and
                    (H) help ensure that the observances of Henry 
                Hudson are inclusive and appropriately recognize the 
                experiences and heritage of all people present when 
                Henry Hudson sailed the Hudson River.
    (e) Commission Meetings.--
            (1) Initial meeting.--Not later than 30 days after the date 
        on which all members of a commission established under this 
        section have been appointed, the applicable Commission shall 
        hold an initial meeting.
            (2) Meetings.--A commission established under this section 
        shall meet--
                    (A) at least twice each year; or
                    (B) at the call of the Chairperson or the majority 
                of the members of the Commission.
            (3) Quorum.--A majority of voting members shall constitute 
        a quorum, but a lesser number may hold meetings.
            (4) Chairperson and vice chairperson.--
                    (A) Election.--The Commission shall elect the 
                Chairperson and the Vice Chairperson of the Commission 
                on an annual basis.
                    (B) Absence of the chairperson.--The Vice 
                Chairperson shall serve as the Chairperson in the 
                absence of the Chairperson.
            (5) Voting.--A commission established under this section 
        shall act only on an affirmative vote of a majority of the 
        voting members of the applicable Commission.
    (f) Commission Powers.--
            (1) Gifts.--The Commission may solicit, accept, use, and 
        dispose of gifts, bequests, or devises of money or other 
        property for aiding or facilitating the work of the Commission.
            (2) Appointment of advisory committees.--The Commission may 
        appoint such advisory committees as the Commission determines 
        to be necessary to carry out this section.
            (3) Authorization of action.--The Commission may authorize 
        any member or employee of the Commission to take any action 
        that the Commission is authorized to take under this section.
            (4) Procurement.--
                    (A) In general.--The Commission may procure 
                supplies, services, and property, and make or enter 
                into contracts, leases, or other legal agreements, to 
                carry out this section (except that a contract, lease, 
                or other legal agreement made or entered into by the 
                Commission shall not extend beyond the date of 
                termination of the Commission).
                    (B) Limitation.--The Commission may not purchase 
                real property.
            (5) Postal services.--The Commission may use the United 
        States mails in the same manner and under the same conditions 
        as other agencies of the Federal Government.
            (6) Grants.--
                    (A)  Champlain commission.--The Champlain 
                Commission may make grants in amounts not to exceed 
                $20,000--
                            (i) to communities, nonprofit 
                        organizations, and State commemorative 
                        commissions to develop programs to assist in 
                        the Champlain commemoration; and
                            (ii) to research and scholarly 
                        organizations to research, publish, or 
                        distribute information relating to the early 
                        history of the voyage of Samuel de Champlain.
                    (B) Hudson-fulton commission.--The Hudson-Fulton 
                Commission may make grants in amounts not to exceed 
                $20,000--
                            (i) to communities, nonprofit 
                        organizations, and State commemorative 
                        commissions to develop programs to assist in 
                        the Hudson-Fulton commemoration; and
                            (ii) to research and scholarly 
                        organizations to research, publish, or 
                        distribute information relating to the early 
                        history of the voyages of Henry Hudson and 
                        Robert Fulton.
            (7) Technical assistance.--The Commission shall provide 
        technical assistance to States, localities, and nonprofit 
        organizations to further the Champlain commemoration and 
        Hudson-Fulton commemoration, as applicable.
            (8) Coordination and consultation with lake champlain basin 
        program.--The Champlain Commission shall coordinate and consult 
        with the Lake Champlain Basin Program to provide grants and 
        technical assistance under paragraphs (6)(A) and (7) for the 
        development of activities commemorating the voyage of Samuel de 
        Champlain.
    (g) Commission Personnel Matters.--
            (1) Compensation of members.--
                    (A) In general.--Except as provided in subparagraph 
                (B), a member of the Commission shall serve without 
                compensation.
                    (B) Federal employees.--A member of the Commission 
                who is an officer or employee of the Federal Government 
                shall serve without compensation in addition to the 
                compensation received for the services of the member as 
                an officer or employee of the Federal Government.
            (2) Travel expenses.--A member of the Commission shall be 
        allowed travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of 
        subsistence, at rates authorized for an employee of an agency 
        under subchapter I of chapter 57 of title 5, United States 
        Code, while away from the home or regular place of business of 
        the member in the performance of the duties of the Commission.
            (3) Staff.--The Commission may, without regard to the civil 
        service laws (including regulations), appoint and terminate an 
        Executive Director and such other additional personnel as are 
        necessary to enable the Commission to perform the duties of the 
        Commission.
            (4) Compensation.--
                    (A) In general.--Except as provided in subparagraph 
                (B), the Commission may fix the compensation of the 
                Executive Director and other personnel without regard 
                to the provisions of chapter 51 and subchapter III of 
                chapter 53 of title 5, United States Code, relating to 
                classification of positions and General Schedule pay 
                rates.
                    (B) Maximum rate of pay.--The rate of pay for the 
                Executive Director and other personnel shall not exceed 
                the rate payable for level V of the Executive Schedule 
                under section 5316 of title 5, United States Code.
            (5) Detail of government employees.--
                    (A) Federal employees.--
                            (i) In general.--At the request of the 
                        Commission, the head of any Federal agency may 
                        detail, on a reimbursable or nonreimbursable 
                        basis, any of the personnel of the agency to 
                        the Commission to assist the Commission in 
                        carrying out the duties of the Commission under 
                        this section.
                            (ii) Civil service status.--The detail of 
                        an employee under clause (i) shall be without 
                        interruption or loss of civil service status or 
                        privilege.
                    (B) State employees.--The Commission may--
                            (i) accept the services of personnel 
                        detailed from the State of New York or the 
                        State of Vermont, as appropriate (including 
                        subdivisions of the States); and
                            (ii) reimburse the State of New York or the 
                        State of Vermont for services of detailed 
                        personnel.
                    (C) Lake champlain basin program employees.--The 
                Champlain Commission may--
                            (i) accept the services of personnel 
                        detailed from the Lake Champlain Basin Program; 
                        and
                            (ii) reimburse the Lake Champlain Basin 
                        Program for services of detailed personnel.
                    (D) Procurement of temporary and intermittent 
                services.--The Commission may procure temporary and 
                intermittent services in accordance with section 
                3109(b) of title 5, United States Code, at rates for 
                individuals that do not exceed the daily equivalent of 
                the annual rate of basic pay prescribed for level V of 
                the Executive Schedule under section 5316 of that 
                title.
            (6) Volunteer and uncompensated services.--Notwithstanding 
        section 1342 of title 31, United States Code, the Commission 
        may accept and use voluntary and uncompensated services as the 
        Commission determines necessary.
            (7) Support services.--The Secretary shall provide to the 
        Commission, on a reimbursable basis, such administrative 
        support services as the Commission may request.
            (8) FACA nonapplicability.--Section 14(b) of the Federal 
        Advisory Committee Act (5 U.S.C. App.) shall not apply to the 
        Commission.
    (h) Reports.--Not later than September 30, 2010, the Commission 
shall submit to the Secretary a report that contains--
            (1) a summary of the activities of the Commission;
            (2) a final accounting of funds received and expended by 
        the Commission; and
            (3) the findings and recommendations of the Commission.
    (i) Termination of Commissions.--
            (1) Date of termination.--The Commission shall terminate on 
        December 31, 2010.
            (2) Transfer of documents and materials.--Before the date 
        of termination specified in paragraph (1), the Commission shall 
        transfer all of its documents and materials of the Commission 
        to the National Archives or another appropriate Federal entity.
    (j) Authorization of Appropriations.--
            (1) In general.--There are authorized to be appropriated to 
        carry out this section for each of fiscal years 2008 through 
        2011--
                    (A) $500,000 to the Champlain Commission; and
                    (B) $500,000 to the Hudson-Fulton Commission.
            (2) Availability.--Amounts made available under paragraph 
        (1) shall remain available until expended.

SEC. 335. SENSE OF CONGRESS REGARDING THE DESIGNATION OF THE NATIONAL 
              MUSEUM OF WILDLIFE ART OF THE UNITED STATES.

    (a) Findings.--Congress finds that--
            (1) the National Museum of Wildlife Art in Jackson, 
        Wyoming, is devoted to inspiring global recognition of fine art 
        related to nature and wildlife;
            (2) the National Museum of Wildlife Art is an excellent 
        example of a thematic museum that strives to unify the 
        humanities and sciences into a coherent body of knowledge 
        through art;
            (3) the National Museum of Wildlife Art, which was founded 
        in 1987 with a private gift of a collection of art, has grown 
        in stature and importance and is recognized today as the 
        world's premier museum of wildlife art;
            (4) the National Museum of Wildlife Art is the only public 
        museum in the United States with the mission of enriching and 
        inspiring public appreciation and knowledge of fine art, while 
        exploring the relationship between humanity and nature by 
        collecting fine art focused on wildlife;
            (5) the National Museum of Wildlife Art is housed in an 
        architecturally significant and award-winning 51,000-square 
        foot facility that overlooks the 28,000-acre National Elk 
        Refuge and is adjacent to the Grand Teton National Park;
            (6) the National Museum of Wildlife Art is accredited with 
        the American Association of Museums, continues to grow in 
        national recognition and importance with members from every 
        State, and has a Board of Trustees and a National Advisory 
        Board composed of major benefactors and leaders in the arts and 
        sciences from throughout the United States;
            (7) the permanent collection of the National Museum of 
        Wildlife Art has grown to more than 3,000 works by important 
        historic American artists including Edward Hicks, Anna Hyatt 
        Huntington, Charles M. Russell, William Merritt Chase, and 
        Alexander Calder, and contemporary American artists, including 
        Steve Kestrel, Bart Walter, Nancy Howe, John Nieto, and Jamie 
        Wyeth;
            (8) the National Museum of Wildlife Art is a destination 
        attraction in the Western United States with annual attendance 
        of 92,000 visitors from all over the world and an award-winning 
        website that receives more than 10,000 visits per week;
            (9) the National Museum of Wildlife Art seeks to educate a 
        diverse audience through collecting fine art focused on 
        wildlife, presenting exceptional exhibitions, providing 
        community, regional, national, and international outreach, and 
        presenting extensive educational programming for adults and 
        children; and
            (10) a great opportunity exists to use the invaluable 
        resources of the National Museum of Wildlife Art to teach the 
        schoolchildren of the United States, through onsite visits, 
        traveling exhibits, classroom curriculum, online distance 
        learning, and other educational initiatives.
    (b) Sense of Congress.--It is the sense of Congress that the 
National Museum of Wildlife Art, located at 2820 Rungius Road, Jackson, 
Wyoming, should be designated as the ``National Museum of Wildlife Art 
of the United States''.

                     Subtitle E--Trails and Rivers

SEC. 341. AUTHORIZATION AND ADMINISTRATION OF STAR-SPANGLED BANNER 
              NATIONAL HISTORIC TRAIL.

    Section 5(a) of the National Trails System Act (16 U.S.C. 1244(a)) 
is amended by adding at the end the following:
            ``(26) Star-spangled banner national historic trail.--
                    ``(A) In general.--The Star-Spangled Banner 
                National Historic Trail, a trail consisting of water 
                and overland routes totaling approximately 290 miles, 
                extending from Tangier Island, Virginia, through 
                southern Maryland, the District of Columbia, and 
                northern Virginia, in the Chesapeake Bay, Patuxent 
                River, Potomac River, and north to the Patapsco River, 
                and Baltimore, Maryland, commemorating the Chesapeake 
                Campaign of the War of 1812 (including the British 
                invasion of Washington, District of Columbia, and its 
                associated feints, and the Battle of Baltimore in 
                summer 1814), as generally depicted on the map titled 
                `Star-Spangled Banner National Historic Trail', 
                numbered T02/80,000, and dated June 2007.
                    ``(B) Map.--The map referred to in subparagraph (A) 
                shall be maintained on file and available for public 
                inspection in the appropriate offices of the National 
                Park Service.
                    ``(C) Administration.--Subject to subparagraph 
                (E)(ii), the trail shall be administered by the 
                Secretary of the Interior.
                    ``(D) Land acquisition.--No land or interest in 
                land outside the exterior boundaries of any federally 
                administered area may be acquired by the United States 
                for the trail except with the consent of the owner of 
                the land or interest in land.
                    ``(E) Public participation.--The Secretary of the 
                Interior shall--
                            ``(i) encourage communities, owners of land 
                        along the trail, and volunteer trail groups to 
                        participate in the planning, development, and 
                        maintenance of the trail; and
                            ``(ii) consult with other affected 
                        landowners and Federal, State, and local 
                        agencies in the administration of the trail.
                    ``(F) Interpretation and assistance.--Subject to 
                the availability of appropriations, the Secretary of 
                the Interior may provide, to State and local 
                governments and nonprofit organizations, interpretive 
                programs and services and technical assistance for use 
                in--
                            ``(i) carrying out preservation and 
                        development of the trail; and
                            ``(ii) providing education relating to the 
                        War of 1812 along the trail.''.

SEC. 342. LAND CONVEYANCE, LEWIS AND CLARK NATIONAL HISTORIC TRAIL, 
              NEBRASKA.

    (a) Conveyance Authorized.--The Secretary of the Interior may 
convey, without consideration, to the Missouri River Basin Lewis and 
Clark Interpretive Trail and Visitor Center Foundation, Inc. (a 
501(c)(3) not-for-profit organization with operational headquarters at 
100 Valmont Drive, Nebraska City, Nebraska 68410), all right, title, 
and interest of the United States in and to the federally owned land 
under jurisdiction of the Secretary consisting of 2 parcels as 
generally depicted on the map titled ``Lewis and Clark National 
Historic Trail'', numbered 648/80,002, and dated March 2006.
    (b) Survey; Conveyance Cost.--The exact acreage and legal 
description of the land to be conveyed under subsection (a) shall be 
determined by a survey satisfactory to the Secretary. The cost of the 
survey and all other costs incurred by the Secretary to convey the land 
shall be borne by the Missouri River Basin Lewis and Clark Interpretive 
Trail and Visitor Center Foundation, Inc.
    (c) Condition of Conveyance, Use of Conveyed Land.--The conveyance 
authorized under subsection (a) shall be subject to the condition that 
the Missouri River Basin Lewis and Clark Interpretive Trail and Visitor 
Center Foundation, Inc. use the conveyed land as an historic site and 
interpretive center for the Lewis and Clark National Historic Trail.
    (d) Discontinuance of Use.--If Missouri River Basin Lewis and Clark 
Interpretive Trail and Visitor Center Foundation, Inc. determines to 
discontinue use of the land conveyed under subsection (a) as an 
historic site and interpretive center for the Lewis and Clark National 
Historic Trail, the Missouri River Basin Lewis and Clark Interpretive 
Trail and Visitor Center Foundation, Inc. shall convey lands back to 
the Secretary without consideration.
    (e) Additional Terms and Conditions.--The Secretary may require 
such additional terms and conditions in connection with the conveyance 
under subsection (a) or the conveyance, if any, under subsection (d) as 
the Secretary considers appropriate to protect the interests of the 
United States. Through a written agreement with the Foundation, the 
National Park Service shall ensure that the operation of the land 
conveyed under subsection (a) is in accordance with National Park 
Service standards for preservation, maintenance, and interpretation.
    (f) Authorization of Appropriations.--To assist with the operation 
of the historic site and interpretive center, there is authorized to be 
appropriated $150,000 per year for a period not to exceed 10 years.

SEC. 343. WILD AND SCENIC RIVER DESIGNATION, EIGHTMILE RIVER, 
              CONNECTICUT.

    (a) Findings.--Congress finds the following:
            (1) The Eightmile River Wild and Scenic River Study Act of 
        2001 (Public Law 107-65; 115 Stat. 484) authorized the study of 
        the Eightmile River in the State of Connecticut from its 
        headwaters downstream to its confluence with the Connecticut 
        River for potential inclusion in the National Wild and Scenic 
        Rivers System.
            (2) The segments of the Eightmile River covered by the 
        study are in a free-flowing condition, and the outstanding 
        resource values of the river segments include the cultural 
        landscape, water quality, watershed hydrology, unique species 
        and natural communities, geology, and watershed ecosystem.
            (3) The Eightmile River Wild and Scenic Study Committee has 
        determined that--
                    (A) the outstanding resource values of these river 
                segments depend on sustaining the integrity and quality 
                of the Eightmile River watershed;
                    (B) these resource values are manifest within the 
                entire watershed; and
                    (C) the watershed as a whole, including its 
                protection, is itself intrinsically important to this 
                designation.
            (4) The Eightmile River Wild and Scenic Study Committee 
        took a watershed approach in studying and recommending 
        management options for the river segments and the Eightmile 
        River watershed as a whole.
            (5) During the study, the Eightmile River Wild and Scenic 
        Study Committee, with assistance from the National Park 
        Service, prepared a comprehensive management plan for the 
        Eightmile River watershed, dated December 8, 2005 (in this 
        section referred to as the ``Eightmile River Watershed 
        Management Plan''), which establishes objectives, standards, 
        and action programs that will ensure long-term protection of 
        the outstanding values of the river and compatible management 
        of the land and water resources of the Eightmile River and its 
        watershed, without Federal management of affected lands not 
        owned by the United States.
            (6) The Eightmile River Wild and Scenic Study Committee 
        voted in favor of inclusion of the Eightmile River in the 
        National Wild and Scenic Rivers System and included this 
        recommendation as an integral part of the Eightmile River 
        Watershed Management Plan.
            (7) The residents of the towns lying along the Eightmile 
        River and comprising most of its watershed (Salem, East Haddam, 
        and Lyme, Connecticut), as well as the Boards of Selectmen and 
        Land Use Commissions of these towns, voted to endorse the 
        Eightmile River Watershed Management Plan and to seek 
        designation of the river as a component of the National Wild 
        and Scenic Rivers System.
            (8) The State of Connecticut General Assembly enacted 
        Public Act 05-18 to endorse the Eightmile River Watershed 
        Management Plan and to seek designation of the river as a 
        component of the National Wild and Scenic Rivers System.
    (b) Designation.--Section 3(a) of the Wild and Scenic Rivers Act 
(16 U.S.C. 1274(a)) is amended--
            (1) by redesignating paragraph (167) (relating to the 
        Musconetcong River, New Jersey) as paragraph (169);
            (2) by designating the undesignated paragraph relating to 
        the White Salmon River, Washington, as paragraph (167);
            (3) by designating the undesignated paragraph relating to 
        the Black Butte River, California, as paragraph (168); and
            (4) by adding at the end the following:
    ``(170) Eightmile River, Connecticut.--Segments of the main stem 
and specified tributaries of the Eightmile River in the State of 
Connecticut, totaling approximately 25.3 miles, to be administered by 
the Secretary of the Interior as follows:
            ``(A) The entire 10.8-mile segment of the main stem, 
        starting at its confluence with Lake Hayward Brook to its 
        confluence with the Connecticut River at the mouth of Hamburg 
        Cove, as a scenic river.
            ``(B) The 8.0-mile segment of the East Branch of the 
        Eightmile River starting at Witch Meadow Road to its confluence 
        with the main stem of the Eightmile River, as a scenic river.
            ``(C) The 3.9-mile segment of Harris Brook starting with 
        the confluence of an unnamed stream lying 0.74 miles due east 
        of the intersection of Hartford Road (State Route 85) and Round 
        Hill Road to its confluence with the East Branch of the 
        Eightmile River, as a scenic river.
            ``(D) The 1.9-mile segment of Beaver Brook starting at its 
        confluence with Cedar Pond Brook to its confluence with the 
        main stem of the Eightmile River, as a scenic river.
            ``(E) The 0.7-mile segment of Falls Brook from its 
        confluence with Tisdale Brook to its confluence with the main 
        stem of the Eightmile River at Hamburg Cove, as a scenic 
        river.''.
    (c) Management.--The segments of the main stem and certain 
tributaries of the Eightmile River in the State of Connecticut 
designated as components of the National Wild and Scenic Rivers System 
by the amendment made by subsection (b) (in this section referred to as 
the ``Eightmile River'') shall be managed in accordance with the 
Eightmile River Watershed Management Plan and such amendments to the 
plan as the Secretary of the Interior determines are consistent with 
this section. The Eightmile River Watershed Management Plan is deemed 
to satisfy the requirements for a comprehensive management plan 
required by section 3(d) of the Wild and Scenic Rivers Act (16 U.S.C. 
1274(d)).
    (d) Committee.--The Secretary of the Interior shall coordinate the 
management responsibilities of the Secretary with regard to the 
Eightmile River with the Eightmile River Coordinating Committee, as 
specified in the Eightmile River Watershed Management Plan.
    (e) Cooperative Agreements.--In order to provide for the long-term 
protection, preservation, and enhancement of the Eightmile River, the 
Secretary of the Interior may enter into cooperative agreements 
pursuant to sections 10(e) and 11(b)(1) of the Wild and Scenic Rivers 
Act (16 U.S.C. 1281(e), 1282(b)(1)) with the State of Connecticut, the 
towns of Salem, Lyme, and East Haddam, Connecticut, and appropriate 
local planning and environmental organizations. All cooperative 
agreements authorized by this subsection shall be consistent with the 
Eightmile River Watershed Management Plan and may include provisions 
for financial or other assistance from the United States.
    (f) Relation to National Park System.--Notwithstanding section 
10(c) of the Wild and Scenic Rivers Act (16 U.S.C. 1281(c)), the 
Eightmile River shall not be administered as part of the National Park 
System or be subject to regulations which govern the National Park 
System.
    (g) Land Management.--The zoning ordinances adopted by the towns of 
Salem, East Haddam, and Lyme, Connecticut, in effect as of December 8, 
2005, including provisions for conservation of floodplains, wetlands, 
and watercourses associated with the segments, are deemed to satisfy 
the standards and requirements of section 6(c) of the Wild and Scenic 
Rivers Act (16 U.S.C. 1277 (c)). For the purpose of section 6(c) of 
that Act, such towns shall be deemed ``villages'' and the provisions of 
that section, which prohibit Federal acquisition of lands by 
condemnation, shall apply to the segments designated by subsection (b). 
The authority of the Secretary to acquire lands for the purposes of 
this section shall be limited to acquisition by donation or acquisition 
with the consent of the owner thereof, and shall be subject to the 
additional criteria set forth in the Eightmile River Watershed 
Management Plan.
    (h) Watershed Approach.--
            (1) In general.--In furtherance of the watershed approach 
        to resource preservation and enhancement articulated in the 
        Eightmile River Watershed Management Plan, the tributaries of 
        the Eightmile River watershed specified in paragraph (2) are 
        recognized as integral to the protection and enhancement of the 
        Eightmile River and its watershed.
            (2) Covered tributaries.--Paragraph (1) applies with 
        respect to Beaver Brook, Big Brook, Burnhams Brook, Cedar Pond 
        Brook, Cranberry Meadow Brook, Early Brook, Falls Brook, Fraser 
        Brook, Harris Brook, Hedge Brook, Lake Hayward Brook, Malt 
        House Brook, Muddy Brook, Ransom Brook, Rattlesnake Ledge 
        Brook, Shingle Mill Brook, Strongs Brook, Tisdale Brook, Witch 
        Meadow Brook, and all other perennial streams within the 
        Eightmile River watershed.
    (i) Authorization of Appropriations.--There are authorized to be 
appropriated such sums as are necessary to carry out this section and 
the amendment made by subsection (b).

  TITLE IV--BUREAU OF RECLAMATION AND UNITED STATES GEOLOGICAL SURVEY 
                             AUTHORIZATIONS

SEC. 401. ALASKA WATER RESOURCES STUDY.

    (a) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary 
        of the Interior.
            (2) State.--The term ``State'' means the State of Alaska.
    (b) Alaska Water Resources Study.--
            (1) Study.--The Secretary, acting through the Commissioner 
        of Reclamation and the Director of the United States Geological 
        Survey, where appropriate, and in accordance with this section 
        and other applicable provisions of law, shall conduct a study 
        that includes--
                    (A) a survey of accessible water supplies, 
                including aquifers, on the Kenai Peninsula and in the 
                Municipality of Anchorage, the Matanuska-Susitna 
                Borough, the city of Fairbanks, and the Fairbanks 
                Northstar Borough;
                    (B) a survey of water treatment needs and 
                technologies, including desalination, applicable to the 
                water resources of the State; and
                    (C) a review of the need for enhancement of the 
                streamflow information collected by the United States 
                Geological Survey in the State relating to critical 
                water needs in areas such as--
                            (i) infrastructure risks to State 
                        transportation;
                            (ii) flood forecasting;
                            (iii) resource extraction; and
                            (iv) fire management.
            (2) Report.--Not later than 2 years after the date of 
        enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall submit to the 
        Committee on Natural Resources of the House of Representatives 
        and the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources of the Senate 
        a report describing the results of the study required by 
        paragraph (1).
    (c) Sunset.--The authority of the Secretary to carry out any 
provisions of this section shall terminate 10 years after the date of 
enactment of this Act.
    (d) Authorization of Appropriations.--There are authorized to be 
appropriated such sums as are necessary to carry out this section.

SEC. 402. RENEGOTIATION OF PAYMENT SCHEDULE, REDWOOD VALLEY COUNTY 
              WATER DISTRICT.

    Section 15 of Public Law 100-516 (102 Stat. 2573) is amended--
            (1) by amending paragraph (2) of subsection (a) to read as 
        follows:
            ``(2) If, as of January 1, 2006, the Secretary of the 
        Interior and the Redwood Valley County Water District have not 
        renegotiated the schedule of payment, the District may enter 
        into such additional non-Federal obligations as are necessary 
        to finance procurement of dedicated water rights and 
        improvements necessary to store and convey those rights to 
        provide for the District's water needs. The Secretary shall 
        reschedule the payments due under loans numbered 14-06-200-
        8423A and 14-06-200-8423A Amendatory and said payments shall 
        commence when such additional obligations have been financially 
        satisfied by the District. The date of the initial payment owed 
        by the District to the United States shall be regarded as the 
        start of the District's repayment period and the time upon 
        which any interest shall first be computed and assessed under 
        section 5 of the Small Reclamation Projects Act of 1956 (43 
        U.S.C. 422a et seq.).''; and
            (2) by striking subsection (c).

SEC. 403. AMERICAN RIVER PUMP STATION PROJECT TRANSFER.

    (a) Authority to Transfer.--The Secretary of the Interior 
(hereafter in this section referred to as the ``Secretary'') shall 
transfer ownership of the American River Pump Station Project located 
at Auburn, California, which includes the Pumping Plant, associated 
facilities, and easements necessary for permanent operation of the 
facilities, to the Placer County Water Agency, in accordance with the 
terms of Contract No. 02-LC-20-7790 between the United States and 
Placer County Water Agency and the terms and conditions established in 
this section.
    (b) Federal Costs Nonreimbursable.--Federal costs associated with 
construction of the American River Pump Station Project located at 
Auburn, California, are nonreimbursable.
    (c) Grant of Real Property Interest.--The Secretary is authorized 
to grant title to Placer County Water Agency as provided in subsection 
(a) in full satisfaction of the United States' obligations under Land 
Purchase Contract 14-06-859-308 to provide a water supply to the Placer 
County Water Agency.
    (d) Compliance With Environmental Laws.--
            (1) In general.--Before conveying land and facilities 
        pursuant to this section, the Secretary shall comply with all 
        applicable requirements under--
                    (A) the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 
                (42 U.S.C. 4321 et seq.);
                    (B) the Endangered Species Act of 1973 (16 U.S.C. 
                1531 et seq.); and
                    (C) any other law applicable to the land and 
                facilities.
            (2) Effect.--Nothing in this section modifies or alters any 
        obligations under--
                    (A) the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 
                (42 U.S.C. 4321 et seq.); or
                    (B) the Endangered Species Act of 1973 (16 U.S.C. 
                1531 et seq.).
    (e) Release From Liability.--Effective on the date of transfer to 
the Placer County Water Agency of any land or facility under this 
section, the United States shall not be liable for damages arising out 
of any act, omission, or occurrence relating to the land and 
facilities, consistent with Article 9 of Contract No. 02-LC-20-7790 
between the United States and Placer County Water Agency.

SEC. 404. ARTHUR V. WATKINS DAM ENLARGEMENT.

    (a) Findings.--Congress finds the following:
            (1) Arthur V. Watkins Dam is a feature of the Weber Basin 
        Project, which was authorized by law on August 29, 1949.
            (2) Increasing the height of Arthur V. Watkins Dam and 
        construction of pertinent facilities may provide additional 
        storage capacity for the development of additional water supply 
        for the Weber Basin Project for uses of municipal and 
        industrial water supply, flood control, fish and wildlife, and 
        recreation.
    (b) Authorization of Feasibility Study.--The Secretary of the 
Interior, acting through the Bureau of Reclamation, is authorized to 
conduct a feasibility study on raising the height of Arthur V. Watkins 
Dam for the development of additional storage to meet water supply 
needs within the Weber Basin Project area and the Wasatch Front. The 
feasibility study shall include such environmental evaluation as 
required under the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 (42 U.S.C. 
4321 et seq.) and a cost allocation as required under the Reclamation 
Project Act of 1939 (43 U.S.C. 485 et seq.).
    (c) Cost Shares.--
            (1) Federal share.--The Federal share of the costs of the 
        study authorized in subsection (b) shall not exceed 50 percent 
        of the total cost of the study.
            (2) In-kind contributions.--The Secretary shall accept, as 
        appropriate, in-kind contributions of goods or services from 
        the Weber Basin Water Conservancy District. Such goods and 
        services accepted under this subsection shall be counted as 
        part of the non-Federal cost share for the study.
    (d) Authorization of Appropriations.--There is authorized to be 
appropriated to the Secretary $1,000,000 for the Federal cost share of 
the study authorized in subsection (b).
    (e) Sunset.--The authority of the Secretary to carry out any 
provisions of this section shall terminate 10 years after the date of 
enactment of this Act.

SEC. 405. NEW MEXICO WATER PLANNING ASSISTANCE.

    (a) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary 
        of the Interior, acting through the Bureau of Reclamation and 
        the United States Geological Survey.
            (2) State.--The term ``State'' means the State of New 
        Mexico.
    (b) Comprehensive Water Plan Assistance.--
            (1) In general.--Upon the request of the Governor of the 
        State and subject to paragraphs (2) through (6), the Secretary 
        shall--
                    (A) provide to the State technical assistance and 
                grants for the development of comprehensive State water 
                plans;
                    (B) conduct water resources mapping in the State; 
                and
                    (C) conduct a comprehensive study of groundwater 
                resources (including potable, brackish, and saline 
                water resources) in the State to assess the quantity, 
                quality, and interaction of groundwater and surface 
                water resources.
            (2) Technical assistance.--Technical assistance provided 
        under paragraph (1) may include--
                    (A) acquisition of hydrologic data, groundwater 
                characterization, database development, and data 
                distribution;
                    (B) expansion of climate, surface water, and 
                groundwater monitoring networks;
                    (C) assessment of existing water resources, surface 
                water storage, and groundwater storage potential;
                    (D) numerical analysis and modeling necessary to 
                provide an integrated understanding of water resources 
                and water management options;
                    (E) participation in State planning forums and 
                planning groups;
                    (F) coordination of Federal water management 
                planning efforts;
                    (G) technical review of data, models, planning 
                scenarios, and water plans developed by the State; and
                    (H) provision of scientific and technical 
                specialists to support State and local activities.
            (3) Allocation.--In providing grants under paragraph (1), 
        the Secretary shall, subject to the availability of 
        appropriations, allocate--
                    (A) $5,000,000 to develop hydrologic models and 
                acquire associated equipment for the New Mexico Rio 
                Grande main stem sections and Rios Pueblo de Taos and 
                Hondo, Rios Nambe, Pojoaque and Teseque, Rio Chama, and 
                Lower Rio Grande tributaries;
                    (B) $1,500,000 to complete the hydrographic survey 
                development of hydrologic models and acquire associated 
                equipment for the San Juan River and tributaries;
                    (C) $1,000,000 to complete the hydrographic survey 
                development of hydrologic models and acquire associated 
                equipment for Southwest New Mexico, including the 
                Animas Basin, the Gila River, and tributaries;
                    (D) $4,500,000 for statewide digital 
                orthophotography mapping; and
                    (E) such sums as are necessary to carry out 
                additional projects consistent with paragraph (2).
            (4) Cost-sharing requirement.--
                    (A) In general.--The non-Federal share of the total 
                cost of any activity carried out using a grant provided 
                under paragraph (1) shall be 50 percent.
                    (B) Form of non-federal share.--The non-Federal 
                share under subparagraph (A) may be in the form of any 
                in-kind services that the Secretary determines would 
                contribute substantially toward the conduct and 
                completion of the activity assisted.
            (5) Nonreimbursable basis.--Any assistance or grants 
        provided to the State under this section shall be made on a 
        non-reimbursable basis.
            (6) Authorized transfers.--On request of the State, the 
        Secretary shall directly transfer to 1 or more Federal agencies 
        any amounts made available to the State to carry out this 
        section.
    (c) Authorization of Appropriations.--There is authorized to be 
appropriated to carry out this section $3,000,000 for each of fiscal 
years 2008 through 2012.
    (d) Sunset of Authority.--The authority of the Secretary to carry 
out any provisions of this section shall terminate 10 years after the 
date of enactment of this Act.

SEC. 406. CONVEYANCE OF CERTAIN BUILDINGS AND LANDS OF THE YAKIMA 
              PROJECT, WASHINGTON.

    (a) Conveyance Required.--The Secretary of the Interior shall 
convey to the Yakima-Tieton Irrigation District, located in Yakima 
County, Washington, all right, title, and interest of the United States 
in and to the buildings and lands of the Yakima Project, Washington, in 
accordance with the terms and conditions set forth in the agreement 
titled ``Agreement Between the United States and the Yakima-Tieton 
Irrigation District to Transfer Title to Certain Federally Owned 
Buildings and Lands, With Certain Property Rights, Title, and Interest, 
to the Yakima-Tieton Irrigation District'' (Contract No. 5-07-10-
L1658).
    (b) Liability.--Effective upon the date of conveyance under this 
section, the United States shall not be held liable by any court for 
damages of any kind arising out of any act, omission, or occurrence 
relating to the conveyed buildings and lands, except for damages caused 
by acts of negligence committed by the United States or by its 
employees or agents before the date of conveyance. Nothing in this 
section increases the liability of the United States beyond that 
provided in chapter 171 of title 28, United States Code (popularly 
known as the Federal Tort Claims Act), on the date of enactment of this 
Act.
    (c) Benefits.--After conveyance of the buildings and lands to the 
Yakima-Tieton Irrigation District under this section--
            (1) such buildings and lands shall not be considered to be 
        a part of a Federal reclamation project; and
            (2) such irrigation district shall not be eligible to 
        receive any benefits with respect to any buildings and lands 
        conveyed, except benefits that would be available to a 
        similarly situated person with respect to such buildings and 
        lands that are not part of a Federal reclamation project.
    (d) Report.--If the Secretary of the Interior has not completed the 
conveyance required under subsection (a) within 12 months after the 
date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall submit to Congress a 
report that explains the reason such conveyance has not been completed 
and stating the date by which the conveyance will be completed.

SEC. 407. CONJUNCTIVE USE OF SURFACE AND GROUNDWATER IN JUAB COUNTY, 
              UTAH.

    Section 202(a)(2) of the Reclamation Projects Authorization and 
Adjustment Act of 1992 (Public Law 102-575) is amended by inserting 
``Juab,'' after ``Davis,''.

SEC. 408. EARLY REPAYMENT OF A & B IRRIGATION DISTRICT CONSTRUCTION 
              COSTS.

    (a) In General.--Notwithstanding section 213 of the Reclamation 
Reform Act of 1982 (43 U.S.C. 390mm), any landowner within the A & B 
Irrigation District in the State (referred to in this section as the 
``District'') may repay, at any time, the construction costs of 
District project facilities that are allocated to land of the landowner 
within the District.
    (b) Applicability of Full-Cost Pricing Limitations.--On discharge, 
in full, of the obligation for repayment of all construction costs 
described in subsection (a) that are allocated to all land the 
landowner owns in the District in question, the parcels of land shall 
not be subject to the ownership and full-cost pricing limitations under 
Federal reclamation law (the Act of June 17, 1902 (32 Stat. 388, 
chapter 1093), and Acts supplemental to and amendatory of that Act (43 
U.S.C. 371 et seq.), including the Reclamation Reform Act of 1982 (13 
U.S.C. 390aa et seq.).
    (c) Certification.--On request of a landowner that has repaid, in 
full, the construction costs described in subsection (a), the Secretary 
of the Interior shall provide to the landowner a certificate described 
in section 213(b)(1) of the Reclamation Reform Act of 1982 (43 U.S.C. 
390mm(b)(1)).
    (d) Effect.--Nothing in this section--
            (1) modifies any contractual rights under, or amends or 
        reopens, the reclamation contract between the District and the 
        United States; or
            (2) modifies any rights, obligations, or relationships 
        between the District and landowners in the District under Idaho 
        State law.

              TITLE V--DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY AUTHORIZATIONS

SEC. 501. ENERGY TECHNOLOGY TRANSFER.

    Section 917 of the Energy Policy Act of 2005 (42 U.S.C. 16197) is 
amended to read as follows:

``SEC. 917. ADVANCED ENERGY TECHNOLOGY TRANSFER CENTERS.

    ``(a) Grants.--Not later than 18 months after the date of enactment 
of the National Forests, Parks, Public Land, and Reclamation Projects 
Authorization Act of 2007, the Secretary shall make grants to nonprofit 
institutions, State and local governments, cooperative extension 
services, or institutions of higher education (or consortia thereof), 
to establish a geographically dispersed network of Advanced Energy 
Technology Transfer Centers, to be located in areas the Secretary 
determines have the greatest need of the services of such Centers. In 
making awards under this section, the Secretary shall--
            ``(1) give priority to applicants already operating or 
        partnered with an outreach program capable of transferring 
        knowledge and information about advanced energy efficiency 
        methods and technologies;
            ``(2) ensure that, to the extent practicable, the program 
        enables the transfer of knowledge and information--
                    ``(A) about a variety of technologies; and
                    ``(B) in a variety of geographic areas;
            ``(3) give preference to applicants that would 
        significantly expand on or fill a gap in existing programs in a 
        geographical region; and
            ``(4) consider the special needs and opportunities for 
        increased energy efficiency for manufactured and site-built 
        housing, including construction, renovation, and retrofit.
    ``(b) Activities.--Each Center shall operate a program to encourage 
demonstration and commercial application of advanced energy methods and 
technologies through education and outreach to building and industrial 
professionals, and to other individuals and organizations with an 
interest in efficient energy use. Funds awarded under this section may 
be used for the following activities:
            ``(1) Developing and distributing informational materials 
        on technologies that could use energy more efficiently.
            ``(2) Carrying out demonstrations of advanced energy 
        methods and technologies.
            ``(3) Developing and conducting seminars, workshops, long-
        distance learning sessions, and other activities to aid in the 
        dissemination of knowledge and information on technologies that 
        could use energy more efficiently.
            ``(4) Providing or coordinating onsite energy evaluations, 
        including instruction on the commissioning of building heating 
        and cooling systems, for a wide range of energy end-users.
            ``(5) Examining the energy efficiency needs of energy end-
        users to develop recommended research projects for the 
        Department.
            ``(6) Hiring experts in energy efficient technologies to 
        carry out activities described in paragraphs (1) through (5).
    ``(c) Application.--A person seeking a grant under this section 
shall submit to the Secretary an application in such form and 
containing such information as the Secretary may require. The Secretary 
may award a grant under this section to an entity already in existence 
if the entity is otherwise eligible under this section. The application 
shall include, at a minimum--
            ``(1) a description of the applicant's outreach program, 
        and the geographic region it would serve, and of why the 
        program would be capable of transferring knowledge and 
        information about advanced energy technologies that increase 
        efficiency of energy use;
            ``(2) a description of the activities the applicant would 
        carry out, of the technologies that would be transferred, and 
        of any other organizations that will help facilitate a regional 
        approach to carrying out those activities;
            ``(3) a description of how the proposed activities would be 
        appropriate to the specific energy needs of the geographic 
        region to be served;
            ``(4) an estimate of the number and types of energy end-
        users expected to be reached through such activities; and
            ``(5) a description of how the applicant will assess the 
        success of the program.
    ``(d) Selection Criteria.--The Secretary shall award grants under 
this section on the basis of the following criteria, at a minimum:
            ``(1) The ability of the applicant to carry out the 
        proposed activities.
            ``(2) The extent to which the applicant will coordinate the 
        activities of the Center with other entities as appropriate, 
        such as State and local governments, utilities, institutions of 
        higher education, and National Laboratories.
            ``(3) The appropriateness of the applicant's outreach 
        program for carrying out the program described in this section.
            ``(4) The likelihood that proposed activities could be 
        expanded or used as a model for other areas.
    ``(e) Cost-Sharing.--In carrying out this section, the Secretary 
shall require cost-sharing in accordance with the requirements of 
section 988 for commercial application activities.
    ``(f) Duration.--
            ``(1) Initial grant period.--A grant awarded under this 
        section shall be for a period of 5 years.
            ``(2) Initial evaluation.--Each grantee under this section 
        shall be evaluated during its third year of operation under 
        procedures established by the Secretary to determine if the 
        grantee is accomplishing the purposes of this section described 
        in subsection (a). The Secretary shall terminate any grant that 
        does not receive a positive evaluation. If an evaluation is 
        positive, the Secretary may extend the grant for 3 additional 
        years beyond the original term of the grant.
            ``(3) Additional extension.--If a grantee receives an 
        extension under paragraph (2), the grantee shall be evaluated 
        again during the second year of the extension. The Secretary 
        shall terminate any grant that does not receive a positive 
        evaluation. If an evaluation is positive, the Secretary may 
        extend the grant for a final additional period of 3 additional 
        years beyond the original extension.
            ``(4) Limitation.--No grantee may receive more than 11 
        years of support under this section without reapplying for 
        support and competing against all other applicants seeking a 
        grant at that time.
    ``(g) Prohibition.--None of the funds awarded under this section 
may be used for the construction of facilities.
    ``(h) Definitions.--For purposes of this section:
            ``(1) Advanced energy methods and technologies.--The term 
        `advanced energy methods and technologies' means all methods 
        and technologies that promote energy efficiency and 
        conservation, including distributed generation technologies, 
        and life-cycle analysis of energy use.
            ``(2) Center.--The term `Center' means an Advanced Energy 
        Technology Transfer Center established pursuant to this 
        section.
            ``(3) Distributed generation.--The term `distributed 
        generation' means an electric power generation technology, 
        including photovoltaic, small wind, and micro-combined heat and 
        power, that serves electric consumers at or near the site of 
        production.
            ``(4) Cooperative extension.--The term `Cooperative 
        Extension' means the extension services established at the 
        land-grant colleges and universities under the Smith-Lever Act 
        of May 8, 1914.
            ``(5) Land-grant colleges and universities.--The term 
        `land-grant colleges and universities' means--
                    ``(A) 1862 Institutions (as defined in section 2 of 
                the Agricultural Research, Extension, and Education 
                Reform Act of 1998 (7 U.S.C. 7601));
                    ``(B) 1890 Institutions (as defined in section 2 of 
                that Act); and
                    ``(C) 1994 Institutions (as defined in section 2 of 
                that Act).
    ``(i) Authorization of Appropriations.--In addition to amounts 
otherwise authorized to be appropriated in section 911, there are 
authorized to be appropriated for the program under this section such 
sums as may be appropriated.''.

SEC. 502. AMENDMENTS TO THE STEEL AND ALUMINUM ENERGY CONSERVATION AND 
              TECHNOLOGY COMPETITIVENESS ACT OF 1988.

    (a) Authorization of Appropriations.--Section 9 of the Steel and 
Aluminum Energy Conservation and Technology Competitiveness Act of 1988 
(15 U.S.C. 5108) is amended to read as follows:

``SEC. 9. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.

    ``There are authorized to be appropriated to the Secretary to carry 
out this Act $12,000,000 for each of the fiscal years 2008 through 
2012.''.
    (b) Steel Project Priorities.--Section 4(c)(1) of the Steel and 
Aluminum Energy Conservation and Technology Competitiveness Act of 1988 
(15 U.S.C. 5103(c)(1)) is amended--
            (1) in subparagraph (H), by striking ``coatings for sheet 
        steels'' and inserting ``sheet and bar steels''; and
            (2) by adding at the end the following new subparagraph:
                    ``(K) The development of technologies which reduce 
                greenhouse gas emissions.''.
    (c) Conforming Amendments.--The Steel and Aluminum Energy 
Conservation and Technology Competitiveness Act of 1988 is further 
amended--
            (1) by striking section 7 (15 U.S.C. 5106); and
            (2) in section 8 (15 U.S.C. 5107), by inserting ``, 
        beginning with fiscal year 2008,'' after ``close of each fiscal 
        year''.
                                                       Calendar No. 424

110th CONGRESS

  1st Session

                                S. 2179

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL

To authorize certain programs and activities in the Forest Service, the 
Department of the Interior, and the Department of Energy, and for other 
                               purposes.

_______________________________________________________________________

                            October 18, 2007

            Read the second time and placed on the calendar
</pre></body></html>
