<html><body><pre>
[Congressional Bills 106th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H.R. 4377 Introduced in House (IH)]







106th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                H. R. 4377

To provide Outer Continental Shelf Impact Assistance to State and local 
governments, to amend the Land and Water Conservation Fund Act of 1965, 
the Urban Park and Recreation Recovery Act of 1978, and the Federal Aid 
   in Wildlife Restoration Act (commonly referred to as the Pittman-
Robertson Act) to establish a fund to meet the outdoor conservation and 
    recreation needs of the American people, and for other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                              May 4, 2000

 Mr. Young of Alaska introduced the following bill; which was referred 
  to the Committee on Resources, and in addition to the Committee on 
Agriculture, for a period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, 
 in each case for consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
                jurisdiction of the committee concerned

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
To provide Outer Continental Shelf Impact Assistance to State and local 
governments, to amend the Land and Water Conservation Fund Act of 1965, 
the Urban Park and Recreation Recovery Act of 1978, and the Federal Aid 
   in Wildlife Restoration Act (commonly referred to as the Pittman-
Robertson Act) to establish a fund to meet the outdoor conservation and 
    recreation needs of the American people, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Conservation and Reinvestment Act of 
2000''.

SEC. 2. TABLE OF CONTENTS.

    The table of contents for this Act is as follows:

Sec. 1. Short title.
Sec. 2. Table of contents.
Sec. 3. Definitions.
Sec. 4. Annual reports.
Sec. 5. Conservation and Reinvestment Act Fund.
Sec. 6. Limitation on use of available amounts for administration.
Sec. 7. Recordkeeping requirements.
Sec. 8. Maintenance of effort and matching funding.
Sec. 9. Sunset.
Sec. 10. Protection of private property rights.
Sec. 11. Signs.
          TITLE I--IMPACT ASSISTANCE AND COASTAL CONSERVATION

Sec. 101. Impact assistance formula and payments.
Sec. 102. Coastal State conservation and impact assistance plans.
       TITLE II--LAND AND WATER CONSERVATION FUND REVITALIZATION

Sec. 201. Amendment of Land and Water Conservation Fund Act of 1965.
Sec. 202. Extension of fund; treatment of amounts transferred from 
                            Conservation and Reinvestment Act Fund.
Sec. 203. Availability of amounts.
Sec. 204. Allocation of Fund.
Sec. 205. Use of Federal portion.
Sec. 206. Allocation of amounts available for State purposes.
Sec. 207. State planning.
Sec. 208. Assistance to States for other projects.
Sec. 209. Conversion of property to other use.
Sec. 210. Water rights.
            TITLE III--WILDLIFE CONSERVATION AND RESTORATION

Sec. 301. Purposes.
Sec. 302. Definitions.
Sec. 303. Treatment of amounts transferred from Conservation and 
                            Reinvestment Act Fund.
Sec. 304. Apportionment of amounts transferred from Conservation and 
                            Reinvestment Act Fund.
Sec. 305. Education.
Sec. 306. Prohibition against diversion.
    TITLE IV--URBAN PARK AND RECREATION RECOVERY PROGRAM AMENDMENTS

Sec. 401. Amendment of Urban Park and Recreation Recovery Act of 1978.
Sec. 402. Purpose.
Sec. 403. Treatment of amounts transferred from Conservation and 
                            Reinvestment Act Fund.
Sec. 404. Authority to develop new areas and facilities.
Sec. 405. Definitions.
Sec. 406. Eligibility.
Sec. 407. Grants.
Sec. 408. Recovery action programs.
Sec. 409. State action incentives.
Sec. 410. Conversion of recreation property.
Sec. 411. Repeal.
                  TITLE V--HISTORIC PRESERVATION FUND

Sec. 501. Treatment of amounts transferred from Conservation and 
                            Reinvestment Act Fund.
Sec. 502. State use of historic preservation assistance for national 
                            heritage areas and corridors.
             TITLE VI--FEDERAL AND INDIAN LANDS RESTORATION

Sec. 601. Purpose.
Sec. 602. Treatment of amounts transferred from Conservation and 
                            Reinvestment Act Fund; allocation.
Sec. 603. Authorized uses of transferred amounts.
Sec. 604. Indian tribe defined.
 TITLE VII--FARMLAND PROTECTION PROGRAM AND ENDANGERED AND THREATENED 
                            SPECIES RECOVERY

                Subtitle A--Farmland Protection Program

Sec. 701. Additional funding and additional authorities under farmland 
                            protection program.
Sec. 702. Funding.
         Subtitle B--Endangered and Threatened Species Recovery

Sec. 711. Purposes.
Sec. 712. Treatment of amounts transferred from Conservation and 
                            Reinvestment Act Fund.
Sec. 713. Endangered and threatened species recovery assistance.
Sec. 714. Endangered and Threatened Species Recovery Agreements.
Sec. 715. Definitions.

SEC. 3. DEFINITIONS.

    For purposes of this Act:
            (1) The term ``coastal population'' means the population of 
        all political subdivisions, as determined by the most recent 
        official data of the Census Bureau, contained in whole or in 
        part within the designated coastal boundary of a State as 
        defined in a State's coastal zone management program under the 
        Coastal Zone Management Act (16 U.S.C. 1451 and following).
            (2) The term ``coastal political subdivision'' means a 
        political subdivision of a coastal State all or part of which 
        political subdivision is within the coastal zone (as defined in 
        section 304 of the Coastal Zone Management Act (16 U.S.C. 
        1453)).
            (3) The term ``coastal State'' has the same meaning as 
        provided by section 304 of the Coastal Zone Management Act (16 
        U.S.C. 1453)).
            (4) The term ``coastline'' has the same meaning that it has 
        in the Submerged Lands Act (43 U.S.C. 1301 and following).
            (5) The term ``distance'' means minimum great circle 
        distance, measured in statute miles.
            (6) The term ``fiscal year'' means the Federal Government's 
        accounting period which begins on October 1st and ends on 
        September 30th, and is designated by the calendar year in which 
        it ends.
            (7) The term ``Governor'' means the highest elected 
        official of a State or of any other political entity that is 
        defined as, or treated as, a State under the Land and Water 
        Conservation Fund Act of 1965 (16 U.S.C. 460l-4 and following), 
        the Act of September 2, 1937 (16 U.S.C. 669 and following), 
        commonly referred to as the Federal Aid in Wildlife Restoration 
        Act or the Pittman-Robertson Act, the Urban Park and Recreation 
        Recovery Act of 1978 (16 U.S.C. 2501 and following), the 
        National Historic Preservation Act (16 U.S.C. 470h and 
        following), or the Federal Agriculture Improvement and Reform 
        Act of 1996 (Public Law 104-127; 16 U.S.C. 3830 note).
            (8) The term ``leased tract'' means a tract, leased under 
        section 6 or 8 of the Outer Continental Shelf Lands Act (43 
        U.S.C. 1335, 1337) for the purpose of drilling for, developing, 
        and producing oil and natural gas resources, which is a unit 
        consisting of either a block, a portion of a block, a 
        combination of blocks or portions of blocks, or a combination 
        of portions of blocks, as specified in the lease, and as 
        depicted on an Outer Continental Shelf Official Protraction 
        Diagram.
            (9) The term ``Outer Continental Shelf'' means all 
        submerged lands lying seaward and outside of the area of 
        ``lands beneath navigable waters'' as defined in section 2(a) 
        of the Submerged Lands Act (43 U.S.C. 1301(a)), and of which 
        the subsoil and seabed appertain to the United States and are 
        subject to its jurisdiction and control.
            (10) The term ``political subdivision'' means the local 
        political jurisdiction immediately below the level of State 
        government, including counties, parishes, and boroughs. If 
        State law recognizes an entity of general government that 
        functions in lieu of, and is not within, a county, parish, or 
        borough, the Secretary may recognize an area under the 
        jurisdiction of such other entities of general government as a 
        political subdivision for purposes of this title.
            (11) The term ``producing State'' means a State with a 
        coastal seaward boundary within 200 miles from the geographic 
        center of a leased tract other than a leased tract or portion 
        of a leased tract that is located in a geographic area subject 
        to a leasing moratorium on January 1, 1999 (unless the lease 
        was issued prior to the establishment of the moratorium and was 
        in production on January 1, 1999).
            (12) The term ``qualified Outer Continental Shelf 
        revenues'' means (except as otherwise provided in this 
        paragraph) all moneys received by the United States from each 
        leased tract or portion of a leased tract lying seaward of the 
        zone defined and governed by section 8(g) of the Outer 
        Continental Shelf Lands Act (43 U.S.C. 1337(g)), or lying 
        within such zone but to which section 8(g) does not apply, the 
        geographic center of which lies within a distance of 200 miles 
        from any part of the coastline of any coastal State, including 
        bonus bids, rents, royalties (including payments for royalty 
        taken in kind and sold), net profit share payments, and related 
        late-payment interest from natural gas and oil leases issued 
        pursuant to the Outer Continental Shelf Lands Act. Such term 
        does not include any revenues from a leased tract or portion of 
        a leased tract that is located in a geographic area subject to 
        a leasing moratorium on January 1, 1999, unless the lease was 
        issued prior to the establishment of the moratorium and was in 
        production on January 1, 1999.
            (13) The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary of the 
        Interior or the Secretary's designee, except as otherwise 
        specifically provided.
            (14) The term ``Fund'' means the Conservation and 
        Reinvestment Act Fund established under section 5.

SEC. 4. ANNUAL REPORTS.

    (a) State Reports.--On June 15 of each year, each Governor 
receiving moneys from the Fund shall account for all moneys so received 
for the previous fiscal year in a written report to the Secretary of 
the Interior or the Secretary of Agriculture, as appropriate. The 
report shall include, in accordance with regulations prescribed by the 
Secretaries, a description of all projects and activities receiving 
funds under this Act. In order to avoid duplication, such report may 
incorporate by reference any other reports required to be submitted 
under other provisions of law to the Secretary concerned by the 
Governor regarding any portion of such moneys.
    (b) Report to Congress.--On January 1 of each year the Secretary of 
the Interior, in consultation with the Secretary of Agriculture, shall 
submit an annual report to the Congress documenting all moneys expended 
by the Secretary of the Interior and the Secretary of Agriculture from 
the Fund during the previous fiscal year and summarizing the contents 
of the Governors' reports submitted to the Secretaries under subsection 
(a).

SEC. 5. CONSERVATION AND REINVESTMENT ACT FUND.

    (a) Establishment of Fund.--There is established in the Treasury of 
the United States a fund which shall be known as the ``Conservation and 
Reinvestment Act Fund''. In each fiscal year after the fiscal year 
2000, the Secretary of the Treasury shall deposit into the Fund the 
following amounts:
            (1) OCS revenues.--An amount in each such fiscal year from 
        qualified Outer Continental Shelf revenues equal to the 
        difference between $2,825,000,000 and the amounts deposited in 
        the Fund under paragraph (2), notwithstanding section 9 of the 
        Outer Continental Shelf Lands Act (43 U.S.C. 1338).
            (2) Amounts not disbursed.--All allocated but undisbursed 
        amounts returned to the Fund under section 101(a)(2).
            (3) Interest.--All interest earned under subsection (d) 
        that is not made available under paragraph (2) or (4) of that 
        subsection.
    (b) Transfer for Expenditure.--In each fiscal year after the fiscal 
year 2001, the Secretary of the Treasury shall transfer amounts 
deposited into the Fund as follows:
            (1) $1,000,000,000 to the Secretary of the Interior for 
        purposes of making payments to coastal States under title I of 
        this Act.
            (2) To the Land and Water Conservation Fund for expenditure 
        as provided in section 3(a) of the Land and Water Conservation 
        Fund Act of 1965 (16 U.S.C. 460l-6(a)) such amounts as are 
        necessary to make the income of the fund $900,000,000 in each 
        such fiscal year.
            (3) $350,000,000 to the Federal aid to wildlife restoration 
        fund established under section 3 of the Federal Aid in Wildlife 
        Restoration Act (16 U.S.C. 669b).
            (4) $125,000,000 to the Secretary of the Interior to carry 
        out the Urban Park and Recreation Recovery Act of 1978 (16 
        U.S.C. 2501 and following).
            (5) $100,000,000 to the Secretary of the Interior to carry 
        out the National Historic Preservation Act (16 U.S.C. 470 and 
        following).
            (6) $200,000,000 to the Secretary of the Interior and the 
        Secretary of Agriculture to carry out title VI of this Act.
            (7) $100,000,000 to the Secretary of Agriculture to carry 
        out the farmland protection program under section 388 of the 
        Federal Agriculture Improvement and Reform Act of 1996 (Public 
        Law 104-127; 16 U.S.C. 3830 note) and the Forest Legacy Program 
        under section 7 of the Cooperative Forestry Assistance Act of 
        1978 (16 U.S.C. 2103c).
            (8) $50,000,000 to the Secretary of the Interior to develop 
        and implement Endangered and Threatened Species Recovery 
        Agreements under subtitle B of title VII of this Act.
    (c) Shortfall.--If amounts deposited into the Fund in any fiscal 
year after the fiscal year 2000 are less than $2,825,000,000, the 
amounts transferred under paragraphs (1) through (8) of subsection (b) 
for that fiscal year shall each be reduced proportionately.
    (d) Interest.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary of the Treasury shall invest 
        moneys in the Fund (including interest), and in any fund or 
        account to which moneys are transferred pursuant to subsection 
        (b) of this section, in public debt securities with maturities 
        suitable to the needs of the Fund, as determined by the 
        Secretary of the Treasury, and bearing interest at rates 
        determined by the Secretary of the Treasury, taking into 
        consideration current market yields on outstanding marketable 
        obligations of the United States of comparable maturity. Such 
        invested moneys shall remain invested until needed to meet 
        requirements for disbursement for the programs financed under 
        this Act.
            (2) Use of interest.--Except as provided in paragraphs (3) 
        and (4), interest earned on such moneys shall be available, 
        without further appropriation, for obligation or expenditure 
        under--
                    (A) chapter 69 of title 31, United States Code 
                (relating to payments in lieu of taxes); and
                    (B) section 401 of the Act of June 15, 1935 (49 
                Stat. 383; 16 U.S.C. 715s) (relating to refuge revenue 
                sharing).
        In each fiscal year such interest shall be allocated between 
        the programs referred to in subparagraphs (A) and (B) in 
        proportion to the amounts appropriated for that fiscal year 
        under other provisions of law for purposes of such programs. To 
        the extent that the total amount available for a fiscal year 
        under this paragraph and such other provisions of law for one 
        of such programs exceeds the authorized limit of that program, 
        the amount available under this paragraph that contributes to 
        such excess shall be allocated to the other such program, but 
        not in excess of its authorized limit. To the extent that for 
        both such programs such total amount for each program exceeds 
        the authorized limit of that program, the amount available 
        under this paragraph that contributes to such excess shall be 
        deposited into the Fund and shall be considered interest for 
        purposes of subsection (a)(3). Interest shall cease to be 
        available for obligation or expenditure for a fiscal year for 
        purposes of subparagraph (A) if the annual appropriation for 
        that fiscal year under other provisions of law for the program 
        referred to in subparagraph (A) is less than $100,000,000, and 
        in any such case, the allocation provisions of this paragraph 
        shall not apply and all such interest shall be available for 
        purposes of the program referred to in subparagraph (B), up to 
        the authorized limit of such program. Interest shall cease to 
        be available for obligation or expenditure for a fiscal year 
        for purposes of subparagraph (B) if the annual appropriation 
        for that fiscal year under other provisions of law for the 
        program referred to in subparagraph (A) is less than 
        $15,000,000, and in any such case, the allocation provisions of 
        this paragraph shall not apply and all such interest shall be 
        available for purposes of the program referred to in 
        subparagraph (A), up to the authorized limit of such program. 
        Interest shall cease to be available for obligation or 
        expenditure for a fiscal year for purposes of this paragraph if 
        the annual appropriation for that fiscal year under other 
        provisions of law for each of the program referred to in 
        subparagraph (A) and the program referred to in subparagraph 
        (B) is less than $100,000,000 and $15,000,000, respectively, 
        and in any such case, the allocation provisions of this 
        paragraph shall not apply and all such interest shall be 
        deposited into the Fund and be considered interest for purposes 
        of subsection (a)(3).
            (3) Ceiling on expenditures of interest.--Amounts made 
        available under paragraph (2) in each fiscal year shall not 
        exceed the lesser of the following:
                    (A) $200,000,000.
                    (B) The total amount authorized and appropriated 
                for that fiscal year under other provisions of law for 
                purposes of the programs referred to in subparagraphs 
                (A) and (B) of paragraph (2).
            (4) Title iii interest.--All interest attributable to 
        amounts transferred by the Secretary of the Treasury to the 
        Secretary of the Interior for purposes of title III of this Act 
        (and the amendments made by such title III) shall be available, 
        without further appropriation, for obligation or expenditure 
        for purposes of the North American Wetlands Conservation Act of 
        1989 (16 U.S.C. 4401 and following)
    (e) Refunds.--In those instances where through judicial decision, 
administrative review, arbitration, or other means there are royalty 
refunds owed to entities generating revenues under this title, refunds 
shall be paid by the Secretary of the Treasury from amounts available 
in the Fund to the extent that such refunds are attributable to 
qualified Outer Continental Shelf revenues deposited in the Fund under 
this Act.

SEC. 6. LIMITATION ON USE OF AVAILABLE AMOUNTS FOR ADMINISTRATION.

    Notwithstanding any other provision of law, of amounts made 
available by this Act (including the amendments made by this Act) for a 
particular activity, not more than 2 percent may be used for 
administrative expenses of that activity. Nothing in this section shall 
affect the prohibition contained in section 4(c)(3) of the Federal Aid 
in Wildlife Restoration Act (as amended by this Act).

SEC. 7. RECORDKEEPING REQUIREMENTS.

    The Secretary of the Interior in consultation with the Secretary of 
Agriculture shall establish such rules regarding recordkeeping by State 
and local governments and the auditing of expenditures made by State 
and local governments from funds made available under this Act as may 
be necessary. Such rules shall be in addition to other requirements 
established regarding recordkeeping and the auditing of such 
expenditures under other authority of law.

SEC. 8. MAINTENANCE OF EFFORT AND MATCHING FUNDING.

    (a) In General.--It is the intent of the Congress in this Act that 
States not use this Act as an opportunity to reduce State or local 
resources for the programs funded by this Act. Except as provided in 
subsection (b), no State or local government shall receive any funds 
under this Act during any fiscal year when its expenditures of non-
Federal funds for recurrent expenditures for programs for which funding 
is provided under this Act will be less than its expenditures were for 
such programs during the preceding fiscal year. No State or local 
government shall receive funding under this Act with respect to a 
program unless the Secretary is satisfied that such a grant will be so 
used to supplement and, to the extent practicable, increase the level 
of State, local, or other non-Federal funds available for such program.
    (b) Exception.--The Secretary may provide funding under this Act to 
a State or local government not meeting the requirements of subsection 
(a) if the Secretary determines that a reduction in expenditures --
            (1) is attributable to a nonselective reduction in 
        expenditures for the programs of all executive branch agencies 
        of the State or local government; or
            (2) is a result of reductions in State or local revenue as 
        a result of a downturn in the economy.
    (c) Use of Fund To Meet Matching Requirements.--All funds received 
by a State or local government under this Act shall be treated as 
Federal funds for purposes of compliance with any provision in effect 
under any other law requiring that non-Federal funds be used to provide 
a portion of the funding for any program or project.

SEC. 9. SUNSET.

    This Act, including the amendments made by this Act, shall have no 
force or effect after September 30, 2015.

SEC. 10. PROTECTION OF PRIVATE PROPERTY RIGHTS.

    (a) Savings Clause.--Nothing in the Act shall authorize that 
private property be taken for public use, without just compensation as 
provided by the Fifth and Fourteenth amendments to the United States 
Constitution.
    (b) Regulation.--Federal agencies, using funds appropriated by this 
Act, may not apply any regulation on any lands until the lands or 
water, or an interest therein, is acquired, unless authorized to do so 
by another Act of Congress.

SEC. 11. SIGNS.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary shall require, as a condition of any 
financial assistance provided with amounts made available by this Act, 
that the person that owns or administers any site that benefits from 
such assistance shall include on any sign otherwise installed at that 
site at or near an entrance or public use focal point, a statement that 
the existence or development of the site (or both), as appropriate, is 
a product of such assistance.
    (b) Standards.--The Secretary shall provide for the design of 
standardized signs for purposes of subsection (a), and shall prescribe 
standards and guidelines for such signs.

          TITLE I--IMPACT ASSISTANCE AND COASTAL CONSERVATION

SEC. 101. IMPACT ASSISTANCE FORMULA AND PAYMENTS.

    (a) Impact Assistance Payments to States.--
            (1) Grant program.--Amounts transferred to the Secretary of 
        the Interior from the Conservation and Reinvestment Act Fund 
        under section 5(b)(1) of this Act for purposes of making 
        payments to coastal States under this title in any fiscal year 
        shall be allocated by the Secretary of the Interior among 
        coastal States as provided in this section in each such fiscal 
        year. In each such fiscal year, the Secretary of the Interior 
        shall, without further appropriation, disburse such allocated 
        funds to those coastal States for which the Secretary has 
        approved a Coastal State Conservation and Impact Assistance 
        Plan as required by this title. Payments for all projects shall 
        be made by the Secretary to the Governor of the State or to the 
        State official or agency designated by the Governor or by State 
        law as having authority and responsibility to accept and to 
        administer funds paid hereunder. No payment shall be made to 
        any State until the State has agreed to provide such reports to 
        the Secretary, in such form and containing such information, as 
        may be reasonably necessary to enable the Secretary to perform 
        his duties under this title, and provide such fiscal control 
        and fund accounting procedures as may be necessary to assure 
        proper disbursement and accounting for Federal revenues paid to 
        the State under this title.
            (2) Failure to have plan approved.--At the end of each 
        fiscal year, the Secretary shall return to the Conservation and 
        Reinvestment Act Fund any amount that the Secretary allocated, 
        but did not disburse, in that fiscal year to a coastal State 
        that does not have an approved plan under this title before the 
        end of the fiscal year in which such grant is allocated, except 
        that the Secretary shall hold in escrow until the final 
        resolution of the appeal any amount allocated, but not 
        disbursed, to a coastal State that has appealed the disapproval 
        of a plan submitted under this title.
    (b) Allocation Among Coastal States.--
            (1) Allocable share for each state.--For each coastal 
        State, the Secretary shall determine the State's allocable 
        share of the total amount of the revenues transferred from the 
        Fund under section 5(b)(1) for each fiscal year using the 
        following weighted formula:
                    (A) 50 percent of such revenues shall be allocated 
                among the coastal States as provided in paragraph (2).
                    (B) 25 percent of such revenues shall be allocated 
                to each coastal State based on the ratio of each 
                State's shoreline miles to the shoreline miles of all 
                coastal States.
                    (C) 25 percent of such revenues shall be allocated 
                to each coastal State based on the ratio of each 
                State's coastal population to the coastal population of 
                all coastal States.
            (2) Offshore outer continental shelf share.--If any portion 
        of a producing State lies within a distance of 200 miles from 
        the geographic center of any leased tract with qualified Outer 
        Continental Shelf revenues, the Secretary of the Interior shall 
        determine such State's allocable share under paragraph (1)(A) 
        based on the formula set forth in this paragraph. Such State 
        share shall be calculated as of the date of the enactment of 
        this Act for the first 5-fiscal year period during which funds 
        are disbursed under this title and recalculated on the 
        anniversary of such date each fifth year thereafter for each 
        succeeding 5-fiscal year period. Each such State's allocable 
        share of the revenues disbursed under paragraph (1)(A) shall be 
        based on qualified Outer Continental Shelf revenues from each 
        leased tract or portion of a leased tract the geographic center 
        of which is within a distance (to the nearest whole mile) of 
        200 miles from the coastline of the State and shall be 
        inversely proportional to the distance between the nearest 
        point on the coastline of such State and the geographic center 
        of each such leased tract or portion, as determined by the 
        Secretary for the 5-year period concerned. In applying this 
        paragraph a leased tract or portion of a leased tract shall be 
        excluded if the tract or portion is located in a geographic 
        area subject to a leasing moratorium on January 1, 1999, unless 
        the lease was issued prior to the establishment of the 
        moratorium and was in production on January 1, 1999.
            (3) Minimum state share.--
                    (A) In general.--The allocable share of revenues 
                determined by the Secretary under this subsection for 
                each coastal State with an approved coastal management 
                program (as defined by the Coastal Zone Management Act 
                (16 U.S.C. 1451)), or which is making satisfactory 
                progress toward one, shall not be less in any fiscal 
                year than 0.50 percent of the total amount of the 
                revenues transferred by the Secretary of the Treasury 
                to the Secretary of the Interior for purposes of this 
                title for that fiscal year under subsection (a). For 
                any other coastal State the allocable share of such 
                revenues shall not be less than 0.25 percent of such 
                revenues.
                    (B) Recomputation.--Where one or more coastal 
                States' allocable shares, as computed under paragraphs 
                (1) and (2), are increased by any amount under this 
                paragraph, the allocable share for all other coastal 
                States shall be recomputed and reduced by the same 
                amount so that not more than 100 percent of the amount 
                transferred by the Secretary of the Treasury to the 
                Secretary of the Interior for purposes of this title 
                for that fiscal year under section 5(b)(1) is allocated 
                to all coastal States. The reduction shall be divided 
                pro rata among such other coastal States.
    (c) Payments to Political Subdivisions.--In the case of a producing 
State, the Governor of the State shall pay 50 percent of the State's 
allocable share, as determined under subsection (b), to the coastal 
political subdivisions in such State. Such payments shall be allocated 
among such coastal political subdivisions of the State according to an 
allocation formula analogous to the allocation formula used in 
subsection (b) to allocate revenues among the coastal States, except 
that a coastal political subdivision in the State of California that 
has a coastal shoreline, that is not within 200 miles of the geographic 
center of a leased tract or portion of a leased tract, and in which 
there is located one or more oil refineries shall be eligible for that 
portion of the allocation described in subsection (b)(1)(A) and (b)(2) 
in the same manner as if that political subdivision were located within 
a distance of 50 miles from the geographic center of the closest leased 
tract with qualified Outer Continental Shelf revenues.
    (d) Time of Payment.--Payments to coastal States and coastal 
political subdivisions under this section shall be made not later than 
December 31 of each year from revenues received during the immediately 
preceding fiscal year.

SEC. 102. COASTAL STATE CONSERVATION AND IMPACT ASSISTANCE PLANS.

    (a) Development and Submission of State Plans.--Each coastal State 
seeking to receive grants under this title shall prepare, and submit to 
the Secretary, a Statewide Coastal State Conservation and Impact 
Assistance Plan. In the case of a producing State, the Governor shall 
incorporate the plans of the coastal political subdivisions into the 
Statewide plan for transmittal to the Secretary. The Governor shall 
solicit local input and shall provide for public participation in the 
development of the Statewide plan. The plan shall be submitted to the 
Secretary by April 1 of the calendar year after the calendar year in 
which this Act is enacted.
    (b) Approval or Disapproval.--
            (1) In general.--Approval of a Statewide plan under 
        subsection (a) is required prior to disbursement of funds under 
        this title by the Secretary. The Secretary shall approve the 
        Statewide plan if the Secretary determines, in consultation 
        with the Secretary of Commerce, that the plan is consistent 
        with the uses set forth in subsection (c) and if the plan 
        contains each of the following:
                    (A) The name of the State agency that will have the 
                authority to represent and act for the State in dealing 
                with the Secretary for purposes of this title.
                    (B) A program for the implementation of the plan 
                which, for producing States, includes a description of 
                how funds will be used to address the impacts of oil 
                and gas production from the Outer Continental Shelf.
                    (C) Certification by the Governor that ample 
                opportunity has been accorded for public participation 
                in the development and revision of the plan.
                    (D) Measures for taking into account other relevant 
                Federal resources and programs. The plan shall be 
                correlated so far as practicable with other State, 
                regional, and local plans.
            (2) Procedure and timing; revisions.--The Secretary shall 
        approve or disapprove each plan submitted in accordance with 
        this section. If a State first submits a plan by not later than 
        90 days before the beginning of the first fiscal year to which 
        the plan applies, the Secretary shall approve or disapprove the 
        plan by not later than 30 days before the beginning of that 
        fiscal year.
            (3) Amendment or revision.--Any amendment to or revision of 
        the plan shall be prepared in accordance with the requirements 
        of this subsection and shall be submitted to the Secretary for 
        approval or disapproval. Any such amendment or revision shall 
        take effect only for fiscal years after the fiscal year in 
        which the amendment or revision is approved by the Secretary.
    (c) Authorized Uses of State Grant Funding.--The funds provided 
under this title to a coastal State and for coastal political 
subdivisions are authorized to be used only for one or more of the 
following purposes:
            (1) Data collection, including but not limited to fishery 
        or marine mammal stock surveys in State waters or both, 
        cooperative State, interstate, and Federal fishery or marine 
        mammal stock surveys or both, cooperative initiatives with 
        university and private entities for fishery and marine mammal 
        surveys, activities related to marine mammal and fishery 
        interactions, and other coastal living marine resources 
        surveys.
            (2) The conservation, restoration, enhancement, or creation 
        of coastal habitats.
            (3) Cooperative Federal or State enforcement of marine 
        resources management statutes.
            (4) Fishery observer coverage programs in State or Federal 
        waters.
            (5) Invasive, exotic, and nonindigenous species 
        identification and control.
            (6) Coordination and preparation of cooperative fishery 
        conservation and management plans between States including the 
        development and implementation of population surveys, 
        assessments and monitoring plans, and the preparation and 
        implementation of State fishery management plans developed by 
        interstate marine fishery commissions.
            (7) Preparation and implementation of State fishery or 
        marine mammal management plans that comply with bilateral or 
        multilateral international fishery or marine mammal 
        conservation and management agreements or both.
            (8) Coastal and ocean observations necessary to develop and 
        implement real time tide and current measurement systems.
            (9) Implementation of federally approved marine, coastal, 
        or comprehensive conservation and management plans.
            (10) Mitigating marine and coastal impacts of Outer 
        Continental Shelf activities including impacts on onshore 
        infrastructure.
            (11) Projects that promote research, education, training, 
        and advisory services in fields related to ocean, coastal, and 
        Great Lakes resources.
    (d) Compliance With Authorized Uses.--Based on the annual reports 
submitted under section 4 of this Act and on audits conducted by the 
Secretary under section 7, the Secretary shall review the expenditures 
made by each State and coastal political subdivision from funds made 
available under this title. If the Secretary determines that any 
expenditure made by a State or coastal political subdivision of a State 
from such funds is not consistent with the authorized uses set forth in 
subsection (c), the Secretary shall not make any further grants under 
this title to that State until the funds used for such expenditure have 
been repaid to the Conservation and Reinvestment Act Fund.

       TITLE II--LAND AND WATER CONSERVATION FUND REVITALIZATION

SEC. 201. AMENDMENT OF LAND AND WATER CONSERVATION FUND ACT OF 1965.

    Except as otherwise expressly provided, whenever in this title an 
amendment or repeal is expressed in terms of an amendment to, or repeal 
of, a section or other provision, the reference shall be considered to 
be made to a section or other provision of the Land and Water 
Conservation Fund Act of 1965 (16 U.S.C. 460l-4 and following).

SEC. 202. EXTENSION OF FUND; TREATMENT OF AMOUNTS TRANSFERRED FROM 
              CONSERVATION AND REINVESTMENT ACT FUND.

    Section 2(c) is amended to read as follows:
    ``(c) Amounts Transferred From Conservation and Reinvestment Act 
Fund.--In addition to the sum of the revenues and collections estimated 
by the Secretary of the Interior to be covered into the fund pursuant 
to subsections (a) and (b) of this section, there shall be covered into 
the fund all amounts transferred to the fund under section 5(b)(2) of 
the Conservation and Reinvestment Act of 2000.''.

SEC. 203. AVAILABILITY OF AMOUNTS.

    Section 3 (16 U.S.C. 460l-6) is amended to read as follows:

                            ``appropriations

    ``Sec. 3. (a) In General.--There are authorized to be appropriated 
to the Secretary from the fund to carry out this Act not more than 
$900,000,000 in any fiscal year after the fiscal year 2001. Amounts 
transferred to the fund from the Conservation and Reinvestment Act Fund 
and amounts covered into the fund under subsections (a) and (b) of 
section 2 shall be available to the Secretary in fiscal years after the 
fiscal year 2001 without further appropriation to carry out this Act.
    ``(b) Obligation and Expenditure of Available Amounts.--Amounts 
available for obligation or expenditure from the fund or from the 
special account established under section 4(i)(1) may be obligated or 
expended only as provided in this Act.''.

SEC. 204. ALLOCATION OF FUND.

    Section 5 (16 U.S.C. 460l-7) is amended to read as follows:

                         ``allocation of funds

    ``Sec. 5. Of the amounts made available for each fiscal year to 
carry out this Act--
            ``(1) 50 percent shall be available for Federal purposes 
        (in this Act referred to as the `Federal portion'); and
            ``(2) 50 percent shall be available for grants to 
        States.''.

SEC. 205. USE OF FEDERAL PORTION.

    Section 7 (16 U.S.C. 460l-9) is amended by adding at the end the 
following:
    ``(d) Use of Federal Portion.--
            ``(1) Approval by congress required.--The Federal portion 
        (as that term is defined in section 5(1)) may not be obligated 
        or expended by the Secretary of the Interior or the Secretary 
        of Agriculture for any acquisition except those specifically 
        referred to, and approved by the Congress, in an Act making 
        appropriations for the Department of the Interior or the 
        Department of Agriculture, respectively.
            ``(2) Willing seller requirement.--The Federal portion may 
        not be used to acquire any property unless--
                    ``(A) the owner of the property concurs in the 
                acquisition; or
                    ``(B) acquisition of that property is specifically 
                approved by an Act of Congress.
    ``(e) List of Proposed Federal Acquisitions.--
            ``(1) Restriction on use.--The Federal portion for a fiscal 
        year may not be obligated or expended to acquire any interest 
        in lands or water unless the lands or water were included in a 
        list of acquisitions that is approved by the Congress.
            ``(2) Transmission of list.--(A) The Secretary of the 
        Interior and the Secretary of Agriculture shall jointly 
        transmit to the appropriate authorizing and appropriations 
        committees of the House of Representatives and the Senate for 
        each fiscal year, by no later than the submission of the budget 
        for the fiscal year under section 1105 of title 31, United 
        States Code, a list of the acquisitions of interests in lands 
        and water proposed to be made with the Federal portion for the 
        fiscal year.
            ``(B) In preparing each list under subparagraph (A), the 
        Secretary shall--
                    ``(i) seek to consolidate Federal landholdings in 
                States with checkerboard Federal land ownership 
                patterns;
                    ``(ii) consider the use of equal value land 
                exchanges, where feasible and suitable, as an 
                alternative means of land acquisition;
                    ``(iii) consider the use of permanent conservation 
                easements, where feasible and suitable, as an 
                alternative means of acquisition;
                    ``(iv) identify those properties that are proposed 
                to be acquired from willing sellers and specify any for 
                which adverse condemnation is requested; and
                    ``(v) establish priorities based on such factors as 
                important or special resource attributes, threats to 
                resource integrity, timely availability, owner 
                hardship, cost escalation, public recreation use 
                values, and similar considerations.
            ``(C) The Secretary of the Interior and the Secretary of 
        Agriculture shall each--
                    ``(i) transmit, with the list transmitted under 
                subparagraph (A), a separate list of those lands under 
                the administrative jurisdiction of the Secretary that 
                have been identified in applicable land management 
                plans as surplus and eligible for disposal as provided 
                for by law; and
                    ``(ii) update each list to be Indian transmitted 
                under clause (i) as land management plans are amended 
                or revised.
            ``(3) Information regarding proposed acquisitions.--Each 
        list under paragraph (2)(A) shall include, for each proposed 
        acquisition included in the list--
                    ``(A) citation of the statutory authority for the 
                acquisition, if such authority exists; and
                    ``(B) an explanation of why the particular interest 
                proposed to be acquired was selected.
    ``(f) Notification to Affected Areas Required.--The Federal portion 
for a fiscal year may not be used to acquire any interest in land 
unless the Secretary administering the acquisition, by not later than 
30 days after the date the Secretaries submit the list under subsection 
(e)(2)(A) for the fiscal year, provides notice of the proposed 
acquisition--
            ``(1) in writing to each Member of and each Delegate and 
        Resident Commissioner to the Congress elected to represent any 
        area in which is located--
                    ``(A) the land; or
                    ``(B) any part of any federally designated unit 
                that includes the land;
            ``(2) in writing to the Governor of the State in which the 
        land is located;
            ``(3) in writing to each State political subdivision having 
        jurisdiction over the land; and
            ``(4) by publication of a notice in a newspaper that is 
        widely distributed in the area under the jurisdiction of each 
        such State political subdivision, that includes a clear 
        statement that the Federal Government intends to acquire an 
        interest in land.
    ``(g) Compliance With Requirements Under Federal Laws.--
            ``(1) In general.--The Federal portion for a fiscal year 
        may not be used to acquire any interest in land or water unless 
        the following have occurred:
                    ``(A) All actions required under Federal law with 
                respect to the acquisition have been complied with.
                    ``(B) A copy of each final environmental impact 
                statement or environmental assessment required by law, 
                and a summary of all public comments regarding the 
                acquisition that have been received by the agency 
                making the acquisition, are submitted to the Committee 
                on Resources of the House of Representatives, the 
                Committee on Energy and Natural Resources of the 
                Senate, and the Committees on Appropriations of the 
                House of Representatives and of the Senate.
                    ``(C) A notice of the availability of such 
                statement or assessment and of such summary is provided 
                to--
                            ``(i) each Member of and each Delegate and 
                        Resident Commissioner to the Congress elected 
                        to represent the area in which the land is 
                        located;
                            ``(ii) the Governor of the State in which 
                        the land is located; and
                            ``(iii) each State political subdivision 
                        having jurisdiction over the land.
            ``(2) Limitation on application.--Paragraph (1) shall not 
        apply to any acquisition that is specifically authorized by a 
        Federal law.''.

SEC. 206. ALLOCATION OF AMOUNTS AVAILABLE FOR STATE PURPOSES.

    (a) In General.--Section 6(b) (16 U.S.C. 460l-8(b)) is amended to 
read as follows:
    ``(b) Distribution Among the States.--(1) Sums in the fund 
available each fiscal year for State purposes shall be apportioned 
among the several States by the Secretary, in accordance with this 
subsection. The determination of the apportionment by the Secretary 
shall be final.
    ``(2) Subject to paragraph (3), of sums in the fund available each 
fiscal year for State purposes--
                    ``(A) 30 percent shall be apportioned equally among 
                the several States; and
                    ``(B) 70 percent shall be apportioned so that the 
                ratio that the amount apportioned to each State under 
                this subparagraph bears to the total amount apportioned 
                under this subparagraph for the fiscal year is equal to 
                the ratio that the population of the State bears to the 
                total population of all States.
    ``(3) The total allocation to an individual State for a fiscal year 
under paragraph (2) shall not exceed 10 percent of the total amount 
allocated to the several States under paragraph (2) for that fiscal 
year.
    ``(4) The Secretary shall notify each State of its apportionment, 
and the amounts thereof shall be available thereafter to the State for 
planning, acquisition, or development projects as hereafter described. 
Any amount of any apportionment under this subsection that has not been 
paid or obligated by the Secretary during the fiscal year in which such 
notification is given and the two fiscal years thereafter shall be 
reapportioned by the Secretary in accordance with paragraph (2), but 
without regard to the 10 percent limitation to an individual State 
specified in paragraph (3).
    ``(5)(A) For the purposes of paragraph (2)(A)--
            ``(i) the District of Columbia shall be treated as a State; 
        and
            ``(ii) Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands, Guam, and American 
        Samoa--
                    ``(I) shall be treated collectively as one State; 
                and
                    ``(II) shall each be allocated an equal share of 
                any amount distributed to them pursuant to clause (i).
    ``(B) Each of the areas referred to in subparagraph (A) shall be 
treated as a State for all other purposes of this Act.''.
    (b) Tribes and Alaska Native Corporations.--Section 6(b)(5) (16 
U.S.C. 460l-8(b)(5)) is further amended by adding at the end the 
following new subparagraph:
    ``(C) For the purposes of paragraph (1), all federally recognized 
Indian tribes, or in the case of Alaska, Native Corporations (as 
defined in section 3 of the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act (43 
U.S.C. 1602)), shall be eligible to receive shares of the apportionment 
under paragraph (1) in accordance with a competitive grant program 
established by the Secretary by rule. The total apportionment available 
to such tribes, or in the case of Alaska, Native Corporations shall be 
equivalent to the amount available to a single State. No single tribe, 
nor in the case of Alaska, Native Corporation shall receive a grant 
that constitutes more than 10 percent of the total amount made 
available to all tribes and Alaska Native Corporations pursuant to the 
apportionment under paragraph (1). Funds received by a tribe, or in the 
case of Alaska, Native Corporation under this subparagraph may be 
expended only for the purposes specified in paragraphs (1) and (3) of 
subsection (a).''.
    (c) Local Allocation.--Section 6(b) (16 U.S.C. 460l-8(b)) is 
amended by adding at the end the following:
    ``(6) Absent some compelling and annually documented reason to the 
contrary acceptable to the Secretary of the Interior, each State (other 
than an area treated as a State under paragraph (5)) shall make 
available as grants to local governments, at least 50 percent of the 
annual State apportionment, or an equivalent amount made available from 
other sources.''.

SEC. 207. STATE PLANNING.

    (a) State Action Agenda Required.--
            (1) In general.--Section 6(d) (16 U.S.C. 460l-8(d)) is 
        amended to read as follows:
    ``(d) State Action Agenda Required.--(1) Each State may define its 
own priorities and criteria for selection of outdoor conservation and 
recreation acquisition and development projects eligible for grants 
under this Act, so long as the priorities and criteria defined by the 
State are consistent with the purposes of this Act, the State provides 
for public involvement in this process, and the State publishes an 
accurate and current State Action Agenda for Community Conservation and 
Recreation (in this Act referred to as the `State Action Agenda') 
indicating the needs it has identified and the priorities and criteria 
it has established. In order to assess its needs and establish its 
overall priorities, each State, in partnership with its local 
governments and Federal agencies, and in consultation with its 
citizens, shall develop, within 5 years after the enactment of the 
Conservation and Reinvestment Act of 2000, a State Action Agenda that 
meets the following requirements:
            ``(A) The agenda must be strategic, originating in broad-
        based and long-term needs, but focused on actions that can be 
        funded over the next 5 years.
            ``(B) The agenda must be updated at least once every 5 
        years and certified by the Governor that the State Action 
        Agenda conclusions and proposed actions have been considered in 
        an active public involvement process.
    ``(2) State Action Agendas shall take into account all providers of 
conservation and recreation lands within each State, including Federal, 
regional, and local government resources, and shall be correlated 
whenever possible with other State, regional, and local plans for 
parks, recreation, open space, and wetlands conservation. Recovery 
action programs developed by urban localities under section 1007 of the 
Urban Park and Recreation Recovery Act of 1978 shall be used by a State 
as a guide to the conclusions, priorities, and action schedules 
contained in State Action Agenda. Each State shall assure that any 
requirements for local outdoor conservation and recreation planning, 
promulgated as conditions for grants, minimize redundancy of local 
efforts by allowing, wherever possible, use of the findings, 
priorities, and implementation schedules of recovery action programs to 
meet such requirements.''.
            (2) Existing state plans.--Comprehensive State Plans 
        developed by any State under section 6(d) of the Land and Water 
        Conservation Fund Act of 1965 before the date that is 5 years 
        after the enactment of this Act shall remain in effect in that 
        State until a State Action Agenda has been adopted pursuant to 
        the amendment made by this subsection, but no later than 5 
        years after the enactment of this Act.
    (b) Miscellaneous.--Section 6(e) (16 U.S.C. 460l-8(e)) is amended 
as follows:
            (1) In the matter preceding paragraph (1) by striking 
        ``State comprehensive plan'' and inserting ``State Action 
        Agenda''.
            (2) In paragraph (1) by striking ``comprehensive plan'' and 
        inserting ``State Action Agenda''.

SEC. 208. ASSISTANCE TO STATES FOR OTHER PROJECTS.

    Section 6(e) (16 U.S.C. 460l-8(e)) is amended--
            (1) in subsection (e)(1) by striking ``, but not including 
        incidental costs relating to acquisition''; and
            (2) in subsection (e)(2) by inserting before the period at 
        the end the following: ``or to enhance public safety within a 
        designated park or recreation area''.

SEC. 209. CONVERSION OF PROPERTY TO OTHER USE.

    Section 6(f)(3) (16 U.S.C. 460l-8(f)(3)) is amended--
            (1) by inserting ``(A)'' before ``No property''; and
            (2) by striking the second sentence and inserting the 
        following:
    ``(B) The Secretary shall approve such conversion only if the State 
demonstrates no prudent or feasible alternative exists with the 
exception of those properties that no longer meet the criteria within 
the State Plan or Agenda as an outdoor conservation and recreation 
facility due to changes in demographics or that must be abandoned 
because of environmental contamination which endangers public health 
and safety. Any conversion must satisfy such conditions as the 
Secretary deems necessary to assure the substitution of other 
conservation and recreation properties of at least equal fair market 
value and reasonably equivalent usefulness and location and which are 
consistent with the existing State Plan or Agenda; except that wetland 
areas and interests therein as identified in the wetlands provisions of 
the action agenda and proposed to be acquired as suitable replacement 
property within that same State that is otherwise acceptable to the 
Secretary shall be considered to be of reasonably equivalent usefulness 
with the property proposed for conversion.''.

SEC. 210. WATER RIGHTS.

    Title I is amended by adding at the end the following:

                             ``water rights

    ``Sec. 14. Nothing in this title--
            ``(1) invalidates or preempts State or Federal water law or 
        an interstate compact governing water;
            ``(2) alters the rights of any State to any appropriated 
        share of the waters of any body of surface or ground water, 
        whether determined by past or future interstate compacts or by 
        past or future legislative or final judicial allocations;
            ``(3) preempts or modifies any Federal or State law, or 
        interstate compact, dealing with water quality or disposal; or
            ``(4) confers on any non-Federal entity the ability to 
        exercise any Federal right to the waters of any stream or to 
        any ground water resource.''.

            TITLE III--WILDLIFE CONSERVATION AND RESTORATION

SEC. 301. PURPOSES.

    The purposes of this title are--
            (1) to extend financial and technical assistance to the 
        States under the Federal Aid to Wildlife Restoration Act for 
        the benefit of a diverse array of wildlife and associated 
        habitats, including species that are not hunted or fished, to 
        fulfill unmet needs of wildlife within the States in 
        recognition of the primary role of the States to conserve all 
        wildlife;
            (2) to assure sound conservation policies through the 
        development, revision, and implementation of a comprehensive 
        wildlife conservation and restoration plan;
            (3) to encourage State fish and wildlife agencies to 
        participate with the Federal Government, other State agencies, 
        wildlife conservation organizations, Indian tribes, and in the 
        case of Alaska, Alaska Native Corporations, and outdoor 
        recreation and conservation interests through cooperative 
        planning and implementation of this title; and
            (4) to encourage State fish and wildlife agencies to 
        provide for public involvement in the process of development 
        and implementation of a wildlife conservation and restoration 
        program.

SEC. 302. DEFINITIONS.

    (a) Reference to Law.--In this title, the term ``Federal Aid in 
Wildlife Restoration Act'' means the Act of September 2, 1937 (16 
U.S.C. 669 and following), commonly referred to as the Federal Aid in 
Wildlife Restoration Act or the Pittman-Robertson Act.
    (b) Wildlife Conservation and Restoration Program.--Section 2 of 
the Federal Aid in Wildlife Restoration Act (16 U.S.C. 669a) is amended 
by inserting after ``shall be construed'' the first place it appears 
the following: ``to include the wildlife conservation and restoration 
program and''.
    (c) State Agencies.--Section 2 of the Federal Aid in Wildlife 
Restoration Act (16 U.S.C. 669a) is amended by inserting ``or State 
fish and wildlife department'' after ``State fish and game 
department''.
    (d) Definitions.--Section 2 of the Federal Aid in Wildlife 
Restoration Act (16 U.S.C. 669a) is amended by striking the period at 
the end thereof, substituting a semicolon, and adding the following: 
``the term `conservation' shall be construed to mean the use of methods 
and procedures necessary or desirable to sustain healthy populations of 
wildlife including all activities associated with scientific resources 
management such as research, census, monitoring of populations, 
acquisition, improvement and management of habitat, live trapping and 
transplantation, wildlife damage management, and periodic or total 
protection of a species or population as well as the taking of 
individuals within wildlife stock or population if permitted by 
applicable State and Federal law; the term `wildlife conservation and 
restoration program' means a program developed by a State fish and 
wildlife department and approved by the Secretary under section 4(d), 
the projects that constitute such a program, which may be implemented 
in whole or part through grants and contracts by a State to other 
State, Federal, or local agencies (including those that gather, 
evaluate, and disseminate information on wildlife and their habitats), 
wildlife conservation organizations, and outdoor recreation and 
conservation education entities from funds apportioned under this 
title, and maintenance of such projects; the term `wildlife' shall be 
construed to mean any species of wild, free-ranging fauna including 
fish, and also fauna in captive breeding programs the object of which 
is to reintroduce individuals of a depleted indigenous species into 
previously occupied range; the term `wildlife-associated recreation' 
shall be construed to mean projects intended to meet the demand for 
outdoor activities associated with wildlife including, but not limited 
to, hunting and fishing, wildlife observation and photography, such 
projects as construction or restoration of wildlife viewing areas, 
observation towers, blinds, platforms, land and water trails, water 
access, trail heads, and access for such projects; and the term 
`wildlife conservation education' shall be construed to mean projects, 
including public outreach, intended to foster responsible natural 
resource stewardship.''.

SEC. 303. TREATMENT OF AMOUNTS TRANSFERRED FROM CONSERVATION AND 
              REINVESTMENT ACT FUND.

    Section 3 of the Federal Aid in Wildlife Restoration Act (16 U.S.C. 
669b) is amended--
            (1) in subsection (a) by inserting ``(1)'' after ``(a)'', 
        and by adding at the end the following:
    ``(2) There is established in the Federal aid to wildlife 
restoration fund a subaccount to be known as the `wildlife conservation 
and restoration account'. Amounts transferred to the fund for a fiscal 
year under section 5(b)(3) of the Conservation and Reinvestment Act of 
2000 shall be deposited in the subaccount and shall be available 
without further appropriation, in each fiscal year, for apportionment 
in accordance with this Act to carry out State wildlife conservation 
and restoration programs.''; and
            (2) by adding at the end the following:
    ``(c) Amounts transferred to the fund from the Conservation and 
Reinvestment Act Fund and apportioned under subsection (a)(2) shall 
supplement, but not replace, existing funds available to the States 
from the sport fish restoration account and wildlife restoration 
account and shall be used for the development, revision, and 
implementation of wildlife conservation and restoration programs and 
should be used to address the unmet needs for a diverse array of 
wildlife and associated habitats, including species that are not hunted 
or fished, for wildlife conservation, wildlife conservation education, 
and wildlife-associated recreation projects. Such funds may be used for 
new programs and projects as well as to enhance existing programs and 
projects.
    ``(d)(1) Notwithstanding subsections (a) and (b) of this section, 
with respect to amounts transferred to the fund from the Conservation 
and Reinvestment Act Fund so much of such amounts as is apportioned to 
any State for any fiscal year and as remains unexpended at the close 
thereof shall remain available for expenditure in that State until the 
close of--
            ``(A) the fourth succeeding fiscal year, in the case of 
        amounts transferred in any of the first 10 fiscal years 
        beginning after the date of enactment of the Conservation and 
        Reinvestment Act of 2000; or
            ``(B) the second succeeding fiscal year, in the case of 
        amounts transferred in a fiscal year beginning after the 10-
        fiscal-year period referred to in subparagraph (A).
    ``(2) Any amount apportioned to a State under this subsection that 
is unexpended or unobligated at the end of the period during which it 
is available under paragraph (1) shall be reapportioned to all States 
during the succeeding fiscal year.''.

SEC. 304. APPORTIONMENT OF AMOUNTS TRANSFERRED FROM CONSERVATION AND 
              REINVESTMENT ACT FUND.

    (a) In General.--Section 4 of the Federal Aid in Wildlife 
Restoration Act (16 U.S.C. 669c) is amended by adding at the end the 
following new subsection:
    ``(c) Amounts Transferred From Conservation and Reinvestment Act 
Fund.--(1) The Secretary of the Interior shall make the following 
apportionment from the amount transferred to the fund from the 
Conservation and Reinvestment Act Fund for each fiscal year:
            ``(A) To the District of Columbia and to the Commonwealth 
        of Puerto Rico, each a sum equal to not more than \1/2\ of 1 
        percent thereof.
            ``(B) To Guam, American Samoa, the Virgin Islands, and the 
        Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, each a sum equal 
        to not more than \1/6\ of 1 percent thereof.
    ``(2)(A) The Secretary of the Interior, after making the 
apportionment under paragraph (1), shall apportion the remainder of the 
amount transferred to the fund from the Conservation and Reinvestment 
Act Fund for each fiscal year among the States in the following manner:
            ``(i) \1/3\ of which is based on the ratio to which the 
        land area of such State bears to the total land area of all 
        such States.
            ``(ii) \2/3\ of which is based on the ratio to which the 
        population of such State bears to the total population of all 
        such States.
    ``(B) The amounts apportioned under this paragraph shall be 
adjusted equitably so that no such State shall be apportioned a sum 
which is less than \1/2\ of 1 percent of the amount available for 
apportionment under this paragraph for any fiscal year or more than 5 
percent of such amount.
    ``(3) Amounts transferred to the fund from the Conservation and 
Reinvestment Act Fund shall not be available for any expenses incurred 
in the administration and execution of programs carried out with such 
amounts.
    ``(d) Wildlife Conservation and Restoration Programs.--(1) Any 
State, through its fish and wildlife department, may apply to the 
Secretary of the Interior for approval of a wildlife conservation and 
restoration program, or for funds to develop a program. To apply, a 
State shall submit a comprehensive plan that includes--
            ``(A) provisions vesting in the fish and wildlife 
        department of the State overall responsibility and 
        accountability for the program;
            ``(B) provisions for the development and implementation 
        of--
                    ``(i) wildlife conservation projects that expand 
                and support existing wildlife programs, giving 
                appropriate consideration to all wildlife;
                    ``(ii) wildlife-associated recreation projects; and
                    ``(iii) wildlife conservation education projects 
                pursuant to programs under section 8(a); and
            ``(C) provisions to ensure public participation in the 
        development, revision, and implementation of projects and 
        programs required under this paragraph.
    ``(2) A State shall provide an opportunity for public participation 
in the development of the comprehensive plan required under paragraph 
(1).
    ``(3) If the Secretary finds that the comprehensive plan submitted 
by a State complies with paragraph (1), the Secretary shall approve the 
wildlife conservation and restoration program of the State and set 
aside from the apportionment to the State made pursuant to subsection 
(c) an amount that shall not exceed 75 percent of the estimated cost of 
developing and implementing the program.
    ``(4)(A) Except as provided in subparagraph (B), after the 
Secretary approves a State's wildlife conservation and restoration 
program, the Secretary may make payments on a project that is a segment 
of the State's wildlife conservation and restoration program as the 
project progresses. Such payments, including previous payments on the 
project, if any, shall not be more than the United States pro rata 
share of such project. The Secretary, under such regulations as he may 
prescribe, may advance funds representing the United States pro rata 
share of a project that is a segment of a wildlife conservation and 
restoration program, including funds to develop such program.
    ``(B) Not more than 10 percent of the amounts apportioned to each 
State under this section for a State's wildlife conservation and 
restoration program may be used for wildlife-associated recreation.
    ``(5) For purposes of this subsection, the term `State' shall 
include the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the 
Virgin Islands, Guam, American Samoa, and the Commonwealth of the 
Northern Mariana Islands.''.
    (b) FACA.--Coordination with State fish and wildlife agency 
personnel or with personnel of other State agencies pursuant to the 
Federal Aid in Wildlife Restoration Act or the Federal Aid in Sport 
Fish Restoration Act shall not be subject to the Federal Advisory 
Committee Act (5 U.S.C. App.). Except for the preceding sentence, the 
provisions of this title relate solely to wildlife conservation and 
restoration programs and shall not be construed to affect the 
provisions of the Federal Aid in Wildlife Restoration Act relating to 
wildlife restoration projects or the provisions of the Federal Aid in 
Sport Fish Restoration Act relating to fish restoration and management 
projects.

SEC. 305. EDUCATION.

    Section 8(a) of the Federal Aid in Wildlife Restoration Act (16 
U.S.C. 669g(a)) is amended by adding the following at the end thereof: 
``Funds available from the amount transferred to the fund from the 
Conservation and Reinvestment Act Fund may be used for a wildlife 
conservation education program, except that no such funds may be used 
for education efforts, projects, or programs that promote or encourage 
opposition to the regulated taking of wildlife.''.

SEC. 306. PROHIBITION AGAINST DIVERSION.

    No designated State agency shall be eligible to receive matching 
funds under this title if sources of revenue available to it after 
January 1, 1999, for conservation of wildlife are diverted for any 
purpose other than the administration of the designated State agency, 
it being the intention of Congress that funds available to States under 
this title be added to revenues from existing State sources and not 
serve as a substitute for revenues from such sources. Such revenues 
shall include interest, dividends, or other income earned on the 
forgoing.

    TITLE IV--URBAN PARK AND RECREATION RECOVERY PROGRAM AMENDMENTS

SEC. 401. AMENDMENT OF URBAN PARK AND RECREATION RECOVERY ACT OF 1978.

    Except as otherwise expressly provided, whenever in this title an 
amendment or repeal is expressed in terms of an amendment to, or repeal 
of, a section or other provision, the reference shall be considered to 
be made to a section or other provision of the Urban Park and 
Recreation Recovery Act of 1978 (16 U.S.C. 2501 and following).

SEC. 402. PURPOSE.

    The purpose of this title is to provide a dedicated source of 
funding to assist local governments in improving their park and 
recreation systems.

SEC. 403. TREATMENT OF AMOUNTS TRANSFERRED FROM CONSERVATION AND 
              REINVESTMENT ACT FUND.

    Section 1013 (16 U.S.C. 2512) is amended to read as follows:

 ``treatment of amounts transferred from conservation and reinvestment 
                                act fund

    ``Sec. 1013. (a) In General.--Amounts transferred to the Secretary 
of the Interior under section 5(b)(4) of the Conservation and 
Reinvestment Act of 2000 in a fiscal year shall be available to the 
Secretary without further appropriation to carry out this title. Any 
amount that has not been paid or obligated by the Secretary before the 
end of the second fiscal year beginning after the first fiscal year in 
which the amount is available shall be reapportioned by the Secretary 
among grantees under this title.
    ``(b) Limitations on Annual Grants.--Of the amounts available in a 
fiscal year under subsection (a)--
            ``(1) not more that 3 percent may be used for grants for 
        the development of local park and recreation recovery action 
        programs pursuant to sections 1007(a) and 1007(c);
            ``(2) not more than 10 percent may be used for innovation 
        grants pursuant to section 1006; and
            ``(3) not more than 15 percent may be provided as grants 
        (in the aggregate) for projects in any one State.
    ``(c) Limitation on Use for Grant Administration.--The Secretary 
shall establish a limit on the portion of any grant under this title 
that may be used for grant and program administration.''.

SEC. 404. AUTHORITY TO DEVELOP NEW AREAS AND FACILITIES.

    Section 1003 (16 U.S.C. 2502) is amended by inserting ``development 
of new recreation areas and facilities, including the acquisition of 
lands for such development,'' after ``rehabilitation of critically 
needed recreation areas, facilities,''.

SEC. 405. DEFINITIONS.

    Section 1004 (16 U.S.C. 2503) is amended as follows:
            (1) In paragraph (j) by striking ``and'' after the 
        semicolon.
            (2) In paragraph (k) by striking the period at the end and 
        inserting a semicolon.
            (3) By adding at the end the following:
            ``(l) `development grants'--
                    ``(1) subject to subparagraph (2) means matching 
                capital grants to units of local government to cover 
                costs of development, land acquisition, and 
                construction on existing or new neighborhood recreation 
                sites, including indoor and outdoor recreational areas 
                and facilities, support facilities, and landscaping; 
                and
                    ``(2) does not include routine maintenance, and 
                upkeep activities; and
            ``(m) `Secretary' means the Secretary of the Interior.''.

SEC. 406. ELIGIBILITY.

    Section 1005(a) (16 U.S.C. 2504(a)) is amended to read as follows:
    ``(a) Eligibility of general purpose local governments to compete 
for assistance under this title shall be based upon need as determined 
by the Secretary. Generally, eligible general purpose local governments 
shall include the following:
            ``(1) All political subdivisions of Metropolitan, Primary, 
        or Consolidated Statistical Areas, as determined by the most 
        recent Census.
            ``(2) Any other city, town, or group of cities or towns (or 
        both) within such a Metropolitan Statistical Area, that has a 
        total population of 50,000 or more as determined by the most 
        recent Census.
            ``(3) Any other county, parish, or township with a total 
        population of 250,000 or more as determined by the most recent 
        Census.''.

SEC. 407. GRANTS.

    Section 1006 (16 U.S.C. 2505) is amended--
            (1) in subsection (a) by redesignating paragraph (3) as 
        paragraph (4); and
            (2) by striking so much as precedes subsection (a)(4) (as 
        so redesignated) and inserting the following:

                                ``grants

    ``Sec. 1006. (a)(1) The Secretary may provide 70 percent matching 
grants for rehabilitation, development, acquisition, and innovation 
purposes to any eligible general purpose local government upon approval 
by the Secretary of an application submitted by the chief executive of 
such government.
    ``(2) At the discretion of such an applicant, a grant under this 
section may be transferred in whole or part to independent special 
purpose local governments, private nonprofit agencies, or county or 
regional park authorities, if--
            ``(A) such transfer is consistent with the approved 
        application for the grant; and
            ``(B) the applicant provides assurance to the Secretary 
        that the applicant will maintain public recreation 
        opportunities at assisted areas and facilities in accordance 
        with section 1010.
    ``(3) Payments may be made only for those rehabilitation, 
development, or innovation projects that have been approved by the 
Secretary. Such payments may be made from time to time in keeping with 
the rate of progress toward completion of a project, on a reimbursable 
basis.''.

SEC. 408. RECOVERY ACTION PROGRAMS.

    Section 1007(a) (16 U.S.C. 2506(a)) is amended--
            (1) in subsection (a) in the first sentence by inserting 
        ``development,'' after ``commitments to ongoing planning,''; 
        and
            (2) in subsection (a)(2) by inserting ``development and'' 
        after ``adequate planning for''.

SEC. 409. STATE ACTION INCENTIVES.

    Section 1008 (16 U.S.C. 2507) is amended--
            (1) by inserting ``(a) In General.--'' before the first 
        sentence; and
            (2) by striking the last sentence of subsection (a) (as 
        designated by paragraph (1) of this section) and inserting the 
        following:
    ``(b) Coordination With Land and Water Conservation Fund 
Activities.--(1) The Secretary and general purpose local governments 
are encouraged to coordinate preparation of recovery action programs 
required by this title with State Plans or Agendas required under 
section 6 of the Land and Water Conservation Fund Act of 1965, 
including by allowing flexibility in preparation of recovery action 
programs so they may be used to meet State and local qualifications for 
local receipt of Land and Water Conservation Fund grants or State 
grants for similar purposes or for other conservation or recreation 
purposes.
    ``(2) The Secretary shall encourage States to consider the 
findings, priorities, strategies, and schedules included in the 
recovery action programs of their urban localities in preparation and 
updating of State plans in accordance with the public coordination and 
citizen consultation requirements of subsection 6(d) of the Land and 
Water Conservation Fund Act of 1965.''.

SEC. 410. CONVERSION OF RECREATION PROPERTY.

    Section 1010 (16 U.S.C. 2509) is amended to read as follows:

                  ``conversion of recreation property

    ``Sec. 1010. (a)(1) No property developed, acquired, or 
rehabilitated under this title shall, without the approval of the 
Secretary, be converted to any purpose other than public recreation 
purposes.
    ``(2) Paragraph (1) shall apply to--
            ``(A) property developed with amounts provided under this 
        title; and
            ``(B) the park, recreation, or conservation area of which 
        the property is a part.
    ``(b)(1) The Secretary shall approve such conversion only if the 
grantee demonstrates no prudent or feasible alternative exists.
    ``(2) Paragraph (1) shall apply to property that is no longer a 
viable recreation facility due to changes in demographics or that must 
be abandoned because of environmental contamination which endangers 
public health or safety.
    ``(c) Any conversion must satisfy any conditions the Secretary 
considers necessary to assure substitution of other recreation property 
that is--
            ``(1) of at least equal fair market value, and reasonably 
        equivalent usefulness and location; and
            ``(2) in accord with the current recreation recovery action 
        program of the grantee.''.

SEC. 411. REPEAL.

    Section 1015 (16 U.S.C. 2514) is repealed.

                  TITLE V--HISTORIC PRESERVATION FUND

SEC. 501. TREATMENT OF AMOUNTS TRANSFERRED FROM CONSERVATION AND 
              REINVESTMENT ACT FUND.

    Section 108 of the National Historic Preservation Act (16 U.S.C. 
470h) is amended--
            (1) by inserting ``(a)'' before the first sentence;
            (2) in subsection (a) (as designated by paragraph (1) of 
        this section) by striking all after the first sentence; and
            (3) by adding at the end the following:
    ``(b) Amounts transferred to the Secretary under section 5(b)(5) of 
the Conservation and Reinvestment Act of 2000 in a fiscal year shall be 
deposited into the Fund and shall be available without further 
appropriation to carry out this Act.
    ``(c) At least \1/2\ of the funds obligated or expended each fiscal 
year under this Act shall be used in accordance with this Act for 
preservation projects on historic properties. In making such funds 
available, the Secretary shall give priority to the preservation of 
endangered historic properties.''.

SEC. 502. STATE USE OF HISTORIC PRESERVATION ASSISTANCE FOR NATIONAL 
              HERITAGE AREAS AND CORRIDORS.

    Title I of the National Historic Preservation Act (16 U.S.C. 470a 
and following) is amended by adding at the end the following:

``SEC. 114. STATE USE OF ASSISTANCE FOR NATIONAL HERITAGE AREAS AND 
              CORRIDORS.

    ``In addition to other uses authorized by this Act, amounts 
provided to a State under this title may be used by the State to 
provide financial assistance to the management entity for any national 
heritage area or national heritage corridor established under the laws 
of the United States, to support cooperative historic preservation 
planning and development.''.

             TITLE VI--FEDERAL AND INDIAN LANDS RESTORATION

SEC. 601. PURPOSE.

    The purpose of this title is to provide a dedicated source of 
funding for a coordinated program on Federal and Indian lands to 
restore degraded lands, protect resources that are threatened with 
degradation, and protect public health and safety.

SEC. 602. TREATMENT OF AMOUNTS TRANSFERRED FROM CONSERVATION AND 
              REINVESTMENT ACT FUND; ALLOCATION.

    (a) In General.--Amounts transferred to the Secretary of the 
Interior and the Secretary of Agriculture under section 5(b)(6) of this 
Act in a fiscal year shall be available without further appropriation 
to carry out this title.
    (b) Allocation.--Amounts referred to in subsection (a) year shall 
be allocated and available as follows:
            (1) Department of the interior.--60 percent shall be 
        allocated and available to the Secretary of the Interior to 
        carry out the purpose of this title on lands within the 
        National Park System, lands within the National Wildlife Refuge 
        System, and public lands administered by the Bureau of Land 
        Management.
            (2) Department of agriculture.--30 percent shall be 
        allocated and available to the Secretary of Agriculture to 
        carry out the purpose of this title on lands within the 
        National Forest System.
            (3) Indian tribes.--10 percent shall be allocated and 
        available to the Secretary of the Interior for competitive 
        grants to qualified Indian tribes under section 603(b).

SEC. 603. AUTHORIZED USES OF TRANSFERRED AMOUNTS.

    (a) In General.--Funds made available to carry out this title shall 
be used solely for restoration of degraded lands, resource protection, 
maintenance activities related to resource protection, or protection of 
public health or safety.
    (b) Competitive Grants to Indian Tribes.--
            (1) Grant authority.--The Secretary of the Interior shall 
        administer a competitive grant program for Indian tribes, 
        giving priority to projects based upon the protection of 
        significant resources, the severity of damages or threats to 
        resources, and the protection of public health or safety.
            (2) Limitation.--The amount received for a fiscal year by a 
        single Indian tribe in the form of grants under this subsection 
        may not exceed 10 percent of the total amount available for 
        that fiscal year for grants under this subsection.
    (c) Priority List.--The Secretary of the Interior and the Secretary 
of Agriculture shall each establish priority lists for the use of funds 
available under this title. Each list shall give priority to projects 
based upon the protection of significant resources, the severity of 
damages or threats to resources, and the protection of public health or 
safety.
    (d) Compliance With Applicable Plans.--Any project carried out on 
Federal lands with amounts provided under this title shall be carried 
out in accordance with all management plans that apply under Federal 
law to the lands.
    (e) Tracking Results.--Not later than the end of the first full 
fiscal year for which funds are available under this title, the 
Secretary of the Interior and the Secretary of Agriculture shall 
jointly establish a coordinated program for--
            (1) tracking the progress of activities carried out with 
        amounts made available by this title; and
            (2) determining the extent to which demonstrable results 
        are being achieved by those activities.

SEC. 604. INDIAN TRIBE DEFINED.

    In this title, the term ``Indian tribe'' means an Indian or Alaska 
Native tribe, band, nation, pueblo, village, or community that the 
Secretary of the Interior recognizes as an Indian tribe under section 
104 of the Federally Recognized Indian Tribe List Act of 1994 (25 
U.S.C. 479a-1).

 TITLE VII--FARMLAND PROTECTION PROGRAM AND ENDANGERED AND THREATENED 
                            SPECIES RECOVERY

                Subtitle A--Farmland Protection Program

SEC. 701. ADDITIONAL FUNDING AND ADDITIONAL AUTHORITIES UNDER FARMLAND 
              PROTECTION PROGRAM.

    Section 388 of the Federal Agriculture Improvement and Reform Act 
of 1996 (Public Law 104-127; 16 U.S.C. 3830 note) is amended to read as 
follows:

``SEC. 388. FARMLAND PROTECTION PROGRAM.

    ``(a) Establishment and Purpose.--The Secretary of Agriculture 
shall carry out a farmland protection program for the purpose of 
protecting farm, ranch, and forest lands with prime, unique, or other 
productive uses by limiting the nonagricultural uses of the lands. 
Under the program, the Secretary may provide matching grants to 
eligible entities described in subsection (d) to facilitate their 
purchase of--
            ``(1) permanent conservation easements in such lands; or
            ``(2) conservation easements or other interests in such 
        lands when the lands are subject to a pending offer from a 
        State or local government.
    ``(b) Conservation Plan.--Any highly erodible land for which a 
conservation easement or other interest is purchased using funds made 
available under this section shall be subject to the requirements of a 
conservation plan that requires, at the option of the Secretary of 
Agriculture, the conversion of the cropland to less intensive uses.
    ``(c) Maximum Federal Share.--The Federal share of the cost of 
purchasing a conservation easement described in subsection (a)(1) may 
not exceed 50 percent of the total cost of purchasing the easement.
    ``(d) Eligible Entity Defined.--In this section, the term `eligible 
entity' means any of the following:
            ``(1) An agency of a State or local government.
            ``(2) A federally recognized Indian tribe.
            ``(3) Any organization that is organized for, and at all 
        times since its formation has been operated principally for, 
        one or more of the conservation purposes specified in clause 
        (i), (ii), or (iii) of section 170(h)(4)(A) of the Internal 
        Revenue Code of 1986 and--
                    ``(A) is described in section 501(c)(3) of the 
                Code;
                    ``(B) is exempt from taxation under section 501(a) 
                of the Code; and
                    ``(C) is described in paragraph (2) of section 
                509(a) of the Code, or paragraph (3) of such section, 
                but is controlled by an organization described in 
                paragraph (2) of such section.
    ``(e) Title; Enforcement.--Any eligible entity may hold title to a 
conservation easement purchased using grant funds provided under 
subsection (a)(1) and enforce the conservation requirements of the 
easement.
    ``(f) State Certification.--As a condition of the receipt by an 
eligible entity of a grant under subsection (a)(1), the attorney 
general of the State in which the conservation easement is to be 
purchased using the grant funds shall certify that the conservation 
easement to be purchased is in a form that is sufficient, under the 
laws of the State, to achieve the purposes of the farmland protection 
program and the terms and conditions of the grant.
    ``(g) Technical Assistance.--To provide technical assistance to 
carry out this section, the Secretary of Agriculture may not use more 
than 10 percent of the amount made available for any fiscal year under 
section 702 of the Conservation and Reinvestment Act of 2000.''.

SEC. 702. FUNDING.

    (a) Availability.--Amounts transferred to the Secretary of 
Agriculture under section 5(b)(7) of this Act in a fiscal year shall be 
available to the Secretary of Agriculture, without further 
appropriation, to carry out--
            (1) the farmland protection program under section 388 of 
        the Federal Agriculture Improvement and Reform Act of 1996 
        (Public Law 104-127; 16 U.S.C. 3830 note), and
            (2) the Forest Legacy Program under section 7 of the 
        Cooperative Forestry Assistance Act of 1978 (16 U.S.C. 2103c).
    (b) Minimum Allocation.--Not less than 10 percent of the amounts 
transferred to the Secretary of Agriculture under section 5(b)(7) of 
this Act in a fiscal year shall be used for each of the programs 
referred to in paragraphs (1) and (2) of subsection (a).

         Subtitle B--Endangered and Threatened Species Recovery

SEC. 711. PURPOSES.

    The purposes of this subtitle are the following:
            (1) To provide a dedicated source of funding to the United 
        States Fish and Wildlife Service and the National Marine 
        Fisheries Service for the purpose of implementing an incentives 
        program to promote the recovery of endangered species and 
        threatened species and the habitat upon which they depend.
            (2) To promote greater involvement by non-Federal entities 
        in the recovery of the Nation's endangered species and 
        threatened species and the habitat upon which they depend.

SEC. 712. TREATMENT OF AMOUNTS TRANSFERRED FROM CONSERVATION AND 
              REINVESTMENT ACT FUND.

    Amounts transferred to the Secretary of the Interior under section 
5(b)(8) of this Act in a fiscal year shall be available to the 
Secretary of the Interior without further appropriation to carry out 
this subtitle.

SEC. 713. ENDANGERED AND THREATENED SPECIES RECOVERY ASSISTANCE.

    (a) Financial Assistance.--The Secretary may use amounts made 
available under section 712 to provide financial assistance to any 
person for development and implementation of Endangered and Threatened 
Species Recovery Agreements entered into by the Secretary under section 
714.
    (b) Priority.--In providing assistance under this section, the 
Secretary shall give priority to the development and implementation of 
species recovery agreements that--
            (1) implement actions identified under recovery plans 
        approved by the Secretary under section 4(f) of the Endangered 
        Species Act of 1973 (16 U.S.C. 1533(f));
            (2) have the greatest potential for contributing to the 
        recovery of an endangered or threatened species; and
            (3) to the extent practicable, require use of the 
        assistance on land owned by a small landowner.
    (c) Prohibition on Assistance for Required Activities.--The 
Secretary may not provide financial assistance under this section for 
any action that is required by a permit issued under section 
10(a)(1)(B) of the Endangered Species Act of 1973 (16 U.S.C. 
1539(a)(1)(B)) or an incidental take statement issued under section 7 
of that Act (16 U.S.C. 1536), or that is otherwise required under that 
Act or any other Federal law.
    (d) Payments Under Other Programs.--
            (1) Other payments not affected.--Financial assistance 
        provided to a person under this section shall be in addition 
        to, and shall not affect, the total amount of payments that the 
        person is otherwise eligible to receive under the conservation 
        reserve program established under subchapter B of chapter 1 of 
        subtitle D of title XII of the Food Security Act of 1985 (16 
        U.S.C. 3831 and following), the wetlands reserve program 
        established under subchapter C of that chapter (16 U.S.C. 3837 
        and following), or the Wildlife Habitat Incentives Program 
        established under section 387 of the Federal Agriculture 
        Improvement and Reform Act of 1996 (16 U.S.C. 3836a).
            (2) Limitation.--A person may not receive financial 
        assistance under this section to carry out activities under a 
        species recovery agreement in addition to payments under the 
        programs referred to in paragraph (1) made for the same 
        activities, if the terms of the species recovery agreement do 
        not require financial or management obligations by the person 
        in addition to any such obligations of the person under such 
        programs.

SEC. 714. ENDANGERED AND THREATENED SPECIES RECOVERY AGREEMENTS.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary may enter into Endangered and 
Threatened Species Recovery Agreements for purposes of this subtitle in 
accordance with this section.
    (b) Required Terms.--The Secretary shall include in each species 
recovery agreement provisions that--
            (1) require the person--
                    (A) to carry out on real property owned or leased 
                by the person activities not otherwise required by law 
                that contribute to the recovery of an endangered or 
                threatened species;
                    (B) to refrain from carrying out on real property 
                owned or leased by the person otherwise lawful 
                activities that would inhibit the recovery of an 
                endangered or threatened species; or
                    (C) to do any combination of subparagraphs (A) and 
                (B);
            (2) describe the real property referred to in paragraph 
        (1)(A) and (B) (as applicable);
            (3) specify species recovery goals for the agreement, and 
        measures for attaining such goals;
            (4) require the person to make measurable progress each 
        year in achieving those goals, including a schedule for 
        implementation of the agreement;
            (5) specify actions to be taken by the Secretary or the 
        person (or both) to monitor the effectiveness of the agreement 
        in attaining those recovery goals;
            (6) require the person to notify the Secretary if--
                    (A) any right or obligation of the person under the 
                agreement is assigned to any other person; or
                    (B) any term of the agreement is breached by the 
                person or any other person to whom is assigned a right 
                or obligation of the person under the agreement;
            (7) specify the date on which the agreement takes effect 
        and the period of time during which the agreement shall remain 
        in effect;
            (8) provide that the agreement shall not be in effect on 
        and after any date on which the Secretary publishes a 
        certification by the Secretary that the person has not complied 
        with the agreement; and
            (9) allocate financial assistance provided under this 
        subtitle for implementation of the agreement, on an annual or 
        other basis during the period the agreement is in effect based 
        on the schedule for implementation required under paragraph 
        (4).
    (c) Review and Approval of Proposed Agreements.--Upon submission by 
any person of a proposed species recovery agreement under this section, 
the Secretary--
            (1) shall review the proposed agreement and determine 
        whether it complies with the requirements of this section and 
        will contribute to the recovery of endangered or threatened 
        species that are the subject of the proposed agreement;
            (2) propose to the person any additional provisions 
        necessary for the agreement to comply with this section; and
            (3) if the Secretary determines that the agreement complies 
        with the requirements of this section, shall approve and enter 
        with the person into the agreement.
    (d) Monitoring Implementation of Agreements.--The Secretary shall--
            (1) periodically monitor the implementation of each species 
        recovery agreement entered into by the Secretary under this 
        section; and
            (2) based on the information obtained from that monitoring, 
        annually or otherwise disburse financial assistance under this 
        subtitle to implement the agreement as the Secretary determines 
        is appropriate under the terms of the agreement.

SEC. 715. DEFINITIONS.

    In this subtitle:
            (1) Endangered or threatened species.--The term 
        ``endangered or threatened species'' means any species that is 
        listed as an endangered species or threatened species under 
        section 4 of the Endangered Species Act of 1973 (16 U.S.C. 
        1533).
            (2) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary 
        of the Interior or the Secretary of Commerce, in accordance 
        with section 3 of the Endangered Species Act of 1973 (16 U.S.C. 
        1532).
            (3) Small landowner.--The term ``small landowner'' means an 
        individual who owns 50 acres or fewer of land.
            (4) Species recovery agreement.--The term ``species 
        recovery agreement'' means an Endangered and Threatened Species 
        Recovery Agreement entered into by the Secretary under section 
        714.
                                 &lt;all&gt;
</pre></body></html>
