<html><body><pre>
[Congressional Bills 107th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H.R. 5216 Introduced in House (IH)]







107th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                H. R. 5216

     To establish a national rail passenger transportation system, 
  reauthorize Amtrak, improve security and service on Amtrak, and for 
                            other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                             July 25, 2002

Ms. Carson of Indiana (for herself, Mr. McNulty, Mr. Lucas of Kentucky, 
 Mr. Moran of Virginia, Mr. Frost, Mr. Sanders, Mr. Lynch, Mr. Payne, 
Mrs. Christensen, Ms. Jackson-Lee of Texas, Mr. Cummings, Mrs. Jones of 
Ohio, Ms. Watson of California, Mr. Davis of Illinois, Mr. Pomeroy, Mr. 
   Watt of North Carolina, Mr. Evans, Mr. Serrano, Mr. McIntyre, Mr. 
 Boswell, Ms. Lee, Mr. Dingell, and Mr. Baca) introduced the following 
    bill; which was referred to the Committee on Transportation and 
                             Infrastructure

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
     To establish a national rail passenger transportation system, 
  reauthorize Amtrak, improve security and service on Amtrak, and for 
                            other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE; AMENDMENT OF TITLE 49; TABLE OF CONTENTS.

    (a) Short Title.--This Act may be cited as the ``National Defense 
Rail Act''.
    (b) Amendment of Title 49.--Except as otherwise expressly provided, 
whenever in this Act an amendment or repeal is expressed in terms of an 
amendment to, or a repeal of, a section or other provision, the 
reference shall be considered to be made to a section or other 
provision of title 49, United States Code.
    (c) Table of Contents.--The table of contents for this Act is as 
follows:

Sec. 1. Short title; amendment of title 49; table of contents.
Sec. 2. Findings.
                 TITLE I--RAIL TRANSPORTATION SECURITY

Sec. 101. Amtrak security assistance.
Sec. 102. Study of foreign rail transport security programs.
Sec. 103. Passenger, baggage, and cargo screening.
Sec. 104. Rail security.
Sec. 105. Rail transportation security risk assessment.
   TITLE II--INTERSTATE RAILROAD PASSENGER HIGH-SPEED TRANSPORTATION 
                                 SYSTEM

Sec. 201. Interstate railroad passenger high-speed transportation 
                            policy.
Sec. 202. High-speed rail corridor planning.
Sec. 203. Implementation assistance.
Sec. 204. Designated high-speed rail corridors.
Sec. 205. Labor standards.
Sec. 206. Railway-highway crossings in high-speed rail corridors.
Sec. 207. Authorization of appropriations.
           TITLE III--NATIONAL RAILROAD PASSENGER CORPORATION

Sec. 301. National railroad passenger transportation system defined.
Sec. 302. Extension of authorization.
Sec. 303. Additional Amtrak authorizations.
Sec. 304. Northeast Corridor authorizations.
Sec. 305. Long distance trains.
Sec. 306. Short distance trains; State-supported routes.
Sec. 307. Reestablishment of Northeast Corridor Safety Committee.
Sec. 308. On-time performance.
Sec. 309. Amtrak board of directors.
Sec. 310. Independent audit of Amtrak operations; review by DOT IG.
                        TITLE IV--MISCELLANEOUS

Sec. 401. Rehabilitation, improvement, and security financing.
Sec. 402. Rail passenger cooperative research program.
Sec. 403. Conforming amendments to title 49 reflecting ICC Termination 
                            Act.
Sec. 404. Applicability of reversion to Alaska Railroad right-of-way 
                            property.

SEC. 2. FINDINGS.

    The Congress finds the following:
            (1) Financial investment in passenger rail infrastructure 
        is critical, and Federal leadership is required to address the 
        needs of a reliable safe, secure passenger rail network, just 
        as has been used in establishing the interstate highway system 
        and the Federal aviation network.
            (2) Lack of investment and attention to the needs of 
        passenger rail infrastructure has resulted in a weak passenger 
        rail network, and has caused a strain on the capacity of other 
        modes of transportation in many areas of the country. According 
        to the Department of Transportation, in 1999 the cost of wasted 
        time and extra fuel consumption due to delays on congested 
        roads was estimated at $78 billion.
            (3) Passenger rail is an integral part of the United States 
        transportation system, and, as can be evidenced in the 
        Northeast Corridor, relieves the pressures of congestion on 
        highways and at airports, and creates a more balanced system of 
        transportation alternatives.
            (4) Passenger rail service has been a vital instrument in 
        the transportation needs of our Nation. For instance, during 
        World War II, the privately owned, operated, and constructed 
        railroad industry transported 90 percent of all defense 
        freight, and 97 percent of all defense personnel transported to 
        points of embarkation for theaters of action. By the end of the 
        war, railroads accounted for three quarters of the share of the 
        common carrier share of intercity traffic, with airplanes and 
        buses sharing the remaining quarter of traffic.
            (5) Significant attention and Federal funding were required 
        to construct the Eisenhower System of Interstate and Defense 
        Highways. The Federal Aid Highway Act of 1956 established a 
        Highway Trust Fund based upon Federal user taxes in order to 
        finance up to 90 percent of the costs of the $25 billion dollar 
        highway construction plan.
            (6) Federal policies with respect to investment in aviation 
        resulted in a strengthened aviation industry and the rapid 
        development of air passenger service, and by the late 1960's 
        most rail companies were petitioning the Government to 
        discontinue passenger services because of losses.
            (7) Amtrak was established in 1971 by the Rail Passenger 
        Service Act to provide passenger rail services in the United 
        States as a public service; at the time of Amtrak's formation, 
        freight railroads were losing money on unprofitable passenger 
        rail operations. Since 1971 Amtrak has received only $25 
        billion in public subsidies; during that period, the United 
        States invested $750 billion on highways and aviation.
            (8) The Amtrak Reform and Accountability Act of 1997, and 
        preceding statutes, resulted in creating conflicting missions 
        for the National Railroad Passenger Corporation of both serving 
        a public function by operating unprofitable long-distance 
        routes while also attempting to operate at a profit. This 
        policy has also restricted Amtrak's profit potential on the 
        Northeast Corridor by limiting the capital expenditures to help 
        defray other costs.
            (9) Due to a lack of capital investment, the Northeast 
        Corridor has accumulated a backlog of repair needs, including 
        life safety and security needs. Investment in the capital needs 
        of the Northeast Corridor would result in capacity improvements 
        which would result in greater utilization of the existing 
        infrastructure.
            (10) The Department of Transportation Inspector General's 
        2001 Assessment of Amtrak's Financial Performance and 
        Requirements (Report #CR-2002-075) found that Amtrak's lack of 
        available capital has impeded its efforts to achieve financial 
        goals.
            (11) In order to attempt to meet the mandate of the Amtrak 
        Reform and Accountability Act of 1997, Amtrak has been forced 
        to delay capital improvement projects and other projects which 
        would produce long-term benefits.
            (12) The Department of Transportation Inspector General's 
        2001 Assessment of Amtrak's Financial Performance and 
        Requirements (Report #CR-2002-075) found that Amtrak's most 
        profitable operations are on the Northeast Corridor, where 
        Federal investment in passenger rail infrastructure has been 
        significantly higher than anywhere else in the country.
            (13) Federal investments in capital projects to support 
        passenger rail in areas other than the Northeast Corridor would 
        result in improved service and increase profitability.
            (14) The need for a balanced interstate and international 
        transportation system that provides a viable alternative to 
        travel by private automobile or commercial aircraft is 
        particularly evident after the events of September 11, 2001.
            (15) As a matter of national security, a strong passenger 
        rail network would provide travelers an alternative to highway 
        and air travel, which could lead to reduced United States 
        reliance on foreign oil imports.
            (16) In fiscal year 2001, the United States spent less than 
        1 percent of all transportation modal spending on intercity 
        passenger rail, and since 1998, Amtrak has received only $4.59 
        billion of the $8.42 billion it has been authorized to receive 
        by Congress.
            (17) Passenger rail in the United States has no stable 
        funding source, in contrast to highways, aviation, and transit.
            (18) Per capita spending on passenger rail is much higher 
        in other countries than the United States and, in fact, the 
        United States ranks behind other countries including Canada, 
        Japan, France, Great Britain, Italy, Spain, Austria, 
        Switzerland, Belgium, Sweden, Luxembourg, Denmark, Ireland, 
        Norway, the Czech Republic, Finland, Slovakia, Portugal, 
        Poland, South Africa, Greece, and Estonia.
            (19) The United States needs to engage in long-term 
        planning to foster and address future passenger transportation 
        growth and show forethought regarding transportation solutions 
        rather than be forced to act due to an impending crisis.
            (20) It is in the national interest to preserve passenger 
        rail service in the United States and to maintain the solvency 
        of the National Railroad Passenger Corporation.
            (21) Long-term planning and support for passenger rail will 
        help offset the emerging problems created by transportation 
        congestion, and contribute to a cleaner and more 
        environmentally-friendly transportation system.
            (22) A comprehensive re-evaluation of our nation's rail 
        passenger policy is required and a clearly defined role for 
        Amtrak and a connected rail passenger network must be 
        established.
            (23) The Federal Government must take the primary 
        responsibility for developing national railroad passenger 
        transportation infrastructure, and help ensure that it 
        functions as an efficient network. Privatization of the rail 
        passenger industry in Great Britain has been disastrous and 
        passenger service has suffered overall.
            (24) The Nation should be afforded the opportunity to 
        receive safe, efficient, and cost-effective rail passenger 
        services, taking into account all benefits to the Nation as a 
        whole.

                 TITLE I--RAIL TRANSPORTATION SECURITY

SEC. 101. AMTRAK SECURITY ASSISTANCE.

    (a) Infrastructure Security.--The following amounts are authorized 
to be appropriated to the Secretary of Transportation for the use of 
Amtrak for fiscal year 2003:
            (1) $26,000,000 for tunnel, bridge, electric traction, and 
        tower security, including closed circuit television cameras, 
        vehicle barriers, lighting, and fencing, of which $19,725,000 
        shall be obligated or expended on the Northeast Corridor and 
        $6,275,000 shall be obligated or expended outside the Northeast 
        Corridor.
            (2) $137,370,000 for interlocking security needs, including 
        closed circuit television cameras, lighting, fencing and 
        vehicle barriers, of which 50 percent shall be obligated or 
        expended on the Northeast Corridor and 50 percent shall be 
        obligated or expended outside the Northeast Corridor.
            (3) $12,525,000 for equipment facility security, including 
        closed circuit television cameras, lighting, and vehicle 
        barriers, of which $4,175,000 shall be obligated or expended on 
        the Northeast Corridor and $8,350,000 shall be obligated or 
        expended outside the Northeast Corridor.
            (4) $22,140,000 for yard and terminal security, including 
        closed circuit television cameras, lighting, fencing and 
        vehicle barriers, of which $9,225,000 shall be obligated or 
        expended on the Northeast Corridor and $12,915,000 shall be 
        obligated or expended outside the Northeast Corridor.
            (5) $2,940,000 for mail and express facilities security, 
        including closed circuit television cameras, lighting, fencing, 
        and vehicle barriers, of which $1,470,000 shall be obligated or 
        expended on the Northeast Corridor and $1,470,000 shall be 
        obligated or expended outside the Northeast Corridor.
            (6) $20,125,000 for station security, including closed 
        circuit television cameras, x-ray machines, lighting, fencing 
        and vehicle barriers, of which $7,000,000 shall be obligated or 
        expended on the Northeast Corridor and $13,125,000 shall be 
        obligated or expended outside the Northeast Corridor.
            (7) $538,000 for employee identification systems, including 
        improved technology for badges issued to employees and visitors 
        controlled through a centralized database.
            (8) $75,000 for bomb-resistant trash containers, of which 
        50 percent shall be obligated or expended on the Northeast 
        Corridor and 50 percent shall be obligated or expended outside 
        the Northeast Corridor.
            (9) $5,800,000 for a passenger information retrieval system 
        to capture security information, create watchlists, and an 
        online history of passengers.
            (10) $6,200,000 for an incident tracking system to create 
        and maintain an electronic database of data on criminal and 
        operational incidents.
            (11) $4,300,000 for upgrades to ticket kiosks for photo 
        imaging for identification purposes, of which 50 percent shall 
        be obligated or expended on the Northeast Corridor and 50 
        percent shall be obligated or expended outside the Northeast 
        Corridor.
            (12) $16,750,000 for an incident command system to serve as 
        a second command center and a disaster recovery command site.
            (13) $5,000,000 for train locator and tracking systems to 
        provide GPS coordinates for all locomotives, of which 50 
        percent shall be obligated or expended on the Northeast 
        Corridor and 50 percent shall be obligated or expended outside 
        the Northeast Corridor.
            (14) $120,000 for a notification system for integration of 
        GPS information into the central computer systems.
            (15) $1,245,000 for mail and express shipment software to 
        identify each shipment positively before it is transported by 
        rail, of which $405,000 shall be obligated or expended on the 
        Northeast Corridor and $840,000 shall be obligated or expended 
        outside the Northeast Corridor.
            (16) $1,211,000 for mail and express tracking deployment to 
        identify the status of each rail shipment.
    (b) Security Operations.--The following amounts are authorized to 
be appropriated to the Secretary of Transportation for the use of 
Amtrak for fiscal year 2003:
            (1) $354,000 for hiring 4 police officers, each of whom is 
        to be dedicated to a specific region of the United States, to 
        provide intelligence-gathering and analysis, conduct crime-
        mapping assessments throughout the entire system, work with law 
        enforcement to prevent terrorist acts and reduce Amtrak's 
        vulnerability, of which 50 percent shall be obligated or 
        expended on the Northeast Corridor and 50 percent shall be 
        obligated or expended outside the Northeast Corridor.
            (2) $10,411,000 for the hiring of 150 patrol officers and 
        48 specialized personnel, of whom 101 shall be deployed on the 
        Northeast Corridor and 97 outside the Northeast Corridor.
            (3) $11,292,000 for the hiring of 250 security officers, of 
        whom 147 shall be deployed on the Northeast Corridor and 103 
        outside the Northeast Corridor.
            (4) $1,828,000 for the hiring of 20 canine bomb teams, of 
        which 14 shall be deployed outside the Northeast Corridor and 
        10 shall be deployed to mail and express facilities.
            (5) $30,761,000 for 90 infrastructure security inspectors 
        to inspect the rights-of-way, bridges, buildings, tunnels, 
        communications and signaling equipment, fencing, gates, 
        barriers, lighting, catenary system, and other security 
        features, of which $21,000,000 shall be obligated or expended 
        on the Northeast Corridor and $10,000,000 shall be obligated or 
        expended outside the Northeast Corridor.
            (6) $2,990,000 to expand aviation capabilities for security 
        coverage and patrol capabilities, including equipment, staff, 
        and facilities, of which $997,000 shall be obligated or 
        expended on the Northeast Corridor and $1,993,000 shall be 
        obligated or expended outside the Northeast Corridor.
            (7) $1,095,000 for the leasing of 150 vehicles and 10 
        bicycles to support patrol capabilities, of which $569,000 
        shall be obligated or expended on the Northeast Corridor and 
        $526,000 shall be obligated or expended outside the Northeast 
        Corridor.
            (8) $669,000 for 6 management level positions with 
        responsibility for direction, control, implementation, and 
        monitoring of security systems, including the deployment of the 
        250 security officers throughout the Amtrak system, of which 
        $446,000 shall be obligated or expended on the Northeast 
        Corridor and $223,000 shall be obligated or expended outside 
        the Northeast Corridor.
            (9) $980,000 for applicant background investigations.
            (10) $457,000 for rapid response teams to respond to and 
        prepare for on-site consequence management, all of which shall 
        be obligated or expended outside the Northeast Corridor.
    (c) Equipment Security.--
            (1) In general.--The following amounts are authorized to be 
        appropriated to the Secretary of Transportation for the use of 
        Amtrak for fiscal year 2003:
                    (A) $1,755,000 to provide two-way communication 
                devices for all Amtrak conductors.
                    (B) $3,000,000 for 2 mobile emergency command and 
                communication units and rapid response teams, 1 to be 
                located in the Midwest and 1 on the West Coast.
                    (C) $651,000 for 200 to 400 radioactive material 
                detectors to be deployed system-wide, of which $231,000 
                shall be obligated or expended on the Northeast 
                Corridor and $420,000 shall be obligated or expended 
                outside the Northeast Corridor.
                    (D) $4,000,000 for hand-held bomb detectors for use 
                by police to inspect baggage and packages.
                    (E) $1,400,000 to screen express packages before 
                being placed on trains.
                    (F) $1,305,000 for secure locking devices on mail 
                and express cars that have satellite-monitoring 
                capability.
                    (G) $10,234,000 for video recording systems on road 
                locomotives, of which $4,859,000 shall be obligated or 
                expended on the Northeast Corridor and $5,375,000 shall 
                be obligated or expended outside the Northeast 
                Corridor.
                    (H) $6,712,000 to acquire and install satellite-
                based technology to shut down any locomotive that is 
                not under the control of its crew.
                    (I) $4,320,000 to install 10 new communications 
                stations to enable radio communications in remote 
                locations and 12 satellite receivers.
                    (J) $4,000,000 for 4 self-propelled high-speed rail 
                cars designated for selective patrol and enforcement 
                functions, including critical incident response, 
                dignitary protection, and roving rail security 
                inspections.
            (2) Allocation.--Except as provided in subparagraphs (B), 
        (C), and (G) of paragraph (1), 50 percent of any amounts 
        appropriated pursuant to paragraph (1) shall be obligated or 
        expended on the Northeast Corridor and 50 percent of such 
        amounts shall be obligated or expended outside the Northeast 
        Corridor.
    (d) Availability of Funds.--Amounts appropriated pursuant to 
subsections (a), (b), and (c) shall remain available until expended.
    (e) Prohibition on Use of Equipment for Employment-Related 
Purposes.--An employer may not use closed circuit television cameras 
purchased with amounts authorized by this section for employee 
disciplinary or monitoring purposes unrelated to transportation 
security.

SEC. 102. STUDY OF FOREIGN RAIL TRANSPORT SECURITY PROGRAMS.

    (a) Requirement for Study.--Not later than June 1, 2003, the 
Comptroller General shall carry out a study of the rail passenger 
transportation security programs that are carried out for rail 
transportation systems in Japan, member nations of the European Union, 
and other foreign countries.
    (b) Purpose.--The purpose of the study shall be to identify 
effective rail transportation security measures that are in use in 
foreign rail transportation systems, including innovative measures and 
screening procedures determined effective.
    (c) Report.--The Comptroller General shall submit a report on the 
results of the study to Congress. The report shall include the 
Comptroller General's assessment regarding whether it is feasible to 
implement within the United States any of the same or similar security 
measures that are determined effective under the study.

SEC. 103. PASSENGER, BAGGAGE, AND CARGO SCREENING.

    (a) Requirement for Study and Report.--The Secretary of 
Transportation shall--
            (1) study the cost and feasibility of requiring security 
        screening for all passengers, baggage, and mail, express, and 
        other cargo on Amtrak trains; and
            (2) report the results of the study, together with any 
        recommendations that the Secretary may have for implementing a 
        rail security screening program, to the Committee on Commerce, 
        Science, and Transportation of the Senate and the Committee on 
        Transportation and Infrastructure of the House of 
        Representatives not later than one year after the date of 
        enactment of this Act.
    (b) Pilot Program.--As part of the study under subsection (a), the 
Secretary shall conduct a pilot program of random security screening of 
passengers and baggage at 5 of the 10 busiest passenger rail stations 
served by Amtrak (measured by the average number of boardings of Amtrak 
passenger trains) and at up to five additional rail stations served by 
Amtrak that are selected by the Secretary. In selecting the additional 
train stations the Secretary shall attempt to achieve a distribution of 
participating stations in terms of geographic location and size.

SEC. 104. RAIL SECURITY.

    (a) Secretary of Transportation.--Section 20103(a) is amended by 
striking ``safety'' and inserting ``safety, including the security of 
railroad operations,''.
    (b) Rail Police Officers.--Section 28101 is amended by striking 
``the rail carrier'' each place it appears and inserting ``any rail 
carrier''.
    (c) Review of Rail Regulations.--Within 180 days after the date of 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Transportation, in consultation 
with the Federal Railroad Administration's Rail Safety Advisory 
Committee, shall review existing rail regulations of the Department of 
Transportation for the purpose of identifying areas in which those 
regulations need to be revised to improve rail safety and security.

SEC. 105. RAIL TRANSPORTATION SECURITY RISK ASSESSMENT.

    (a) In General.--
            (1) Assessment.--The Secretary of Transportation shall 
        assess the security risks associated with rail transportation 
        and develop prioritized recommendations for--
                    (A) improving the security of rail tunnels, rail 
                bridges, rail switching areas, and other areas 
                identified by the Secretary as posing significant rail-
                related risks to public safety and the movement of 
                interstate commerce, taking into account the impact 
                that any proposed security measure might have on the 
                provision of rail service;
                    (B) the deployment of chemical and biological 
                weapon detection equipment;
                    (C) dealing with the immediate and long-term 
                economic impact of measures that may be required to 
                address those risks; and
                    (D) training employees in terrorism response 
                activities.
            (2) Existing private and public sector efforts.--The 
        assessment shall include a review of any actions already taken 
        to address identified security issues by both public and 
        private entities.
            (3) Railroad crossing delays.--The Secretary shall include 
        in the assessment an analysis of the risks to public safety and 
        to the security of rail transportation that are associated with 
        long delays in the movement of trains that have stopped on 
        railroad grade crossings of highways, streets, and other roads 
        for motor vehicle traffic, especially in major metropolitan 
        areas. The Secretary shall include in the recommendations 
        developed under paragraph (1) recommended actions for 
        preventing such delays and reducing the risks identified in the 
        analysis.
    (b) Consultation; Use of Existing Resources.--In carrying out the 
assessment required by subsection (a), the Secretary shall--
            (1) consult with rail management, rail labor, and public 
        safety officials (including officials responsible for 
        responding to emergencies); and
            (2) utilize, to the maximum extent feasible, the resources 
        and assistance of--
                    (A) the Federal Railroad Administration's Rail 
                Safety Advisory Committee; and
                    (B) the Transportation Research Board of the 
                National Academy of Sciences.
    (c) Report.--
            (1) Contents.--Within 180 days after the date of enactment 
        of this Act, the Secretary shall transmit to the Senate 
        Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation and the 
        House of Representatives Committee on Transportation and 
        Infrastructure a report, without compromising national 
        security, containing--
                    (A) the assessment and prioritized recommendations 
                required by subsection (a); and
                    (B) any proposals the Secretary deems appropriate 
                for providing Federal financial, technological, or 
                research and development assistance to railroads to 
                assist the railroads in reducing the likelihood, 
                severity, and consequences of deliberate acts of crime 
                or terrorism toward rail employees, rail passengers, 
                rail shipments, or rail property.
            (2) Format.--The Secretary may submit the report in both 
        classified and redacted formats if the Secretary determines 
        that such action is appropriate or necessary.
    (d) Authorization of Appropriations.--There are authorized to be 
appropriated to the Secretary $5,000,000 for fiscal year 2003 to carry 
out this section, such sums to remain available until expended.

   TITLE II--INTERSTATE RAILROAD PASSENGER HIGH-SPEED TRANSPORTATION 
                                 SYSTEM

SEC. 201. INTERSTATE RAILROAD PASSENGER HIGH-SPEED TRANSPORTATION 
              POLICY.

    (a) In General.--Chapter 261 is amended by inserting before section 
26101 the following:
``Sec. 26100. Policy
    ``(a) In General.--The Congress declares that it is the policy of 
the United States that designated high-speed railroad passenger 
transportation corridors are the building blocks of an interconnected 
interstate railroad passenger system that serves the entire Nation.
    ``(b) Secretary Required To Establish National High-Speed Ground 
Transportation Policy.--The Secretary of Transportation shall establish 
the national high-speed ground transportation policy required by 
section 309(e)(1) of this title no later than December 31, 2002.''.
    (b) Conforming Amendments.--
            (1) The chapter analysis for chapter 261 is amended by 
        inserting before the item relating to section 26101 the 
        following:

``26100. Policy.''.
            (2) Section 309(e)(1) is amended by striking ``Within 12 
        months after the submission of the study required by subsection 
        (d),'' and inserting ``No later than December 31, 2002,''.

SEC. 202. HIGH-SPEED RAIL CORRIDOR PLANNING.

    (a) In General.--Section 26101(a) is amended to read as follows:
    ``(a) Planning.--
            ``(1) In general.--The Secretary of Transportation shall 
        provide planning assistance to States or group of States and 
        other public agencies promoting the development of high-speed 
        rail corridors designated by the Secretary under section 104(d) 
        of title 23.
            ``(2) Secretary may provide direct or financial 
        assistance.--The Secretary may provide planning assistance 
        under paragraph (1) directly or by providing financial 
        assistance to a public agency or group of public agencies to 
        undertake planning activities approved by the Secretary.
            ``(3) 100 percent federal funding.--The Secretary may not 
        require any portion of the publicly financed costs associated 
        with eligible activities with respect to which assistance is 
        provided under this subsection to come from non-Federal 
        sources.
            ``(4) Priorities to chicago, atlanta, and dallas/fort 
        worth.--In determining projects to be undertaken pursuant to 
        this subsection, the Secretary shall give the highest 
        priorities to undertaking planning in the vicinity of Union 
        Station in Chicago, Illinois, in metropolitan Atlanta, Georgia, 
        and in the Dallas/Fort Worth, Texas, area.''.
    (b) Conforming and Other Amendments to Section 26101.--Section 
26101 is further amended--
            (1) by striking subsection (c)(2) and inserting the 
        following:
            ``(2) the extent to which the proposed planning focuses on 
        high-speed rail systems, giving a priority to systems which 
        will achieve sustained speeds of 125 miles per hour or greater 
        and projects involving dedicated rail passenger rights-of-
        way;'';
            (2) by inserting ``and'' after the semicolon in subsection 
        (c)(12);
            (3) by striking ``completed; and'' in subsection (c)(13) 
        and inserting ``completed.'';
            (4) by striking subsection (c)(14); and
            (5) by adding at the end the following:
    ``(d) Operators and Certain Service Providers Deemed Rail 
Carriers.--A person that conducts rail operations, or performs 
catering, cleaning, construction, maintenance, or other services for 
rail operations, funded or otherwise receiving assistance under this 
section is deemed to be a rail carrier for purposes of part A of 
subtitle IV, when so operating or performing such services.''.
    (c) Conforming Amendment.--Section 511(n)(1) of the Railroad 
Revitalization and Regulatory Reform Act of 1976 (45 U.S.C. 831(n)(1)) 
is amended by striking ``125'' and inserting ``90''.
    (d) Financial Assistance To Include Loans and Loan Guarantees.--
Section 26105(1) is amended by inserting ``loans, loan guarantees,'' 
after ``contracts,''.
    (e) Reinvestment of Non-Passenger Operating Profit.--Amtrak shall 
invest any revenue from non-passenger operations in capital needs 
outside the Northeast Corridor.

SEC. 203. IMPLEMENTATION ASSISTANCE.

    (a) In General.--Chapter 261 is amended by inserting after section 
26101 the following:
``Sec. 26101A. Implementation of corridor plans
    ``(a) Implementation Assistance.--
            ``(1) In general.--The Secretary of Transportation shall 
        provide implementation assistance to States or group of States 
        and other public agencies promoting the development of high-
        speed rail corridors designated by the Secretary under section 
        104(d) of title 23. The Secretary shall establish an 
        application and qualification process and, before providing 
        assistance under this section, make a determination on the 
        record that the applicant is qualified and eligible for 
        assistance under this section.
            ``(2) Secretary may provide direct or financial 
        assistance.--The Secretary may provide implementation 
        assistance under paragraph (1) directly or by providing 
        financial assistance to a public agency or group of public 
        agencies to undertake implementation activities approved by the 
        Secretary.
            ``(3) 100 percent federal share.--The Secretary may not 
        require any portion of the publicly financed costs associated 
        with eligible activities with respect to which assistance is 
        provided under this subsection to come from non-Federal 
        sources.
            ``(4) Contribution of land.--Notwithstanding paragraph (3), 
        the Secretary may accept land contributed by a State for right-
        of-way, without regard to whether the State acquired the land 
        directly or indirectly through the use of Federal funds, 
        including transfers from the Highway Trust Fund under section 
        9503 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986.
            ``(5) Priorities to chicago, atlanta, and dallas/fort 
        worth.--In determining projects to be undertaken pursuant to 
        this subsection, the Secretary shall give the highest 
        priorities to undertaking implementation assistance in the 
        vicinity of Union Station in Chicago, Illinois, in metropolitan 
        Atlanta, Georgia, and in the Dallas/Fort Worth, Texas, area.
            ``(6) Special transportation circumstances.--In carrying 
        out this section, the Secretary shall allocate an appropriate 
        portion of the amounts available for implementation assistance 
        to providing appropriate related assistance in any State the 
        rail transportation system of which--
                    ``(A) is not physically connected to rail systems 
                in the continental United States; and
                    ``(B) may not otherwise qualify for high-speed rail 
                implementation assistance due to the constraints 
                imposed on the railway infrastructure in that State due 
                to the unique characteristics of the geography of that 
                State or other relevant considerations, as determined 
                by the Secretary.
    ``(b) Eligible Implementation Activities.--The following activities 
are eligible for implementation assistance under subsection (a):
            ``(1) Security planning and the acquisition of security and 
        emergency response equipment.
            ``(2) Operating expenses.
            ``(3) Infrastructure acquisition and construction of track 
        and facilities.
            ``(4) Highway-rail grade crossing eliminations and 
        improvements.
            ``(5) Acquisition of rights-of-way, locomotives, rolling 
        stock, track, and signal equipment.
    ``(c) Criteria for Determining Assistance for Implementation 
Activities.--The Secretary, in selecting recipients of assistance under 
subsection (a), shall--
            ``(1) encourage the use of positive train control 
        technologies;
            ``(2) require that any project meet any existing safety 
        regulations, and give preference to any project determined by 
        the Secretary to have particularly high levels of safety;
            ``(3) encourage intermodal connectivity by locating train 
        stations in or near airports, bus terminals, subway stations, 
        ferry ports, and other modes of transportation; and
            ``(4) ensure a general regional balance in providing such 
        assistance and avoid the concentration of a disproportionate 
        dedication of available financial assistance resources to a 
single project or region of the country.
    ``(d) Operators and Certain Service Providers Deemed Rail 
Carriers.--A person that conducts rail operations, or performs 
catering, cleaning, construction, maintenance or other services for 
rail operations, funded or otherwise receiving assistance under this 
section is deemed to be a rail carrier for purposes of part A of 
subtitle IV, when so operating or performing such services.''.
    (b) Rulemaking Required.--Within 90 days after the date of 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Transportation shall initiate a 
rulemaking to create an application and qualification procedure for 
providing high-speed rail corridor implementation assistance under 
section 26101A of title 49, United States Code.
    (c) Conforming Amendment.--The chapter analysis for chapter 261 is 
amended by inserting after the item relating to section 26101 the 
following:

``26101A. Implementation of corridor plans.''.

SEC. 204. DESIGNATED HIGH-SPEED RAIL CORRIDORS.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary of Transportation shall give 
priority in allocating funds authorized by section 26104 of title 49, 
United States Code, to designated high-speed rail corridors.
    (b) Designated High-Speed Rail Corridors.--For purposes of 
subsection (a), the following shall be considered to be designated 
high-speed rail corridors:
            (1) California Corridor connecting the San Francisco Bay 
        area and Sacramento to Los Angeles and San Diego.
            (2) Chicago Hub Corridor Network with the following spokes:
                    (A) Chicago to Detroit.
                    (B) Chicago to Minneapolis/St. Paul, Minnesota, via 
                Milwaukee, Wisconsin.
                    (C) Chicago to Kansas City, Missouri, via 
                Springfield, Illinois, and St. Louis, Missouri.
                    (D) Chicago to Louisville, Kentucky, via 
                Indianapolis, Indiana, and Cincinnati, Ohio.
                    (E) Chicago to Cleveland, Ohio, via Toledo, Ohio.
                    (F) Cleveland, Ohio, to Cincinnati, Ohio, via 
                Columbus, Ohio.
            (3) Empire State Corridor from New York City, New York, 
        through Albany, New York, to Buffalo, New York.
            (4) Florida High-Speed Rail Corridor from Tampa through 
        Orlando to Miami.
            (5) Gulf Coast Corridor from Houston, Texas, through New 
        Orleans, Louisiana, to Mobile, Alabama, with a branch from New 
        Orleans, through Meridian, Mississippi, and Birmingham, 
        Alabama, to Atlanta, Georgia.
            (6) Keystone Corridor from Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, 
        through Harrisburg, Pennsylvania, to Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania.
            (7) Northeast Corridor from Washington, District of 
        Columbia, through New York City, New York, New Haven, 
        Connecticut, and Providence, Rhode Island, to Boston, 
        Massachusetts, with a branch from New Haven, Connecticut, to 
        Springfield, Massachusetts.
            (8) New England Corridor from Boston, Massachusetts, to 
        Portland and Auburn, Maine, and from Boston, Massachusetts, 
        through Concord, New Hampshire, and Montpelier, Vermont, to 
        Montreal, Quebec.
            (9) Pacific Northwest Corridor from Eugene, Oregon, through 
        Portland, Oregon, and Seattle, Washington, to Vancouver, 
        British Columbia.
            (10) South Central Corridor from San Antonio, Texas, 
        through Dallas/Fort Worth to Little Rock, Arkansas, with a 
        branch from Dallas/Fort Worth through Oklahoma City, Oklahoma, 
        to Tulsa, Oklahoma.
            (11) Southeast Corridor from Washington, District of 
        Columbia, through Richmond, Virginia, Raleigh, North Carolina, 
        Columbia, South Carolina, Savannah, Georgia, and Jesup, 
        Georgia, to Jacksonville, Florida, with--
                    (A) a branch from Raleigh, North Carolina, through 
                Charlotte, North Carolina, and Greenville, South 
                Carolina, to Atlanta, Georgia; a branch from Richmond, 
                to Hampton Roads/Norfolk, Virginia;
                    (B) a branch from Charlotte, North Carolina, to 
                Columbia, South Carolina, to Charleston, South 
                Carolina;
                    (C) a connecting route from Atlanta, Georgia, to 
                Jesup, Georgia;
                    (D) a connecting route from Atlanta, Georgia, to 
                Charleston, South Carolina; and
                    (E) a branch from Raleigh, North Carolina, through 
                Fayetteville, North Carolina, through Florence, South 
                Carolina, to Charleston, South Carolina, and Savannah, 
                Georgia, with a connecting route from Florence, South 
                Carolina, to Myrtle Beach, South Carolina.
            (12) Southwest Corridor from Los Angeles, California, to 
        Las Vegas, Nevada.
    (c) Other High-Speed Rail Corridors.--For purposes of this section, 
subsection (b)--
            (1) does not limit the term ``designated high-speed rail 
        corridor'' to those corridors described in subsection (b); and
            (2) does not limit the Secretary of Transportation's 
        authority--
                    (A) to designate additional high-speed rail 
                corridors; or
                    (B) to terminate the designation of any high-speed 
                rail corridor.

SEC. 205. LABOR STANDARDS.

    (a) Employee Protection.--The Secretary of Transportation shall 
require as a condition of any project financed in whole or in part by 
funds authorized by this Act that the project be conducted in a manner 
that provides a fair arrangement at least as protective of the 
interests of employees who are affected by the project so funded as the 
terms imposed under arrangements reached under section 141 of the 
Amtrak Reform and Accountability Act of 1997 (49 U.S.C. 24706 note) on 
rail carriers.
    (b) Labor Standards.--
            (1) Prevailing wages.--The Secretary of Transportation--
                    (A) shall ensure that laborers and mechanics 
                employed by contractors and subcontractors in 
                construction work financed in whole or in part by funds 
                authorized by this Act will be paid wages not less than 
                those prevailing on similar construction in the 
                locality, as determined by the Secretary of Labor under 
                the Act of March 3, 1931 (known as the Davis-Bacon Act; 
                40 U.S.C. 276a et seq.); and
                    (B) may make such funds available with respect to 
                construction work only after being assured that 
                required labor standards will be maintained on the 
                construction work.
            (2) Wage rates.--Wage rates in a collective bargaining 
        agreement negotiated under the Railway Labor Act (45 U.S.C. 151 
        et seq.) are deemed for purposes of this subsection to comply 
        with the Act of March 3, 1931 (known as the Davis-Bacon Act; 40 
        U.S.C. 276a et seq.).

SEC. 206. RAILWAY-HIGHWAY CROSSINGS IN HIGH-SPEED RAIL CORRIDORS.

    (a) In General.--Except as otherwise provided in this section, the 
entire cost of construction of projects may be paid from sums 
authorized by subsection (k) for the elimination of hazards of railway-
highway crossings in designated high-speed rail corridors, including--
            (1) the separation or protection of grades at crossings;
            (2) the reconstruction of existing railroad grade crossing 
        structures;
            (3) the relocation of highways; and
            (4) only if the cost is estimated by the Secretary of 
        Transportation to be less than the cost of elimination by one 
        of the other methods described in this subsection, the 
        relocation of a portion of a railway.
    (b) Classification of Projects.--The Secretary may classify the 
various types of projects involved in the elimination of hazards of 
high-speed rail corridor railway-highway crossings, and may set for 
each such classification a percentage of the costs of construction 
which shall be deemed to represent the net benefit to the railroad or 
railroads for the purpose of determining the railroad's share of the 
cost of construction. The percentage so determined shall in no case 
exceed 10 percent of such costs. The Secretary shall determine the 
appropriate classification of each project.
    (c) Liability of Railroad.--Any railroad involved in a project for 
the elimination of hazards of railway-highway crossings paid for in 
whole or in part from sums made available under this section shall be 
liable to the United States for the net benefit to the railroad 
determined under the classification of such project made under 
subsection (b). That liability to the United States may be discharged 
by direct payment to the State transportation department of the State 
in which the project is located. The payment may consist in whole or in 
part of materials and labor furnished by the railroad in connection 
with the construction of the project. If any such railroad fails to 
discharge such liability within a 6-month period after completion of 
the project the Secretary shall request the Attorney General to 
institute proceedings against such railroad for the recovery of the 
amount for which it is liable under this subsection. The Attorney 
General is authorized to bring such proceedings on behalf of the United 
States, in the appropriate district court of the United States, and the 
United States shall be entitled in such proceedings to recover such 
sums as it is considered and adjudged by the court that such railroad 
is liable for in the premises.
    (d) Survey and Schedule of Projects.--Each State shall conduct and 
systematically maintain a survey of all high-speed rail corridor 
railway-highway crossings to identify those railroad crossings which 
may require separation, relocation, or protective devices, and 
establish and implement a schedule of projects for this purpose.
    (e) Funds for Protective Devices.--The Secretary shall give 
priority under this section to the elimination of high-speed rail 
corridor railway-highway grade crossings, but shall make funds 
authorized for obligation or expenditure under this section available 
for the installation of protective devices at high-speed rail corridor 
railway-highway crossings where appropriate.
    (f) Apportionment.--The Secretary shall apportion funds available 
for obligation and expenditure under this section between high-speed 
rail corridor railway-highway crossings on the Northeast Corridor and 
such crossings outside the Northeast Corridor in an equitable fashion, 
taking into account traffic volume, traffic patterns, frequency of 
trains, adequacy of existing hazard warnings, and such other factors as 
the Secretary deems appropriate.
    (g) Annual Report.--The Secretary shall report to the Senate 
Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation and the House of 
Representatives Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure not 
later than December 30 of each year on the progress being made to 
implement the railway-highway crossings program authorized by this 
section and the effectiveness of such improvements. Each report shall 
contain an assessment of the costs of the various treatments employed 
and subsequent accident experience at improved locations. The report 
shall include--
            (1) the number of projects undertaken, their distribution 
        by cost range, road system, nature of treatment, and subsequent 
        accident experience at improved locations;
            (2) an analysis and evaluation of the program activities in 
        each State, including identification of any State found not to 
        be in compliance with the schedule of improvements required by 
        subsection (d); and
            (3) recommendations for future implementation of the 
        railway-highway crossings program under this section and 
        section 130 of title 23, United States Code.
    (h) Use of Funds for Matching.--Funds authorized to be appropriated 
to carry out this section may be used to provide a local government 
with funds to be used on a matching basis when State funds are 
available which may only be spent when the local government produces 
matching funds for the improvement of high-speed railway-highway 
crossings.
    (i) Incentive Payments for At-Grade Crossing Closures.--
            (1) In general.--Notwithstanding any other provision of 
        this section and subject to paragraphs (2) and (3), the 
        Secretary may make incentive payments to a local government 
        upon the permanent closure by such government of public at-
        grade high-speed rail corridor railway-highway crossings under 
        its jurisdiction.
            (2) Payments by railroads.--The Secretary may not make an 
        incentive payment under paragraph (1) to a local government 
        with respect to the closure of a crossing unless the railroad 
        owning the tracks on which the crossing is located makes a 
        payment to the local government with respect to the closure.
            (3) Amount of federal incentive payment.--The amount of the 
        incentive payment payable to a local government under paragraph 
        (1) with respect to a crossing may not exceed the lesser of--
                    (A) the amount of the payment paid to the local 
                government with respect to the crossing by the railroad 
                concerned under paragraph (2); or
                    (B) $7,500.
    (j) Coordination With Title 23 Program.--In carrying out this 
section, the Secretary shall coordinate the administration of this 
section with the program established by section 130 of title 23, United 
States Code, in order to avoid duplication of effort and to ensure the 
effectiveness of both programs.
    (k) Funding.--Not less than 10 percent of the amounts appropriated 
for each fiscal year under section 26104(a)(2) of title 49, United 
States Code, shall be obligated or expended to carry out this section.

SEC. 207. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.

    Section 26104 is amended to read as follows:
``Sec. 26104. Authorization of appropriations
    ``(a) Fiscal Years 2003 Through 2008.--There are authorized to be 
appropriated to the Secretary for each of fiscal years 2003 through 
2008--
            ``(1) $25,000,000 for carrying out section 26101;
            ``(2) $1,500,000,000 for carrying out section 26101A and 
        section 206 of the National Defense Rail Act; and
            ``(3) $25,000,000 for carrying out section 26102.
    ``(b) Funds To Remain Available.--Funds made available under this 
section shall remain available until expended.
    ``(c) Special Rule.--Except as specifically provided in section 
26101, 26101A, or 26102, no amount authorized by subsection (a) may be 
used for obligation or expenditure on the Boston-to-Washington segment 
of the Northeast Corridor while that segment is receiving Federal funds 
for capital or operating expenses.''.

           TITLE III--NATIONAL RAILROAD PASSENGER CORPORATION

SEC. 301. NATIONAL RAILROAD PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION SYSTEM DEFINED.

    (a) In General.--Section 24102 is amended--
            (1) by striking paragraph (2);
            (2) by redesignating paragraphs (3), (4), and (5) as 
        paragraphs (2), (3), and (4), respectively; and
            (3) by inserting after paragraph (4) as so redesignated the 
        following:
            ``(5) `national rail passenger transportation system' 
        means--
                    ``(A) the main line of the Northeast Corridor 
                between Boston, Massachusetts and Washington, D.C.;
                    ``(B) rail corridors that have been designated by 
                the Secretary of Transportation as high-speed 
                corridors, but only after they have been improved to 
                permit operation of high-speed service;
                    ``(C) long-distance routes of more than 750 miles 
                between endpoints operated by Amtrak as of the date of 
                enactment of the National Defense Rail Act; and
                    ``(D) short-distance corridors or routes operated 
                as of the date of enactment of the National Defense 
                Rail Act, unless discontinued by Amtrak.''.
    (b) Amtrak Routes With State Funding.--
            (1) In general.--Chapter 247 is amended by inserting after 
        section 27101 the following:
``Sec. 24702. Transportation requested by States, authorities, and 
              other persons
    ``(a) Contracts for Transportation.--Amtrak and a State, a regional 
or local authority, or another person may enter into a contract for 
Amtrak to operate an intercity rail service or route not included in 
the national rail passenger transportation system upon such terms as 
the parties thereto may agree.
    ``(b) Discontinuance.--Upon termination of a contract entered into 
under this section, or the cessation of financial support under such a 
contract, Amtrak may discontinue such service or route, notwithstanding 
any other provision of law.''.
            (2) Conforming amendment.--The chapter analysis for chapter 
        247 is amended by inserting after the item relating to section 
        24701 the following:

``24702. Transportation requested by States, authorities, and other 
                            persons.''.

SEC. 302. EXTENSION OF AUTHORIZATION.

    (a) Repeal of Self-Sufficiency Requirements.
            (1) Title 49 amendments.--Chapter 241 is amended--
                    (A) by striking the last sentence of section 
                24101(d); and
                    (B) by striking the last sentence of section 
                24104(a).
            (2) Amtrak reform and accountability act amendments.--Title 
        II of the Amtrak Reform and Accountability Act of 1997 (49 
        U.S.C. 24101 nt) is amended by striking sections 204 and 205.
            (3) Common stock redemption date.--Section 415 of the 
        Amtrak Reform and Accountability Act of 1997 (49 U.S.C. 24304 
        nt) is amended by striking subsection (b).
    (b) Lease Arrangements.--Amtrak may obtain lease services from the 
Administrator of General Services, and the Administrator may provide 
services to Amtrak, under section 201(b) and 211(b) of the Federal 
Property and Administrative Services Act of 1949 (40 U.S.C. 481(b) and 
491(b)) for fiscal year 2003 and each fiscal year thereafter.
    (c) Miscellaneous Amtrak-Related Amendments.--
            (1) Financial powers.--Section 415(d) of the Amtrak Reform 
        and Accountability Act of 1997 is amended by adding at the end 
        the following:
    ``(3) The amendments made by this subsection shall not affect the 
applicability of section 3729 of title 31, United States Code, to 
claims made against Amtrak.''.
            (2) Application of d.c. business corporation act.--Section 
        24301(e) is amended by striking ``title 5, this part, and, to 
        the extent consistent with this part, the District of Columbia 
        Business Corporation Act (D.C. Code Sec. 29-301 et seq.)'' and 
        inserting ``title 5 and this part''.
            (3) Application of buy american act.--Section 24305(f) is 
        amended to read as follows:
    ``(f) Domestic Buying Preferences.--The Buy American Act (41 U.S.C. 
10a) and section 301 of the Trade Agreements Act of 1979 (19 U.S.C. 
2511) apply to Amtrak.''.

SEC. 303. ADDITIONAL AMTRAK AUTHORIZATIONS.

    (a) Excess RRTA.--There are authorized to be appropriated to the 
Secretary of Transportation for the use of Amtrak for fiscal year 2003, 
and each fiscal year thereafter, an amount equal to the amount Amtrak 
must pay under section 3221 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 that 
is more than the amount needed for benefits for individuals who retire 
from Amtrak and for their beneficiaries.
    (b) Principal and Interest Payments.--
            (1) Principal on debt service.--There are authorized to be 
        appropriated to the Secretary of Transportation for the use of 
        Amtrak for retirement of principal on loans for capital 
        equipment, or capital leases, the following amounts:
                    (A) For fiscal year 2003, $105,000,000.
                    (B) For fiscal year 2004, $93,000,000.
                    (C) For fiscal year 2005, $105,000,000.
                    (D) For fiscal year 2006, $108,000,000.
                    (E) For fiscal year 2007, $183,000,000.
            (2) Interest on debt.--There are authorized to be 
        appropriated to the Secretary of Transportation for the use of 
        Amtrak for the payment of interest on loans for capital 
        equipment, or capital leases, the following amounts:
                    (A) For fiscal year 2003, $160,000,000.
                    (B) For fiscal year 2004, $157,000,000.
                    (C) For fiscal year 2005, $147,000,000.
                    (D) For fiscal year 2006, $142,000,000.
                    (E) For fiscal year 2007, $134,000,000.
    (c) Environmental Compliance.--There are authorized to be 
appropriated to the Secretary of Transportation for the use of Amtrak 
for fiscal year 2003, and each fiscal year thereafter, $30,000,000, of 
which one-third shall be obligated or expended on the Northeast 
Corridor and two-thirds shall be obligated or expended outside the 
Northeast Corridor, in order to comply with environmental laws and 
regulations.
    (d) Accessibility for Elderly and Persons with Disabilities.--
            (1) In general.--There are authorized to be appropriated to 
        the Secretary of Transportation for the use of Amtrak for each 
        of fiscal years 2003 through 2007 $43,000,000 to assist in 
        improving accessibility for the elderly and people with 
        disabilities in Amtrak facilities and stations, including an 
        initial assessment of the full set of accessibility needs 
        across Amtrak's system, of which--
                    (A) $10,000,000 shall be obligated or expended on 
                the Northeast Corridor; and
                    (B) $33,000,000 shall be obligated or expended 
                outside the Northeast Corridor.
            (2) Study of compliance requirements at existing intercity 
        rail stations.--Amtrak shall evaluate the improvements 
        necessary to make all existing stations it serves readily 
        accessible to and usable by individuals with disabilities, as 
        required under section 242(e)(2) of the Americans With 
        Disabilities Act of 1990 (42 U.S.C. 12162(e)(2)). The 
        evaluation shall include the estimated cost of improvements 
        necessary, an identification of the persons financially 
        responsible (as defined in section 241(5) of that Act (42 
        U.S.C. 12161(5))), and the earliest practicable date when such 
        improvements can be made. Not later than September 30, 2004, 
        Amtrak shall transmit the results of the survey to the 
        Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the 
        Senate and the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure 
        of the House of Representatives.

SEC. 304. NORTHEAST CORRIDOR AUTHORIZATIONS.

    (a) In General.--There are authorized to be appropriated to the 
Secretary of Transportation for the use of Amtrak for fiscal year 2003, 
and each fiscal year thereafter, the following amounts:
            (1) $370,000,000 for capital backlog on infrastructure on 
        the Northeast Corridor to bring infrastructure up to state-of-
        good-repair, including renewal of the South End electric 
        traction system, improvements on bridges and tunnels, and 
        interlocking and signal system renewal.
            (2) $60,000,000 for capital backlog on fleet to bring 
        existing fleet to a state-of-good-repair, including equipment 
        replacement and upgrades necessary to meet current service 
        commitments.
            (3) $40,000,000 for capital backlog on stations and 
        facilities, including improvements to the facility and platform 
        at the existing Penn Station, and bringing maintenance-of-way 
        facilities up to state-of-good-repair.
            (4) $350,000,000 for ongoing capital infrastructure--
                    (A) to replace assets on a life-cycle basis;
                    (B) to ensure that a state-of-good-repair is 
                maintained in order to meet safety and reliability 
                standards; and
                    (C) to meet current service commitments.
            (5) $40,000,000 for ongoing capital fleet investment to 
        sustain regularly scheduled maintenance, including a 120-day 
        cycle of preventive maintenance, and heavy overhauls on a 4-
        year schedule, with interior enhancements as needed.
            (6) $30,000,000 for ongoing capital improvements to 
        stations and facilities to provide for regular upgrades to 
        stations to meet current service needs, and regular 
        improvements to maintenance-of-equipment and maintenance-of-way 
        facilities.
            (7) $20,000,000 for ongoing technology upgrades of 
        reservation, distribution, financial, and operations systems, 
        including hardware, software, infrastructure, and 
        communications.
    (b) Life Safety Needs.--There are authorized to be appropriated to 
the Secretary of Transportation for the use of Amtrak for fiscal year 
2003:
            (1) $798,000,000 for the 6 New York tunnels built in 1910 
        to provide ventilation, electrical, and fire safety technology 
        upgrades, emergency communication and lighting systems, and 
        emergency access and egress for passengers.
            (2) $57,000,000 for the Baltimore & Potomac tunnel built in 
        1872 to provide adequate drainage, ventilation, communication, 
        lighting, and passenger egress upgrades.
            (3) $40,000,000 for the Washington, D.C. Union Station 
        tunnels built in 1904 under the Supreme Court and House and 
        Senate Office Buildings to improve ventilation, communication, 
        lighting, and passenger egress upgrades.
    (c) Infrastructure Upgrades.--There are authorized to be 
appropriated to the Secretary of Transportation for the use of Amtrak 
for fiscal year 2003 $3,000,000 for the preliminary design of options 
for a new tunnel on a different alignment to augment the capacity of 
the existing Baltimore tunnels.
    (d) Corridor Growth Investment.--There are authorized to be 
appropriated to the Secretary of Transportation for the use of Amtrak 
for corridor growth investments in the Northeast Corridor--
            (1) for fiscal year 2003, $200,000,000;
            (2) for fiscal year 2004, $300,000,000;
            (3) for fiscal year 2005, $400,000,000;
            (4) for fiscal year 2006, $500,000,000; and
            (5) for fiscal year 2007, $600,000,000.
    (e) Financial Contribution From Other Tunnel Users.--The Secretary 
shall, taking into account the need for the timely completion of all 
life safety portions of the tunnel projects described in subsection 
(b)--
            (1) consider the extent to which rail carriers other than 
        Amtrak use the tunnels;
            (2) consider the feasibility of seeking a financial 
        contribution from those other rail carriers toward the costs of 
        the projects; and
            (3) obtain financial contributions or commitments from such 
        other rail carriers if feasible.
    (f) Availability of Funds.--Amounts appropriated pursuant to this 
section shall remain available until expended.
    (g) Reinvestment of NEC Operating Profit.--Amtrak shall invest any 
revenue from operations in the Northeast Corridor in capital needs of 
the corridor until the backlog of capital improvements are completed 
under Amtrak's 20-year plan.

SEC. 305. LONG DISTANCE TRAINS.

    (a) Operating Costs.--There are authorized to be appropriated to 
the Secretary of Transportation for the use of Amtrak for fiscal year 
2003, and each fiscal year thereafter, $360,000,000 for operating costs 
associated with long distance trains.
    (b) Capital Backlog and Upgrades.--There are authorized to be 
appropriated to the Secretary of Transportation for the use of Amtrak 
for fiscal year 2003, and each fiscal year thereafter, $70,000,000 to 
reduce the capital backlog and to bring its existing fleet of long 
distance trains to a state-of-good-repair, including equipment 
replacement and upgrades necessary to meet current service commitments.
    (c) Ongoing Capital Infrastructure Investments.--There are 
authorized to be appropriated to the Secretary of Transportation for 
the use of Amtrak for fiscal year 2003, and each fiscal year 
thereafter, $80,000,000 for ongoing capital infrastructure relating to 
long distance trains--
            (1) to replace assets on a life-cycle basis;
            (2) to ensure that a state-of-good-repair is maintained in 
        order to meet safety and reliability standards;
            (3) to meet current service commitments; and
            (4) to provide funds for investment in partner railroads to 
        operate passenger service at currently committed levels.
    (d) Capital Fleet Needs.--There are authorized to be appropriated 
to the Secretary of Transportation for the use of Amtrak for fiscal 
year 2003, and each fiscal year thereafter, $50,000,000 for ongoing 
long distance train capital fleet needs to sustain regularly scheduled 
maintenance, including a 120-day cycle of preventive maintenance, and 
heavy overhauls on a 4-year schedule, with interior enhancements as 
needed.
    (e) Capital Stations and Facilities.--There are authorized to be 
appropriated to the Secretary of Transportation for the use of Amtrak 
for fiscal year 2003, and each fiscal year thereafter, $10,000,000 for 
ongoing capital stations and facilities needs to provide regular 
upgrades to stations to meet current long distance train service needs, 
and regular improvements to maintenance-of-way equipment and 
maintenance-of-way facilities.
    (f) Technology Needs.--There are authorized to be appropriated to 
the Secretary of Transportation for the use of Amtrak for fiscal year 
2003, and each fiscal year thereafter, $10,000,000 for ongoing 
technology needs to upgrade long distance train reservation, 
distribution, financial, and operations systems, including hardware, 
software, infrastructure, and communications.
    (g) Availability of Funds.--Amounts appropriated pursuant to this 
section shall remain available until expended.

SEC. 306. SHORT DISTANCE TRAINS; STATE-SUPPORTED ROUTES.

    (a) Authorizations.--There are authorized to be appropriated to the 
Secretary of Transportation for the use of Amtrak for fiscal year 2003, 
and each fiscal year thereafter, for obligation and expenditure on 
short distance routes outside the Northeast Corridor--
            (1) $20,000,000 for capital backlog on infrastructure to 
        bring infrastructure up to a state-of-good-repair, including 
        improvements on bridges and tunnels that are approaching the 
        end of their useful life and interlocking and signal system 
        renewal;
            (2) $10,000,000 for capital backlog on its fleet to bring 
        Amtrak's existing fleet as of the date of enactment of this Act 
        to a state-of-good-repair, including equipment replacement and 
        upgrades necessary to meet current service commitments;
            (3) $170,000,000 for ongoing capital infrastructure to 
        replace assets on a life-cycle basis to ensure a state-of-good-
        repair is maintained in order to meet safety and reliability 
        standards needed to deliver current service commitments, 
        including investment in partner railroads to operate passenger 
        service at currently committed levels;
            (4) $40,000,000 for ongoing capital fleet needs to sustain 
        regularly scheduled maintenance, including a 120-day cycle 
        preventive maintenance schedule, and heavy overhauls on a 4-
        year schedule, with interior enhancements as needed;
            (5) $10,000,000 for ongoing capital stations and facilities 
        needs to provide regular upgrades to stations to meet current 
        service needs, and regular improvements to maintenance-of-way 
        equipment and maintenance-of-way facilities; and
            (6) $20,000,000 for ongoing technology needs to upgrade of 
        reservation, distribution, financial, and operations systems, 
        including hardware, software, infrastructure and 
        communications.
    (b) Availability of Funds.--Amounts appropriated pursuant to this 
section shall remain available until expended.

SEC. 307. REESTABLISHMENT OF NORTHEAST CORRIDOR SAFETY COMMITTEE.

    (a) Reestablishment of Northeast Corridor Safety Committee.--The 
Secretary of Transportation shall reestablish the Northeast Corridor 
Safety Committee authorized by section 24905(b) of title 49, United 
States Code.
    (b) Termination Date.--Section 24905(b)(4) is amended by striking 
``January 1, 1999,'' and inserting ``January 1, 2008,''.

SEC. 308. ON-TIME PERFORMANCE.

    Section 24308 is amended by adding at the end the following:
    ``(f) On-Time Performance.--If the on-time performance of any 
intercity passenger train averages less than 80 percent for any 
consecutive 3-month period, Amtrak may petition the Surface 
Transportation Board to investigate whether, and to what extent, delays 
are due to causes that could reasonably be addressed by a rail carrier 
over the tracks of which the intercity passenger train operates, or by 
a regional authority providing commuter service, if any. In carrying 
out such an investigation, the Surface Transportation Board shall 
obtain information from all parties involved and make recommendations 
regarding reasonable measures to improve the on-time performance of the 
train.''.

SEC. 309. AMTRAK BOARD OF DIRECTORS.

    (a) In General.--Section 24302 is amended to read as follows:
``Sec. 24302. Board of directors
    ``(a) Composition and Terms.--
            ``(1) The board of directors of Amtrak is composed of the 
        following 9 directors:
                    ``(A) The President of Amtrak.
                    ``(B) The Secretary of Transportation.
                    ``(C) 7 individuals, each of whom must be a citizen 
                of the United States, appointed by the President of the 
                United States, by and with the advice and consent of 
                the Senate, with an interest, experience, and 
                qualifications in or directly related to rail 
                transportation, including representatives of the 
                passenger rail transportation, travel, and passenger 
                air transportation businesses, and consumers of 
                passenger rail transportation.
            ``(2) An individual appointed under paragraph (1)(C) of 
        this subsection shall serve for 5 years or until the 
        individual's successor is appointed and qualified. Not more 
        than 4 individuals appointed under paragraph (1)(C) may be 
        members of the same political party.
            ``(3) The board shall elect a chairman and a vice chairman 
        from among its membership. The vice chairman shall serve as 
        chairman in the absence of the chairman.
            ``(4) The Secretary may be represented at a meeting of the 
        board only by the Deputy Secretary of Transportation, the 
        Administrator of the Federal Railroad Administration, or the 
        General Counsel of the Department of Transportation.
    ``(b) Pay and Expenses.--Each director not employed by the United 
States Government is entitled to $300 a day when performing board 
duties and powers. Each director is entitled to reimbursement for 
necessary travel, reasonable secretarial and professional staff 
support, and subsistence expenses incurred in attending board meetings.
    ``(c) Vacancies.--A vacancy on the board shall be filled in the 
same way as the original selection, except that an individual appointed 
by the President of the United States under subsection (a)(1)(C) of 
this section to fill a vacancy occurring before the end of the term for 
which the predecessor of that individual was appointed shall be 
appointed for the remainder of that term. A vacancy required to be 
filled by appointment under subsection (a)(1)(C) shall be filled not 
later than 120 days after the vacancy occurs.
    ``(d) Bylaws.--The board may adopt and amend bylaws governing the 
operation of Amtrak. The bylaws shall be consistent with this part and 
the articles of incorporation.''.
    (b) Effective Date.--The amendment made by subsection (a) shall 
take effect on October 1, 2003. The members of the Amtrak Reform Board 
may continue to serve until 3 directors appointed by the President 
under section 24302(a)(1)(C) of title 49, United States Code, as 
amended by subsection (a), have qualified for office.

SEC. 310. INDEPENDENT AUDIT OF AMTRAK OPERATIONS; REVIEW BY DOT IG.

    (a) In General.--Amtrak shall employ an independent financial 
consultant--
            (1) to assess its financial accounting and reporting 
        system;
            (2) to design and assist Amtrak in implementing a modern 
        financial accounting and reporting system, on the basis of the 
        assessment, that will produce accurate and timely financial 
        information in sufficient detail--
                    (A) to enable Amtrak to assign revenues and 
                expenses appropriately to each of its lines of business 
                activity; and
                    (B) to aggregate expenses and revenues related to 
                infrastructure and distinguish them from expenses and 
                revenues related to rail operations.
    (b) Verification of System; Report.--The Inspector General of the 
Department of Transportation shall review the accounting system 
designed and implemented under subsection (a) to ensure that it 
accomplishes the purposes for which it is intended. The Inspector 
General shall report his findings and conclusions, together with any 
recommendations, to the Senate Committee on Commerce, Science, and 
Transportation and the House of Representatives Committee on 
Transportation and Infrastructure.
    (c) Review of Financial Status and Funding Requirements by DOT 
Inspector General.--The Inspector General of the Department of 
Transportation shall, as part of the Department's annual assessment of 
Amtrak's financial status and capital funding requirements, review the 
obligation and expenditure of funds under each funding document, 
procedure, or arrangement relating to such status and requirements to 
ensure that the expenditure and obligation of those funds are 
consistent with the purposes for which they are provided under this 
Act.
    (d) Authorization of Appropriations.--There are authorized to be 
appropriated to the Secretary of Transportation for the use of Amtrak 
$2,500,000 for fiscal year 2003 to carry out subsection (a), such sums 
to remain available until expended.

                        TITLE IV--MISCELLANEOUS

SEC. 401. REHABILITATION, IMPROVEMENT, AND SECURITY FINANCING.

    (a) Definitions.--Section 102(7) of the Railroad Revitalization and 
Regulatory Reform Act of 1976 (45 U.S.C. 802(7)) is amended to read as 
follows:
            ``(7) `railroad' has the meaning given that term in section 
        20102 of title 49, United States Code; and''.
    (b) General Authority.--Section 502 of the Railroad Revitalization 
and Regulatory Reform Act of 1976 (45 U.S.C. 822) is amended--
            (1) by striking ``Secretary may provide direct loans and 
        loan guarantees to State and local governments,'' in subsection 
        (a) and inserting ``Secretary shall provide direct loans and 
        loan guarantees to State and local governments, interstate 
        compacts entered into under section 410 of the Amtrak Reform 
        and Accountability Act of 1997 (49 U.S.C 24101 nt),'';
            (2) by striking ``or'' in subsection (b)(1)(B);
            (3) by redesignating subparagraph (C) of subsection (b)(1) 
        as subparagraph (D); and
            (4) by inserting after subparagraph (B) of subsection 
        (b)(1) the following:
                    ``(C) to acquire, improve, or rehabilitate rail 
                safety and security equipment and facilities; or''.
    (c) Extent of Authority.--Section 502(d) of the Railroad 
Revitalization and Regulatory Reform Act of 1976 (45 U.S.C. 822(d)) is 
amended--
            (1) by striking ``$3,500,000,000'' and inserting 
        ``$35,000,000,000'';
            (2) by striking ``$1,000,000,000'' and inserting 
        ``$7,000,000,000''; and
            (3) by adding at the end the following new sentence: ``The 
        Secretary shall not establish any limit on the proportion of 
        the unused amount authorized under this subsection that may be 
        used for 1 loan or loan guarantee.''.
    (d) Cohorts of Loans.--Section 502(f) of the Railroad 
Revitalization and Regulatory Reform Act of 1976 (45 U.S.C. 822(f)) is 
amended--
            (1) in paragraph (2)--
                    (A) by striking ``and'' at the end of subparagraph 
                (D);
                    (B) by redesignating subparagraph (E) as 
                subparagraph (F); and
                    (C) by adding after subparagraph (D) the following 
                new subparagraph:
                    ``(E) the size and characteristics of the cohort of 
                which the loan or loan guarantee is a member; and''; 
                and
            (2) by adding at the end of paragraph (4) the following: 
        ``A cohort may include loans and loan guarantees. The Secretary 
        shall not establish any limit on the proportion of a cohort 
that may be used for 1 loan or loan guarantee.''.
    (e) Conditions of Assistance.--Section 502 of the Railroad 
Revitalization and Regulatory Reform Act of 1976 (45 U.S.C. 822) is 
amended--
            (1) by striking ``offered;'' in subsection (f)(2)(A) and 
        inserting ``offered, if any;''and
            (2) by adding at the end of subsection (h) the following:
``The Secretary shall not require an applicant for a direct loan or 
loan guarantee under this section to provide collateral. The Secretary 
shall not require that an applicant for a direct loan or loan guarantee 
under this section have previously sought the financial assistance 
requested from another source. The Secretary shall require recipients 
of direct loans or loan guarantees under this section to apply the 
standards of section 22301(b) and (c) of title 49, United States Code, 
to their projects.''.
    (f) Time Limit for Approval or Disapproval.--Section 502 of the 
Railroad Revitalization and Regulatory Reform Act of 1976 (45 U.S.C. 
822) is amended by adding at the end the following:
    ``(i) Time Limit for Approval or Disapproval.--Not later than 180 
days after receiving a complete application for a direct loan or loan 
guarantee under this section, the Secretary shall approve or disapprove 
the application.''.
    (g) Fees and Charges.--Section 503 of the Railroad Revitalization 
and Regulatory Reform Act of 1976 (45 U.S.C. 823) is amended--
            (1) by adding at the end of subsection (k) the following: 
        ``Funds received by the Secretary under the preceding sentence 
        shall be credited to the appropriation from which the expenses 
        of making such appraisals, determinations, and findings were 
        incurred.''; and
            (2) by adding at the end the following new subsection:
    ``(l) Fees and Charges.--Except as provided in this title, the 
Secretary may not assess any fees, including user fees, or charges in 
connection with a direct loan or loan guarantee provided under section 
502.''.
    (h) Substantive Criteria and Standards.--Not later than 30 days 
after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of 
Transportation shall publish in the Federal Register and post on the 
Department of Transportation website the substantive criteria and 
standards used by the Secretary to determine whether to approve or 
disapprove applications submitted under section 502 of the Railroad 
Revitalization and Regulatory Reform Act of 1976 (45 U.S.C. 822).
    (i) Operators and Service Providers Deemed Rail Carriers.--Section 
502 of the Railroad Revitalization and Regulatory Reform Act of 1976 
(45 U.S.C. 822), as amended by subsection (f), is further amended by 
adding at the end the following:
    ``(j) Operators and Certain Service Providers Deemed Rail 
Carriers.--A person that conducts rail operations, or performs 
catering, cleaning, construction, maintenance, or other services for 
rail operations, funded or otherwise receiving assistance under this 
section is deemed to be a rail carrier for purposes of part A of 
subtitle IV of title 49, United States Code, when so operating or 
performing such services.''.

SEC. 402. RAIL PASSENGER COOPERATIVE RESEARCH PROGRAM.

    (a) In General.--Chapter 249 is amended by adding at the end the 
following:
``Sec. 24910. Passenger rail cooperative research program
    ``(a) In General.-- The Secretary of Transportation shall establish 
and carry out a rail passenger cooperative research program. The 
program shall--
            ``(1) address, among other matters, intercity rail 
        passenger services, including existing rail passenger 
        technologies and speeds, incrementally enhanced rail systems 
        and infrastructure, and new high-speed wheel-on-rail systems;
            ``(2) give consideration to research on commuter rail, 
        regional rail, freight rail, and other modes of rail 
        transportation that may affect rail passenger transportation 
        due to the interconnectedness of the rail passenger network 
        with other rail transportation services; and
            ``(3) give consideration to regional concerns regarding 
        rail passenger transportation, including meeting research needs 
        common to designated high-speed corridors, long-distance rail 
        services, and regional intercity rail corridors, projects, and 
        entities.
    ``(b) Contents.--The program to be carried out under this section 
shall include research designed--
            ``(1) to develop more accurate models for evaluating the 
        indirect effects of rail passenger service, including the 
        effects on highway and airport and airway congestion, 
        environmental quality, and energy consumption;
            ``(2) to develop a better understanding of modal choice as 
        it affects rail passenger transportation, including development 
        of better models to predict ridership;
            ``(3) to recommend priorities for technology demonstration 
        and development;
            ``(4) to meet additional priorities as determined by the 
        advisory board established under subsection (c);
            ``(5) to explore improvements in management, financing, and 
        institutional structures;
            ``(6) to address rail capacity constraints that affect 
        passenger rail service through a wide variety of options, 
        ranging from operating improvements to dedicated new 
        infrastructure, taking into account the impact of such options 
        on freight and commuter rail operations; and
            ``(7) to improve maintenance, operations, customer service, 
        or other aspects of existing intercity rail passenger service 
        existing in 2002.
    ``(c) Advisory Board.--
            ``(1) Establishment.--In consultation with the heads of 
        appropriate Federal departments and agencies, the Secretary 
        shall establish an advisory board to recommend research, 
        technology, and technology transfer activities related to rail 
        passenger transportation.
            ``(2) Membership.--The advisory board shall include--
                    ``(A) representatives of State transportation 
                agencies;
                    ``(B) transportation and environmental economists, 
                scientists, and engineers; and
                    ``(C) representatives of Amtrak, the Alaska 
                Railroad, transit operating agencies, intercity rail 
                passenger agencies, railway labor organizations, and 
                environmental organizations.
    ``(d) National Academy of Sciences.--The Secretary may make grants 
to, and enter into cooperative agreements with, the National Academy of 
Sciences to carry out such activities relating to the research, 
technology, and technology transfer activities described in subsection 
(b) as the Secretary deems appropriate.''.
    (b) Conforming Amendment.--The chapter analysis for chapter 249 is 
amended by adding at the end the following:

``24910. Passenger rail cooperative research program.''.
    (c) Authorization of Appropriations.--There are authorized to be 
appropriated to the Secretary of Transportation $5,000,000 for fiscal 
year 2003, and each fiscal year thereafter, to carry out section 24910 
of title 49, United States Code.

SEC. 403. CONFORMING AMENDMENTS TO TITLE 49 REFLECTING ICC TERMINATION 
              ACT.

    (a) Section 307.--
            (1) Section 307 is amended--
                    (A) by striking ``Interstate Commerce Commission'' 
                in the section heading and inserting ``Surface 
                Transportation Board'';
                    (B) by striking ``Interstate Commerce Commission'' 
                in subsection (a) and inserting ``Surface 
                Transportation Board''; and
                    (C) by striking ``Commission'' each place it 
                appears and inserting ``Board''.
            (2) The chapter analysis for chapter 3 is amended by 
        striking the item relating to section 307 and inserting the 
        following:

``307. Safety information and intervention in Surface Transportation 
                            Board proceedings.''.
    (b) Section 333.--Section 333 is amended--
            (1) by striking ``Interstate Commerce Commission'' each 
        place it appears and inserting ``Surface Transportation 
        Board''; and
            (2) by striking ``Commission'' in subsection (c) and 
        inserting ``Board''.
    (c) Section 351.--Section 351(c) is amended by striking 
``Interstate Commerce Commission'' and inserting ``Surface 
Transportation Board''.
    (d) Section 24307.--Section 24307(b)(3) is amended by striking 
``Interstate Commerce Commission'' and inserting ``Surface 
Transportation Board''.
    (e) Section 24308.--Section 24308 is amended--
            (1) by striking ``Interstate Commerce Commission'' in 
        subsection (a)(2)(A) and inserting ``Surface Transportation 
        Board''; and
            (2) by striking ``Commission'' each place it appears in 
        subsections (a), (b), and (e)(3) and inserting ``Board''.
    (f) Section 24311.--Section 24311 is amended--
            (1) by striking ``Interstate Commerce Commission'' in 
        subsection (c)(1) and inserting ``Surface Transportation 
        Board''; and
            (2) by striking ``Commission'' each place it appears in 
        subsection (c) and inserting ``Board''.
    (g) Section 24902.--Section 24902 is amended--
            (1) by striking ``Interstate Commerce Commission'' in 
        subsections (g)(2) and (g)(3) and inserting ``Surface 
        Transportation Board''; and
            (2) by striking ``Commission'' each place it appears in 
        subsections (g)(2) and (g)(3) and inserting ``Board''.
    (h) Section 24904.--Section 24904 is amended--
            (1) by striking ``Interstate Commerce Commission'' in 
        subsection (c)(2) and inserting ``Surface Transportation 
        Board''; and
            (2) by striking ``Commission'' each place it appears in 
        subsection (c) and inserting ``Board''.

SEC. 404. APPLICABILITY OF REVERSION TO ALASKA RAILROAD RIGHT-OF-WAY 
              PROPERTY.

    Section 610(b) of the Alaska Railroad Transfer Act of 1982 (45 
U.S.C. 1209(b)) is amended--
            (1) by inserting ``(1)'' after ``(b)'';
            (2) by redesignating paragraphs (1) and (2) as 
        subparagraphs (A) and (B), respectively; and
            (3) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
    ``(2)(A) The State-owned railroad may convey all right, title, and 
interest of the State in any land within the right-of-way to a third 
party in exchange for other land that, in substitution for the land 
conveyed, is to be utilized as part of the right-of-way if the 
continuity of the right-of-way corridor for transportation, 
communications, and transmission purposes is provided by such use of 
the substituted land.
    ``(B) The provisions of this section that require reversion shall 
apply to the substituted land, as of the effective date of the exchange 
of that land in a transaction authorized by subparagraph (A), as fully 
as if the substituted land had been rail properties of the Alaska 
Railroad as of January 13, 1983.
    ``(C) Upon the conveyance of land in a transaction authorized by 
subparagraph (A), any reversionary interest in the land under this 
section shall terminate.''.
                                 &lt;all&gt;
</pre></body></html>
