<html><body><pre>
[Congressional Bills 109th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H.R. 6193 Introduced in House (IH)]








109th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                H. R. 6193

To continue and expand upon previous congressional efforts to ensure an 
 abundant and affordable supply of fruits, vegetables, tree nuts, and 
other specialty crops for American consumers and international markets, 
to enhance the competitiveness of United States-grown specialty crops, 
                        and for other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                           September 26, 2006

   Mr. Pombo (for himself, Mr. Cardoza, Mr. Putnam, Mr. Salazar, Mr. 
  Renzi, Mr. Kuhl of New York, Mr. Walsh, Mrs. Bono, Ms. Hooley, Mr. 
    Costa, Mr. Hinchey, Mr. Carnahan, Mr. Boyd, Mr. Brown of South 
Carolina, Mr. Case, Mr. Doggett, Mr. English of Pennsylvania, Mr. Farr, 
   Mr. Foley, Mr. Hall, Ms. Harris, Mr. Hastings of Washington, Mr. 
Higgins, Mr. Hinojosa, Ms. Kaptur, Mr. Larsen of Washington, Mr. Larson 
 of Connecticut, Mr. McHugh, Mr. McIntyre, Mr. Michaud, Mr. Nunes, Mr. 
 Platts, Mr. Radanovich, Mr. Reynolds, Mrs. Tauscher, Mr. Boucher, Mr. 
 Baca, Mr. Gallegly, Mr. Wu, Mr. Thompson of California, Mr. Issa, Mr. 
Mario Diaz-Balart of Florida, Mr. Schwarz of Michigan, Mr. Blumenauer, 
 Mr. Allen, Mr. Walden of Oregon, Mr. Goode, Ms. Woolsey, Mrs. Kelly, 
and Mr. Gilchrest) introduced the following bill; which was referred to 
  the Committee on Agriculture, and in addition to the Committees on 
 Education and the Workforce, Energy and Commerce, Ways and Means, and 
 Resources, for a period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, 
 in each case for consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
                jurisdiction of the committee concerned

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
To continue and expand upon previous congressional efforts to ensure an 
 abundant and affordable supply of fruits, vegetables, tree nuts, and 
other specialty crops for American consumers and international markets, 
to enhance the competitiveness of United States-grown specialty crops, 
                        and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE AND TABLE OF CONTENTS.

    (a) Short Title.--This Act may be cited as the ``Equitable 
Agriculture Today for a Healthy America Act'' or the ``EAT Healthy 
America Act''.
    (b) Table of Contents.--The table of contents for this Act is as 
follows:

Sec. 1. Short title and table of contents.
Sec. 2. Findings and purposes.
Sec. 3. Definitions.
                 TITLE I--COMMODITY-RELATED PROVISIONS

Sec. 101. Flexible payment limitations for disaster payments to reflect 
                            variations in cost of production and crop 
                            value.
Sec. 102. Adjusted gross income limitations on receipt of disaster 
                            assistance by first handlers of specialty 
                            crops.
Sec. 103. Equitable treatment of specialty crop producers in 
                            distribution of disaster assistance.
Sec. 104. Tree assistance program.
                         TITLE II--CONSERVATION

Sec. 201. Conservation reserve program.
Sec. 202. Wetlands reserve program.
Sec. 203. Funding for Farmland Protection Program.
Sec. 204. Grassland reserve program.
Sec. 205. Wildlife habitat incentive program.
Sec. 206. Environmental quality incentives program.
Sec. 207. Integrated pest management initiative.
Sec. 208. Technical assistance under Department of Agriculture 
                            conservation programs.
Sec. 209. Pilot program regarding native plants habitat restoration and 
                            endangered or threatened plant species 
                            recovery.
Sec. 210. Exclusion of payments under Department of Agriculture 
                            conservation programs from adjusted gross 
                            income limitation.
                            TITLE III--TRADE

Sec. 301. Technical assistance for specialty crops.
Sec. 302. Coordination of trade objectives between key agencies.
Sec. 303. Market access program.
Sec. 304. Grant program for market analysis related to anti-dumping and 
                            countervailing duty cases involving 
                            specialty crops.
Sec. 305. Sense of Congress regarding certain antitrust laws applicable 
                            to agriculture.
                 TITLE IV--INVASIVE PESTS AND DISEASES

Sec. 401. Threat identification and mitigation program.
Sec. 402. Emergency eradication programs.
Sec. 403. Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service Export Division.
Sec. 404. Consultations on sanitary and phytosanitary restrictions for 
                            fruits and vegetables.
Sec. 405. Multi-species fruit fly research and sterile fly production.
                           TITLE V--NUTRITION

Sec. 501. Findings.
Sec. 502. Expansion of Fresh Fruit and Vegetable Program.
Sec. 503. Fruit and Vegetable Nutrition Promotion Program.
Sec. 504. Use of ``Dietary Guidelines for Americans'' in special 
                            nutrition programs and school lunch 
                            programs.
Sec. 505. Section 32 specialty crop purchases.
Sec. 506. School preference study.
Sec. 507. Independent evaluation of Department of Agriculture commodity 
                            purchase process.
Sec. 508. Amendments to the food stamp program.
Sec. 509. Sense of the congress regarding nutritional supplements.
Sec. 510. Food stamp fruit and vegetable ebt pilot project.
                    TITLE VI--AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH

Sec. 601. Specialty Crops Economic and Policy Research Institute.
Sec. 602. Development of specialty crop priority for the National 
                            Research Initiative.
Sec. 603. Establishment of specialty crop research grants program for 
                            producers to improve efficiency and 
                            competitiveness.
Sec. 604. National Clean Plant Network.
Sec. 605. Prioritizing current Federal research activities for 
                            specialty crops.
                      TITLE VII--RENEWABLE ENERGY

Sec. 701. Inventory of specialty crop biomass waste as part of annual 
                            assessment of renewable energy resources.
Sec. 702. Department of Agriculture bioenergy program.
Sec. 703. Grants for development of business plans and construction 
                            projects to use specialty crop biomass 
                            waste for electric energy, useful heat, 
                            transportation fuels, petroleum-based 
                            product substitutes, and other commercial 
                            purposes.
                  TITLE VIII--MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS

Sec. 801. Specialty crop block grants.
Sec. 802. Federal Insecticide, Fungicide, and Rodenticide Act; requests 
                            by State agencies for exemptions.
Sec. 803. Protection of intellectual property rights in plants and 
                            plant-derived material.
Sec. 804. Grant program to improve transportation infrastructure to 
                            reduce cost of transportation of specialty 
                            crops.
Sec. 805. Additional funds for Agricultural Marketing Service specialty 
                            crop market news activities.
Sec. 806. Value-added grant program to promote creation, expansion, or 
                            operation of value-added processing of 
                            specialty crops.

SEC. 2. FINDINGS AND PURPOSES.

    (a) Findings.--Congress finds the following:
            (1) Specialty crop production in the United States accounts 
        for $50.8 billion in farmgate value, and, according to the 
        Economic Research Service of the Department of Agriculture, 
        specialty crops account for more than 45 percent of the 
        farmgate value of all crops produced in the United States.
            (2) Specialty crop producers deserve a competitive and 
        sustainable environment for specialty crop production, and the 
        Specialty Crops Competitiveness Act of 2004 (Public Law 108-
        465; 7 U.S.C. 1621 note) represented an initial attempt to 
        ensure the long-term competitiveness and sustainability of 
        United States specialty crop production.
            (3) Additional Federal investment in the competitiveness 
        and sustainability of the United States specialty crop industry 
        will produce a strong return on investment for all of America, 
        not just producers.
            (4) By expanding the market for and availability of safe, 
        wholesome, healthy, and affordable fruits, vegetables, tree 
        nuts, and other specialty crops, Congress can assist Americans 
        in achieving the goal of doubling their fruit and vegetable 
        consumption, as called for in the Department of Agriculture and 
        Department of Health and Human Services 2005 Dietary 
        Guidelines.
            (5) Federal investment in the United States specialty crop 
        industry is required to create a fair and level playing field 
        with international competitors that do not have to comply with 
        the regulatory requirements imposed on United States producers 
        in the areas of environmental regulation, labor, food safety, 
        and other area.
            (6) Without appropriate and adequate assistance United 
        States specialty crop production may relocate to less 
        restrictive foreign growing areas.
            (7) Consumers in United States export markets are 
        increasingly demanding high-value specialty food products as 
        their disposable income rises, and a thriving and competitive 
        United States specialty crop industry will support strong 
        growth in export markets and improve the United States balance 
        of trade.
            (8) In order to realize the goal of increasing agricultural 
        exports, it is critical that Federal policy and resources 
        support efforts to remove the many existing international trade 
        barriers that continue to hamper United States specialty crop 
        exports.
            (9) The competitiveness of United States specialty crop 
        producers also depends on maintaining the current restrictions 
        in section 1106 of the Farm Security and Rural Investment Act 
        of 2002 (7 U.S.C. 7916) that prohibits the planting of fruits 
        and vegetables and other specialty crops on acres for which a 
        producer receives direct payments or counter-cyclical payments, 
        including not allowing any temporary loss in program benefits 
        as a remedy for one year or other short-term shifts to 
        specialty crops.
    (b) Purposes.--It is the purpose of this Act to build upon the 
success of the Specialty Crops Competitiveness Act of 2004 (Public Law 
108-465; 7 U.S.C. 1621 note) by making additional changes in Federal 
agriculture policy to accomplish the goals of increasing fruit, 
vegetable, and tree nut consumption and improving the competitiveness 
of United States specialty crop producers.

SEC. 3. DEFINITIONS.

    In this Act:
            (1) The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary of 
        Agriculture.
            (2) The term ``specialty crop'' means fruits and 
        vegetables, tree nuts, dried fruits, and nursery crops, 
        including floriculture.
            (3) The term ``State'' means the several States, the 
        District of Columbia, and the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico.

                 TITLE I--COMMODITY-RELATED PROVISIONS

SEC. 101. FLEXIBLE PAYMENT LIMITATIONS FOR DISASTER PAYMENTS TO REFLECT 
              VARIATIONS IN COST OF PRODUCTION AND CROP VALUE.

    (a) Flexible Payment Limitations.--In lieu of using a single, 
specific dollar amount limitation on the total amount of disaster 
assistance that a producer of specialty crops may receive under any 
provision of law, the Secretary of Agriculture shall develop and use a 
series of payment limitations that reflect cost-of-production and crop 
value variations.
    (b) Use of Farm Service Agency Data.--The Secretary of Agriculture 
may use existing data maintained by the Department of Agriculture 
regarding cost of production and crop value for various agricultural 
enterprises.
    (c) Applicability.--The flexible payment limitations required by 
subsection (a) shall apply with respect to any natural disaster 
occurring after the date of the enactment of this Act for which 
disaster assistance is provided by the Secretary of Agriculture under 
any provision of law to producers of specialty crops.

SEC. 102. ADJUSTED GROSS INCOME LIMITATIONS ON RECEIPT OF DISASTER 
              ASSISTANCE BY FIRST HANDLERS OF SPECIALTY CROPS.

    (a) Change to Application of Limitations.--For purposes of applying 
the adjusted gross income limitations on the receipt of disaster 
assistance to a first handler of specialty crops, the Secretary of 
Agriculture shall treat income derived by the first handler from the 
initial preparation of the specialty crops for marketing and the 
marketing of the specialty crops as income derived from a farming 
operation.
    (b) First Handler Defined.--In this section, the term ``first 
handler'' means a person who--
            (1) receives or otherwise acquires specialty crops from a 
        producer and prepares for marketing or markets the specialty 
        crops; or
            (2) prepares for marketing and markets specialty crops 
        produced by the person.

SEC. 103. EQUITABLE TREATMENT OF SPECIALTY CROP PRODUCERS IN 
              DISTRIBUTION OF DISASTER ASSISTANCE.

    In providing disaster assistance to producers suffering losses due 
to natural disasters, the Secretary of Agriculture shall seek to ensure 
that--
            (1) producers of specialty crops receive assistance through 
        programs that are designed to meet the specific needs of such 
        producers and reflect the production practices of such 
        producers; and
            (2) eligibility for assistance and the provision of 
        assistance is not be tied to traditional programs of the 
        Department of Agriculture, such as direct payments under 
        section 1103 or 1303 of the Farm Security and Rural Investment 
        Act of 2002 (7 U.S.C. 7913, 7953) or crop insurance.

SEC. 104. TREE ASSISTANCE PROGRAM.

    (a) Inclusion of Nursery Tree Growers.--
            (1) Eligibility.--Section 10201 of the Farm Security and 
        Rural Investment Act of 2003 (7 U.S.C. 8201) is amended--
                    (A) by redesignating paragraphs (3) and (4) as 
                paragraphs (4) and (5), respectively; and
                    (B) by inserting after paragraph (2) the following 
                new paragraph:
            ``(3) Nursery tree grower.--The term `nursery tree grower' 
        means a person that produces trees in either containers or in 
        the ground for commercial sale for replanting or grafting by 
        the ultimate purchaser for use in the production of a food 
        crop.''.
            (2) Conforming amendments.--Subtitle C of title X of such 
        Act is amended--
                    (A) in section 10202 (7 U.S.C. 8202)--
                            (i) in subsection (a), by inserting ``and 
                        nursery tree growers'' after ``eligible 
                        orchardists''; and
                            (ii) in subsection (b), by inserting ``or 
                        nursery tree grower'' after ``eligible 
                        orchardist''; and
                    (B) in section 10203 (7 U.S.C. 8203), by inserting 
                ``and nursery tree growers'' after ``eligible 
                orchardists''.
    (b) Increase in Authorized Amount of Assistance.--Section 10204(a) 
of such Act is amended by striking ``$75,000'' and inserting ``$150,000 
per year''.
    (c) Applicability.--The amendments made by this section shall apply 
with respect to any natural disaster occurring after the date of the 
enactment of this Act for which assistance is provided by the Secretary 
of Agriculture under the tree assistance program.

                         TITLE II--CONSERVATION

SEC. 201. CONSERVATION RESERVE PROGRAM.

    (a) Extension of Program.--Section 1231 of the Food Security Act of 
1985 (16 U.S.C. 3831) is amended--
            (1) in subsection (a), by striking ``2007'' and inserting 
        ``2012'';
            (2) in subsection (d)(1), by striking ``2007'' and 
        inserting ``2012'';
            (3) in subsection (e)(3), by striking ``2002'' and 
        inserting ``2008''; and
            (4) in subsection (h)(1), by striking ``2007'' and 
        inserting ``2012''.
    (b) Eligible Land.--Section 1231(b) of such Act (16 U.S.C. 3831(b)) 
is amended--
            (1) by striking the period at the end of paragraph (1) and 
        inserting a semicolon;
            (2) in paragraph (4), by striking ``or'' at the end of 
        subparagraph (C);
            (3) by striking the period at the end of paragraph (5) and 
        inserting ``; or''
            (4) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
            ``(6) marginal pasture land or hay land that is otherwise 
        ineligible, if the land is to be devoted to native vegetation 
        appropriate to the locale and--
                    ``(A) will provide suitable habitat for State or 
                federally listed threatened or endangered species or 
                species determined by the Secretary of the Interior to 
                be species of concern; or
                    ``(B) will contribute to the restoration of a 
                critically endangered ecosystem or endangered 
                ecosystem, as defined by the Secretary.''.
    (c) Use of General Signup Process.--Section 1231(d) of such Act (16 
U.S.C. 3831(d)) is amended by adding at the end the following new 
sentence: ``To the maximum extent practicable, the Secretary shall 
ensure that not more than 85 percent of the acres maintained in the 
conservation reserve at any 1 time during the 2008 through 2012 
calendar years are acres that were enrolled through general signup 
under section 1234(c)(2)(A).''.
    (d) Duties of Participants.--Section 1232(a) of such Act (16 U.S.C. 
3832(a)) is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (4)--
                    (A) by redesignating subparagraphs (A) and (B) as 
                subparagraphs (B) and (C), respectively; and
                    (B) by inserting before subparagraph (B), as so 
                redesignated, the following new subparagraph:
                    ``(A) to the maximum extent feasible for a contract 
                entered into after the date of the enactment of the 
                Equitable Agriculture Today for a Healthy America Act, 
                approved vegetative cover shall not include plant 
                species considered invasive to the locale, as 
                determined by the Secretary;'';
            (2) by redesignating paragraphs (5) through (10) as 
        paragraphs (6) through (11); respectively; and
            (3) by inserting after paragraph (4) the following new 
        paragraph:
            ``(5) to undertake appropriate management activities on the 
        land, including any necessary haying and grazing activities, as 
        needed throughout the term of the contract to achieve the 
        purposes of the conservation reserve program;''.
    (e) Conservation Plan.--Section 1232(b)(1)(A) of such Act (16 
U.S.C. 3832(b)(1)(A)) is amended by inserting before the semicolon at 
the end the following: ``, including appropriate management activities 
required by subsection (a)(5)''.
    (f) Cost-Share and Management Assistance.--Section 1234(b) of such 
Act (16 U.S.C. 3834(b)) is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (1), by inserting before the period at the 
        end the following: ``, except that the Secretary shall pay 75 
        percent of the cost of establishing measures and practices that 
        will benefit a federally or State listed threatened or 
        endangered species required under a contract entered into under 
        this subchapter''; and
            (2) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
            ``(6) Management costs.--The Secretary shall pay 75 percent 
        of the cost of management activities, including control of 
        invasive species, required under a contract entered into under 
        this subchapter.''.
    (g) Wildlife Criteria.--Section 1234(c)(3)(B) of such Act (16 
U.S.C. 3834(c)(3)(B)) is amended by inserting before the period the 
following: ``, taking into consideration the recommendations of States 
concerning species or ecosystems that are State priorities for recovery 
or restoration''.
    (h) Rare and Declining Habitat.--Section 1234(c) of such Act (16 
U.S.C. 3834(c)) is amended by adding at the end the following new 
paragraph:
            ``(5) Rare and declining habitat.--The Secretary may 
        approve a request by a State to establish continuous enrollment 
        categories for rare and declining habitat in specific areas of 
        the State to benefit specific State or federally listed 
        threatened or endangered species.''.
    (i) Rental Payment Limitations.--Section 1234(f) of such Act (16 
U.S.C. 3834(f)) is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (1), by inserting before the period at the 
        end the following: ``, except that the Secretary may waive this 
        payment limitation for persons participating in a conservation 
        reserve enhancement program or cooperative conservation project 
        if the Secretary determines such a waiver is necessary to 
        achieve the objectives of the conservation reserve enhancement 
        program or project''; and
            (2) in paragraph (4), by adding at the end the following 
        new subparagraph:
                    ``(C) Irrigated land.--In determining the amount of 
                annual rental payments for owners and operators seeking 
                to enroll irrigated land in a conservation reserve 
                enhancement program, the Secretary shall consider the 
                average rental rate for irrigated land in the area.''.

SEC. 202. WETLANDS RESERVE PROGRAM.

    (a) Maximum Enrollment.--Section 1237(b)(1) of the Food Security 
Act of 1985 (16 U.S.C. 3837(b)(1)) is amended--
            (1) by striking ``2,275,000 acres'' and inserting 
        ``5,000,000 acres''; and
            (2) by striking ``250,000 acres'' and inserting ``320,000 
        acres''.
    (b) Wetland Easement Conservation Plan.--Section 1237A(b)(3) of 
such Act (16 U.S.C. 3837a(b)(3)) is amended by inserting before the 
semicolon at the end the following: ``, including activities necessary 
to maintain hydrologic, habitat, and other functional values''.
    (c) Cost-Share and Management Assistance.--Section 1237C of such 
Act (16 U.S.C. 3837c) is amended--
            (1) in subsection (a)(1), by inserting ``including 
        necessary hydrologic and habitat maintenance activities,'' 
        after ``values,''; and
            (2) in subsection (b), by adding at the end the following 
        new paragraph:
            ``(4) Management costs.--The Secretary may make payments to 
        owners to cover up to the full actual cost of undertaking any 
        ongoing or periodic management activities necessary to maintain 
        the hydrologic, habitat, and other functional values of wetland 
        enrolled in the wetlands reserve program.''.
    (d) Easement Priority and State Allocation.--Section 1237C of such 
Act (16 U.S.C. 3837c) is amended--
            (1) in subsection (d), by striking ``wildlife.'' and 
        inserting ``wildlife, particularly rare species, or improving 
        water quality.''; and
            (2) by adding at the end the following new subsection:
    ``(e) Allocation to States.--In making allocations to States to 
carry out this subchapter, the Secretary shall consider to what degree 
each State gives priority to the protection and restoration of habitat 
for migratory birds and other wildlife, particularly rare species 
including threatened, endangered, or candidate species, and for 
improving water quality.''.
    (e) Conforming Amendment.--Section 1237(c) of such Act (16 U.S.C. 
3837(c)) is amended by striking ``2007'' and inserting ``2012''.

SEC. 203. FUNDING FOR FARMLAND PROTECTION PROGRAM.

    Paragraph (4) of subsection (a) of section 1241 of the Food 
Security Act of 1985 (16 U.S.C. 3841) is amended to read as follows:
            ``(4) The farmland protection program under subchapter B of 
        chapter 2, using $300,000,000 in each of fiscal years 2008 
        through 2012.''.

SEC. 204. GRASSLAND RESERVE PROGRAM.

    (a) Extension and Funding.--Paragraph (5) of section 1241(a) of the 
Food Security Act of 1985 (16 U.S.C. 3841(a)) is amended to read as 
follows:
            ``(5) The grassland reserve program under subchapter C of 
        chapter 2.''.
    (b) Maximum Enrollment and Limitation on Use of Rental 
Agreements.--Subsection (b)(1) of section 1238N of such Act (16 U.S.C. 
3838N) is amended by striking ``2,000,000 acres'' and inserting 
``10,000,000 acres''.
    (c) Enrollment of Conservation Reserve Program Land.--Section 1238N 
of such Act (16 U.S.C. 3838N) is amended by adding at the end the 
following new subsection:
    ``(d) Enrollment of Conservation Reserve Program Land.--
            ``(1) Enrollment authorized.--Subject to the eligibility 
        requirements of subsection (c) and all other requirements of 
        this subchapter, land enrolled in the conservation reserve 
        program may be enrolled in the grassland reserve program if the 
        Secretary determines that enrollment of the land will support 
        plant and animal biodiversity and advance the other objectives 
        of the grassland reserve program.
            ``(2) Method of enrollment.--Land enrolled in the program 
        under this subsection shall be enrolled through long-term 
        agreements or easements as described in subsection 
        (b)(2)(A)(ii).
            ``(3) Prohibition on duplication of payments.--Land 
        enrolled in the program under this subsection shall no longer 
        be eligible for payments under the conservation reserve 
        program.''.

SEC. 205. WILDLIFE HABITAT INCENTIVE PROGRAM.

    (a) Extension and Funding.--Section 1241(a)(7) of the Food Security 
Act of 1985 (16 U.S.C. 3841(a)(7)) is amended by striking subparagraphs 
(A) through (D) and inserting the following new subparagraphs:
                    ``(A) $100,000,000 in fiscal year 2008;
                    ``(B) $140,000,000 in fiscal year 2009;
                    ``(C) $200,000,000 in each of fiscal years 2010 and 
                2011; and
                    ``(D) $300,000,000 in fiscal year 2012.''.
    (b) Increased Cost Share Authorized for Long-Term Agreements and 
Contracts.--Subsection (b)(2)(A) of section 1240N of such Act (16 
U.S.C. 3839bb-1) is amended by striking ``in addition to amounts 
provided under paragraph (1)'' and inserting ``in an amount up to 100 
percent of the actual cost of any practice required by the agreement or 
contract''.
    (c) Incentive Payments and Program Priorities.--Section 1240N of 
such Act (16 U.S.C. 3839bb-1) is amended by adding at the end the 
following new subsections:
    ``(d) Incentive Payments for Agreements Benefitting Listed 
Species.--In a case in which the Secretary enters into an agreement or 
contract to protect and restore habitat for a federally or State-listed 
endangered, threatened, or candidate species, the Secretary may provide 
incentive payments to landowners to protect and restore the habitat, 
including the cost of management activities needed during the term of 
the agreement or contract.
    ``(e) Priorities.--In carrying out this section, the Secretary 
shall give priority to agreements and contracts that protect and 
restore habitat for rare species.
    ``(f) Relation to State Wildlife Action Plans.--The Secretary shall 
ensure that implementation of this section in a State takes into 
consideration the wildlife action plan for that State.
    ``(g) Allocations.--In making allocations to States to carry out 
this chapter, the Secretary shall consider to what degree each State 
gives priority to the protection and restoration of habitat under 
subsection (e) and complies with the wildlife action plan for the State 
under subsection (f).
    ``(h) Cooperative Agreements.--To the maximum extent practicable, 
the Secretary shall enter into cooperative agreements with State 
wildlife and natural resources agencies to implement this section, 
including delivery of technical assistance.''.

SEC. 206. ENVIRONMENTAL QUALITY INCENTIVES PROGRAM.

    (a) Extension.--
            (1) Funding extension and increase.--Section 1241(a) of the 
        Food Security Act of 1985 (16 U.S.C. 3841(a)) is amended by 
        striking paragraph (6) and inserting the following new 
        paragraph:
            ``(6) The environmental quality incentives program under 
        chapter 4, using, to the maximum extent practicable--
                    ``(A) $1,400,000,000 in fiscal year 2008;
                    ``(B) $1,600,000,000 in fiscal year 2009;
                    ``(C) $1,800,000,000 in each of fiscal years 2010 
                and 2011; and
                    ``(D) $2,000,000,000 in fiscal year 2012.''.
            (2) Conforming amendments.--Chapter 4 of subtitle D of 
        title XII of such Act is amended--
                    (A) in section 1240B(a)(1) (16 U.S.C. 3839aa-
                2(a)(1)), by striking ``2007'' and inserting ``2012''; 
                and
                    (B) in subsection 1240G (16 U.S.C. 3839aa-7), by 
                striking ``2007'' and inserting ``2012''.
    (b) Demonstration of Structural and Land Management Practices.--
            (1) Eligibility.--Section 1240B(a)(2) of the Food Security 
        Act of 1985 (16 U.S.C. 3839aa-(a)(2)) is amended--
                    (A) by striking ``and'' at the end of subparagraph 
                (A);
                    (B) by striking the period at the end of 
                subparagraph (B) and inserting ``; and''; and
                    (C) by adding at the end the following new 
                subparagraph:
                    ``(C) a producer that demonstrates a structural or 
                land management practice, including project monitoring, 
                measurement, outreach, or education shall be eligible 
                to receive cost-share or incentive payments.''.
            (2) Conforming amendments.--(A) Section 1240(3) of such Act 
        (16 U.S.C. 3839aa(3)) is amended by striking ``and maintain'' 
        and inserting ``, maintain, and demonstrate''.
            (B) Section 1240F(1) of such Act (16 U.S.C. 3839aa-6(1)) is 
        amended by striking ``and implementing'' and inserting ``, 
        implementing, or demonstrating''.
    (c) Bidding Down.--Section 1240B(c) of the Food Security Act of 
1985 (16 U.S.C. 3839aa-2(c)) is amended by inserting before the period 
at the end the following: ``, except that this prohibition does not 
relieve the Secretary of the obligation to ensure that cost-
effectiveness is prioritized in the evaluation of offers and payments, 
as provided by section 1240C(1)''.
    (d) Incentive Payment Rates.--Section 1240B(e) of the Food Security 
Act of 1985 (16 U.S.C. 3839aa-2(e)(2)) is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (1), by adding at the end the following 
        new sentence: ``The Secretary shall establish different rates 
        to accommodate variation in the cost of practices and product 
        value.''; and
            (2) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
            ``(3) Rates for component practices.--The Secretary shall 
        develop additional incentive payment rates for components of a 
        practice that promotes residue, nutrient, pest, invasive 
        species, or air quality management. The amount and rate of 
        incentive payments for a component practice shall be scaled 
        according to the anticipated level of impact of that practice 
        on the priority resource concerns, such that more advanced 
        management practices that yield greater environmental benefit 
        will receive higher payments.''.
    (e) Allocation of Funding.--Section 1240B(g) of the Food Security 
Act of 1985 (16 U.S.C. 3839aa-2(g)) is amended by adding at the end the 
following new sentence: ``When making initial allocations of funds to 
States to make cost-share and incentive payments under this chapter, 
the Secretary shall consider to what degree producers in each State are 
under pressure to comply with existing local, State, or Federal 
environmental regulations, or may have to comply with such regulations 
in the future.''.
    (f) Evaluation of Applications for Cost-Share Payments and 
Incentive Payments.--Section 1240C of the Food Security Act of 1985 (16 
U.S.C. 3839aa-3) is amended to read as follows:

``SEC. 1240C. EVALUATION OF APPLICATIONS FOR COST-SHARE PAYMENTS AND 
              INCENTIVE PAYMENTS.

    ``In evaluating applications for cost-share payments and incentive 
payments, the Secretary shall--
            ``(1) prioritize applications based on how effectively and 
        comprehensively designated resource concerns are addressed;
            ``(2) prioritize applications based on their overall level 
        of cost-effectiveness to ensure that the conservation 
        practices, systems, and approaches proposed are the most 
        efficient means of producing the proposed project's anticipated 
        environmental benefits;
            ``(3) reward higher levels of environmental performance, 
        such as advanced levels of management within management 
        practices; and
            ``(4) develop criteria for evaluating applications that 
        will ensure that national, State, and local conservation 
        priorities are effectively addressed.''.
    (g) Support for Program Plans.--Section 1240F of the Food Security 
Act of 1985 (16 U.S.C. 3839aa-6) is amended--
            (1) by striking ``and'' at the end of paragraph (1);
            (2) by striking the period at the end of paragraph (2) and 
        inserting ``; and''; and
            (3) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
            ``(3) developing partnerships with other agencies and 
        contracting with technical assistance providers to supplement 
        Department expertise and staffing capacity as necessary.''.
    (h) Conservation Innovation Grants.--Section 1240H of the Food 
Security Act of 1985 (16 U.S.C. 3839aa-8) is amended--
            (1) in subsection (a), by striking ``may'' and inserting 
        ``shall'';
            (2) in subsection (b)--
                    (A) by striking ``Use'' and inserting ``Initial 
                Grants'';
                    (B) by striking ``may'' and inserting ``shall'';
                    (C) in paragraph (2)--
                            (i) by striking ``and'' at the end of 
                        subparagraph (A); and
                            (ii) by adding at the end the following new 
                        subparagraph:
                    ``(C) alternative energy projects, such as solar 
                and wind power energy systems and conversion of 
                equipment to run on bio-fuels, to reduce greenhouse gas 
                emissions and reliance on fossil fuels in farm 
                operations;''.
                    (D) by striking the period at the end of paragraph 
                (3) and inserting ``; and''; and
                    (E) by adding at the end the following new 
                paragraph:
            ``(4) include a plan for technology transfer.'';
            (3) by adding at the end the following new subsections:
    ``(d) Technology Transfer.--To the maximum extent practicable, the 
Secretary shall ensure efficient, effective transfer of innovative 
technologies and approaches demonstrated through projects that receive 
funding under this section.
    ``(e) Funding.--Of the amounts made available under section 
1241(a)(6) to carry out this chapter, the Secretary shall use to carry 
out this section--
            ``(1) 40,000,000 for fiscal year 2008;
            ``(2) 50,000,000 for fiscal year 2009;
            ``(3) 60,000,000 for fiscal year 2010; and
            ``(4) 75,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2011 and 2012.''.
    (i) Savings and Funding Under Ground and Surface Water Conservation 
Program.--Section 1240I of the Food Security Act of 1985 (16 U.S.C. 
3839aa-9) is amended by striking subsection (c) and inserting the 
following new subsection:
    ``(b) Funding.--The Secretary shall use $100,000,000 of the funds 
of the Commodity Credit Corporation to carry out this section for each 
of fiscal years 2008 through 2012. These funds are in addition to 
amounts made available under section 1241(a)(6) to carry out this 
chapter.''.
    (j) Air Quality Improvement and Performance Incentives for 
States.--Chapter 4 of subtitle D of title XII of such Act is amended by 
adding at the end the following new sections:

``SEC. 1240J. AIR QUALITY IMPROVEMENT.

    ``(a) Availability Cost-Share Payments and Incentive Payments.--In 
carrying out this chapter, the Secretary shall promote air quality by 
providing cost-share payments and incentive payments to individual 
producers to address air quality concerns associated with agriculture.
    ``(b) Locations.--In order for producers to receive payments under 
this section, a project must be located in a county--
            ``(1) that is in non-attainment for ambient air quality 
        standards for ozone, particulate matter, or both;
            ``(2) in which there is air quality degradation, recognized 
        by a State or local regulating agency, to which agricultural 
        emissions significantly contribute; or
            ``(3) in which the Secretary determines that pesticide 
        drift is a priority concern.
    ``(c) Priority.--The Secretary shall give priority to projects 
that--
            ``(1) involve multiple producers implementing eligible 
        conservation activities in a coordinated way to promote air 
        quality; or
            ``(2) are designed to encourage broad adoption of 
        innovative approaches, including approaches involving the use 
        of innovative technologies and integrated pest management, so 
        long as the technologies do not have the unintended consequence 
        of compromising other environmental goals.
    ``(d) Funding.--
            ``(1) Amounts.--The Secretary shall use funds of the 
        Commodity Credit Corporation to carry out this section in the 
        following amounts:
                    ``(A) $25,000,000 for fiscal year 2008;
                    ``(B) $45,000,000 for fiscal year 2009;
                    ``(C) $60,000,000 for fiscal year 2010; and
                    ``(D) $75,000,000 million for each of fiscal years 
                2011 and 2012.
            ``(2) Relation to other funds.--The funds made available 
        under paragraph (1) are in addition to amounts made available 
        under section 1241(a)(6) to carry out this chapter.

``SEC. 1240K. PERFORMANCE INCENTIVES FOR STATES.

    ``(a) High Level of Performance Bonus.--For each of fiscal years 
2008 through 2012, 20 percent of the funds made available under this 
chapter shall be reserved by the Secretary for bonus allocations to 
States that demonstrate a high level of performance in implementing the 
environmental quality incentives program.
    ``(b) Special Considerations.-- In evaluating State performance 
under subsection (a), the Secretary shall reward States that--
            ``(1) consistently meet the requirements of section 1240C 
        in evaluating offers and payments;
            ``(2) dedicate a portion of their annual environmental 
        quality incentives program allocation to multi-producer 
        cooperative efforts to address specific resource concerns;
            ``(3) demonstrate effective and efficient program delivery, 
        including the provision of adequate technical assistance to all 
        program participants through appropriate staffing and through 
        cooperation with other Federal, State, Tribal, and local 
        agencies, for-profit and nonprofit organizations, and 
        individuals with demonstrated expertise in the planning and 
        implementation of conservation practices, systems, and 
        approaches;
            ``(4) collaborate with other Federal and State agencies, 
        local governments, educational institutions, and for-profit and 
        nonprofit organizations to evaluate the environmental outcomes 
        associated with implementation of the environmental quality 
        incentives program;
            ``(5) ensure broad participation in State Technical 
        Committees; and
            ``(6) ensure that priorities established at the State level 
        are effectively addressed by local work groups.''.

SEC. 207. INTEGRATED PEST MANAGEMENT INITIATIVE.

    Subtitle F of title XII of the Food Security Act of 1985 (16 U.S.C. 
3830 et seq.) is amended by adding at the end the following new 
section:

``SEC. 1257. INTEGRATED PEST MANAGEMENT INITIATIVE.

    ``(a) Initiative Required.--The Secretary shall implement an 
integrated pest management initiative in priority regions identified by 
the Secretary under subsection (b) for the purpose of assisting 
agricultural producers operating in such regions to comply with pest 
management regulations and alleviate the need for additional 
regulations regarding pest management activities.
    ``(b) Identification of Priority Regions.--
            ``(1) Identification.--The Secretary of Agriculture shall 
        identify priority regions where the adoption by agricultural 
        producers of integrated pest management practices and 
        approaches offers the greatest potential benefit to producers 
        seeking to comply with environmental regulations and alleviate 
        the need for additional regulations resulting from pest 
        management activities. Priority regions shall include 
        agricultural lands dominated by the production of specialty 
        crops and agricultural lands where agricultural pest management 
        activities are regulated for the purpose of mitigating specific 
        impacts to human health or the environment, such as an area in 
        which pollutants exceed authorized total maximum daily load or 
        an air quality non-attainment area.
            ``(2) Consultation.-- The Secretary shall identify priority 
        regions in consultation with the Environmental Protection 
        Agency, the United States Geological Service, the United States 
        Fish and Wildlife Service, agricultural producers, appropriated 
        State agencies, and other interested persons.
    ``(c) Activities in Priority Regions.--
            ``(1) Expedited approval of management practices.--The 
        Secretary of Agriculture shall develop the best-available 
        integrated pest management practices for the primary 
        agricultural commodities and significant pests in each priority 
        region identified under subsection (b) and expedite approval of 
        these practices for implementation by agricultural producers.
            ``(2) Improved evaluation of management plans.--The 
        Secretary shall develop and make available criteria to enable 
        staff of the Natural Resources Conservation Service and 
        agricultural producers operating in priority regions identified 
        under subsection (b) to effectively compare pest management 
        plans, considering relative risks and potential benefits to 
        multiple resources of concern, including air, surface water, 
        ground water, bees and other pollinators, wildlife, and worker 
        safety.
            ``(3) Technical assistance.--The Secretary shall enter in 
        cooperative agreements, memorandums of understanding, and 
        contracts for services with other agencies and non-Federal 
        organizations, as necessary, to assist in providing technical 
        assistance regarding integrated pest management planning and 
        implementation to producers operating in priority regions 
        identified under subsection (b).
            ``(4) Marketing.--The Secretary shall market the 
        availability of integrated pest management tools and training 
        to agricultural producers in the priority regions identified 
        under subsection (b).
            ``(5) Program integration.--The Secretary shall set goals 
        for integrating the integrated pest management initiative with 
        the environmental quality incentives program established under 
        chapter 4 of subtitle D of title XII of the Food Security Act 
        of 1985 (16 U.S.C. 3839aa et seq.) and other conservation 
        programs in each priority region identified under subsection 
        (b), including indicators of the extent to which these programs 
        fund integrated pest management practices and the extent to 
        which supported integrated pest management practices reduce 
        pesticide use and risk.
    ``(d) Funding.--The Secretary of Agriculture may use resources 
provided for programs under this title to implement the integrated pest 
management initiative.''.

SEC. 208. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE UNDER DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE 
              CONSERVATION PROGRAMS.

    (a) Use of Third-Party Providers.--Section 1242 of the Food 
Security Act of 1985 (16 U.S.C. 3842) is amended--
            (1) in subsection (a), by striking paragraph (2) and 
        inserting the following new paragraph:
            ``(2) at the option of the producer, through an approved 
        third party, if available.''; and
            (2) in subsection (b)--
                    (A) by striking paragraph (1) and inserting the 
                following new paragraph:
            ``(1) System for evaluation of providers.--The Secretary 
        shall establish, by regulation, a system for approving 
        individuals and entities to provide technical assistance to 
        carry out programs under this chapter, including criteria for 
        the evaluation of providers or potential providers of technical 
        assistance. The system shall require, as part of the approval 
        process, consultation with county committees established under 
        section 8(b) of the Soil Conservation and Domestic Allotment 
        Act (16 U.S.C. 590h(b)).'';
                    (B) by striking paragraph (3) and inserting the 
                following new paragraph:
            ``(3) Competitive bidding.--The Secretary may accept bids 
        from approved third parties to provide technical assistance to 
        producers eligible for that assistance.''; and
                    (C) in paragraph (4), by striking ``may request'' 
                and inserting ``shall request, to the maximum extent 
                practicable,''.
    (b) Cooperative Conservation Educational Assistance Program.--Such 
section is further amended by adding at the end the following new 
subsection:
    ``(c) Cooperative Conservation Educational Assistance Program.--The 
Secretary shall establish a cooperative conservation educational 
assistance program through which a student at an institution of higher 
education, in a field of study such as agronomy, conservation biology, 
engineering, and other subject relevant to the provision of technical 
assistance under this section, may receive educational assistance in 
exchange for a commitment of service to the Natural Resources 
Conservation Service or other agency within the Department of 
Agriculture involved in providing such assistance. Establishment of the 
program shall be carried out by rulemaking, and the final rule shall be 
issued not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this 
subsection.''.

SEC. 209. PILOT PROGRAM REGARDING NATIVE PLANTS HABITAT RESTORATION AND 
              ENDANGERED OR THREATENED PLANT SPECIES RECOVERY.

    (a) Establishment of Program.--The Secretary of Agriculture shall 
carry out a pilot program at the Lockeford Plant Materials Center of 
the Natural Resources Conservation Service to recover endangered or 
threatened plant species and help restore habitat with native plants, 
while enhancing agriculture operations. The pilot program shall be 
known as the native plants habitat restoration and endangered or 
threatened plant species recovery pilot program.
    (b) Elements of Program.--Under the program, the Lockeford Plant 
Materials Center shall--
            (1) collect endangered or threatened plants and plant 
        materials, with the consent of affected landowners, from 
        throughout the State of California, propagate them and develop 
        a seed source for agriculture and other interested parties to 
        be able to use the plants as part of commercial and agriculture 
        operations for restoration purposes;
            (2) develop and demonstrate endangered or threatened plant 
        production methods;
            (3) develop and demonstrate endangered or threatened plant 
        establishment and maintenance techniques; and
            (4) assist with private sector planting of endangered or 
        threatened plants.
    (c) Relation to Endangered Species Act.--
            (1) Agreement.--The Secretary of the Interior may enter 
        into an agreement with the Secretary of Agriculture to 
        facilitate the implementation of this section with regard to an 
        endangered or threatened plant species if the Secretary of 
        Interior determines that the activities of the Lockeford Plant 
        Materials Center are likely to contribute to the conservation 
        of the species.
            (2) Implementation regulations.--In consultation with the 
        Secretary of Agriculture, the Secretary of Interior shall 
        promulgate draft regulations for implementation of this 
        subsection not later than 90 days after the date of the 
        enactment of this Act and shall promulgate final regulations 
        for implementation of this subsection not later than 180 days 
        after that date.
            (3) Protected activities.--The following activities shall 
        not be subject to section 7 or 9 of the Endangered Species Act 
        of 1973 (16 U.S.C. 1536, 1538):
                    (A) Any determination of the Secretary of the 
                Interior made under paragraph (1) or any agreement 
                entered into under such paragraph.
                    (B) Any action taken to implement such agreement.
                    (C) The sale or offering for sale by the Lockeford 
                Plant Materials Center of any plants, including seeds, 
                parts, products, or progeny thereof, for use in 
                restoration efforts as part of an agricultural 
                operation.
                    (D) The consideration of or promulgation of draft 
                and final regulations under paragraph (2).
            (4) Presence of plants from center.--The presence of any 
        plants obtained from the Lockeford Plant Materials Center, or 
        the progeny of such plants, on non-Federal land shall not be 
        taken into account by the Secretary of the Interior in carrying 
        out section 7 of the Endangered Species Act of 1973 (16 U.S.C. 
        1536).
    (d) Technical Assistance.--The Secretary shall request the United 
States Fish and Wildlife Service to provide technical assistance to the 
Lockeford Plant Materials Center to carry out the program.
    (e) Authorization of Appropriations.--There is authorized to be 
appropriated to the Secretary $8,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2008 
through 2012 to carry out the program.

SEC. 210. EXCLUSION OF PAYMENTS UNDER DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE 
              CONSERVATION PROGRAMS FROM ADJUSTED GROSS INCOME 
              LIMITATION.

    Section 1001D(b)(2) of the Food Security Act of 1985 (7 U.S.C. 
1308-3a) is amended by striking subparagraph (C).

                            TITLE III--TRADE

SEC. 301. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE FOR SPECIALTY CROPS.

    (a) Funding and Carryover of Funding.--Subsection (d) of section 
3205 of the Farm Security and Rural Investment Act of 2002 (7 U.S.C. 
5680) is amended to read as follows:
    ``(d) Funding and Carryover of Funding.--
            ``(1) Funding.--To carry out the program, the Secretary 
        shall make available funds of the Commodity Credit Corporation, 
        or an equal value of commodities owned by the Commodity Credit 
        Corporation, in the amount of--
                    ``(A) $4,000,000 for fiscal year 2008;
                    ``(B) $6,000,000 for fiscal year 2009;
                    ``(C) $8,000,000 for fiscal year 2010;
                    ``(D) $10,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2011 and 
                2012.
            ``(2) Carryover of funding.--Funds made available for the 
        program under paragraph (1) or under section 201 of the 
        Specialty Crops Competitiveness Act of 2004 (Public Law 108-
        465; 118 Stat. 3884) shall remain available until expended.''.
    (b) Flexibility.--Such section is further amended by adding at the 
end the following new subsection:
    ``(e) Flexibility.--In providing technical assistance under the 
program, the Secretary should provide for case-by-case extensions, upon 
the approval of the Administrator of the Foreign Agricultural Service, 
of time frames provided by regulations in connection with that 
assistance.''.

SEC. 302. COORDINATION OF TRADE OBJECTIVES BETWEEN KEY AGENCIES.

    The President shall take steps to ensure increased coordination 
among relevant agencies within the Department of Agriculture and other 
agencies within the Executive branch of export and import trade 
objectives and greater transparency on work related to sanitary and 
phytosanitary trade issues.

SEC. 303. MARKET ACCESS PROGRAM.

    Section 211(c)(1)(A) of the Agricultural Trade Act of 1978 (7 
U.S.C. 5641(c)(1)(A)) is amended--
            (1) by striking ``and'' before ``$200,000,000''; and
            (2) by inserting ``and $350,000,000 for each of fiscal 
        years 2008 through 2012,'' after ``2007,''.

SEC. 304. GRANT PROGRAM FOR MARKET ANALYSIS RELATED TO ANTI-DUMPING AND 
              COUNTERVAILING DUTY CASES INVOLVING SPECIALTY CROPS.

    (a) Grants Authorized.--The Secretary of Agriculture may make 
grants under this section to a State agency or an association of 
specialty crop producers (in this section referred to as an ``eligible 
entity'') to conduct or procure market analysis in connection with 
anti-dumping and countervailing duty cases involving a specialty crop 
under consideration by the United States International Trade Commission 
or the Department of Commerce.
    (b) Grant Criteria.--To be eligible for a grant under this section, 
an eligible entity must establish to the satisfaction of the Secretary 
that--
            (1) there has been significant price underselling of the 
        imported specialty crop, as compared with the previous three-
        year average price of the domestic specialty crop; and
            (2) there is a significant increase of the volume or market 
        penetration of the imported specialty crop over the previous 
        three years.
    (c) Matching Funds.--An eligible entity receiving a grant under 
this section shall contribute non-Federal funds toward the market 
analysis project for which the grant is provided in an amount at least 
equal to the amount of the grant.
    (d) Funding.--The Secretary of Agriculture shall use $10,000,000 of 
funds of the Commodity Credit Corporation for each of the fiscal years 
2008 through 2012 to make grants under this section.

SEC. 305. SENSE OF CONGRESS REGARDING CERTAIN ANTITRUST LAWS APPLICABLE 
              TO AGRICULTURE.

     It is the sense of Congress that the Export Trading Company Act 
(ETC), the Webb-Pomerene Export Act, and the Capper-Volstead Act should 
be strongly supported because these antitrust laws promote United 
States agricultural exports and allow specialty crop producers key 
protections.

                 TITLE IV--INVASIVE PESTS AND DISEASES

SEC. 401. THREAT IDENTIFICATION AND MITIGATION PROGRAM.

    (a) Establishment.--The Administrator of the Animal and Plant 
Health Inspection Service shall establish and administer a program to 
determine and prioritize foreign threats to domestic production of 
specialty crops, including threats of bioterrorism.
    (b) Program.--In conducting the program established under 
subsection (a), the Administrator of the Animal and Plant Health 
Inspection Service shall--
            (1) protect the interests of the domestic specialty crop 
        industry;
            (2) prevent, control, and eradicate foreign and domestic 
        pest and disease threats in the United States;
            (3) consult with the Administrator of the Agricultural 
        Research Service, where appropriate; and
            (4) not use funds available pursuant to subsection (c) for 
        eradication efforts that enhance import opportunities into the 
        United States.
    (c) Funding.--Of the funds available to the Commodity Credit 
Corporation, the Administrator shall use $100,000,000 in each of fiscal 
years 2008 through 2012 to carry out this section.

SEC. 402. EMERGENCY ERADICATION PROGRAMS.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary of Agriculture shall use funds 
available to the Commodity Credit Corporation for emergency response 
and eradication programs, including for the hiring of additional 
personnel. Such funds shall be used only for domestic emergency 
response and eradication.
    (b) Compensation.--If the Secretary of Agriculture determines that 
compensation should be provided to a grower under an emergency 
eradication program under subsection (a), the Secretary shall provide 
such compensation using the existing administrative services of the 
Farm Service Agency and the Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service.

SEC. 403. ANIMAL AND PLANT HEALTH INSPECTION SERVICE EXPORT DIVISION.

    (a) Establishment.--The Administrator of the Animal and Plant 
Health Inspection Service shall establish a sanitary and phytosanitary 
export petitions division within the Animal and Plant Health Inspection 
Service.
    (b) Duties.--The division established under subsection (a) shall--
            (1) process sanitary and phytosanitary export petitions;
            (2) establish a public docket for sanitary and 
        phytosanitary export petitions; and
            (3) complete review of sanitary and phytosanitary export 
        petitions filed on or before the date of the enactment of this 
        Act not later than five years after such date.

SEC. 404. CONSULTATIONS ON SANITARY AND PHYTOSANITARY RESTRICTIONS FOR 
              FRUITS AND VEGETABLES.

    (a) Amendments.--Section 2104(b)(2)(A)(ii)(II) of the Bipartisan 
Trade Promotion Authority Act of 2002 (19 U.S.C. 3804(b)(2)(A)(ii)(II)) 
is amended--
            (1) by striking ``whether the products so identified'' and 
        inserting ``whether--
                                    ``(aa) the products so 
                                identified''; and
            (2) by adding at the end the following:
                                    ``(bb) any fruits or vegetables so 
                                identified are subject to or likely to 
                                be subject to unjustified sanitary or 
                                phytosanitary restrictions, including 
                                those not based on scientific 
                                principles in contravention of the 
                                Uruguay Round Agreements, as determined 
                                by the United States Trade 
                                Representative in consultation with the 
                                Agricultural Technical Advisory 
                                Committee for Trade in Fruits and 
                                Vegetables of the Department of 
                                Agriculture; and''.
    (b) Effective Date.--The amendments made by subsection (a) apply 
with respect to the initiation of negotiations to enter into any trade 
agreement that is subject to the provisions of section 2103(b) of the 
Bipartisan Trade Promotion Authority Act of 2002 (19 U.S.C. 3804(b)) on 
or after the date of the enactment of this Act.

SEC. 405. MULTI-SPECIES FRUIT FLY RESEARCH AND STERILE FLY PRODUCTION.

    (a) Construction.--The Secretary of Agriculture shall construct a 
warehouse and irradiation containment facility in Waimanalo, Hawaii, to 
support fruit fly rearing activities and to house an irradiation to 
sterilize fruit flies.
    (b) Authorization of Appropriations.--There are authorized to be 
appropriated--
            (1) $15,000,000 for the construction of a warehouse and 
        irradiation containment facility pursuant to subsection (a); 
        and
            (2) $1,000,000 for fiscal year 2008 and each subsequent 
        fiscal year for maintenance to the facilities constructed 
        pursuant to this section.

                           TITLE V--NUTRITION

SEC. 501. FINDINGS.

    Congress finds the following:
            (1) Fruits and vegetables offer consumers a healthy and 
        nutritious product that is recognized as critical to the 
        prevention of heart disease, stroke, and some cancers and other 
        chronic diseases, the reduction of obesity and diabetes, and 
        the maintenance of overall good health.
            (2) Proper nutrition is critical in promoting good health, 
        preventing disease, and improving quality of life.
            (3) Agriculture policies and related domestic and 
        international nutrition assistance programs should support 
        incentives and key strategies that help Americans reach 
        national health goals and ultimately reduce health care costs.

SEC. 502. EXPANSION OF FRESH FRUIT AND VEGETABLE PROGRAM.

    Section 18 of the Richard B. Russell National School Lunch Act (42 
U.S.C. 1769) is amended in subsection (g)--
            (1) in paragraph (1)--
                    (A) in the matter preceding subparagraph (A), by 
                striking ``July 2004 and each subsequent school year'' 
                and inserting ``October 2007 and each school year 
                thereafter''; and
                    (B) by amending subparagraphs (A) and (B) to read 
                as follows:
                    ``(A) 100 elementary or secondary schools in each 
                State;
                    ``(B) additional elementary or secondary schools in 
                each State in proportion to the student population of 
                the State;''.
            (2) in paragraph (3)(A), by striking ``paragraph (1)(B)'' 
        and inserting ``paragraph (1)'';
            (3) in paragraph (5), in each of subparagraphs (A) and (B), 
        by striking ``2008'' and inserting ``2011''; and
            (4) in paragraph (6)(B)(i)--
                    (A) by striking ``October 1, 2004, and on each 
                October 1 thereafter,'' and inserting ``October 1, 
                2007, and on each October 1 thereafter,''; and
                    (B) by striking ``$9,000,000'' and inserting 
                ``$300,000,000''.

SEC. 503. FRUIT AND VEGETABLE NUTRITION PROMOTION PROGRAM.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary of Agriculture, acting through the 
Administrator of the Agricultural Marketing Service, shall establish 
and carry out a program to provide assistance to eligible trade 
organizations to increase the consumption of fruits and vegetables in 
the United States to meet Federal health guidelines.
    (b) Requirements for Participation.--To be eligible for assistance 
under this section, an organization shall--
            (1) be an eligible trade organization;
            (2) prepare and submit a plan to increase the consumption 
        of fruits and vegetables in the United States to the 
        Administrator of the Agricultural Marketing Service that meets 
        any guidelines governing such plans established by the 
        Administrator; and
            (3) meet any other requirements established by the 
        Administrator.
    (c) Eligible Trade Organizations.--An eligible trade organization 
under this section shall be--
            (1) a non-profit fruit and vegetable trade organizations in 
        the United States;
            (2) a non-profit State or regional fruit and vegetable 
        organization;
            (3) a fruit and vegetable agricultural cooperative in the 
        United States;
            (4) a commodity board or commission in the United States; 
        or
            (5) a small business engaged in the fruit and vegetable 
        industry in the United States.
    (d) Matching Funds.--Assistance provided under this section shall 
not exceed--
            (1) in the case of an organization described in paragraphs 
        (1) through (4) of subsection (c), 90 percent of the cost of 
        the plan to increase the consumption of fruits and vegetables 
        in the United States submitted under subsection (b)(2); and
            (2) in the case of an organization described in subsection 
        (c)(5), 50 percent of the cost of the plan to increase the 
        consumption of fruits and vegetables in the United States 
        submitted under subsection (b)(2).
    (e) Funding.--Of the funds available to the Commodity Credit 
Corporation, the Administrator of the Agricultural Marketing Service 
shall use $100,000,000 in each of fiscal years 2008 through 2011 to 
carry out this section.

SEC. 504. USE OF ``DIETARY GUIDELINES FOR AMERICANS'' IN SPECIAL 
              NUTRITION PROGRAMS AND SCHOOL LUNCH PROGRAMS.

    Section 9(a) of the Richard B. Russell National School Lunch Act 
(42 U.S.C. 1758(a)) is amended by adding at the end the following:
            ``(5) Allocations to be based on dietary guidelines.--For 
        school year 2007 and each school year thereafter, the Secretary 
        shall ensure that allocations of food and food ingredients 
        offered in school nutrition programs under this Act and the 
        Child Nutrition Act of 1966 (42 U.S.C. 1771 et seq.) are based 
        on the most recent Dietary Guidelines for Americans.''.

SEC. 505. SECTION 32 SPECIALTY CROP PURCHASES.

    (a) Minimum Level of Purchases.--Section 32 of the Act of August 
24, 1935 (7 U.S.C. 612c) is amended in the sixth sentence by inserting 
after ``and their products'' the following: ``, and, for each of fiscal 
years 2008 through 2012, the Secretary of Agriculture shall devote not 
less than $400,000,000 of sums appropriated under this section to 
purchases of non-basic agricultural commodities, such as fruits, 
vegetables, and other specialty food crops''.
    (b) Expansion of DOD Fresh Program.--Such section is further 
amended by inserting after the sixth sentence, as amended by subsection 
(a), the following new sentence: ``Of the funds specified in the 
preceding sentence, the Secretary of Agriculture shall expend not less 
than $150,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2008 through 2012 for the 
purchase of fresh fruits and vegetables for distribution to schools and 
service institutions in accordance with section 6(a) of the Richard B. 
Russell National School Lunch Act (42 U.S.C. 1755(a)).''.

SEC. 506. SCHOOL PREFERENCE STUDY.

    The Secretary of Agriculture shall carry out a study on the 
preferences of elementary and secondary schools for commodity 
distribution, including the extent to which such schools prefer 
commodity distribution to include fresh fruits and vegetables, and 
submit to Congress a report on the results of the study. The report 
shall include an analysis of the logistical issues that would impede 
efforts to increase the extent to which commodity distribution to 
schools includes fresh fruits and vegetables, and shall include 
recommendations for improving the availability of fresh fruits and 
vegetables to schools.

SEC. 507. INDEPENDENT EVALUATION OF DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE COMMODITY 
              PURCHASE PROCESS.

    (a) Evaluation Required.--The Secretary of Agriculture shall 
arrange to have performed an independent evaluation of the commodity 
purchasing processes (and the statutory and regulatory authority 
underlying such processes) used by the Department of Agriculture to 
remove surplus commodities from the market and support commodity prices 
and producer incomes, especially with regard to activities under 
section 32 of the Act of August 24, 1935 (7 U.S.C. 612c) and the 
importance of increasing purchases of perishable specialty crops.
    (b) Submission of Results.--The Secretary of Agriculture shall 
submit to Congress a report on the results of the evaluation.

SEC. 508. AMENDMENTS TO THE FOOD STAMP PROGRAM.

    (a) Definition.--Section 3 of the Food Stamp Act of 1977 (7 U.S.C. 
2012) is amended by adding at the end the following:
    ``(v) `food stamp nutrition education' means direct education, 
group activities, community health promotion, and comprehensive public 
health approaches (including but not limited to, social marketing, mass 
media, public-private partnerships, policy, systems and environmental 
changes, and evaluation) that promote healthy eating and make healthy 
food and physical activity choices more desired, affordable, and 
accessible. To serve all those potentially eligible for food stamps, 
nutrition education programs should be designed to reach large numbers 
of low-income individuals. Programs shall support behavior change 
consistent with the Dietary Guidelines for Americans, including a diet 
rich in fruits and vegetables, whole grains, and low-fat milk 
products.''.
    (b) Administration.--Section 11(e)(1)(A) of the Food Stamp Act of 
1977 (7 U.S.C. 2020(e)(1)(A) is amended by inserting ``, and provide 
food stamp nutrition education'' after ``program'' .

SEC. 509. SENSE OF THE CONGRESS REGARDING NUTRITIONAL SUPPLEMENTS.

    It is the sense of the Congress that benefits provided under the 
Food Stamp Act of 1977 should not be available to purchase nutrition 
supplements or anything other than food.

SEC. 510. FOOD STAMP FRUIT AND VEGETABLE EBT PILOT PROJECT.

    (a) Finding.--The Congress finds that increased consumption of 
fruits and vegetables by participants in the food stamp program will 
significantly improve the overall dietary habits of such participants.
    (b) Pilot Project.--The Secretary of Agriculture shall establish 
and carry out a pilot project that will provide to each participant in 
the food stamp program who receives benefits in the form of an 
electronic benefit transfer, financial incentives for each dollar of 
such benefits expended by such recipient to facilitate the purchase of 
fresh fruits and vegetables.
    (c) Authorization of Appropriations.--There is authorized to be 
appropriated $10,000,000 for each of 5 fiscal years to carry out this 
section.

                    TITLE VI--AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH

SEC. 601. SPECIALTY CROPS ECONOMIC AND POLICY RESEARCH INSTITUTE.

    (a) Establishment.--There is established within the Department of 
Agriculture a Specialty Crops Economic and Policy Research Institute to 
study economic and public policy issues that affect the competitiveness 
of United States specialty crops from a regional and national 
perspective.
    (b) Institute Objectives.--The objectives of the Institute 
established under this section shall be as follows:
            (1) To provide Congress with a resource for analysis of the 
        specialty crop sector, including the impact of changes in 
        domestic and international markets, production and new product 
        technologies, alternative policies and macroeconomic conditions 
        on specialty crop production, use, farm and retail prices, and 
        farm income and financial stability from a national, regional, 
        and farm-level perspective.
            (2) To provide annual review of the economic state of the 
        specialty crop industry from a regional perspective.
            (3) To provide specialty crop producers with World Wide 
        Web-based risk management tools that can be used to assess the 
        impact of policy, market, and technological change on their 
        production operations.
            (4) To develop an information series that provides applied 
        information useful to specialty crop growers, their 
        associations, and other interested stakeholders in evaluating 
        that industry from a regional and national perspective.
            (5) To disseminate the results of research through printed 
        reports, workshops, specialty crop grower association meetings, 
        and on the World Wide Web.
            (6) To provide research and policy internship opportunities 
        for undergraduate and graduate students.
    (c) Funding.--Of the funds of the Commodity Credit Corporation, the 
Secretary shall make available $3,770,000 to carry out this section.

SEC. 602. DEVELOPMENT OF SPECIALTY CROP PRIORITY FOR THE NATIONAL 
              RESEARCH INITIATIVE.

    The Secretary of Agriculture shall develop a specialty crop 
priority area within the overall areas of emphasis of the National 
Research Initiative. Funds available to the Secretary for the specialty 
crop priority area shall be expended on the applied research and 
extension programs that increase the quality of specialty crop 
research.

SEC. 603. ESTABLISHMENT OF SPECIALTY CROP RESEARCH GRANTS PROGRAM FOR 
              PRODUCERS TO IMPROVE EFFICIENCY AND COMPETITIVENESS.

    (a) Establishment.--The Secretary of Agriculture shall establish a 
program to award grants to eligible entities to improve the efficiency 
and competitiveness of United States specialty crop producers.
    (b) Eligible Entities.--The Secretary shall determine eligible 
entities for grants under this section. Such entities shall include 
nonprofit United States specialty crop trade organizations and 
foundations, nonprofit State and regional specialty crop organizations, 
United States specialty crop agricultural cooperatives, commodity 
boards and commissions, university research and extension programs, and 
small United States businesses in the specialty crop industry.
    (c) Use of Funds.--Funds from grants under this program shall be 
used for one or more of the following:
            (1) Research that addresses the short-term, intermediate, 
        and long term needs of the United States specialty crop 
        industry in production technology (such as plant breeding, pest 
        management, production, physiology, food science).
            (2) Mechanization, marketing, product development, food 
        security, and food safety to improve the competitiveness of the 
        United States specialty crop industry.
            (3) Development and implementation of industry-specific 
        strategic plans to prioritize research and develop United 
        States specialty crop industry and research collaboration.
    (d) Funding.--Of the funds of the Commodity Credit Corporation, the 
Secretary shall make available $200,000,000 for each of fiscal years 
2008 through 2012 to carry out this section.

SEC. 604. NATIONAL CLEAN PLANT NETWORK.

    (a) Establishment.--There is established in the Department of 
Agriculture, as part of the Cooperative State Research, Education, and 
Extension Service, a program to be known as the ``National Clean Plant 
Network''. The Secretary of Agriculture shall use the network to 
develop a sustainable national funding source for clean planting stock 
programs for horticultural crops determined by the Secretary to be of 
priority for the United States. Such funding shall be used to award 
grants to entities that have the expertise, facilities, and climate 
necessary to efficiently produce, maintain, and distribute healthy 
planting stock for specialty crops.
    (b) Priorities.--Section 1408A(c) of the Specialty Crops 
Competitiveness Act of 2004 (7 U.S.C. 3123a(c)) is amended by adding at 
the end the following:
            ``(4) Priorities for Federal research activities related to 
        United States specialty crops.''.
    (c) Funding.--Of the funds of the Commodity Credit Corporation, the 
Secretary of Agriculture shall make available $5,000,000 for each of 
fiscal years 2008 through 2012 to carry out this section.

SEC. 605. PRIORITIZING CURRENT FEDERAL RESEARCH ACTIVITIES FOR 
              SPECIALTY CROPS.

    The Secretary of Agriculture shall--
            (1) coordinate with and assist producers and organizations 
        comprised of key stakeholders working together to develop and 
        implement applied research and extension related to the United 
        States specialty crop industry;
            (2) deliver information to key stakeholders in a user-
        friendly form, in addition to a standard research publication 
        and, in turn, be rewarded for their abilities to deliver 
        information to both the scientific community and the end-user; 
        and
            (3) ensure that research and extension activities conducted 
        by Federal agencies be required to have industry-appointed 
        panels involved in the prioritization, administration, and 
        oversight of use of Federal available to develop and implement 
        applied research and extension related to the United States 
        specialty crop industry.

                      TITLE VII--RENEWABLE ENERGY

SEC. 701. INVENTORY OF SPECIALTY CROP BIOMASS WASTE AS PART OF ANNUAL 
              ASSESSMENT OF RENEWABLE ENERGY RESOURCES.

    Section 201 of the Energy Policy Act of 2005 (Public Law 109-58; 42 
U.S.C. 15851) is amended--
            (1) by redesignating subsection (c) as subsection (d); and
            (2) by inserting after subsection (b) the following new 
        subsection:
    ``(c) Inventory of Specialty Crop Biomass.--
            ``(1) Inventory.--As part of each assessment of biomass 
        renewable energy resources under subsection (a), the Secretary 
        shall develop an inventory, on a State and county basis, of 
        specialty crop biomass that could be potentially utilized in 
        the production of electric energy, useful heat, transportation 
        fuels, petroleum-based product substitutes, and other value-
        added products.
            ``(2) Cooperation and funding.--The Secretary shall prepare 
        the inventory in cooperation with the Secretary of Agriculture, 
        and the Secretary of Agriculture may contribute up to 
        $25,000,000 of funds of the Commodity Credit Corporation each 
        fiscal year to assist in the development of the inventory. 
        Amounts contributed under this paragraph are in addition to 
        amounts appropriated pursuant to the authorization of 
        appropriations in subsection (d).
            ``(3) Definitions.--In this subsection:
                    ``(A) Specialty crop.--The term `specialty crop' 
                has the meaning given that term in section 3(1) of the 
                Equitable Agriculture Today for a Healthy America Act.
                    ``(B) Specialty crop biomass.--The term `specialty 
                crop biomass' means agricultural waste from specialty 
                crop production, including waste derived from orchard 
                tree crops, vineyard crops, and nut crops, and other 
                fruit and vegetable byproducts or residues.''.

SEC. 702. DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE BIOENERGY PROGRAM.

    (a) Definition of Eligible Commodities Under Program.--Subsection 
(a)(3) of section 9010 of the Farm Security and Rural Investment Act of 
2002 (7 U.S.C. 8108) is amended--
            (1) by redesignating subparagraphs (B), (C), and (D) as 
        subparagraphs (C), (D), and (E), respectively; and
            (2) by inserting after subparagraph (A) the following new 
        subparagraph:
                    ``(B) specialty crop agricultural waste, including 
                waste derived from orchard tree crops, vineyard crops, 
                and nut crops, and other fruit and vegetable byproducts 
                or residues.''.
    (b) Reauthorization.--Subsection (c) of such section is amended by 
striking paragraph (2) and inserting the following new paragraph:
            ``(2) $175,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2008 through 
        2012.''.

SEC. 703. GRANTS FOR DEVELOPMENT OF BUSINESS PLANS AND CONSTRUCTION 
              PROJECTS TO USE SPECIALTY CROP BIOMASS WASTE FOR ELECTRIC 
              ENERGY, USEFUL HEAT, TRANSPORTATION FUELS, PETROLEUM-
              BASED PRODUCT SUBSTITUTES, AND OTHER COMMERCIAL PURPOSES.

    (a) Biomass Commercial Use Grant Program.--The Secretary of 
Agriculture may make a grant to any person for the purpose of assisting 
the person to develop a business plan or construct a facility to use 
specialty crop waste and residues as a raw material to produce electric 
energy, sensible heat, transportation fuels, substitutes for petroleum-
based products, or other value-added products.
    (b) Grant Share.--A grant under this section may not cover more 
than 80 percent of the cost to develop the business plan or construct 
the facility for which the grant is made.
    (c) Selection.--The Secretary shall select grant recipients under 
this section after giving consideration to the anticipated public 
benefits of the project, including the quantity of specialty crop waste 
and residues to be used by the resulting facility, opportunities for 
the creation or expansion of small businesses and micro-businesses, and 
the potential for new job creation.
    (d) Monitoring of Grant Recipient Activities.--As a condition of a 
grant under this section, the grant recipient shall keep such records 
as the Secretary may require to fully and accurately disclose the use 
of the grant funds.
    (e) Report.--Not later than October 1, 2010, the Secretary of 
Agriculture shall submit to Congress a report describing the results of 
the grant program authorized by this section.
    (f) Funding.--The Secretary of Agriculture shall use $25,000,000 of 
funds of the Commodity Credit Corporation for each of the fiscal years 
2007 through 2012 to make grants under this section.

                  TITLE VIII--MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS

SEC. 801. SPECIALTY CROP BLOCK GRANTS.

    (a) Extension of Program.--Subsection (a) of section 101 of the 
Specialty Crops Competitiveness Act of 2004 (Public Law 108-465; 7 
U.S.C. 1621 note) is amended by striking ``2009'' and inserting 
``2012''.
    (b) Funding Source and Increase in Annual Funding.--Subsection (i) 
of such section is amended to read as follows:
    ``(i) Funding.--The Secretary of Agriculture shall use $500,000,000 
of funds of the Commodity Credit Corporation for each of the fiscal 
years 2008 through 2012 to make grants under this section.''.
    (c) Conforming Amendments.--Such section is further amended--
            (1) in subsection (a), by striking ``Subject to the 
        appropriation of funds to carry out this section'' and 
        inserting ``Using the funds made available under subsection 
        (i)'';
            (2) in subsection (b), by striking ``appropriated pursuant 
        to the authorization of appropriations in'' and inserting 
        ``made available under''; and
            (3) in subsection (c), by striking ``Subject to the 
        appropriation of sufficient funds to carry out this subsection, 
        each'' and inserting ``Each''.

SEC. 802. FEDERAL INSECTICIDE, FUNGICIDE, AND RODENTICIDE ACT; REQUESTS 
              BY STATE AGENCIES FOR EXEMPTIONS.

    Section 18 of the Federal Insecticide, Fungicide, and Rodenticide 
Act (7 U.S.C. 136p) is amended--
            (1) by striking ``The Administrator may,'' and inserting 
        the following:
    ``(a) In General.--The Administrator may,''; and
            (2) by adding at the end the following:
    ``(b)  Request for Exemption; Report to Congress in Case of 
Delay.--If a State agency requests an exemption under subsection (a) 
and the Administrator does not approve or deny the request within the 
50-day period beginning on the date on which the request was submitted 
to the Administrator, the Administrator shall submit to the Committee 
on Agriculture in the House of Representatives, and the Committee on 
Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry in the Senate, a report that 
provides notice of such fact and an explanation of the reasons 
underlying the failure of the Administrator to approve or deny the 
request within such period.''.

SEC. 803. PROTECTION OF INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY RIGHTS IN PLANTS AND 
              PLANT-DERIVED MATERIAL.

    (a) Establishment.--The Secretary of Agriculture shall expand the 
Office of Technology Transfer of the Department of Agriculture for the 
purpose of encouraging the development and protection of intellectual 
property rights in plants and material derived from plants.
    (b) Duties.--The office shall be an advocate for the interests of 
United States producers of specialty crops--
            (1) before the Office of Patents, Trademarks, and 
        Copyrights of the United States Department of Commerce and 
        other Federal agencies; and
            (2) in international governmental and nongovernmental 
        organizations dealing with intellectual property rights.
    (c) Authorization of Appropriations.--There is authorized to be 
appropriated to the Secretary of Agriculture $10,000,000 for each of 
fiscal years 2008 through 2012 to carry out this section.

SEC. 804. GRANT PROGRAM TO IMPROVE TRANSPORTATION INFRASTRUCTURE TO 
              REDUCE COST OF TRANSPORTATION OF SPECIALTY CROPS.

    (a) Grants Authorized.--The Secretary of Agriculture, acting 
through the Transportation Services Branch of the Department of 
Agriculture, may make grants under this section to an eligible entity 
described in subsection (b)--
            (1) to expand and improve transportation infrastructure to 
        improve the cost-effective movement of specialty crops to 
        markets inside or outside the United States; and
            (2) to address regional intermodal transportation 
        deficiencies that adversely affect the movement of specialty 
        crops to markets inside or outside the United States.
    (b) Eligible Grant Recipients.--Grants may be made under this 
section to State and local governments, grower cooperatives, individual 
specialty crop producers or groups of producers, individual shippers, 
and State and regional producer and shipper organizations.
    (c) Matching Funds.--The recipient of a grant under this section 
shall contribute an amount of non-Federal funds toward the project for 
which the grant is provided that is at least equal to the amount of 
grant funds received by the recipient under this section.
    (d) Funding.--The Secretary of Agriculture shall use $75,000,000 of 
funds of the Commodity Credit Corporation for each of the fiscal years 
2008 through 2012 to make grants under this section.

SEC. 805. ADDITIONAL FUNDS FOR AGRICULTURAL MARKETING SERVICE SPECIALTY 
              CROP MARKET NEWS ACTIVITIES.

    From funds of the Commodity Credit Corporation, the Secretary of 
Agriculture shall transfer $9,000,000 for each of the fiscal years 2008 
through 2012 to the Agricultural Marketing Service to support the 
market news activities of the Agricultural Marketing Service regarding 
specialty crops.

SEC. 806. VALUE-ADDED GRANT PROGRAM TO PROMOTE CREATION, EXPANSION, OR 
              OPERATION OF VALUE-ADDED PROCESSING OF SPECIALTY CROPS.

    (a) Grants Authorized.--The Secretary of Agriculture may make 
grants to an eligible entity described in subsection (b) to promote the 
creation, expansion, or operation of value-added processing in 
connection with the production of a specialty crop.
    (b) Eligible Grant Recipients.--To be eligible for a grant under 
this section, an entity must be under majority ownership by a specialty 
crop producer.
    (c) Amount of Grant.--The total amount received by an entity under 
this section may not exceed $150,000.
    (d) Use of Grant.--An entity may use grant funds provided under 
this section to create, expand, or operate value-added processing in 
connection with production of a specialty crop. The grant funds may be 
used to cover both operational and capital expenses,
    (e) Matching Funds.--The recipient of a grant under this section 
shall contribute an amount of non-Federal funds toward the project for 
which the grant is provided that is at least equal to the amount of 
grant funds received by the recipient under this section.
    (f) Funding.--The Secretary of Agriculture shall use $150,000,000 
of funds of the Commodity Credit Corporation for each of the fiscal 
years 2008 through 2012 to make grants under this section.
                                 &lt;all&gt;
</pre></body></html>
