<html><body><pre>
[Congressional Bills 115th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H.R. 4426 Introduced in House (IH)]

&lt;DOC&gt;






115th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                H. R. 4426

      To reform Federal onshore and offshore fossil fuel leasing, 
exploration, and development; promote renewable energy on public lands; 
     prepare for the impacts of climate change; increase industry 
  accountability; improve returns to taxpayers for the development of 
  Federal energy resources; and protect special places, and for other 
                               purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                           November 16, 2017

  Mr. Grijalva (for himself, Mr. Lowenthal, Mr. Beyer, Mr. Soto, Mrs. 
  Napolitano, Ms. Tsongas, Mr. Gomez, Mr. Huffman, Ms. Bordallo, Mr. 
 Connolly, Ms. Norton, Ms. Barragan, Ms. Lee, Mr. McEachin, Ms. Eshoo, 
   Ms. Schakowsky, Mr. Polis, and Ms. Roybal-Allard) introduced the 
    following bill; which was referred to the Committee on Natural 
 Resources, and in addition to the Committees on Energy and Commerce, 
   Transportation and Infrastructure, Agriculture, Education and the 
 Workforce, Ways and Means, and Science, Space, and Technology, for a 
 period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
consideration of such provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the 
                          committee concerned

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
      To reform Federal onshore and offshore fossil fuel leasing, 
exploration, and development; promote renewable energy on public lands; 
     prepare for the impacts of climate change; increase industry 
  accountability; improve returns to taxpayers for the development of 
  Federal energy resources; and protect special places, and for other 
                               purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Sustainable Energy Development 
Reform Act''.

SEC. 2. TABLE OF CONTENTS.

    The table of contents for this Act is the following:

Sec. 1. Short title.
Sec. 2. Table of contents.
                   TITLE I--FAIR RETURN FOR TAXPAYERS

Sec. 101. Onshore fossil fuel royalty rates.
Sec. 102. Minimum bid amount.
Sec. 103. Onshore oil and gas rental rates.
Sec. 104. Surface disturbance and reclamation.
Sec. 105. Penalties.
Sec. 106. Royalty relief.
Sec. 107. Revision of Royalty Policy Committee charter.
Sec. 108. Royalty in kind.
Sec. 109. Amendments to definitions.
Sec. 110. Compliance reviews.
Sec. 111. Liability for royalty payments.
Sec. 112. Recordkeeping.
Sec. 113. Adjustments and refunds.
Sec. 114. Obligation period.
Sec. 115. Tolling agreements and subpoenas.
Sec. 116. Appeals.
Sec. 117. Assessments.
Sec. 118. Pilot project on automatic data transfer.
Sec. 119. Penalty for late or incorrect reporting of data.
Sec. 120. Required recordkeeping for natural gas plants.
Sec. 121. Shared penalties.
Sec. 122. Applicability to other minerals.
Sec. 123. Entitlements.
Sec. 124. Royalties on all extracted methane.
         TITLE II--ENCOURAGING DEVELOPMENT OF RENEWABLE ENERGY

            Subtitle A--Environmental Reviews and Permitting

Sec. 201. Definitions.
Sec. 202. Renewable energy goal.
Sec. 203. Coordination.
Sec. 204. Land use planning; supplements to programmatic environmental 
                            impact statements.
Sec. 205. Environmental review on covered land.
Sec. 206. Program to improve renewable energy project permit 
                            coordination.
Sec. 207. Disposition of revenues.
Sec. 208. Study and report on conservation banking.
Sec. 209. Brownfields.
                     Subtitle B--Geothermal Energy

Sec. 221. Reauthorization of Geothermal Steam Act of 1970.
Sec. 222. National goal for geothermal energy.
Sec. 223. Facilitation of coproduction of geothermal energy on oil and 
                            gas leases.
Sec. 224. Noncompetitive leasing for geothermal.
Sec. 225. Report to Congress.
                 Subtitle C--Offshore Renewable Energy

Sec. 231. Wind leasing amendments.
Sec. 232. Report to Congress.
          TITLE III--PREPARING AND MANAGING FOR CLIMATE CHANGE

Sec. 301. Energy development policy.
Sec. 302. Preparing for climate change.
Sec. 303. GHG inventory.
Sec. 304. Terrestrial carbon sequestration pilot program.
Sec. 305. Federal lands adaptation.
Sec. 306. Public Lands Service Corps.
Sec. 307. Coastal State climate change planning.
                  TITLE IV--ONSHORE OIL AND GAS REFORM

                      Subtitle A--Leasing Reforms

Sec. 401. Leasing process.
Sec. 402. Transparency and landowner protections.
Sec. 403. Lease stipulations.
Sec. 404. Master leasing plans.
Sec. 405. Parcel review.
Sec. 406. Acreage limitations.
Sec. 407. Land management.
Sec. 408. Oil shale.
                     Subtitle B--Permitting Reforms

Sec. 411. Categorical exclusions.
Sec. 412. Permitting deadline.
Sec. 413. Abandoned and orphaned wells.
Sec. 414. Online publication of notices of staking and applications for 
                            permits to drill.
Sec. 415. Having open access to relevant data.
                    Subtitle C--Operational Reforms

Sec. 421. Best management practices.
Sec. 422. Inspection fee.
Sec. 423. Protection of water resources.
Sec. 424. Methane emissions.
Sec. 425. Fracking regulation on Federal lands.
Sec. 426. Closing loopholes.
Sec. 427. Transparency in management of leases.
Sec. 428. Lease cancellation for improper issuance.
Sec. 429. Protecting National Parks and Wildlife Refuges.
                 TITLE V--OFFSHORE OIL AND GAS REFORMS

             Subtitle A--Regional Coordination and Planning

Sec. 501. Definitions.
Sec. 502. Regional coordination.
Sec. 503. Regional Coordination Councils.
Sec. 504. Regional strategic plans.
Sec. 505. Regulations.
Sec. 506. Ocean Resources Conservation and Assistance (ORCA) Fund.
Sec. 507. Waiver.
        Subtitle B--Outer Continental Shelf Lands Act Amendments

Sec. 511. National policy for the Outer Continental Shelf.
Sec. 512. OCS leasing standard.
Sec. 513. OCS leasing procedures.
Sec. 514. Funding.
Sec. 515. Exploration plans.
Sec. 516. 5-year programs.
Sec. 517. Environmental studies.
Sec. 518. Inspections and certifications.
Sec. 519. Petitions.
                      Subtitle C--Other Provisions

Sec. 521. Contractor liability.
Sec. 522. Area-wide leasing.
Sec. 523. Frontier areas.
Sec. 524. Strengthening coastal State oil spill planning and response.
Sec. 525. Repeal of limitation on liability for offshore facilities.
Sec. 526. Evidence of financial responsibility for offshore facilities.
                         TITLE VI--COAL REFORMS

Sec. 601. Powder River Basin.
Sec. 602. Deductions.
Sec. 603. Valuation.
Sec. 604. Methane recovery.
Sec. 605. Self-bonding.
Sec. 606. Stream protection.
Sec. 607. Certified States.
Sec. 608. Economic redevelopment on abandoned mine lands.
Sec. 609. Prohibition on blasting within one mile of any occupied 
                            dwelling.
Sec. 610. Coal Miners Pension Protection.
                 TITLE VII--LAND MANAGEMENT AND SCIENCE

Sec. 701. ANWR.
Sec. 702. Land management standard.
Sec. 703. Geological and geophysical data.
Sec. 704. Land and Water Conservation Fund.
Sec. 705. Mitigation.

                   TITLE I--FAIR RETURN FOR TAXPAYERS

SEC. 101. ONSHORE FOSSIL FUEL ROYALTY RATES.

    The Mineral Leasing Act (30 U.S.C. 181 et seq.) is amended--
            (1) in section 7, by striking ``12\1/2\'' and inserting 
        ``18.75'';
            (2) in section 17, by--
                    (A) striking ``12.5'' each place such term appears 
                and inserting ``18.75''; and
                    (B) striking ``12\1/2\'' each place such term 
                appears and inserting ``18.75''; and
            (3) in section 31(e), by striking ``16\2/3\'' both places 
        such term appears and inserting ``25''.

SEC. 102. MINIMUM BID AMOUNT.

    Section 17 of the Mineral Leasing Act (30 U.S.C. 226) is amended--
            (1) in subsection (b)(1)(B)--
                    (A) by striking ``$2 per acre'' and inserting ``$5 
                per acre, except as otherwise provided by this 
                paragraph''; and
                    (B) by striking ``for a period of 2 years from the 
                date of enactment of the Federal Onshore Oil and Gas 
                Leasing Reform Act of 1987'';
            (2) in subsection (b)(2)(C), by striking ``$2 per acre'' 
        and inserting ``$5 per acre''; and
            (3) by adding at the end the following:
    ``(q) Inflation Adjustment.--The Secretary shall--
            ``(1) by regulation, at least once every 4 years, adjust 
        each of the dollar amounts that apply under subsections 
        (b)(1)(B), (b)(2)(C), and (d) to reflect the change in the 
        Consumer Price Index for All Urban Consumers published by the 
        Bureau of Labor Statistics; and
            ``(2) publish each such regulation in the Federal 
        Register.''.

SEC. 103. ONSHORE OIL AND GAS RENTAL RATES.

    The Mineral Leasing Act (30 U.S.C. 181 et seq.) is amended--
            (1) in section 17(d)--
                    (A) by striking ``$1.50 per acre'' and inserting 
                ``$3 per acre''; and
                    (B) by striking ``$2 per acre'' and inserting ``$5 
                per acre''; and
            (2) in section 31(e), by striking ``$10'' and inserting 
        ``$20''.

SEC. 104. SURFACE DISTURBANCE AND RECLAMATION.

    Section 17(g) of the Mineral Leasing Act (30 U.S.C. 226(g)) is 
amended to read as follows:
    ``(g) Regulation of Surface-Disturbing Activities; Approval of Plan 
of Operations; Bond or Surety; Failure To Comply With Reclamation 
Requirements as Barring Lease; Opportunity To Comply With Requirements; 
Standards; Monitoring.--
            ``(1) Definitions.--In this subsection:
                    ``(A) Interim reclamation plan.--The term `Interim 
                Reclamation Plan' means an ongoing plan specifying 
                reclamation steps to be taken on all disturbed areas 
                covered by any lease issued under this Act that are not 
                needed for active operations. Such Interim Reclamation 
                Plans shall be reviewed by the relevant Secretary at 
                regular intervals and shall be amended as warranted, 
                subject to the approval of the relevant Secretary.
                    ``(B) Final reclamation plan.--The term `Final 
                Reclamation Plan' includes a detailed description of 
                all reclamation activity to be conducted for all 
                disturbed areas covered by a lease issued under this 
                Act prior to final abandonment. Final Reclamation Plans 
                shall include reclamation of all locations, facilities, 
                trenches, rights-of-way, roads and any other surface 
                disturbance on lands covered by the lease.
            ``(2) In general.--The Secretary of the Interior, or for 
        National Forest lands, the Secretary of Agriculture, shall 
        regulate all surface-disturbing activities conducted pursuant 
        to any lease issued under this Act, and shall determine 
        reclamation and other actions as required in the interest of 
        conservation of surface resources.
            ``(3) Reclamation plans required.--
                    ``(A) Applications for permits to drill.--Each 
                application for a permit to drill submitted to the 
                Secretary pursuant to this Act shall include both an 
                Interim Reclamation Plan and a Final Reclamation Plan.
                    ``(B) Analysis and approval required.--No permit to 
                drill on an oil and gas lease issued under this Act may 
                be granted without the analysis and approval by the 
                Secretary concerned of both an interim reclamation plan 
                and a final reclamation plan covering proposed surface-
                disturbing activities within the lease area.
                    ``(C) Plans of operations.--All Plans of Operations 
                submitted and approved pursuant to this Act shall 
                include an Interim Reclamation Plan.
            ``(4) Bonding.--
                    ``(A) In general.--The Secretary concerned shall, 
                by regulation, require that an adequate bond, surety, 
                or other financial arrangement will be established 
                prior to the commencement of surface-disturbing 
                activities on any lease, to ensure the complete and 
                timely reclamation of the lease tract, and the 
                restoration of any lands or surface waters adversely 
                affected by lease operations after the abandonment or 
                cessation of oil and gas operations on the lease. The 
                Secretary shall not issue a lease or leases or approve 
                the assignment of any lease or leases under the terms 
                of this section to any person, association, 
                corporation, or any subsidiary, affiliate, or person 
                controlled by or under common control with such person, 
                association, or corporation, during any period in 
                which, as determined by the Secretary of the Interior 
                or Secretary of Agriculture, such entity has failed or 
                refused to comply in any material respect with the 
                reclamation requirements and other standards 
                established under this section for any prior lease to 
                which such requirements and standards applied. Prior to 
                making such determination with respect to any such 
                entity the concerned Secretary shall provide such 
                entity with adequate notification and an opportunity to 
                comply with such reclamation requirements and other 
                standards and shall consider whether any administrative 
                or judicial appeal is pending. Once the entity has 
                complied with the reclamation requirement or other 
                standard concerned an oil or gas lease may be issued to 
                such entity under this Act.
                    ``(B) Limitation on bonds.--A bond, surety, or 
                other financial arrangement described in subparagraph 
                (A) shall not be adequate if it is less than--
                            ``(i) $50,000, in the case of an 
                        arrangement for an individual surface-
                        disturbing activity of an entity;
                            ``(ii) $250,000, in the case of an 
                        arrangement for all surface-disturbing 
                        activities of an entity in a State; or
                            ``(iii) $1,000,000, in the case of an 
                        arrangement for all surface-disturbing 
                        activities of an entity in the United States.
                    ``(C) Adjustments for inflation.--In the 
                application of subparagraph (B), the Secretaries 
                concerned shall jointly at least once every three years 
                adjust the dollar amounts in subparagraph (B) to 
                account for inflation.
            ``(5) Standards.--The Secretary of the Interior and the 
        Secretary of Agriculture shall, by regulation, establish 
        uniform standards for all Interim and Final Reclamation Plans. 
        The goal of such plans shall be the restoration of the affected 
        ecosystem to a condition approximating or equal to that which 
        existed prior to the surface disturbance. Such standards shall 
        include, but are not limited to, restoration of natural 
        vegetation and hydrology, habitat restoration, salvage, storage 
        and reuse of topsoils, erosion control, control of invasive 
        species and noxious weeds and natural contouring.
            ``(6) Monitoring.--The Secretary concerned shall not 
        approve final abandonment and shall not release any bond 
        required by this Act until the standards and requirement for 
        final reclamation established pursuant to this Act have been 
        met.''.

SEC. 105. PENALTIES.

    (a) Mineral Leasing Act.--Section 41 of the Mineral Leasing Act (30 
U.S.C. 195) is amended--
            (1) in subsection (b), by striking ``$500,000'' and 
        inserting ``$1,000,000''; and
            (2) in subsection (c), by striking ``$100,000'' and 
        inserting ``$250,000''.
    (b) Federal Oil and Gas Royalty Management Act of 1982.--The 
Federal Oil and Gas Royalty Management Act of 1982 (30 U.S.C. 1701 et 
seq.) is amended--
            (1) in section 109--
                    (A) in subsection (a), by striking ``$500'' and 
                inserting ``$1,500'';
                    (B) in subsection (b), by striking ``$5,000'' and 
                inserting ``$15,000'';
                    (C) in subsection (c), by striking ``$10,000'' and 
                inserting ``$25,000''; and
                    (D) in subsection (d), by striking ``$25,000'' and 
                inserting ``$75,000''; and
            (2) in section 110, by striking ``$50,000'' and inserting 
        ``$150,000''.
    (c) Outer Continental Shelf Lands Act.--
            (1) Civil penalty, generally.--Section 24(b) of the Outer 
        Continental Shelf Lands Act (43 U.S.C. 1350(b)) is amended to 
        read as follows:
    ``(b)(1) Except as provided in paragraph (2), any person who fails 
to comply with any provision of this Act, or any term of a lease, 
license, or permit issued pursuant to this Act, or any regulation or 
order issued under this Act, shall be liable for a civil administrative 
penalty of not more than $75,000 for each day of the continuance of 
such failure. The Secretary may assess, collect, and compromise any 
such penalty. No penalty shall be assessed until the person charged 
with a violation has been given an opportunity for a hearing. The 
Secretary shall, by regulation at least every 3 years, adjust the 
penalty specified in this paragraph to reflect any increases in the 
Consumer Price Index (all items, United States city average) as 
prepared by the Department of Labor.
    ``(2) If a failure described in paragraph (1) constitutes or 
constituted a threat of harm or damage to life (including fish and 
other aquatic life), property, any mineral deposit, or the marine, 
coastal, or human environment, a civil penalty of not more than 
$150,000 shall be assessed for each day of the continuance of the 
failure.''.
            (2) Knowing and willful violations.--Section 24(c) of the 
        Outer Continental Shelf Lands Act (43 U.S.C. 1350(c)) is 
        amended by striking ``$100,000'' and inserting ``$1,000,000''.
            (3) Officers and agents of corporations.--Section 24(d) of 
        the Outer Continental Shelf Lands Act (43 U.S.C. 1350(d)) is 
        amended by inserting ``, or with willful disregard,'' after 
        ``knowingly and willfully''.

SEC. 106. ROYALTY RELIEF.

    (a) Gulf of Mexico Royalty Relief.--The following provisions of the 
Energy Policy Act of 2005 (42 U.S.C. 15801 et seq.) are hereby 
repealed:
            (1) Section 344 (relating to incentives for natural gas 
        production from deep wells in the shallow waters of the Gulf of 
        Mexico).
            (2) Section 345 (relating to royalty relief for deep water 
        production).
    (b) Alaska Royalty Relief.--
            (1) Provisions relating to planning areas offshore 
        alaska.--Section 8(a)(3)(B) of the Outer Continental Shelf 
        Lands Act (43 U.S.C. 1337(a)(3)(B)) is amended by striking 
        ``and in the Planning Areas offshore Alaska'' after ``West 
        longitude''.
            (2) Provisions relating to naval petroleum reserve in 
        alaska.--Section 107 of the Naval Petroleum Reserves Production 
        Act of 1976 is amended--
                    (A) in subsection (i), by striking paragraphs (2) 
                through (6); and
                    (B) by striking subsection (k).

SEC. 107. REVISION OF ROYALTY POLICY COMMITTEE CHARTER.

    Not later than one year after enactment of this Act, or March 29, 
2019, whichever is earlier, the Secretary of the Interior shall revise 
the charter of the Royalty Policy Committee (as signed on March 29, 
2017) to--
            (1) require that of the 6 members of such Committee who are 
        representatives of the Governors of States, no more than 4 
        members may be representatives of Governors of the same 
        political party;
            (2) increase to 6 the number of members who are 
        representatives of academia or public, of whom--
                    (A) 2 members shall be representatives of academia;
                    (B) 2 members shall be representatives of public 
                interest groups; and
                    (C) 2 members shall be representatives of nonprofit 
                environmental groups; and
            (3) require that for a person to be eligible to serve as a 
        member who is a representative of a person who is a mineral 
        stakeholder or energy stakeholder (or both) in Federal and 
        Indian royalty policy, the employer of that member must 
        release--
                    (A) for the preceding 10-year period--
                            (i) aggregated information on all Federal 
                        royalty payments made by the employer, by year 
                        and by commodity;
                            (ii) conclusions from compliance reviews 
                        and audits conducted by Federal or State 
                        revenue collection entities; and
                            (iii) a description of all enforcement 
                        actions taken against the employer regarding 
                        payment of Federal or State royalties; and
                    (B) records of--
                            (i) prices charged by the employer for 
                        sales of minerals to captive affiliates of the 
                        employer; and
                            (ii) prices charged by such affiliates for 
                        subsequent resales of such minerals.

SEC. 108. ROYALTY IN KIND.

    (a) Onshore Oil and Gas Lease Royalties.--Section 36 of the Mineral 
Leasing Act (30 U.S.C. 192) is amended in the first sentence by 
inserting ``, except that the Secretary may not demand such payments in 
oil or gas greater than the amount necessary to fill the strategic 
petroleum reserve'' after ``paid in oil or gas''.
    (b) Offshore Oil and Gas Lease Royalties.--Section 27(a)(1) of the 
Outer Continental Shelf Lands Act (43 U.S.C. 1353(a)) is amended by 
striking the period at the end and inserting ``, except that the 
Secretary may not demand such payments in oil or gas greater than the 
amount necessary to fill the strategic petroleum reserve.''.

SEC. 109. AMENDMENTS TO DEFINITIONS.

    Section 3 of the Federal Oil and Gas Royalty Management Act of 1982 
(30 U.S.C. 1702) is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (8), by striking the semicolon and 
        inserting ``, including the Act of October 20, 1914 (38 Stat. 
        741), the Act of February 25, 1920 (41 Stat. 437), the Act of 
        April 17, 1926 (44 Stat. 301), the Act of February 7, 1927 (44 
        Stat. 1057), and all Acts heretofore or hereafter enacted that 
        are amendatory of or supplementary to any of the foregoing 
        Acts;'';
            (2) in paragraph (20)(A), by striking ``: Provided, That'' 
        and all that follows through ``subject of the judicial 
        proceeding'';
            (3) in paragraph (20)(B), by striking ``(with written 
        notice to the lessee who designated the designee)'';
            (4) in paragraph (23)(A), by striking ``(with written 
        notice to the lessee who designated the designee)'';
            (5) by striking paragraph (24) and inserting the following:
            ``(24) `designee' means a person who pays, offsets, or 
        credits monies, makes adjustments, requests and receives 
        refunds, or submits reports with respect to payments a lessee 
        must make pursuant to section 102(a);'';
            (6) in paragraph (25), in subparagraph (B)--
                    (A) by striking ``(subject to the provisions of 
                section 102(a) of this Act)''; and
                    (B) in clause (ii), by striking subclause (IV) and 
                all that follows through the end of the subparagraph 
                and inserting the following:
                                    ``(IV) any assignment,
                        that arises from or relates to any lease, 
                        easement, right-of-way, permit, or other 
                        agreement regardless of form administered by 
                        the Secretary for, or any mineral leasing law 
                        related to, the exploration, production, and 
                        development of oil and gas or other energy 
                        resource on Federal lands or the Outer 
                        Continental Shelf;'';
            (7) in paragraph (29), by inserting ``or permit'' after 
        ``lease''; and
            (8) by striking ``and'' after the semicolon at the end of 
        paragraph (32), by striking the period at the end of paragraph 
        (33) and inserting a semicolon, and by adding at the end the 
        following new paragraphs:
            ``(34) `compliance review' means a full-scope or a limited-
        scope examination of a lessee's lease accounts to compare one 
        or all elements of the royalty equation (volume, value, royalty 
        rate, and allowances) against anticipated elements of the 
        royalty equation to test for variances; and
            ``(35) `marketing affiliate' means an affiliate of a lessee 
        whose function is to acquire the lessee's production and to 
        market that production.''.

SEC. 110. COMPLIANCE REVIEWS.

    Section 101 of the Federal Oil and Gas Royalty Management Act of 
1982 (30 U.S.C. 1711) is amended by adding at the end the following new 
subsection:
    ``(d) The Secretary may, as an adjunct to audits of accounts for 
leases, utilize compliance reviews of accounts. Such reviews shall not 
constitute nor substitute for audits of lease accounts. Any disparity 
uncovered in such a compliance review shall be immediately referred to 
a program auditor. The Secretary shall, before completion of a 
compliance review, provide notice of the review to designees whose 
obligations are the subject of the review.''.

SEC. 111. LIABILITY FOR ROYALTY PAYMENTS.

    Section 102(a) of the Federal Oil and Gas Royalty Management Act of 
1982 (30 U.S.C. 1712(a)) is amended to read as follows:
    ``(a) In order to increase receipts and achieve effective 
collections of royalty and other payments, a lessee who is required to 
make any royalty or other payment under a lease, easement, right-of-
way, permit, or other agreement, regardless of form, or under the 
mineral leasing laws, shall make such payment in the time and manner as 
may be specified by the Secretary or the applicable delegated State. 
Any person who pays, offsets, or credits monies, makes adjustments, 
requests and receives refunds, or submits reports with respect to 
payments the lessee must make is the lessee's designee under this Act. 
Notwithstanding any other provision of this Act to the contrary, a 
designee shall be liable for any payment obligation of any lessee on 
whose behalf the designee pays royalty under the lease. The person 
owning operating rights in a lease and a person owning legal record 
title in a lease shall be liable for that person's pro rata share of 
payment obligations under the lease.''.

SEC. 112. RECORDKEEPING.

    Section 103(b) of the Federal Oil and Gas Royalty Management Act of 
1982 (30 U.S.C. 1712(a)) is amended by striking ``6'' and inserting 
``7''.

SEC. 113. ADJUSTMENTS AND REFUNDS.

    Section 111A of the Federal Oil and Gas Royalty Management Act of 
1982 (30 U.S.C. 1721a) is amended--
    (1) in subsection (a)(3), by inserting ``(A)'' after ``(3)'', and 
by striking the last sentence and inserting the following:
                    ``(B) Except as provided in subparagraph (C), no 
                adjustment may be made with respect to an obligation 
                that is the subject of an audit or compliance review 
                after completion of the audit or compliance review, 
                respectively, unless such adjustment is approved by the 
                Secretary or the applicable delegated State, as 
                appropriate.
                    ``(C) If an overpayment is identified during an 
                audit, the Secretary shall allow a credit in the amount 
                of the overpayment.'';
            (2) in subsection (a)(4)--
                    (A) by striking ``six-year'' and inserting ``four-
                year''; and
                    (B) by striking ``shall'' the first time such term 
                appears and inserting ``may''; and
            (3) in subsection (b)(1) by striking ``and'' after the 
        semicolon at the end of subparagraph (C), by striking the 
        period at the end of subparagraph (D) and inserting ``; and'', 
        and by adding at the end the following:
                    ``(E) is made within the adjustment period for that 
                obligation.''.

SEC. 114. OBLIGATION PERIOD.

    Section 115(c) of the Federal Oil and Gas Royalty Management Act of 
1982 (30 U.S.C. 1724(c)) is amended by adding at the end the following 
new paragraph:
            ``(3) Adjustments.--In the case of an adjustment under 
        section 111A(a) in which a recoupment by the lessee results in 
        an underpayment of an obligation, for purposes of this Act the 
        obligation becomes due on the date the lessee or its designee 
        makes the adjustment.''.

SEC. 115. TOLLING AGREEMENTS AND SUBPOENAS.

    (a) Tolling Agreements.--Section 115(d)(1) of the Federal Oil and 
Gas Royalty Management Act of 1982 (30 U.S.C. 1724(d)(1)) is amended by 
striking ``(with notice to the lessee who designated the designee)''.
    (b) Subpoenas.--Section 115(d)(2)(A) of the Federal Oil and Gas 
Royalty Management Act of 1982 (30 U.S.C. 1724(d)(2)(A)) is amended by 
striking ``(with notice to the lessee who designated the designee, 
which notice shall not constitute a subpoena to the lessee)''.

SEC. 116. APPEALS.

    Section 115(h) of the Federal Oil and Gas Royalty Management Act of 
1982 (30 U.S.C. 1724(h)) is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (1), in the heading, by striking ``33-
        month'' and inserting ``48-month'';
            (2) by striking ``33 months'' each place it appears and 
        inserting ``48 months''; and
            (3) by striking ``33-month'' each place it appears and 
        inserting ``48-month''.

SEC. 117. ASSESSMENTS.

    Section 116 of the Federal Oil and Gas Royalty Management Act of 
1982 (30 U.S.C. 1724) is repealed.

SEC. 118. PILOT PROJECT ON AUTOMATIC DATA TRANSFER.

    (a) Pilot Project.--Within 2 years after the date of the enactment 
of this Act, the Secretary of the Interior shall complete a pilot 
project with willing operators of oil and gas leases on the outer 
Continental Shelf (as such term is defined in the Outer Continental 
Shelf Lands Act (43 U.S.C. 1331 et seq.)) that assesses the costs and 
benefits of automatic transmission of data regarding the volume and 
quality of oil and gas produced under Federal leases on the outer 
Continental Shelf in order to improve the production verification 
systems used to ensure accurate royalty collection and audit.
    (b) Report.--The Secretary shall submit to Congress a report on 
findings and recommendations of the pilot project within 3 years after 
the date of the enactment of this Act.

SEC. 119. PENALTY FOR LATE OR INCORRECT REPORTING OF DATA.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary of the Interior shall issue 
regulations by not later than 1 year after the date of enactment of 
this Act that establish a civil penalty for late or incorrect reporting 
of data under the Federal Oil and Gas Royalty Management Act of 1982 
(30 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.).
    (b) Amount.--The amount of the civil penalty shall be--
            (1) an amount (subject to paragraph (2)) that the Secretary 
        determines is sufficient to ensure filing of data in accordance 
        with that Act; and
            (2) not less than $10 for each failure to file correct data 
        in accordance with that Act.
    (c) Content of Regulations.--Except as provided in subsection (b), 
the regulations issued under this section shall be substantially 
similar to section 216.40 of title 30, Code of Federal Regulations, as 
most recently in effect before the date of enactment of this Act.

SEC. 120. REQUIRED RECORDKEEPING FOR NATURAL GAS PLANTS.

    No later than 1 year after the date of the enactment of this Act, 
the Secretary of the Interior shall publish final regulations with 
respect to required recordkeeping of natural gas measurement data as 
set forth in section 250.1203 of title 30, Code of Federal Regulations 
(as in effect on the date of enactment of this Act), to include 
operators and other persons involved in the transporting, purchasing, 
or selling of gas under the requirements of that rule, under the 
authority provided in section 103 of the Federal Oil and Gas Royalty 
Management Act of 1982 (30 U.S.C. 1713).

SEC. 121. SHARED PENALTIES.

    Section 206 of the Federal Oil and Gas Royalty Management Act of 
1982 (30 U.S.C. 1736) is amended by striking ``Any payments under this 
section shall be reduced by an amount equal to any payments provided or 
due to such State or Indian tribe under the cooperative agreement or 
delegation, as applicable, during the fiscal year in which the civil 
penalty is received, up to the total amount provided or due for that 
fiscal year.''.

SEC. 122. APPLICABILITY TO OTHER MINERALS.

    Section 304 of the Federal Oil and Gas Royalty Management Act of 
1982 (30 U.S.C. 1753) is amended by adding at the end the following new 
subsection:
    ``(e) Applicability to Other Minerals.--
            ``(1) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, sections 
        107, 109, and 110 of this Act and the regulations duly 
        promulgated with respect thereto shall apply to any lease 
        authorizing the development of coal or any other solid mineral 
        on any Federal lands or Indian lands, to the same extent as if 
        such lease were an oil and gas lease, on the same terms and 
        conditions as those authorized for oil and gas leases.
            ``(2) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, sections 
        107, 109, and 110 of this Act and the regulations duly 
        promulgated with respect thereto shall apply with respect to 
        any lease, easement, right-of-way, or other agreement, 
        regardless of form (including any royalty, rent, or other 
        payment due thereunder)--
                    ``(A) under section 8(k) or 8(p) of the Outer 
                Continental Shelf Lands Act (43 U.S.C. 1337(k) and 
                1337(p)); or
                    ``(B) under the Geothermal Steam Act (30 U.S.C. 
                1001 et seq.), to the same extent as if such lease, 
                easement, right-of-way, or other agreement were an oil 
                and gas lease on the same terms and conditions as those 
                authorized for oil and gas leases.
            ``(3) For the purposes of this subsection, the term `solid 
        mineral' means any mineral other than oil, gas, and geo-
        pressured-geothermal resources, that is authorized by an Act of 
        Congress to be produced from public lands (as that term is 
        defined in section 103 of the Federal Land Policy and 
        Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1702)).''.

SEC. 123. ENTITLEMENTS.

    (a) Directed Rulemaking.--Not later than 180 days after the date of 
the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of the Interior shall publish 
final regulations prescribing when a Federal lessee or designee must 
report and pay royalties on--
            (1) the volume of oil and gas such lessee or designee 
        produces or takes under a Federal lease or Indian lease; or
            (2) the volume of oil and gas that such lessee or designee 
        is entitled to based on its ownership interest under a 
        unitization agreement for Federal leases or Indian leases.
    (b) 100 Percent Entitlement Reporting and Paying.--The Secretary 
shall give consideration to requiring 100 percent entitlement reporting 
and paying based on Federal or Indian oil and gas lease ownership.

SEC. 124. ROYALTIES ON ALL EXTRACTED METHANE.

    (a) Assessment on All Production.--
            (1) In general.--Except as provided in paragraph (2), 
        royalties otherwise authorized or required under the mineral 
        leasing laws (as that term is defined in the Federal Oil and 
        Gas Royalty Management Act of 1982 (30 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.)) to 
        be paid for gas shall be assessed on all gas produced under the 
        mineral leasing laws, including--
                    (A) gas used or consumed within the area of the 
                lease tract for the benefit of the lease (commonly 
                referred to as ``beneficial use gas''); and
                    (B) all gas that is consumed or lost by venting, 
                flaring, or fugitive releases through any equipment 
                during upstream operations.
            (2) Exception.--Paragraph (1) shall not apply with respect 
        to--
                    (A) gas vented or flared in an acute emergency 
                situation that poses danger to human health that occurs 
                for no longer than 48 hours; and
                    (B) gas injected into the ground on a lease tract 
                in order to enhance production of an oil or gas well or 
                for some other purpose.
    (b) Conforming Amendments.--
            (1) Mineral leasing act.--The Mineral Leasing Act is 
        amended--
                    (A) in section 14 (30 U.S.C. 223), by adding at the 
                end the following: ``Notwithstanding any other 
                provision of this Act (including this section), royalty 
                shall be assessed with respect to oil and gas, other 
                than gas described in section 124(a)(2) of the 
                Sustainable Energy Development Reform Act, without 
                regard to whether oil or gas is removed or sold from 
                the leased land.'';
                    (B) in section 17 (30 U.S.C. 226), by striking 
                ``removed or sold'' each place it appears;
                    (C) in section 22 (30 U.S.C. 251), by striking 
                ``sold or removed''; and
                    (D) in section 31 (30 U.S.C. 188), by striking 
                ``removed or sold'' each place it appears.
            (2) Outer continental shelf lands act.--The Outer 
        Continental Shelf Lands Act is amended--
                    (A) in section 6(a)(8) (43 U.S.C. 1335(a)(8)), by 
                striking ``saved, removed, or sold'' each place it 
                appears; and
                    (B) in section 8(a) (43 U.S.C. 1337(a))--
                            (i) in paragraph (1), by striking ``saved, 
                        removed, or sold'' each place it appears; and
                            (ii) by adding at the end the following:
            ``(9) Notwithstanding any other provision of this Act 
        (including this section), royalty under this Act shall be 
        assessed with respect to oil and gas, other than gas described 
        in section 124(a)(2) of the Sustainable Energy Development 
        Reform Act, without regard to whether oil or gas is removed or 
        sold from the leased land.''.
    (c) Application.--The amendments made by this section shall apply 
only with respect to leases issued on or after the date of the 
enactment of this Act.

         TITLE II--ENCOURAGING DEVELOPMENT OF RENEWABLE ENERGY

            Subtitle A--Environmental Reviews and Permitting

SEC. 201. DEFINITIONS.

    In this subtitle:
            (1) Covered land.--The term ``covered land'' means land 
        that is--
                    (A) public land administered by the Secretary of 
                the Interior; and
                    (B) not excluded from the development of 
                geothermal, solar, or wind energy under--
                            (i) a land use plan established under the 
                        Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 1976 
                        (43 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.); or
                            (ii) other Federal law.
            (2) Director.--The term ``Director'' means the Director of 
        the Bureau of Land Management.
            (3) Exclusion area.--The term ``exclusion area'' means 
        covered land that is identified by the Bureau of Land 
        Management as not suitable for development of renewable energy 
        projects.
            (4) Priority area.--The term ``priority area'' means 
        covered land identified by the land use planning process of the 
        Bureau of Land Management as being a preferred location for a 
        renewable energy project.
            (5) Federal land.--The term ``Federal land'' means--
                    (A) land of the National Forest System (as defined 
                in section 11(a) of the Forest and Rangeland Renewable 
                Resources Planning Act of 1974 (16 U.S.C. 1609(a))); 
                and
                    (B) public land.
            (6) Fund.--The term ``Fund'' means the Renewable Energy 
        Resource Conservation Fund established by section 207(c)(1).
            (7) Public land.--The term ``public land'' has the meaning 
        given the term ``public lands'' in section 103 of the Federal 
        Land Policy and Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1702).
            (8) Renewable energy project.--The term ``renewable energy 
        project'' means a project carried out on covered land that uses 
        wind, solar, geothermal, wave, current, tidal, or ocean thermal 
        energy to generate electricity.
            (9) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary 
        of the Interior.
            (10) Variance area.--The term ``variance area'' means 
        covered land that is--
                    (A) not an exclusion area;
                    (B) not a priority area; and
                    (C) identified by the Secretary as--
                            (i) potentially available for renewable 
                        energy development; and
                            (ii) land on which such development can be 
                        conducted under a land use plan previously 
                        approved, and consistent with the principles of 
                        multiple use applicable, under the Federal Land 
                        Policy and Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 
                        1701 et seq.).

SEC. 202. RENEWABLE ENERGY GOAL.

    The Secretary of the Interior and the Secretary of Agriculture 
shall seek to issue permits that authorize production of not less than 
25 gigawatts of electricity from renewable energy projects by not later 
than 2025, through management of public lands, and administration of 
Federal laws, under their respective jurisdictions.

SEC. 203. COORDINATION.

    The Secretary shall establish a position in the Department of the 
Interior with the responsibility to--
            (1) coordinate renewable energy project reviews across 
        agencies of the Department; and
            (2) report to Congress annually on the effectiveness of 
        such coordination efforts.

SEC. 204. LAND USE PLANNING; SUPPLEMENTS TO PROGRAMMATIC ENVIRONMENTAL 
              IMPACT STATEMENTS.

    (a) Priority Areas.--
            (1) In general.--The Director shall establish priority 
        areas on covered land for geothermal, solar, and wind energy 
        projects.
            (2) Deadline.--
                    (A) Geothermal energy.--For geothermal energy, the 
                Director shall establish priority and variance areas as 
                soon as practicable, but not later than 5 years, after 
                the date of enactment of this Act.
                    (B) Solar energy.--For solar energy, the 2012 
                western solar plan of the Bureau of Land Management, as 
                amended by subsequent land use plan amendments, shall 
                be considered to establish priority and variance areas 
                for solar energy projects.
                    (C) Wind energy.--For geothermal energy, the 
                Director shall establish priority and variance areas as 
                soon as practicable, but not later than 3 years, after 
                the date of enactment of this Act.
    (b) Variance Areas.--To the maximum extent practicable, variance 
areas shall be considered for renewable energy project development, 
consistent with the principles of multiple use (as defined in the 
Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1701 et 
seq.)).
    (c) Review and Modification.--Not less frequently than once every 
10 years, the Director shall--
            (1) review the adequacy of land allocations for geothermal, 
        solar, and wind energy priority and variance areas for the 
        purpose of encouraging new renewable energy development 
        opportunities; and
            (2) based on the review carried out under paragraph (1), 
        add, modify, or eliminate priority and variance areas.
    (d) Compliance With the National Environmental Policy Act of 
1969.--For purposes of this section, compliance with the National 
Environmental Policy Act of 1969 (42 U.S.C. 4321 et seq.) shall be 
accomplished--
            (1) for geothermal energy, by supplementing the October 
        2008 final programmatic environmental impact statement for 
        geothermal leasing in the western United States;
            (2) for solar energy, by supplementing the July 2012 final 
        programmatic environmental impact statement for solar energy 
        projects through more detailed regional analyses; and
            (3) for wind energy, by supplementing the July 2005 final 
        programmatic environmental impact statement for wind energy 
        projects.
    (e) No Effect on Processing Applications.--A requirement to prepare 
a supplement to a programmatic environmental impact statement under 
this section shall not result in any delay in processing an application 
for a renewable energy project.
    (f) Coordination.--In developing a supplement required by this 
section, the Secretary shall coordinate, on an ongoing basis, with 
appropriate State, tribal, and local governments, transmission 
infrastructure owners and operators, developers, and other appropriate 
entities to ensure that priority areas identified by the Secretary 
are--
            (1) economically viable (including having access to 
        transmission);
            (2) likely to avoid or minimize impacts to habitat for 
        animals and plants, recreation, and other uses of covered land; 
        and
            (3) consistent with section 202 of the Federal Land Policy 
        and Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1712), including 
        subsection (c)(9) of that section (43 U.S.C. 1712(c)(9)).
    (g) Removal From Classification.--In carrying out subsections (a), 
(d), and (e), if the Secretary determines an area previously suited for 
development should be removed from priority or variance classification, 
not later than 90 days after the date of the determination, the 
Secretary shall submit to Congress a report on the determination.

SEC. 205. ENVIRONMENTAL REVIEW ON COVERED LAND.

    (a) In General.--If the Director determines that a proposed 
renewable energy project has been sufficiently analyzed by a 
programmatic environmental impact statement prepared under section 
204(d), the head of the applicable Federal agency shall not require any 
additional review under the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 
(42 U.S.C. 4321 et seq.).
    (b) Additional Environmental Review.--If the Director determines 
that additional environmental review under the National Environmental 
Policy Act of 1969 (42 U.S.C. 4321 et seq.) is necessary for a proposed 
renewable energy project, the head of the applicable Federal agency 
shall rely on the analysis in the programmatic environmental impact 
statement conducted under section 204(d), to the maximum extent 
practicable when analyzing the potential impacts of the project.

SEC. 206. PROGRAM TO IMPROVE RENEWABLE ENERGY PROJECT PERMIT 
              COORDINATION.

    (a) Establishment.--The Secretary shall establish a program to 
improve Federal permit coordination with respect to renewable energy 
projects on covered land.
    (b) Memorandum of Understanding.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 180 days after the date of 
        enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall enter into a 
        memorandum of understanding for purposes of this section, 
        including to specifically expedite the environmental analysis 
        of applications for projects proposed in a variance area, 
        with--
                    (A) the Secretary of Agriculture; and
                    (B) the Assistant Secretary of the Army for Civil 
                Works.
            (2) State participation.--The Secretary may request the 
        Governor of any interested State to be a signatory to the 
        memorandum of understanding under paragraph (1).
    (c) Designation of Qualified Staff.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 30 days after the date on 
        which the memorandum of understanding under subsection (b) is 
        executed, all Federal signatories, as appropriate, shall 
        identify for each of the Bureau of Land Management Renewable 
        Energy Coordination Offices an employee who has expertise in 
        the regulatory issues relating to the office in which the 
        employee is employed, including, as applicable, particular 
        expertise in--
                    (A) consultation regarding, and preparation of, 
                biological opinions under section 7 of the Endangered 
                Species Act of 1973 (16 U.S.C. 1536);
                    (B) permits under section 404 of Federal Water 
                Pollution Control Act (33 U.S.C. 1344);
                    (C) regulatory matters under the Clean Air Act (42 
                U.S.C. 7401 et seq.);
                    (D) planning under section 14 of the National 
                Forest Management Act of 1976 (16 U.S.C. 472a);
                    (E) the Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 
                1976 (43 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.);
                    (F) the Migratory Bird Treaty Act (16 U.S.C. 703 et 
                seq.); and
                    (G) the preparation of analyses under the National 
                Environmental Policy Act of 1969 (42 U.S.C. 4321 et 
                seq.).
            (2) Duties.--Each employee identified under paragraph (1) 
        shall--
                    (A) be responsible for all issues relating to the 
                jurisdiction of the home office or agency of the 
                employee; and
                    (B) participate as part of the team of personnel 
                working on proposed energy projects, planning, 
                monitoring, inspection, enforcement, and environmental 
                analyses.
    (d) Renewable Energy Coordination Offices.--In carrying out the 
program established under subsection (a), the Secretary may--
            (1) establish additional Bureau of Land Management 
        Renewable Energy Coordination Offices; or
            (2) temporarily assign the qualified employees identified 
        under subsection (c) to a State, district, or field office of 
        the Bureau of Land Management to expedite the permitting of 
        renewable energy projects.
    (e) Report to Congress.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than February 1 of the first 
        fiscal year beginning after the date of enactment of this Act, 
        and each February 1 thereafter, the Secretary shall submit to 
        the Chairperson and Ranking Member of the Committee on Energy 
        and Natural Resources of the Senate and the Committee on 
        Natural Resources of the House of Representatives a report 
        describing the progress made pursuant to the program under this 
        subtitle during the preceding year.
            (2) Inclusions.--Each report under this subsection shall 
        include--
                    (A) projections for renewable energy production and 
                capacity installations; and
                    (B) a description of any problems relating to 
                leasing, permitting, siting, or production.

SEC. 207. DISPOSITION OF REVENUES.

    (a) Disposition of Revenues.--Without further appropriation or 
fiscal year limitation, of the amounts collected as bonus bids, 
royalties, rentals, fees, or other payments under a right-of-way, 
permit, lease, or other authorization (other than payments under 
section 504(g) of the Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 1976 
(43 U.S.C. 1764(g))) for the development of wind or solar energy on 
covered land--
            (1) 25 percent shall be paid by the Secretary of the 
        Treasury to the State within the boundaries of which the 
        revenue is derived;
            (2) 25 percent shall be paid by the Secretary of the 
        Treasury to the one or more counties within the boundaries of 
        which the revenue is derived, to be allocated among the 
        counties based on the percentage of land from which the revenue 
        is derived;
            (3) to be deposited in the Treasury and be made available 
        to the Secretary to carry out the program established by 
        section 206, including the transfer of the funds by the Bureau 
        of Land Management to other Federal agencies and State agencies 
        to facilitate the processing of renewable energy permits on 
        Federal land, with priority given to using the amounts, to the 
        maximum extent practicable, for expediting the issuance of 
        permits required for the development of renewable energy 
        projects in the States from which the revenues are derived--
                    (A) 25 percent for each of fiscal years 2018 
                through 2025;
                    (B) 20 percent for each of fiscal years 2026 
                through 2030;
                    (C) 15 percent for each of fiscal years 2031 
                through 2035; and
                    (D) 10 percent for fiscal year 2036 and each fiscal 
                year thereafter; and
            (4) to be deposited in the Renewable Energy Resource 
        Conservation Fund established by subsection (c)--
                    (A) 25 percent for each of fiscal years 2018 
                through 2025;
                    (B) 30 percent for each of fiscal years 2026 
                through 2030;
                    (C) 35 percent for each of fiscal years 2031 
                through 2035; and
                    (D) 40 percent for fiscal year 2036 and each fiscal 
                year thereafter.
    (b) Payments to States and Counties.--
            (1) In general.--Amounts paid to States and counties under 
        subsection (a) shall be used consistent with section 35 of the 
        Mineral Leasing Act (30 U.S.C. 191).
            (2) Payments in lieu of taxes.--A payment to a county under 
        paragraph (1) shall be in addition to a payment in lieu of 
        taxes received by the county under chapter 69 of title 31, 
        United States Code.
    (c) Renewable Energy Resource Conservation Fund.--
            (1) In general.--There is established in the Treasury a 
        separate account, to be known as the ``Renewable Energy 
        Resource Conservation Fund'', which shall be available to the 
        Secretary for use, in consultation with the Secretary of 
        Agriculture, in accordance with paragraph (2).
            (2) Use of funds.--The Secretary may make funds in the Fund 
        available to Federal, State, and tribal agencies for 
        distribution in regions in which renewable energy projects are 
        located on Federal land, for the purposes of--
                    (A) restoring and protecting--
                            (i) fish and wildlife habitat for species 
                        affected by wind, geothermal, or solar energy 
                        development;
                            (ii) fish and wildlife corridors for 
                        species affected by such development; and
                            (iii) water resources in areas affected by 
                        such development; and
                    (B) preserving and improving recreational access to 
                Federal land and water in a region affected by such 
                development, through an easement, right-of-way, or 
                other instrument executed by willing landowners for the 
                purpose of enhancing public access to existing Federal 
                land and water that is inaccessible or significantly 
                restricted.
            (3) Partnerships.--The Secretary may enter into cooperative 
        agreements with State and tribal agencies, nonprofit 
        organizations, and other appropriate entities to carry out the 
        activities described in subparagraphs (A) and (B) of paragraph 
        (2).
            (4) Investment of fund.--
                    (A) In general.--Any amounts deposited in the Fund 
                shall earn interest in an amount determined by the 
                Secretary of the Treasury on the basis of the current 
                average market yield on outstanding marketable 
                obligations of the United States of comparable 
                maturities.
                    (B) Use.--Any interest earned under subparagraph 
                (A) may be expended in accordance with this subsection.
            (5) Intent of congress.--It is the intent of Congress that 
        the revenues deposited and used in the Fund shall supplement 
        and not supplant annual appropriations for conservation 
        activities described in paragraph (2)(A).

SEC. 208. STUDY AND REPORT ON CONSERVATION BANKING.

    (a) Study.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 180 days after the date of 
        enactment of this Act, the Secretaries shall carry out a study 
        on the siting, development, and management of projects to 
        determine the feasibility of carrying out a conservation 
        banking program on Federal land.
            (2) Contents.--The study under paragraph (1) shall--
                    (A) identify areas in which--
                            (i) privately owned land is not available 
                        to fully offset the impacts of solar or wind 
                        energy development on federally administered 
                        land; or
                            (ii) mitigation investments on Federal land 
                        are likely to provide greater conservation 
                        value for impacts of solar or wind energy 
                        development on federally administered land; and
                    (B) examine--
                            (i) the effectiveness of laws (including 
                        regulations) and policies in effect on the date 
                        of enactment of this Act in facilitating the 
                        development and effective operation of 
                        conservation banks;
                            (ii) the advantages and disadvantages of 
                        using conservation banks on Federal land to 
                        mitigate impacts to natural resources on State, 
                        tribal, and private land; and
                            (iii) any changes in Federal law (including 
                        regulations) or policy necessary to further 
                        develop a Federal conservation banking program.
    (b) Report to Congress.--Not later than 18 months after the date of 
enactment of this Act, the Secretaries shall jointly submit to Congress 
a report that includes--
            (1) the recommendations of the Secretaries relating to--
                    (A) the most effective system for Federal land 
                described in subsection (a)(2)(A) to meet the goals of 
                facilitating the development of a conservation banking 
                program on Federal land; and
                    (B) any change to Federal law (including 
                regulations) or policy necessary to address more 
                effectively the siting, development, and management of 
                conservation banking programs on Federal land to 
                mitigate impacts to natural resources on State, tribal, 
                and private land; and
            (2) any administrative action to be taken by the 
        Secretaries in response to the recommendations.
    (c) Availability to the Public.--Not later than 30 days after the 
date on which the report described in subsection (b) is submitted to 
Congress, the Secretaries shall make the results of the study available 
to the public.

SEC. 209. BROWNFIELDS.

    (a) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Administrator.--The term ``Administrator'' means the 
        Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency.
            (2) Brownfield site.--The term ``brownfield site'' has the 
        meaning given that term in section (39) of the Comprehensive 
        Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act of 1980 
        (42 U.S.C. 9601(39)).
            (3) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary 
        of Energy.
    (b) Department of Energy and Environmental Protection Agency 
Efforts.--The Secretary, in conjunction with the Administrator, shall--
            (1) in partnership with the National Renewable Energy 
        Laboratory, identify opportunities to prioritize renewable 
        energy project development on brownfield sites;
            (2) provide to States, units of local governments, project 
        developers, and other stakeholders publicly available resources 
        identifying potential brownfield sites for renewable energy 
        project development, with an emphasis on non-Federal land; and
            (3) provide technical assistance to State and local 
        officials, interested project developers, and other 
        stakeholders to expedite renewable energy projects on 
        brownfield sites identified under this subsection, with an 
        emphasis on non-Federal land.
    (c) Report.--Not later than 1 year after the date of enactment of 
this Act, the Secretary and Administrator shall submit to Congress a 
report that includes--
            (1) proposals for Federal policies, incentives, or other 
        means of encouraging renewable energy projects on sites 
        identified under subsection (b); and
            (2) data on existing and potential job creation from, 
        environmental benefits of, and energy production from renewable 
        energy projects on brownfield sites.
    (d) Stakeholder Forums.--The Secretary, in conjunction with the 
Administrator, shall conduct stakeholder forums in each region of the 
United States to assist State and local officials, project developers, 
and other stakeholders with renewable energy project siting on 
brownfield sites, with an emphasis on non-Federal land.
    (e) Effect.--Nothing in this section affects existing Federal 
efforts to promote the reuse and redevelopment of brownfield sites.
    (f) Authorization of Appropriations.--There are authorized to be 
appropriated such sums as are necessary to carry out this section for 
each of fiscal years 2018 through 2022.

                     Subtitle B--Geothermal Energy

SEC. 221. REAUTHORIZATION OF GEOTHERMAL STEAM ACT OF 1970.

    (a) In General.--Section 234(a) of the Energy Policy Act of 2005 
(42 U.S.C. 15873(a)) is amended by striking ``in the first 5 fiscal 
years beginning after the date of enactment of this Act'' and inserting 
``through fiscal year 2022''.
    (b) Authorization.--Section 234(b) of the Energy Policy Act of 2005 
(42 U.S.C. 15873(b)) is amended--
            (1) by striking ``Amounts'' and inserting the following:
            ``(1) In general.--Amounts''; and
            (2) by adding at the end the following:
            ``(2) Authorization.--Effective for fiscal year 2018 and 
        each fiscal year thereafter, amounts deposited under subsection 
        (a) shall be available to the Secretary of the Interior for 
        expenditure, subject to appropriation and without fiscal year 
        limitation, to implement the Geothermal Steam Act of 1970 (30 
        U.S.C. 1001 et seq.) and this Act.''.

SEC. 222. NATIONAL GOAL FOR GEOTHERMAL ENERGY.

    It is the sense of Congress that, not later than 10 years after the 
date of enactment of this Act--
            (1) the Secretary of the Interior shall seek to approve a 
        significant increase in new geothermal energy capacity on 
        public land across a geographically diverse set of States using 
        the full range of available technologies; and
            (2) the Director of the Geological Survey and the Secretary 
        should identify sites capable of producing a total of 50,000 
        megawatts of geothermal power, using the full range of 
        available technologies, through a program conducted in 
        collaboration with industry, including cost-shared exploration 
        drilling.

SEC. 223. FACILITATION OF COPRODUCTION OF GEOTHERMAL ENERGY ON OIL AND 
              GAS LEASES.

    Section 4(b) of the Geothermal Steam Act of 1970 (30 U.S.C. 
1003(b)) is amended by adding at the end the following:
            ``(4) Land subject to oil and gas lease.--Land under an oil 
        and gas lease issued pursuant to the Mineral Leasing Act (30 
        U.S.C. 181 et seq.) or the Mineral Leasing Act for Acquired 
        Lands (30 U.S.C. 351 et seq.) that is subject to an approved 
        application for permit to drill and from which oil and gas 
        production is occurring may be available for noncompetitive 
        leasing under this section to the holder of the oil and gas 
        lease--
                    ``(A) on a determination that--
                            ``(i) geothermal energy will be produced 
                        from a well producing or capable of producing 
                        oil and gas; and
                            ``(ii) national energy security will be 
                        improved by the issuance of such a lease; and
                    ``(B) to provide for the coproduction of geothermal 
                energy with oil and gas.''.

SEC. 224. NONCOMPETITIVE LEASING FOR GEOTHERMAL.

    Section 4(b) of the Geothermal Steam Act of 1970 (30 U.S.C. 
1003(b)) (as amended by section 223) is amended by adding at the end 
the following:
            ``(5) Adjoining land.--
                    ``(A) Definitions.--In this paragraph:
                            ``(i) Fair market value per acre.--The term 
                        `fair market value per acre' means a dollar 
                        amount per acre that--
                                    ``(I) except as provided in this 
                                clause, shall be equal to the market 
                                value per acre (taking into account the 
                                determination under subparagraph 
                                (B)(iii) regarding a valid discovery on 
                                the adjoining land), as determined by 
                                the Secretary under regulations issued 
                                under this paragraph;
                                    ``(II) shall be determined by the 
                                Secretary with respect to a lease under 
                                this paragraph, by not later than the 
                                end of the 180-day period beginning on 
                                the date the Secretary receives an 
                                application for the lease; and
                                    ``(III) shall be not less than the 
                                greater of--
                                            ``(aa) 4 times the median 
                                        amount paid per acre for all 
                                        land leased under this Act 
                                        during the preceding year; or
                                            ``(bb) $50.
                            ``(ii) Industry standards.--The term 
                        `industry standards' means the standards by 
                        which a qualified geothermal professional 
                        assesses whether downhole or flowing 
                        temperature measurements with indications of 
                        permeability are sufficient to produce energy 
                        from geothermal resources, as determined 
                        through flow or injection testing or 
                        measurement of lost circulation while drilling.
                            ``(iii) Qualified federal land.--The term 
                        `qualified Federal land' means land that is 
                        otherwise available for leasing under this Act.
                            ``(iv) Qualified geothermal professional.--
                        The term `qualified geothermal professional' 
                        means an individual who is an engineer or 
                        geoscientist in good professional standing with 
                        at least 5 years of experience in geothermal 
                        exploration, development, or project 
                        assessment.
                            ``(v) Qualified lessee.--The term 
                        `qualified lessee' means a person that is 
                        eligible to hold a geothermal lease under this 
                        Act (including applicable regulations).
                            ``(vi) Valid discovery.--The term `valid 
                        discovery' means a discovery of a geothermal 
                        resource by a new or existing slim hole or 
                        production well, that exhibits downhole or 
                        flowing temperature measurements with 
                        indications of permeability that are sufficient 
                        to meet industry standards.
                    ``(B) Authority.--An area of qualified Federal land 
                that adjoins other land for which a qualified lessee 
                holds a legal right to develop geothermal resources may 
                be available for a noncompetitive lease under this 
                section to the qualified lessee at the fair market 
                value per acre, if--
                            ``(i) the area of qualified Federal land--
                                    ``(I) consists of not less than 1 
                                acre and not more than 640 acres; and
                                    ``(II) is not already leased under 
                                this Act or nominated to be leased 
                                under subsection (a);
                            ``(ii) the qualified lessee has not 
                        previously received a noncompetitive lease 
                        under this paragraph in connection with the 
                        valid discovery for which data has been 
                        submitted under clause (iii)(I); and
                            ``(iii) sufficient geological and other 
                        technical data prepared by a qualified 
                        geothermal professional has been submitted by 
                        the qualified lessee to the applicable Federal 
                        land management agency that would lead 
                        individuals who are experienced in the subject 
                        matter to believe that--
                                    ``(I) there is a valid discovery of 
                                geothermal resources on the land for 
                                which the qualified lessee holds the 
                                legal right to develop geothermal 
                                resources; and
                                    ``(II) that thermal feature extends 
                                into the adjoining areas.
                    ``(C) Determination of fair market value.--
                            ``(i) In general.--The Secretary shall--
                                    ``(I) publish a notice of any 
                                request to lease land under this 
                                paragraph;
                                    ``(II) determine fair market value 
                                for purposes of this paragraph in 
                                accordance with procedures for making 
                                those determinations that are 
                                established by regulations issued by 
                                the Secretary;
                                    ``(III) provide to a qualified 
                                lessee and publish, with an opportunity 
                                for public comment for a period of 30 
                                days, any proposed determination under 
                                this subparagraph of the fair market 
                                value of an area that the qualified 
                                lessee seeks to lease under this 
                                paragraph; and
                                    ``(IV) provide to the qualified 
                                lessee and any adversely affected party 
                                the opportunity to appeal the final 
                                determination of fair market value in 
                                an administrative proceeding before the 
                                applicable Federal land management 
                                agency, in accordance with applicable 
                                law (including regulations).
                            ``(ii) Limitation on nomination.--After 
                        publication of a notice of request to lease 
                        land under this paragraph, the Secretary may 
                        not accept under subsection (a) any nomination 
                        of the land for leasing unless the request has 
                        been denied or withdrawn.
                            ``(iii) Annual rental.--For purposes of 
                        section 5(a)(3), a lease awarded under this 
                        paragraph shall be considered a lease awarded 
                        in a competitive lease sale.
                    ``(D) Regulations.--Not later than 270 days after 
                the date of enactment of the Sustainable Energy 
                Development Reform Act, the Secretary shall issue 
                regulations to carry out this paragraph.''.

SEC. 225. REPORT TO CONGRESS.

    Not later than 3 years after the date of enactment of this Act and 
not less frequently than once every 5 years thereafter, the Secretary 
of the Interior and the Secretary shall submit to Congress a report 
describing the progress made towards achieving the goals described in 
section 222.

                 Subtitle C--Offshore Renewable Energy

SEC. 231. WIND LEASING AMENDMENTS.

    (a) Clarification Relating to Alternative Energy Development.--
Section 8(p) of the Outer Continental Shelf Lands Act (43 U.S.C. 
1337(p)) is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (1)--
                    (A) in the matter preceding subparagraph (A), by 
                inserting ``or'' after ``1501 et seq.),'' and by 
                striking ``or other applicable law,''; and
                    (B) by amending subparagraph (D) to read as 
                follows:
                    ``(D) use, for energy-related purposes, facilities 
                currently or previously used for activities authorized 
                under this Act, except that any oil and gas energy-
                related uses shall not be authorized in areas in which 
                oil and gas preleasing, leasing, and related activities 
                are prohibited by a moratorium.''; and
            (2) in paragraph (4)--
                    (A) in subparagraph (E), by striking 
                ``coordination'' and inserting ``in consultation''; and
                    (B) in subparagraph (J)(ii), by inserting ``a 
                potential site for an alternative energy facility,'' 
                after ``deepwater port,''.
    (b) Noncompetitive Alternative Energy Lease Options.--Section 
8(p)(3) of such Act (43 U.S.C. 1337(p)(3)) is amended to read as 
follows:
            ``(3) Competitive or noncompetitive basis.--Any lease, 
        easement, right-of-way, or other authorization granted under 
        paragraph (1) shall be issued on a competitive basis, unless--
                    ``(A) the lease, easement, right-of-way, or other 
                authorization relates to a project that meets the 
                criteria established under section 388(d) of the Energy 
                Policy Act of 2005 (43 U.S.C. 1337 note; Public Law 
                109-58);
                    ``(B) the lease, easement, right-of-way, or other 
                authorization--
                            ``(i) is for the placement and operation of 
                        a meteorological or marine data collection 
                        facility; and
                            ``(ii) has a term of not more than 5 years; 
                        or
                    ``(C) the Secretary determines, after providing 
                public notice of a proposed lease, easement, right-of-
                way, or other authorization, that no competitive 
                interest exists.''.

SEC. 232. REPORT TO CONGRESS.

    Not later than 1 year after the date of the enactment of this Act 
the Secretary of the Interior shall submit recommendations to reduce 
the time required for the Department of the Interior to consider and 
act on applications for permits authorizing offshore renewable energy 
projects.

          TITLE III--PREPARING AND MANAGING FOR CLIMATE CHANGE

SEC. 301. ENERGY DEVELOPMENT POLICY.

    It is the policy of the United States that--
            (1) the United States should aggressively reduce carbon 
        pollution as rapidly as practicable; and
            (2) energy development decisions on Federal lands should be 
        guided by the goals of--
                    (A) protecting public health and the environment;
                    (B) avoiding the most dangerous impacts of climate 
                change; and
                    (C) promoting a rapid, just, and equitable 
                transition to a clean-energy economy.

SEC. 302. PREPARING FOR CLIMATE CHANGE.

    (a) Reinstatement of Agency Actions.--Executive Order 13783, 
entitled ``Promoting Energy Independence and Economic Growth'' and 
dated March 28, 2017 (82 Fed. Reg. 16093), shall have no force or 
effect, and each regulation, order, guidance document, policy, or other 
similar agency action suspended, revised, or rescinded by or under such 
Executive order shall apply as if such Executive order were not issued.
    (b) Consideration of the Social Costs of Climate Change.--Not later 
than 1-year after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Council on 
Environmental Quality shall issue regulations requiring Federal 
departments and agencies to--
            (1) comply with the final guidance of the Council referred 
        to in the Notice of Availability entitled ``Final Guidance for 
        Federal Departments and Agencies on Consideration of Greenhouse 
        Gas Emissions and the Effects of Climate Change in National 
        Environmental Policy Act Reviews'' and published by the Council 
        on August 5, 2016 (81 Fed. Reg. 51866); and
            (2) use the most recent estimates of the social cost of 
        carbon and social cost of methane, as determined by the 
        Interagency Working Group on Social Cost of Carbon, in all 
        cost-benefit analyses.

SEC. 303. GHG INVENTORY.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary of the Interior shall make available 
to the public through the internet--
            (1) information that describes for all covered operations--
                    (A) the aggregate amount of each fossil fuel, by 
                type and by State, produced under Federal leases; and
                    (B) for gas reported, the portion and source of 
                such amount that was released by each of venting, 
                flaring, and fugitive release;
            (2) information that accurately describes the estimated 
        amounts of existing fossil fuel resources on Federal lands 
        under lease for the production of fossil fuels, and of Federal 
        lands that have potential for such leasing; and
            (3) information that describes the amount and sources of 
        energy, in megawatts, produced from operating solar, wind, and 
        geothermal projects on Federal lands under lease for the 
        production of renewable energy.
    (b) Format.--Information made available under this section shall be 
presented in a format that--
            (1) translates such amounts and portions into emissions of 
        metric tons of greenhouse gases expressed in carbon dioxide 
        equivalent using both the 20-year and 100-year Global Warming 
        Potential-weighted emission values;
            (2) for energy produced from solar, wind, and geothermal 
        projects, includes an estimate of the greenhouse gas emissions 
        that would result from production of the same amount of energy 
        from fossil fuel resources; and
            (3) allows--
                    (A) downloading in a machine readable format; and
                    (B) accessing the information without payment of 
                any fee or other charge.
    (c) Data Publication Frequency.--The data made available under this 
section shall be updated at least annually.

SEC. 304. TERRESTRIAL CARBON SEQUESTRATION PILOT PROGRAM.

    (a) Program Required.--Not later than 1 year after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of the Interior, acting through 
the Director of the Bureau of Land Management, shall establish a carbon 
sequestration pilot program to make grants to eligible entities for 
projects to carry out eligible activities.
    (b) Science Advisory Board.--As part of the program, the Secretary 
shall establish a science advisory board to provide analysis and 
recommendations regarding--
            (1) the selection of eligible entities and eligible 
        activities to receive grants under the program, based on the 
        best available science; and
            (2) appropriate monitoring requirements to be required 
        under subsection (c).
    (c) Monitoring and Reporting.--As a condition of a grant under the 
program, the grant recipient shall comply with monitoring and reporting 
requirements to quantify project performance and communicate results.
    (d) Innovation Competition.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary shall make grants, through a 
        challenge competition, to eligible entities for projects to 
        carry out innovative approaches to eligible activities.
            (2) Listing.--The Secretary shall list the challenge 
        competition under this subsection on www.challenge.gov (or any 
        successor website of the Federal Government that lists 
        challenge competitions run by Federal agencies).
    (e) Outreach, Education, and Technical Assistance.--The Secretary--
            (1) may provide technical assistance for eligible 
        activities; and
            (2) shall expand outreach and education with respect to 
        carbon sequestration and best practices related to eligible 
        activities.
    (f) Acceptance of Outside Funding.--The Secretary may accept 
nonappropriated funds, including funds from other public sources, 
private companies, nonprofit organizations, or foundations, to carry 
out the program.
    (g) Reports to Congress.--With respect to each project administered 
under the program, not later than 3 years after the awarding of the 
grant, at least every 2 years thereafter for the duration of the 
project, and not later than 180 days after the completion of the 
project, the Secretary, working with grantees and any other agencies of 
jurisdiction shall submit a report to Congress detailing--
            (1) the progress and accomplishments of the project in 
        general;
            (2) a detailed summary and estimate of the volume of carbon 
        sequestered due to project activities;
            (3) a summary of education and outreach efforts related to 
        the project; and
            (4) a set of recommendations for land management best 
        practices based on the outcome of the project.
    (h) Definitions.--For the purposes of this section:
            (1) Biochar.--The term ``biochar'' means carbonized biomass 
        produced by converting feedstock through reductive thermal 
        processing.
            (2) Compost.--The term ``compost'' means a biologically 
        stable organic material suitable for use as a amendment that is 
        produced by the controlled aerobic decomposition of manure or 
        other organic material, not including sewage sludge or 
        biosolids, by microorganisms.
            (3) Eligible activity.--The term ``eligible activity'' 
        means a project for sequestering carbon through--
                    (A) grazing practices;
                    (B) restoring degraded qualified public lands;
                    (C) application of compost on qualified public 
                lands; or
                    (D) using biochar as an amendment on qualified 
                public lands.
            (4) Eligible entity.--The term ``eligible entity'' means an 
        owner or operator of qualified public lands, a university, a 
        nongovernmental organization, or an Indian tribe.
            (5) Program.--The term ``program'' means the Carbon 
        Sequestration Pilot Program established by this section.
            (6) Qualified public lands.--The term ``qualified public 
        lands'' means any land and interest in land owned by the United 
        States within the several States and administered by the 
        Secretary of the Interior through the Bureau of Land 
        Management, the National Park Service, or the United States 
        Fish and Wildlife Service, without regard to how the United 
        States acquired ownership, except lands located on the Outer 
        Continental Shelf.

SEC. 305. FEDERAL LANDS ADAPTATION.

    (a) Findings, Purposes, and Policy.--
            (1) Findings.--Congress finds that--
                    (A) healthy, diverse, and productive communities of 
                fish, wildlife, and plants provide significant benefits 
                to the people and economy of the United States, 
                including--
                            (i) abundant clean water supplies;
                            (ii) flood and coastal storm protection;
                            (iii) clean air;
                            (iv) a source of food, fiber, medicines, 
                        and pollination of the crops and other plants 
                        of the United States;
                            (v) outdoor recreation, which is a source 
                        of jobs and economic stimulus;
                            (vi) hunting and fishing opportunities and 
                        support for subsistence communities;
                            (vii) opportunities for scientific research 
                        and education;
                            (viii) world-class tourism destinations 
                        that support local economies; and
                            (ix) sequestration and storage of carbon to 
                        help mitigate changes to the global climate 
                        system;
                    (B) the United States Geological Survey, National 
                Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, National 
                Aeronautics and Space Administration, and other 
                agencies within the United States Global Change 
                Research Program have observed that the fish, wildlife, 
                and plants of the United States are facing increasing 
                risks from changing patterns of extreme weather and 
                climate, including--
                            (i) severe droughts and heatwaves;
                            (ii) severe storms and floods;
                            (iii) frequent and severe wildfires;
                            (iv) more frequent and severe outbreaks of 
                        forest pests and invasive species;
                            (v) flooding and erosion of coastal areas 
                        due to rising sea levels;
                            (vi) melting glaciers and sea ice;
                            (vii) thawing permafrost;
                            (viii) shifting distributions of fish, 
                        wildlife, and plant populations;
                            (ix) disruptive shifts in the timing of 
                        fish, wildlife, and plant natural history 
                        cycles, such as blooming, breeding, and 
                        seasonal migrations;
                            (x) increasing ocean temperatures and 
                        acidification;
                            (xi) altered patterns of rain, snow, 
                        runoff, and streamflow; and
                            (xii) habitat loss, degradation, 
                        fragmentation, and movement; and
                    (C) the Federal Government should provide 
                leadership in preparing for and responding to the 
                effects described in subparagraph (B) to ensure that 
                present and future generations continue to receive the 
                benefits of the abundant and diverse fish, wildlife, 
                and plant resources of the United States.
            (2) Purposes.--The purpose of this section is to establish 
        an integrated national approach--
                    (A) to respond to ongoing and expected effects of 
                extreme weather and climate change by protecting, 
                managing, and conserving the fish, wildlife, and plants 
                of the United States; and
                    (B) to maximize Government efficiency and reduce 
                costs, in cooperation with State, local, and tribal 
                governments and other entities.
            (3) National fish, wildlife, and plants climate change 
        adaptation policy.--It is the policy of the Federal Government, 
        in cooperation with State and local governments, Indian tribes, 
        and other interested stakeholders to evaluate and reduce the 
        increased risks and vulnerabilities associated with climate 
        change and extreme weather events, and to use all practicable 
        means to protect, manage, and conserve healthy, diverse, and 
        productive fish, wildlife, and plant populations.
    (b) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Adaptation.--The term ``adaptation'' means--
                    (A) the process of adjustment to actual or expected 
                climate and the effects of climate change; and
                    (B) with respect to fish, wildlife, and plants, 
                protection, management, and conservation efforts 
                designed to maintain or enhance the ability of fish, 
                wildlife, and plants to withstand, adjust to, or 
                recover from the effects of extreme weather and climate 
                change (including, where applicable, ocean 
                acidification, drought, flooding, and wildfire).
            (2) Center.--The term ``Center'' means the National Climate 
        Change and Wildlife Science Center established under subsection 
        (e)(1)(A).
            (3) Committee.--The term ``Committee'' means the Advisory 
        Committee on Climate Change and Natural Resource Sciences 
        established under subsection (e)(1)(A).
            (4) Ecological processes.--The term ``ecological 
        processes'' means biological, chemical, or physical interaction 
        between the biotic and abiotic components of an ecosystem, 
        including--
                    (A) decomposition;
                    (B) disease epizootiology;
                    (C) disturbance regimes, such as fire and flooding;
                    (D) gene flow;
                    (E) hydrological cycling;
                    (F) larval dispersal and settlement;
                    (G) nutrient cycling;
                    (H) pollination;
                    (I) predator-prey relationships; and
                    (J) soil formation.
            (5) Habitat.--The term ``habitat'' means the physical, 
        chemical, and biological properties that fish, wildlife, or 
        plants use for growth, reproduction, survival, food, water, or 
        cover (whether on land, in water, or in an area or region).
            (6) Habitat connectivity.--The term ``habitat 
        connectivity'' means areas that facilitate terrestrial, marine, 
        estuarine, and freshwater fish, wildlife, or plant movement 
        that is necessary--
                    (A) for migration, gene flow, or dispersal; or
                    (B) to respond to the ongoing and expected effects 
                of climate change (including, where applicable, ocean 
                acidification, drought, flooding, and wildfire).
            (7) Indian tribe.--The term ``Indian tribe'' has the 
        meaning given the term in section 4 of the Indian Self-
        Determination and Education Assistance Act (25 U.S.C. 450b).
            (8) National strategy.--The term ``National Strategy'' 
        means the National Fish, Wildlife, and Plants Climate 
        Adaptation Strategy released March 26, 2013.
            (9) Resilience; resilient.--The terms ``resilience'' and 
        ``resilient'' mean the ability to anticipate, prepare for, and 
        adapt to changing conditions and withstand, respond to, and 
        recover rapidly from disruptions.
            (10) State.--The term ``State'' means--
                    (A) a State of the United States;
                    (B) the District of Columbia;
                    (C) American Samoa;
                    (D) Guam;
                    (E) the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana 
                Islands;
                    (F) the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico; and
                    (G) the United States Virgin Islands.
            (11) Working group.--The term ``Working Group'' means the 
        National Fish, Wildlife, and Plants Climate Adaptation Strategy 
        Joint Implementation Working Group established under subsection 
        (c)(1).
    (c) National Fish, Wildlife, and Plants Climate Adaptation Strategy 
Joint Implementation Working Group.--
            (1) Establishment.--Not later than 90 days after the date 
        of enactment of this Act, the President shall establish a 
        National Fish, Wildlife, and Plants Climate Adaptation Strategy 
        Joint Implementation Working Group composed of the heads of 
        Federal and State agencies or departments with jurisdiction 
        over fish, wildlife, and plant resources of the United States, 
        and tribal representatives, as follows:
                    (A) The Administrator of the Environmental 
                Protection Agency.
                    (B) The Administrator of the Federal Emergency 
                Management Agency.
                    (C) The Administrator of the National Oceanic and 
                Atmospheric Administration.
                    (D) The Chair of the Council on Environmental 
                Quality.
                    (E) The Chief of Engineers.
                    (F) The Chief of the Forest Service.
                    (G) The Commissioner of Reclamation.
                    (H) The Director of the Bureau of Indian Affairs.
                    (I) The Director of the Bureau of Land Management.
                    (J) The Director of the National Park Service.
                    (K) The Director of the United States Fish and 
                Wildlife Service.
                    (L) The Director of the United States Geological 
                Survey.
                    (M) The Secretary of Agriculture.
                    (N) The Secretary of Defense.
                    (O) State representatives from each regional 
                association of State fish and wildlife agencies.
                    (P) Not less than 2 tribal representatives.
            (2) Duties.--The Working Group shall serve as a forum for 
        interagency consultation on, and the coordination of, the 
        development and implementation of the National Strategy.
            (3) Co-chairs.--There shall be 4 co-chairs, of whom--
                    (A) 2 shall be representatives of the Federal 
                Government;
                    (B) 1 shall be a representative of a State; and
                    (C) 1 shall be a tribal representative.
    (d) National Fish, Wildlife, and Plants Climate Adaptation 
Strategy.--
            (1) In general.--The Working Group shall adopt the National 
        Strategy to protect, manage, and conserve fish, wildlife, and 
        plants to maintain the inherent resilience and adaptability of 
        fish, wildlife, and plants to withstand the ongoing and 
        expected effects of extreme weather and climate change.
            (2) Review and revision.--Not later than 1 year after each 
        release of the assessment required under section 106 of the 
        Global Change Research Act of 1990 (15 U.S.C. 2936), the 
        Working Group shall--
                    (A) use sound science to review and revise the 
                National Strategy to incorporate--
                            (i) new information regarding the ongoing 
                        and expected effects of climate change on fish, 
                        wildlife, and plants; and
                            (ii) advances in the development of fish, 
                        wildlife, and plant adaptation strategies; and
                    (B) in carrying out paragraph (1), provide public 
                notice and opportunity for comment.
            (3) Contents.--A revised National Strategy shall--
                    (A) assess the vulnerability of fish, wildlife, and 
                plants to climate change, including short-term, medium-
                term, long-term, and cumulative impacts;
                    (B) describe current, observation, and monitoring 
                activities at the Federal, State, tribal, and local 
                levels relating to the ongoing and expected effects of 
                climate change on fish, wildlife, and plants;
                    (C) identify and prioritize research and data 
                needs;
                    (D) identify fish, wildlife, and plants likely to 
                have the greatest need for protection, restoration, and 
                conservation due to the ongoing and expanding effects 
                of extreme weather and climate change;
                    (E) include specific protocols for integrating 
                fish, wildlife, and plant adaptation strategies and 
                activities into the conservation and management of 
                natural resources by Federal agencies to ensure 
                consistency across agency jurisdictions;
                    (F) identify opportunities for maintaining, 
                restoring, or enhancing fish, wildlife, and plants to 
                reduce the risks of extreme weather and climate change 
                on other vulnerable sectors of society;
                    (G) identify Federal policies and actions that may 
                reduce resilience and increase the vulnerability of 
                fish, wildlife, and plants to extreme weather and 
                climate change;
                    (H) include specific actions that Federal agencies 
                shall take to protect, conserve, and manage fish, 
                wildlife, and plants to maintain the inherent 
                resilience and adaptability of fish, wildlife, and 
                plants to withstand, adjust to, or recover from the 
                ongoing and expected effects of climate change, 
                including a timeline to implement those actions;
                    (I) include specific mechanisms for ensuring 
                communication and coordination--
                            (i) among Federal agencies; and
                            (ii) between Federal agencies and State 
                        agencies, territories of the United States, 
                        Indian tribes, private landowners, conservation 
                        organizations, and other countries that share 
                        jurisdiction over fish, wildlife, and plants 
                        with the United States;
                    (J) include specific actions to develop and 
                implement coordinated fish, wildlife, and plants 
                inventory and monitoring protocols through interagency 
                coordination and collaboration with States and local 
                governments, Indian tribes, and private organizations; 
                and
                    (K) include procedures for guiding the development 
                of detailed strategy implementation plans required 
                under subsection (f).
            (4) Implementation.--
                    (A) In general.--Consistent with other laws and 
                Federal trust responsibilities concerning Indian land 
                or rights of Indians under treaties with the United 
                States, each Federal agency shall integrate the 
                elements of the National Strategy that relate to 
                conservation, management, and protection of fish, 
                wildlife, and plants into agency plans, environmental 
                reviews, and programs.
                    (B) Public report.--The Working Group shall, on a 
                biannual basis, between revisions to the National 
                Strategy, make available to the public a report 
                documenting any actions implementing the Strategy.
                    (C) Coordination.--The Working Group shall 
                coordinate the implementation of the National Strategy 
                with Federal agencies not represented on the Working 
                Group to achieve the policy of the United States 
                described in subsection (a)(3).
    (e) Fish, Wildlife, and Plants Adaptation Science and 
Information.--
            (1) National climate change and wildlife science center.--
                    (A) Authorization.--The Secretary of the Interior, 
                in collaboration with the States, Indian tribes, and 
                other partner organizations, shall establish a National 
                Climate Change and Wildlife Science Center.
                    (B) Duties of center.--The Center shall assess and 
                develop scientific information, tools, strategies, and 
                techniques to support the Working Group, Federal and 
                State agencies, tribes, regionally based science and 
                conservation centers, regional coordinating entities, 
                and other interested parties in addressing the effects 
                of extreme weather and climate change on fish, 
                wildlife, and plants.
                    (C) General authority to enter into contracts, 
                grants, and cooperative agreements.--The Secretary may 
                enter into contracts, grants, or cooperative agreements 
                with State agencies, State cooperative extension 
                services, institutions of higher education, other 
                research or educational institutions and organizations, 
                tribal organizations, Federal and private agencies and 
                organizations, individuals, and any other contractor or 
                recipient, to further the duties under subparagraph (B) 
                without regard to--
                            (i) any requirements for competition;
                            (ii) section 6101 of title 41, United 
                        States Code; or
                            (iii) subsections (a) and (b) of section 
                        3324 of title 31, United States Code.
            (2) Advisory committee on climate change and natural 
        resource sciences.--
                    (A) In general.--Not later than 180 days after the 
                date of enactment of this Act, and pursuant to the 
                Federal Advisory Committee Act (5 U.S.C. App.), the 
                Secretary of the Interior shall establish an Advisory 
                Committee on Climate Change and Natural Resource 
                Sciences.
                    (B) Membership.--The Committee shall be comprised 
                of 25 members who--
                            (i) represent--
                                    (I) Federal agencies;
                                    (II) State, local, and tribal 
                                governments;
                                    (III) nongovernmental 
                                organizations;
                                    (IV) academic institutions; and
                                    (V) the private sector; and
                            (ii) have expertise in--
                                    (I) biology (including fish, 
                                wildlife, plant, aquatic, coastal, and 
                                marine biology);
                                    (II) ecology;
                                    (III) climate change (including, 
                                where applicable, ocean acidification, 
                                drought, flooding, and wildfire); and
                                    (IV) other relevant scientific 
                                disciplines.
                    (C) Chair.--The Secretary of the Interior shall 
                appoint a Committee Chair from among the members of the 
                Committee.
                    (D) Duties.--The Committee shall--
                            (i) advise the Working Group on the state 
                        of the science regarding--
                                    (I) the ongoing and expected 
                                effects of extreme weather and climate 
                                change on fish, wildlife, and plants; 
                                and
                                    (II) scientific strategies and 
                                mechanisms for fish, wildlife, and 
                                plant adaptation;
                            (ii) identify and recommend priorities for 
                        ongoing research needs on the issues described 
                        in clause (i) to inform the research priorities 
                        of the Center described in paragraph (1) and 
                        other Federal climate science institutions; and
                            (iii) review and comment on each revised 
                        National Strategy before that National Strategy 
                        is finalized.
                    (E) Collaboration.--The Committee shall collaborate 
                with climate change and fish, wildlife, and plant 
                research entities in other Federal agencies and 
                departments.
                    (F) Availability to public.--The advice and 
                recommendations of the Committee shall be made 
                available to the public.
    (f) Strategy Implementation Plan.--
            (1) Development.--Not later than 1 year after the date of 
        enactment of this Act and not later than 1 year after the date 
        of each revision of the National Strategy, the Working Group 
        shall--
                    (A) complete a strategy implementation plan;
                    (B) provide opportunities for public review and 
                comment on the plan; and
                    (C) submit the plan to the President for approval.
            (2) Requirements.--The strategy implementation plan shall--
                    (A) identify and prioritize specific conservation 
                and management strategies and actions that address the 
                ongoing and expected effects of extreme weather and 
                climate change on fish, wildlife, and plants, 
                including--
                            (i) protection, management, and 
                        conservation of terrestrial, marine, estuarine, 
                        and freshwater habitats and ecosystems;
                            (ii) establishment of terrestrial, marine, 
                        estuarine, and freshwater habitat connectivity 
                        corridors;
                            (iii) restoration and conservation of 
                        ecological processes;
                            (iv) protection of a broad diversity of 
                        species of fish, wildlife, and plant 
                        populations; and
                            (v) protection of fish, wildlife, and plant 
                        health, recognizing that climate can alter the 
                        distribution and ecology of parasites, 
                        pathogens, and vectors;
                    (B) establish methods--
                            (i) to assess the effectiveness of 
                        strategies and conservation actions implemented 
                        by the agencies to protect, manage, and 
                        conserve fish, wildlife, and plants; and
                            (ii) to update those strategies and actions 
                        to respond to new information and changing 
                        conditions;
                    (C) describe current and proposed mechanisms to 
                enhance cooperation and coordination of fish, wildlife, 
                and plant adaptation efforts with other Federal 
                agencies, State and local governments, Indian tribes, 
                and nongovernmental stakeholders;
                    (D) include written guidance to resource managers; 
                and
                    (E) identify and assess data and information gaps 
                necessary to develop fish, wildlife, and plant 
                adaptation plans and strategies.
            (3) Implementation.--
                    (A) In general.--On approval by the President, each 
                Federal agency shall, consistent with existing 
                authority, implement the strategy implementation plan 
                under paragraph (1)(A) through existing and new plans, 
                policies, programs, activities, and actions, including 
                integration into climate adaptation plans pursuant to 
                Executive Order 13653 (42 U.S.C. 4321 note; relating to 
                preparation for the impacts of climate change).
                    (B) Consideration of effects.--To the maximum 
                extent practicable and consistent with existing 
                authority, fish, wildlife, and plant conservation and 
                management decisions made by each Federal agency shall 
                consider and promote resilience to the ongoing and 
                expected effects of extreme weather and climate change.
            (4) Revision and review.--Not later than 1 year after the 
        National Strategy is revised under subsection (d)(2), the 
        Working Group shall review and revise the strategy 
        implementation plan under subsection (a)(1) to incorporate the 
        best available science, including advice and information 
        pursuant to subsection (e) and other information, regarding the 
        ongoing and expected effects of climate change on fish, 
        wildlife, and plants.
    (g) State Fish, Wildlife, and Plants Adaptation Plans.--
            (1) Requirement.--To be eligible to receive funds pursuant 
        to paragraph (4), not later than 1 year after the date of 
        enactment of this Act and not later than 1 year after the date 
        of each revision of the National Strategy, each State shall 
        prepare and submit to the Secretary of the Interior and the 
        Secretary of Commerce, a State fish, wildlife, and plant 
        adaptation plan detailing current and future efforts of the 
        State to address the ongoing and expected effects of climate 
        change on fish, wildlife, and plants and coastal areas within 
        the jurisdiction of the State.
            (2) Review or approval.--The Secretary of the Interior and 
        the Secretary of Commerce shall--
                    (A) review each State adaptation plan; and
                    (B) approve a State adaptation plan if the plan--
                            (i) meets the requirements of paragraph 
                        (3); and
                            (ii) is consistent with the National 
                        Strategy.
            (3) Contents.--A State adaptation plan shall--
                    (A) meet the requirements described in subsection 
                (f)(2);
                    (B) include the adaptation provisions of any State 
                comprehensive wildlife conservation strategy (or State 
                wildlife action plan) that has been--
                            (i) submitted to the Director of the United 
                        States Fish and Wildlife Service; and
                            (ii) approved, or is pending approval, by 
                        the Director of the United States Fish and 
                        Wildlife Service;
                    (C) include the adaptation provisions of a 
                statewide assessment and strategy for forest resources 
                required under section 2A of the Cooperative Forestry 
                Assistance Act of 1978 (16 U.S.C. 2101a) that has 
                been--
                            (i) submitted to the Secretary of 
                        Agriculture; and
                            (ii) approved, or is pending approval, by 
                        the Secretary of Agriculture; and
                    (D) include the adaptation provisions of a Coastal 
                Zone Management Plan or a Coastal and Estuarine Land 
                Conservation Program Plan that has been--
                            (i) submitted to the Administrator of the 
                        National Oceanic and Atmospheric 
                        Administration; and
                            (ii) approved, or is pending approval, by 
                        the Administrator of the National Oceanic and 
                        Atmospheric Administration.
            (4) Distribution of funds to states.--Any funds made 
        available pursuant to this section shall be--
                    (A) used to carry out activities in accordance with 
                adaptation plans approved under this section; and
                    (B) made available through--
                            (i) the State and tribal wildlife grant 
                        program under title I of division F of the 
                        Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2008 (Public 
                        Law 110-161; 121 Stat. 2103); and
                            (ii)(I) the grant program under section 306 
                        of the Coastal Zone Management Act of 1972 (16 
                        U.S.C. 1455);
                            (II) the Coastal and Estuarine Land 
                        Conservation Program established under title II 
                        of the Department of Commerce and Related 
                        Agencies Appropriations Act, 2002 (16 U.S.C. 
                        1456d); and
                            (III) programs established under the 
                        Cooperative Forestry Assistance Act of 1978 (16 
                        U.S.C. 2101 et seq.).
            (5) Public input.--In developing an adaptation plan, a 
        State shall solicit and consider input from the public and 
        independent scientists.
            (6) Coordination with other plans.--A State adaptation plan 
        shall, where appropriate, integrate the goals and measures set 
        forth in other climate adaptation, hazard mitigation, and fish, 
        wildlife, and plant conservation strategies and plans.
            (7) Updates.--Each State adaptation plan shall be updated 
        at least every 4 years.

SEC. 306. PUBLIC LANDS SERVICE CORPS.

    (a) Amendment to Existing Short Title.--Section 201 of the Public 
Lands Corps Act of 1993 (16 U.S.C. 1701 note; title II of Public Law 
91-378) is amended to read as follows:

``SEC. 201. SHORT TITLE; REFERENCES.

    ``(a) Short Title.--This title may be cited as the `Public Lands 
Service Corps Act of 1993'.
    ``(b) References.--Any reference contained in any law, regulation, 
document, paper, or other record of the United States to the `Public 
Lands Corps Act of 1993' shall be considered to be a reference to the 
`Public Lands Service Corps Act of 1993'.''.
    (b) Name and Project Description Changes.--The Public Lands Corps 
Act of 1993 (16 U.S.C. 1721 et seq.; title II of Public Law 91-378) is 
amended--
            (1) in the title heading, by striking ``PUBLIC LANDS 
        CORPS'' and inserting ``PUBLIC LANDS SERVICE CORPS'';
            (2) in section 204 (16 U.S.C. 1723), in the heading, by 
        striking ``public lands corps'' and inserting ``public lands 
        service corps'';
            (3) in section 210(a)(2) (16 U.S.C. 1729(a)(2)), in the 
        heading, by striking ``Public lands'';
            (4) by striking ``Public Lands Corps'' each place it 
        appears and inserting ``Corps'';
            (5) by striking ``conservation center'' each place it 
        appears and inserting ``residential conservation center'';
            (6) by striking ``conservation centers'' each place it 
        appears and inserting ``residential conservation centers'';
            (7) by striking ``appropriate conservation project'' each 
        place it appears and inserting ``appropriate natural and 
        cultural resources conservation project''; and
            (8) by striking ``appropriate conservation projects'' each 
        place it appears and inserting ``appropriate natural and 
        cultural resources conservation projects''.
    (c) Findings.--Section 202(a) of the Public Lands Corps Act of 1993 
(16 U.S.C. 1721(a)), as amended by subsection (b), is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (1)--
                    (A) by striking ``Corps can benefit'' and inserting 
                ``conservation corps can benefit''; and
                    (B) by striking ``the natural and cultural'' and 
                inserting ``natural and cultural'';
            (2) by redesignating paragraphs (2) and (3) as paragraphs 
        (4) and (5), respectively;
            (3) by inserting after paragraph (1) the following new 
        paragraph:
            ``(2) Participants in conservation corps receive meaningful 
        education and training, and their experience with conservation 
        corps provides preparation for careers in public service.
            ``(3) Young men and women who participate in the 
        rehabilitation and restoration of the natural, cultural, 
        historic, archaeological, recreational, and scenic treasures of 
        the United States will gain an increased appreciation and 
        understanding of the public lands and heritage of the United 
        States, and of the value of public service, and are likely to 
        become life-long advocates for those values.'';
            (4) in paragraph (4), as redesignated by paragraph (2), by 
        inserting ``, cultural, historic, archaeological, recreational, 
        and scenic'' after ``Many facilities and natural''; and
            (5) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
            ``(6) The work of conservation corps can benefit 
        communities adjacent to public lands and facilities through 
        renewed civic engagement and participation by corps 
        participants and those they serve, improved student 
        achievement, and restoration and rehabilitation of public 
        assets.''.
    (d) Purposes.--Subsection (b) of section 202 of the Public Lands 
Corps Act of 1993 (16 U.S.C. 1721) is amended to read as follows:
    ``(b) Purposes.--The purposes of this Act are as follows:
            ``(1) To introduce young men and women to public service 
        while furthering their understanding and appreciation of the 
        natural, cultural, historic, archaeological, recreational, and 
        scenic resources of the United States.
            ``(2) To facilitate training and recruitment opportunities 
        in which service is credited as qualifying experience for 
        careers in the management of such resources.
            ``(3) To instill in a new generation of young men and women 
        from across the United States, including young men and women 
        from diverse backgrounds, the desire to seek careers in 
        resource stewardship and public service by allowing them to 
        work directly with professionals in agencies responsible for 
        the management of the natural, cultural, historic, 
        archaeological, recreational, and scenic resources of the 
        United States.
            ``(4) To perform, in a cost-effective manner, appropriate 
        natural and cultural resources conservation projects where such 
        projects are not being performed by existing employees.
            ``(5) To assist State and local governments and Indian 
        tribes in performing research and public education tasks 
        associated with the conservation of natural, cultural, 
        historic, archaeological, recreational, and scenic resources.
            ``(6) To expand educational opportunities on public lands 
        and by rewarding individuals who participate in conservation 
        corps with an increased ability to pursue higher education and 
        job training.
            ``(7) To promote public understanding and appreciation of 
        the missions and the natural and cultural resources 
        conservation work of the participating Federal agencies through 
        training opportunities, community service and outreach, and 
        other appropriate means.
            ``(8) To create a grant program for Indian tribes to 
        establish the Indian Youth Service Corps so that Indian youth 
        can benefit from carrying out projects on Indian lands that the 
        Indian tribes and communities determine to be priorities.''.
    (e) Definitions.--Section 203 of the Public Lands Corps Act of 1993 
(16 U.S.C. 1722) is amended--
            (1) by redesignating paragraphs (3) through (7), (8) 
        through (10), and (11) through (13) as paragraphs (5) through 
        (9), (11) through (13), and (15) through (17), respectively;
            (2) by striking paragraphs (1) and (2) and inserting the 
        following new paragraphs:
            ``(1) Appropriate natural and cultural resources 
        conservation project.--The term `appropriate natural and 
        cultural resources conservation project' means any project for 
        the conservation, restoration, construction, or rehabilitation 
        of natural, cultural, historic, archaeological, recreational, 
        or scenic resources.
            ``(2) Consulting intern.--The term `consulting intern' 
        means a consulting intern selected under section 206(a)(2).
            ``(3) Corps and public lands service corps.--The terms 
        `Corps' and `Public Lands Service Corps' mean the Public Lands 
        Service Corps established under section 204(a).
            ``(4) Corps participant.--The term `Corps participant' 
        means an individual enrolled--
                    ``(A) in the Corps or the Indian Youth Service 
                Corps; or
                    ``(B) as a resource assistant or consulting 
                intern.'';
            (3) by inserting after paragraph (9), as redesignated by 
        paragraph (1), the following new paragraph:
            ``(10) Indian youth service corps.--The term `Indian Youth 
        Service Corps' means a qualified youth or conservation corps 
        established under section 207 that--
                    ``(A) enrolls individuals between the ages of 15 
                and 25, inclusive, a majority of whom are Indians; and
                    ``(B) is established pursuant to a tribal 
                resolution that describes the agreement between the 
                Indian tribe and the qualified youth or conservation 
                corps to operate an Indian Youth Service Corps program 
                for the benefit of the members of the Indian tribe.'';
            (4) by striking paragraph (12), as redesignated by 
        paragraph (1), and inserting the following new paragraph:
            ``(12) Public lands.--The term `public lands' means any 
        land or water (or interest therein) owned or administered by 
        the United States, including those areas of coastal and ocean 
        waters, the Great Lakes and their connecting waters, and 
        submerged lands over which the United States exercises 
        jurisdiction, except that such term does not include Indian 
        lands.'';
            (5) in paragraph (13), as redesignated by paragraph (1)--
                    (A) in subparagraph (A)--
                            (i) by striking ``full-time,'';
                            (ii) by inserting ``on eligible service 
                        lands'' after ``resource setting''; and
                            (iii) by striking ``16'' and inserting 
                        ``15'';
                    (B) in subparagraph (B), by striking ``and'' at the 
                end;
                    (C) in subparagraph (C), by striking the period at 
                the end and inserting ``; and''; and
                    (D) by adding at the end the following new 
                subparagraph:
                    ``(D) makes available for audit for each fiscal 
                year for which the qualified youth or conservation 
                corps receives Federal funds under this Act, all 
                information pertaining to the expenditure of the funds, 
                any matching funds, and participant demographics.'';
            (6) by inserting after paragraph (13), as redesignated by 
        paragraph (1) and amended by paragraph (5), the following new 
        paragraph:
            ``(14) Residential conservation centers.--The term 
        `residential conservation centers' means the facilities 
        authorized under section 205.'';
            (7) in paragraph (15), as redesignated by paragraph (1), by 
        striking ``206'' and inserting ``206(a)(1)''; and
            (8) in paragraph (16), as redesignated by paragraph (1)--
                    (A) in subparagraph (A), by striking ``and'' at the 
                end;
                    (B) in subparagraph (B), by striking the period at 
                the end and inserting ``; and''; and
                    (C) by adding at the end the following new 
                subparagraph:
                    ``(C) with respect to the National Marine Sanctuary 
                System, coral reefs, and other coastal, estuarine, and 
                marine habitats, and other lands and facilities 
                administered by the National Oceanic and Atmospheric 
                Administration, the Secretary of Commerce.''.
    (f) Public Lands Service Corps Program.--Section 204 of the Public 
Lands Corps Act of 1993 (16 U.S.C. 1723), as amended by subsection (b), 
is amended--
            (1) by redesignating subsections (c), (d), (e), and (f) as 
        subsections (d), (f), (g), and (h), respectively;
            (2) by striking subsections (a) and (b) and inserting the 
        following new subsections:
    ``(a) Establishment of Public Lands Service Corps.--There is 
established in the Department of the Interior, the Department of 
Agriculture, and the Department of Commerce a Public Lands Service 
Corps.
    ``(b) Establishment of Corps Office; Coordinators; Liaison.--
            ``(1) Establishment of offices.--
                    ``(A) Department of the interior.--The Secretary of 
                the Interior shall establish a department-level office 
                to coordinate the Corps activities within the 
                Department of the Interior.
                    ``(B) Department of agriculture.--The Secretary of 
                Agriculture shall establish within the Forest Service 
                an office to coordinate the Corps activities within 
                that agency.
                    ``(C) Department of commerce.--The Secretary of 
                Commerce shall establish within the National Oceanic 
                and Atmospheric Administration an office to coordinate 
                the Corps activities within that agency.
            ``(2) Establishment of coordinators.--The Secretary shall 
        designate a Public Lands Service Corps coordinator for each 
        agency under the jurisdiction of the Secretary that administers 
        Corps activities.
            ``(3) Establishment of liaison.--The Secretary of the 
        Interior shall establish an Indian Youth Service Corps liaison 
        that will--
                    ``(A) provide outreach to Indian tribes about 
                opportunities for establishing Corps and Indian Youth 
                Service Corps programs; and
                    ``(B) coordinate with the Tribal Liaison of the 
                Corporation for National Service to identify and 
                establish Corps and Indian Youth Service Corps 
                opportunities for Indian youth.
    ``(c) Participants.--
            ``(1) In general.--The Secretary may enroll in the Corps 
        individuals who are--
                    ``(A) hired by an agency under the jurisdiction of 
                the Secretary to perform work authorized under this 
                Act; or
                    ``(B) members of a qualified youth or conservation 
                corps with which the Secretary has entered into a 
                cooperative agreement to perform work authorized under 
                this Act.
            ``(2) Resource assistants and consulting interns.--The 
        Secretary may also enroll in the Corps resource assistants and 
        consulting interns in accordance with section 206(a).
            ``(3) Eligibility requirements.--To be eligible for 
        enrollment as a Corps participant, an individual shall--
                    ``(A)(i) be between the ages of 15 and 25, 
                inclusive; or
                    ``(ii) in the case of a military veteran, be not 
                older than 35; and
                    ``(B) satisfy the requirements of section 137(a)(5) 
                of the National and Community Service Act of 1990 (42 
                U.S.C. 12591(a)(5)).
            ``(4) Terms.--Each Corps participant may be enrolled in the 
        Corps for a term of up to 2 years of service, which may be 
        served over a period that exceeds 2 calendar years.
            ``(5) Civil service.--An individual may be enrolled as a 
        Corps participant without regard to the civil service and 
        classification laws, rules, or regulations of the United 
        States.
            ``(6) Preference.--The Secretary may establish a preference 
        for the enrollment as Corps participants individuals who are 
        economically, physically, or educationally disadvantaged.
            ``(7) Local preference.--The Secretary may establish a 
        preference for enrollment of Corps participants who are 
        individuals who live in that State or region.'';
            (3) in subsection (d), as redesignated by paragraph (1)--
                    (A) in paragraph (1)--
                            (i) by striking ``contracts and''; and
                            (ii) by striking ``subsection (d)'' and 
                        inserting ``subsection (f)''; and
                    (B) by striking paragraph (2) and inserting the 
                following new paragraphs:
            ``(2) Recruitment.--The Secretary shall carry out, or enter 
        into cooperative agreements to provide, a program to attract 
        eligible youth to the Corps by publicizing Corps opportunities 
        through high schools, colleges, employment centers, electronic 
        media, and other appropriate institutions and means.
            ``(3) Preference.--In entering into cooperative agreements 
        under paragraph (1) or awarding competitive grants to Indian 
        tribes or tribally authorized organizations under section 207, 
        the Secretary may give preference to qualified youth or 
        conservation corps that are located in specific areas where a 
        substantial portion of members are economically, physically, or 
        educationally disadvantaged.'';
            (4) by inserting after subsection (d), as redesignated by 
        paragraph (1), the following new subsection:
    ``(e) Training.--For purposes of training, the Secretary shall take 
into account training already received by Corps participants enrolled 
from qualified youth or conservation corps.'';
            (5) in subsection (f), as redesignated by paragraph (1)--
                    (A) in paragraph (1)--
                            (i) in the heading, by striking ``In 
                        general.--'' and inserting ``Use of corps; 
                        projects.--'';
                            (ii) by striking ``The Secretary may 
                        utilize the Corps or any qualified youth or 
                        conservation corps to carry out'' and inserting 
                        the following:
                    ``(A) In general.--The Secretary may use the Corps 
                to carry out, with appropriate supervision and 
                training,'';
                            (iii) by striking ``on public lands'' and 
                        inserting on ``on eligible service lands''; and
                            (iv) by adding at the end the following new 
                        subparagraph:
                    ``(B) Projects.--Appropriate natural and cultural 
                resources conservation projects carried out under this 
                section may include--
                            ``(i) protecting, restoring, or enhancing 
                        ecosystem components to promote species 
                        recovery, improve biological diversity, enhance 
                        productivity and carbon sequestration, and 
                        enhance adaptability and resilience of eligible 
                        service lands and resources to climate change 
                        and other natural and human disturbances;
                            ``(ii) promoting the health of eligible 
                        service lands, including--
                                    ``(I) protecting and restoring 
                                watersheds and forest, grassland, 
                                riparian, estuarine, marine, or other 
                                habitat;
                                    ``(II) reducing the risk of 
                                uncharacteristically severe wildfire 
                                and mitigating damage from insects, 
                                disease, and disasters;
                                    ``(III) controlling erosion;
                                    ``(IV) controlling and removing 
                                invasive, noxious, or nonnative 
                                species; and
                                    ``(V) restoring native species;
                            ``(iii) collecting biological, 
                        archaeological, and other scientific data, 
                        including climatological information, species 
                        populations and movement, habitat status, and 
                        other information;
                            ``(iv) assisting in historical and cultural 
                        research, museum curatorial work, oral history 
                        projects, documentary photography, and 
                        activities that support the creation of public 
                        works of art related to eligible service lands; 
                        and
                            ``(v) constructing, repairing, 
                        rehabilitating, and maintaining roads, trails, 
                        campgrounds and other visitor facilities, 
                        employee housing, cultural and historic sites 
                        and structures, and other facilities that 
                        further the purposes of this Act.'';
                    (B) by redesignating paragraphs (2) and (3) as 
                paragraphs (4) and (5), respectively; and
                    (C) by inserting after paragraph (1) the following 
                new paragraphs:
            ``(2) Visitor services.--The Secretary may--
                    ``(A) enter into or amend an existing cooperative 
                agreement with a cooperating association, educational 
                institution, friends group, or similar nonprofit 
                partner organization for the purpose of providing 
                training and work experience to Corps participants in 
                areas such as sales, office work, accounting, and 
                management, provided that the work experience directly 
                relates to the conservation and management of eligible 
                service lands; and
                    ``(B) allow Corps participants to help promote 
                visitor safety and enjoyment of eligible service lands, 
                and assist in the gathering of visitor use data.
            ``(3) Interpretation.--The Secretary may permit Corps 
        participants to provide interpretation or education services 
        for the public under the direct and immediate supervision of an 
        agency employee--
                    ``(A) to provide orientation and information 
                services to visitors;
                    ``(B) to assist agency employees in the delivery of 
                interpretive or educational programs where audience 
                size, environmental conditions, safety, or other 
                factors make such assistance desirable;
                    ``(C) to present programs that relate the personal 
                experience of the Corps participants for the purpose of 
                promoting public awareness of the Corps, the role of 
                the Corps in public land management agencies, and the 
                availability of the Corps to potential participants; 
                and
                    ``(D) to create nonpersonal interpretive products, 
                such as website content, Junior Ranger program books, 
                printed handouts, and audiovisual programs.'';
            (6) in subsection (g), as redesignated by paragraph (1)--
                    (A) in the matter preceding paragraph (1), by 
                striking ``those projects which'' and inserting 
                ``priority projects and other projects that''; and
                    (B) by striking paragraph (2) and inserting the 
                following new paragraph:
            ``(2) will instill in Corps participants a work ethic and a 
        sense of public service;''; and
            (7) by adding at the end the following new subsections:
    ``(i) Other Participants.--The Secretary may allow volunteers from 
other programs administered or designated by the Secretary to 
participate as volunteers in projects carried out under this section.
    ``(j) Criminal History Checks.--
            ``(1) In general.--The requirements of section 189D(b) of 
        the National and Community Service Act of 1990 (42 U.S.C. 
        12645g(b)) shall apply to each individual age 18 or older 
        seeking--
                    ``(A) to become a Corps participant;
                    ``(B) to receive funds authorized under this Act; 
                or
                    ``(C) to supervise or otherwise have regular 
                contact with Corps participants in activities 
                authorized under this Act.
            ``(2) Eligibility prohibition.--If any of paragraphs (1) 
        through (4) of section 189D(c) of the National and Community 
        Service Act of 1990 (42 U.S.C. 12645g(c)) apply to an 
        individual described in paragraph (1), that individual shall 
        not be eligible for the position or activity described in 
        paragraph (1), unless the Secretary provides an exemption for 
        good cause.''.
    (g) Residential Conservation Centers and Program Support.--Section 
205 of the Public Lands Corps Act of 1993 (16 U.S.C. 1724) is amended--
            (1) in subsection (b)--
                    (A) by striking ``The Secretary'' and inserting the 
                following:
            ``(1) In general.--The Secretary''; and
                    (B) by adding at the end the following new 
                paragraphs:
            ``(2) Temporary housing.--The Secretary may make 
        arrangements with another Federal agency, State, local 
        government, or private organization to provide temporary 
        housing for Corps participants as needed and available.
            ``(3) Transportation.--In project areas where Corps 
        participants reside at their own homes, the Secretary may 
        provide transportation to and from project sites.'';
            (2) by redesignating subsection (d) as subsection (e);
            (3) by inserting after subsection (c) the following new 
        subsection:
    ``(d) Mentors.--The Secretary may recruit from programs, such as 
Federal volunteer and encore service programs, and from veterans 
groups, military retirees, and active duty personnel, such adults as 
may be suitable and qualified to provide training, mentoring, and crew-
leading services to Corps participants.''; and
            (4) in subsection (e), as redesignated by paragraph (2), by 
        striking ``that are appropriate'' and all that follows through 
        the period and inserting ``that the Secretary determines to be 
        necessary for a residential conservation center.''.
    (h) Resource Assistants and Consulting Interns.--Section 206 of the 
Public Lands Corps Act of 1993 (16 U.S.C. 1725) is amended--
            (1) in the section heading, by inserting ``and consulting 
        interns'' before the period; and
            (2) by striking subsections (a) and (b) and inserting the 
        following new subsections:
    ``(a) Authorization.--
            ``(1) Resource assistants.--
                    ``(A) In general.--The Secretary may provide 
                individual placements of resource assistants with any 
                agency under the jurisdiction of the Secretary that 
                carries out appropriate natural and cultural resources 
                conservation projects to carry out research or resource 
                protection activities on behalf of the agency.
                    ``(B) Eligibility.--To be eligible for selection as 
                a resource assistant, an individual shall be at least 
                17 years of age.
                    ``(C) Preference.--In selecting resource assistants 
                for placement under this paragraph, the Secretary shall 
                give a preference to individuals who are enrolled in an 
                institution of higher education or are recent graduates 
                from an institution of higher education, with 
                particular attention given to ensuring full 
                representation of women and participants from 
                Historically Black Colleges and Universities, Hispanic-
                serving institutions, and Tribal Colleges and 
                Universities.
            ``(2) Consulting interns.--
                    ``(A) In general.--The Secretary may provide 
                individual placements of consulting interns with any 
                agency under the jurisdiction of the Secretary that 
                carries out appropriate natural and cultural resources 
                conservation projects to carry out management analysis 
                activities on behalf of the agency.
                    ``(B) Eligibility.--To be eligible for selection as 
                a consulting intern, an individual shall be enrolled 
                in, and have completed at least 1 full year at, a 
                graduate or professional school that has been 
                accredited by an accrediting body recognized by the 
                Secretary of Education.
    ``(b) Use of Existing Nonprofit Organizations.--
            ``(1) In general.--Whenever one or more nonprofit 
        organizations can provide appropriate recruitment and placement 
        services to fulfill the requirements of this section, the 
        Secretary may implement this section through such 
        organizations.
            ``(2) Expenses.--Participating organizations shall 
        contribute to the expenses of providing and supporting the 
        resource assistants or consulting interns from sources of 
        funding other than the Secretary, at a level of not less than 
        25 percent of the total costs (15 percent of which may be from 
        in-kind sources) of each participant in the resource assistant 
        or consulting intern program who has been recruited and placed 
        through that organization.
            ``(3) Reporting.--Each participating organization shall be 
        required to submit an annual report evaluating the scope, size, 
        and quality of the program, including the value of work 
        contributed by the resource assistants and consulting interns, 
        to the mission of the agency.''.
    (i) Inclusion of Indian Youth Service Corps and Issuance of 
Guidance.--The Public Lands Corps Act of 1993 is amended--
            (1) by redesignating sections 207 through 211 (16 U.S.C. 
        1726 through 1730) as sections 209 through 213, respectively; 
        and
            (2) by inserting after section 206 (16 U.S.C. 1725) the 
        following new sections:

``SEC. 207. INDIAN YOUTH SERVICE CORPS.

    ``(a) Authorization of Cooperative Agreements and Competitive 
Grants.--The Secretary is authorized to enter into cooperative 
agreements with, or make competitive grants to, Indian tribes and 
qualified youth or conservation corps for the establishment and 
administration of Indian Youth Service Corps programs to carry out 
appropriate natural and cultural resources conservation projects on 
Indian lands.
    ``(b) Application.--To be eligible to receive assistance under this 
section, an Indian tribe or a qualified youth or conservation corps 
shall submit to the Secretary an application in such manner and 
containing such information as the Secretary may require, including--
            ``(1) a description of the methods by which Indian youth 
        will be recruited for and retained in the Indian Youth Service 
        Corps;
            ``(2) a description of the projects to be carried out by 
        the Indian Youth Service Corps;
            ``(3) a description of how the projects were identified; 
        and
            ``(4) an explanation of the impact of, and the direct 
        community benefits provided by, the proposed projects.

``SEC. 208. GUIDANCE.

    ``Not later than 18 months after funds are made available to the 
Secretary to carry out this Act, the Secretary shall issue guidelines 
for the management of programs under the jurisdiction of the Secretary 
that are authorized under this Act.''.
    (j) Living Allowances and Terms of Service.--Section 209 of the 
Public Lands Corps Act of 1993 (16 U.S.C. 1726), as redesignated by 
subsection (i), is amended by striking subsections (a), (b), and (c) 
and inserting the following new subsections:
    ``(a) Living Allowances.--
            ``(1) In general.--The Secretary shall provide each Corps 
        participant with a living allowance in an amount established by 
        the Secretary.
            ``(2) Travel costs.--The Secretary may reimburse Corps 
        participants for travel costs at the beginning and end of the 
        term of service of the Corps participants.
    ``(b) Terms of Service.--
            ``(1) In general.--Each Corps participant shall agree to 
        participate for such term of service as may be established by 
        the Secretary.
            ``(2) Consultations.--With respect to the Indian Youth 
        Service Corps, the term of service shall be established in 
        consultation with the affected Indian tribe or tribally 
        authorized organization.
    ``(c) Hiring Preference and Future Employment.--The Secretary may--
            ``(1) grant to a Corps participant credit for time served 
        as a Corps participant, which may be used toward future Federal 
        hiring;
            ``(2) provide to a former participant of the Corps or the 
        Indian Youth Service Corps noncompetitive hiring status for a 
        period of not more than 2 years after the date on which the 
        service of the candidate in the Corps or the Indian Youth 
        Service Corps was complete, if the candidate--
                    ``(A) has served a minimum of 960 hours on an 
                appropriate natural or cultural resources conservation 
                project that included at least 120 hours through the 
                Corps or the Indian Youth Service Corps; and
                    ``(B) meets Office of Personnel Management 
                qualification standards for the position for which the 
                candidate is applying;
            ``(3) provide to a former resource assistant or consulting 
        intern noncompetitive hiring status for a period of not more 
        than 2 years after the date on which the individual has 
        completed an undergraduate or graduate degree, respectively, 
        from an accredited institution, if the candidate--
                    ``(A) successfully fulfilled the resource assistant 
                or consulting intern program requirements; and
                    ``(B) meets Office of Personnel Management 
                qualification standards for the position for which the 
                candidate is applying; and
            ``(4) provide, or enter into contracts or cooperative 
        agreements with qualified employment agencies to provide, 
        alumni services such as job and education counseling, 
        referrals, verification of service, communications, and other 
        appropriate services to Corps participants who have completed 
        the term of service.''.
    (k) National Service Educational Awards.--Section 210 of the Public 
Lands Corps Act of 1993 (16 U.S.C. 1727), as redesignated by subsection 
(i) and amended by subsection (b), is amended--
            (1) in subsection (a), in the first sentence--
                    (A) by striking ``participant in the Corps or a 
                resource assistant'' and inserting ``Corps 
                participant''; and
                    (B) by striking ``participant or resource 
                assistant'' and inserting ``Corps participant''; and
            (2) in subsection (b)--
                    (A) by striking ``either participants in the Corps 
                or resource assistants'' and inserting ``Corps 
                participants''; and
                    (B) by striking ``or a resource assistant''.
    (l) Nondisplacement.--Section 211 of the Public Lands Corps Act of 
1993 (16 U.S.C. 1728), as redesignated by subsection (i), is amended by 
striking ``activities carried out'' and all that follows through the 
period and inserting ``Corps participants.''.
    (m) Funding.--Section 212 of the Public Lands Corps Act of 1993 (16 
U.S.C. 1729), as redesignated by subsection (i), is amended--
            (1) in subsection (a)--
                    (A) in paragraph (1)--
                            (i) in the second sentence, by striking 
                        ``nonfederal sources'' and inserting ``sources 
                        other than the Secretary''; and
                            (ii) by inserting after the second sentence 
                        the following: ``The Secretary may pay up to 90 
                        percent of the costs of a project if the 
                        Secretary determines that the reduction is 
                        necessary to enable participation from a 
                        greater range of organizations or 
                        individuals.''; and
                    (B) in paragraph (2), by inserting ``or Indian 
                Youth Service Corps'' after ``Corps'' each place it 
                appears;
            (2) by striking subsection (b) and inserting the following 
        new subsection:
    ``(b) Funds Available Under National and Community Service Act.--To 
carry out this title, the Secretary shall be eligible to apply for and 
receive assistance under section 121(b) of the National and Community 
Service Act (42 U.S.C. 12571(b)).''; and
            (3) in subsection (c)--
                    (A) by striking ``section 211'' and inserting 
                ``section 213''; and
                    (B) by inserting ``or Indian Youth Service Corps'' 
                after ``Corps''.
    (n) Authorization of Appropriations.--Section 213 of the Public 
Lands Corps Act of 1993 (16 U.S.C. 1730), as redesignated by subsection 
(i), is amended--
            (1) in subsection (a), by striking ``year'' and all that 
        follows through the period and inserting ``year.'';
            (2) by striking subsection (b); and
            (3) by redesignating subsection (c) as subsection (b).

SEC. 307. COASTAL STATE CLIMATE CHANGE PLANNING.

    (a) In General.--The Coastal Zone Management Act of 1972 (16 U.S.C. 
1451 et seq.) is amended by adding at the end the following:

                  ``climate change adaptation planning

    ``Sec. 320.  (a) In General.--The Secretary shall establish 
consistent with the national policies set forth in section 303 a 
coastal climate change adaptation planning and response program to--
            ``(1) provide assistance to coastal states to voluntarily 
        develop coastal climate change adaptation plans pursuant to 
        approved management programs approved under section 306, to 
        minimize contributions to climate change and to prepare for and 
        reduce the negative consequences that may result from climate 
        change in the coastal zone; and
            ``(2) provide financial and technical assistance and 
        training to enable coastal states to implement plans developed 
        pursuant to this section through coastal states' enforceable 
        policies.
    ``(b) Guidelines.--Within 180 days after the date of enactment of 
this section, the Secretary, in consultation with the coastal states, 
shall issue guidelines for the implementation of the grant program 
established under subsection (c).
    ``(c) Climate Change Adaptation Planning Grants.--
            ``(1) In general.--The Secretary, subject to the 
        availability of appropriations, may make a grant to any coastal 
        state for the purpose of developing climate change adaptation 
        plans pursuant to guidelines issued by the Secretary under 
        subsection (b).
            ``(2) Plan content.--A plan developed with a grant under 
        this section shall include the following:
                    ``(A) Identification of public facilities and 
                public services, working waterfronts, coastal resources 
                of national significance, coastal waters, energy 
                facilities, or other land and water uses located in the 
                coastal zone that are likely to be impacted by climate 
                change.
                    ``(B) Adaptive management strategies for land use 
                to respond or adapt to changing environmental 
                conditions, including strategies to protect 
                biodiversity, protect water quality, and establish 
                habitat buffer zones, migration corridors, and climate 
                refugia.
                    ``(C) Requirements to initiate and maintain long-
                term monitoring of environmental change to assess 
                coastal zone adaptation and to adjust when necessary 
                adaptive management strategies and new planning 
                guidelines to attain the policies under section 303.
                    ``(D) Other information considered necessary by the 
                Secretary to identify the full range of climate change 
                impacts affecting coastal communities.
            ``(3) State hazard mitigation plans.--Plans developed with 
        a grant under this section shall be consistent with State 
        hazard mitigation plans and natural disaster response and 
        recovery programs developed under State or Federal law.
            ``(4) Allocation.--Grants under this section shall be 
        available only to coastal states with management programs 
        approved by the Secretary under section 306 and shall be 
        allocated among such coastal states in a manner consistent with 
        regulations promulgated pursuant to section 306(c).
            ``(5) Priority.--In the awarding of grants under this 
        subsection the Secretary may give priority to any coastal state 
        that has received grant funding to develop program changes 
        pursuant to paragraphs (1), (2), (3), (5), (6), (7), and (8) of 
        section 309(a).
            ``(6) Technical assistance.--The Secretary may provide 
        technical assistance to a coastal state consistent with section 
        310 to ensure the timely development of plans supported by 
        grants awarded under this subsection.
            ``(7) Federal approval.--In order to be eligible for a 
        grant under subsection (d), a coastal state must have its plan 
        developed under this section approved by the Secretary.
    ``(d) Coastal Adaptation Project Grants.--
            ``(1) In general.--The Secretary, subject to the 
        availability of appropriations, may make grants to any coastal 
        state that has a climate change adaptation plan approved under 
        subsection (c)(7), in order to support projects that implement 
        strategies contained within such plans.
            ``(2) Program requirements.--The Secretary within 90 days 
        after approval of the first plan approved under subsection 
        (c)(7), shall publish in the Federal Register requirements 
        regarding applications, allocations, eligible activities, and 
        all terms and conditions for grants awarded under this 
        subsection. No less than 30 percent, and no more than 50 
        percent, of the funds appropriated in any fiscal year for 
        grants under this subsection shall be awarded through a merit-
        based competitive process.
            ``(3) Eligible activities.--The Secretary may award grants 
        to coastal states to implement projects in the coastal zone to 
        address stress factors in order to improve coastal climate 
        change adaptation, including the following:
                    ``(A) Activities to address physical disturbances 
                within the coastal zone, especially activities related 
                to public facilities and public services, tourism, 
                sedimentation, ocean acidification, and other factors 
                negatively impacting coastal waters, and fisheries-
                associated habitat destruction or alteration.
                    ``(B) Monitoring, control, or eradication of 
                disease organisms and invasive species.
                    ``(C) Activities to address the loss, degradation, 
                or fragmentation of wildlife habitat through projects 
                to establish or protect marine and terrestrial habitat 
                buffers, wildlife refugia, other wildlife refuges, or 
                networks thereof, preservation of migratory wildlife 
                corridors and other transition zones, and restoration 
                of fish and wildlife habitat.
                    ``(D) Implementation of projects to reduce, 
                mitigate, or otherwise address likely impacts caused by 
                natural hazards in the coastal zone, including sea 
                level rise, coastal inundation, coastal erosion and 
                subsidence, severe weather events such as cyclonic 
                storms, tsunamis and other seismic threats, and 
                fluctuating Great Lakes water levels.
                    ``(E) Provide technical training and assistance to 
                local coastal policy makers to increase awareness of 
                science, management, and technology information related 
                to climate change and adaptation strategies.
            ``(4) Promotion and use of national estuarine research 
        reserves.--The Secretary shall promote and encourage the use of 
        National Estuarine Research Reserves as sites for pilot or 
        demonstration projects carried out with grants awarded under 
        this section.''.
    (b) Authorization of Appropriations.--Section 318(a) of the Coastal 
Zone Management Act of 1972 (16 U.S.C. 1464) is further amended by 
striking ``and'' after the semicolon at the end of paragraph (1), by 
striking the period at the end of paragraph (2) and inserting ``; 
and'', and by adding at the end the following:
            ``(3) for grants under subsections (c) and (d) of section 
        320, such sums as are necessary.''.
    (c) Intent of Congress.--Nothing in this section shall be construed 
to require any coastal state to amend or modify its approved management 
program pursuant to section 306(e) of the Coastal Zone Management Act 
of 1972 (16 U.S.C. 1455(e)), or to extend the enforceable policies of a 
coastal state beyond the coastal zone as identified in the coastal 
state's approved management program.

                  TITLE IV--ONSHORE OIL AND GAS REFORM

                      Subtitle A--Leasing Reforms

SEC. 401. LEASING PROCESS.

    (a) Onshore Oil and Gas Leasing.--Section 17(a) of the Mineral 
Leasing Act (30 U.S.C. 226(a)) is amended to read as follows:
    ``(a) Leasing Authority.--
            ``(1) In general.--All lands subject to disposition under 
        this Act that are known or believed to contain oil or gas 
        deposits may be leased by the Secretary.
            ``(2) Receipt of fair market value.--Leasing activities 
        under this Act shall be conducted to assure receipt of fair 
        market value for the lands and resources leased and the rights 
        conveyed by the Federal Government.''.
    (b) Competitive Bidding.--Section 17(b)(1)(A) of the Mineral 
Leasing Act (30 U.S.C. 226(b)(1)(A)), as amended by this Act, is 
further amended by--
            (1) striking so much as precedes ``A lease shall be 
        conditioned'' and inserting ``All lands to be leased shall be 
        leased as provided in this paragraph to the highest responsible 
        qualified bidder by competitive bidding under general 
        regulations in units of not more than 2,560 acres, except in 
        Alaska, where units shall be not more than 5,760 acres. Such 
        units shall be as nearly compact as possible. Lease sales shall 
        be conducted by sealed bid. Lease sales shall be held for each 
        State in which there are lands eligible for leasing no more 
        than 3 times each year, and on a rotating basis such that the 
        lands under the responsibility of any Bureau of Land Management 
        field office are available for leasing no more than one time 
        each year.'';
            (2) striking ``The Secretary shall accept'' and all that 
        follows through ``for the first lease year.'' and inserting 
        ``The Secretary may issue a lease to the responsible qualified 
        bidder with the highest bid that is equal to or greater than 
        the national minimum acceptable bid. The Secretary shall decide 
        whether to accept a bid and issue a lease within 90 days 
        following payment by the successful bidder of the remainder of 
        the bonus bid, if any, and the annual rental for the first 
        lease year.''; and
            (3) striking the last sentence.
    (c) Minimum Bid.--Subparagraph (B) of section 17(b)(1) of the 
Mineral Leasing Act (30 U.S.C. 226(b)(1)), as amended by this Act, is 
further amended by striking ``Thereafter'' and all that follows through 
the end of the subparagraph and inserting ``The Secretary may establish 
a higher minimum acceptable bid if the Secretary finds that such a 
higher amount is necessary (i) to enhance financial returns to the 
United States; and (ii) to promote more efficient management of oil and 
gas resources on Federal lands. The Secretary may reject a bid above 
the national minimum acceptable bid if, after evaluation of the value 
of the lands proposed for lease, the Secretary determines that the bid 
amount does not ensure that fair market value is obtained for the 
lease. The proposal or promulgation of any regulation to establish a 
higher minimum acceptable bid shall not be considered a major Federal 
action that is subject to the requirements of section 102(2)(C) of the 
National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 (42 U.S.C. 4332(2)(C)).''.
    (d) Rentals.--Section 17(d) of the Mineral Leasing Act (30 U.S.C. 
226(d)), as amended by this Act, is further amended by--
            (1) striking so much as precedes ``shall be conditioned'' 
        and inserting the following:
    ``(d) During the 2-year period beginning on the date of the 
enactment of the Sustainable Energy Development Reform Act, all leases 
issued under this section''; and
            (2) inserting before ``A minimum royalty'' the following: 
        ``After the end of such 2-year period, the Secretary may 
        establish higher rental rates for all subsequent years, if the 
        Secretary finds that such action is necessary to enhance 
        financial returns to the United States and promote more 
        efficient management of oil and gas and alternative energy 
        resources on Federal lands.''.
    (e) Elimination of Noncompetitive Leasing.--The Mineral Leasing 
Act, as amended by this Act, is further amended--
            (1) in section 17(b) (30 U.S.C. 226(b)), by striking 
        paragraph (3);
            (2) by amending section 17(c) (30 U.S.C. 226(c)) to read as 
        follows:
    ``(c) Lands made available for leasing under subsection (b)(1) but 
for which no bids are received, or for which the highest bid was less 
than the national minimum acceptable bid, or for which the highest bid 
was determined to be below fair market value, may thereafter be made 
available for leasing only in accordance with subsection (b)(1).'';
            (3) in section 17(e) (30 U.S.C. 226(e))--
                    (A) by striking ``Competitive and noncompetitive 
                leases'' and inserting ``Leases''; and
                    (B) by striking ``competitive'';
            (4) in section 31(d)(1) (30 U.S.C. 188(d)(1)) by striking 
        ``or section 17(c)'';
            (5) in section 31(e) (30 U.S.C. 188(e))--
                    (A) in paragraph (2) by striking ``, or the 
                inclusion'' and all that follows and inserting a 
                semicolon; and
                    (B) in paragraph (3) by striking ``(A)'' and by 
                striking subparagraph (B);
            (6) by striking section 31(f) (30 U.S.C. 188(f)); and
            (7) in section 31(g) (30 U.S.C. 188(g))--
                    (A) in paragraph (1) by striking ``as a 
                competitive'' and all that follows through the period 
                and inserting ``in the same manner as the original 
                lease issued pursuant to section 17.'';
                    (B) by striking paragraph (2) and redesignating 
                paragraphs (3) and (4) as paragraphs (2) and (3), 
                respectively; and
                    (C) in paragraph (2), as so redesignated, by 
                striking ``, applicable to leases issued under 
                subsection 17(c) of this Act (30 U.S.C. 226(c)) 
                except,'' and inserting ``, except''.
    (f) Lease Term.--Section 17(e) of the Mineral Leasing Act (30 
U.S.C. 226(e)) is amended--
            (1) by striking ``10 years'' and inserting ``5 years''; and
            (2) by striking ``ten years'' and inserting ``5 years''.
    (g) Other Leasing Requirements.--Section 17(g) of the Mineral 
Leasing Act (30 U.S.C. 226(g)), as amended by section 104 of this Act, 
is further amended by adding at the end the following:
            ``(7) Limitation.--The Secretary shall not issue a lease or 
        approve the assignment of any lease to any person, or to any 
        subsidiary or affiliate of such person or any other person 
        controlled by or under common control with such person, unless 
        such person has the demonstrated capability to explore and 
        produce oil and gas under the lease.
            ``(8) Protection of leased lands for other uses.--Each 
        lease under this section shall include such terms as are 
        necessary to preserve the Federal Government's flexibility to 
        control or prohibit activities that pose serious and 
        unacceptable impacts to the value of the leased lands for uses 
        other than production of oil and gas.''.

SEC. 402. TRANSPARENCY AND LANDOWNER PROTECTIONS.

    (a) Disclosure of Identities Filing Disclosures of Interest and 
Bids.--Section 17(b) of the Mineral Leasing Act (30 U.S.C. 226(b)), as 
amended by this Act, is further amended by adding at the end the 
following:
            ``(3) The Secretary--
                    ``(A) shall require that each expression of 
                interest to bid for a lease under this section and each 
                bid for a lease under this section shall include the 
                name of the person for whom such expression of interest 
                or bid is submitted; and
                    ``(B) shall promptly publish each such name.''.
    (b) Notice Requirements.--Section 17(f) of the Mineral Leasing Act 
(30 U.S.C. 226(f)) is amended by striking all through the first 2 
sentences and inserting the following:
    ``(f)(1) At least 45 days before offering lands for lease under 
this section, and at least 30 days before approving applications for 
permits to drill under the provisions of a lease, modifying the terms 
of any lease issued under this section, or granting a waiver, 
exception, or modification of any stipulation of a lease issued under 
this section, the Secretary shall provide notice of the proposed action 
to--
            ``(A) the general public by posting such notice in the 
        appropriate local office and on the electronic website of the 
        leasing and land management agencies offering the lands for 
        lease;
            ``(B) all surface land owners in the area of the lands 
        being offered for lease; and
            ``(C) the holders of special recreation permits for 
        commercial use, competitive events, and other organized 
        activities on the lands being offered for lease.
    ``(2)''.
    (c) Surface Owner Protection.--
            (1) Post-lease surface use agreement.--
                    (A) In general.--Except as provided in paragraph 
                (2), the Secretary may not authorize any operator to 
                conduct exploration and drilling operations on lands 
                with respect to which title to oil and gas resources is 
                held by the United States but title to the surface 
                estate is not held by the United States, until the 
                operator has filed with the Secretary a document, 
                signed by the operator and the surface owner or owners, 
                showing that the operator has secured a written surface 
                use agreement between the operator and the surface 
                owner or owners that meets the requirements of 
                subparagraph (B).
                    (B) Contents.--The surface use agreement shall 
                provide for--
                            (i) the use of only such portion of the 
                        surface estate as is reasonably necessary for 
                        exploration and drilling operations based on 
                        site-specific conditions;
                            (ii) the accommodation of the surface 
                        estate owner to the maximum extent practicable, 
                        including the location, use, timing, and type 
                        of exploration and drilling operations, 
                        consistent with the operator's right to develop 
                        the oil and gas estate;
                            (iii) the reclamation of the site to a 
                        condition capable of supporting the uses which 
                        such lands were capable of supporting prior to 
                        exploration and drilling operations; and
                            (iv) compensation for damages as a result 
                        of exploration and drilling operations, 
                        including but not limited to--
                                    (I) loss of income and increased 
                                costs incurred;
                                    (II) damage to or destruction of 
                                personal property, including crops, 
                                forage, and livestock; and
                                    (III) failure to reclaim the site 
                                in accordance with this clause (iii).
                    (C) Procedure.--
                            (i) An operator shall notify the surface 
                        estate owner or owners of the operator's desire 
                        to conclude an agreement under this section. If 
                        the surface estate owner and the operator do 
                        not reach an agreement within 90 days after the 
                        operator has provided such notice, the matter 
                        shall be referred to third-party arbitration 
                        for resolution within a period of 90 days. The 
                        cost of such arbitration shall be the 
                        responsibility of the operator.
                            (ii) The Secretary shall identify persons 
                        with experience in conducting arbitrations and 
                        shall make this information available to 
                        operators.
                            (iii) Referral of a matter for arbitration 
                        by a person identified by the Secretary 
                        pursuant to clause (ii) shall be sufficient to 
                        constitute compliance with clause (i).
                    (D) Attorneys fees.--If action is taken to enforce 
                or interpret any of the terms and conditions contained 
                in a surface use agreement, the prevailing party shall 
                be reimbursed by the other party for reasonable 
                attorneys fees and actual costs incurred, in addition 
                to any other relief which a court or arbitration panel 
                may grant.
            (2) Authorized exploration and drilling operations.--
                    (A) Authorization without surface use agreement.--
                The Secretary may authorize an operator to conduct 
                exploration and drilling operations on lands covered by 
                paragraph (1) in the absence of an agreement with the 
                surface estate owner or owners, if--
                            (i) the Secretary makes a determination in 
                        writing that the operator made a good faith 
                        attempt to conclude such an agreement, 
                        including referral of the matter to arbitration 
                        pursuant to paragraph (1)(C), but that no 
                        agreement was concluded within 90 days after 
                        the referral to arbitration;
                            (ii) the operator submits a plan of 
                        operations that provides for the matters 
                        specified in paragraph (1)(B) and for 
                        compliance with all other applicable 
                        requirements of Federal and State law; and
                            (iii) the operator posts a bond or other 
                        financial assurance in an amount the Secretary 
                        determines to be adequate to ensure 
                        compensation to the surface estate owner for 
                        any damages to the site, in the form of a 
                        surety bond, trust fund, letter of credit, 
                        government security, certificate of deposit, 
                        cash, or equivalent.
                    (B) Surface owner participation.--The Secretary 
                shall provide surface estate owners with an opportunity 
                to--
                            (i) comment on plans of operations in 
                        advance of a determination of compliance with 
                        this title;
                            (ii) participate in bond level 
                        determinations and bond release proceedings 
                        under this section;
                            (iii) attend an on-site inspection during 
                        such determinations and proceedings;
                            (iv) file written objections to a proposed 
                        bond release; and
                            (v) request and participate in an on-site 
                        inspection when they have reason to believe 
                        there is a violation of the terms and 
                        conditions of a plan of operations.
                    (C) Payment of financial guarantee.--A surface 
                estate owner with respect to any land subject to a 
                lease may petition the Secretary for payment of all or 
                any portion of a bond or other financial assurance 
                required under this section as compensation for any 
                damages as a result of exploration and drilling 
                operations. Pursuant to such a petition, the Secretary 
                may use such bond or other guarantee to provide 
                compensation to the surface estate owner for such 
                damages.
                    (D) Bond release.--Upon request and after 
                inspection and opportunity for surface estate owner 
                review, the Secretary may release the financial 
                assurance required under this section if the Secretary 
                determines that exploration and drilling operations are 
                ended and all damages have been fully compensated.
            (3) Surface owner notification.--The Secretary shall--
                    (A) notify surface estate owners in writing at 
                least 45 days in advance of lease sales;
                    (B) within ten working days after a lease is 
                issued, notify surface estate owners of regarding the 
                identity of the lessee;
                    (C) notify surface estate owners in writing 
                concerning any subsequent decisions regarding a lease, 
                such as modifying or waiving stipulations and approving 
                rights-of-way; and
                    (D) notify surface estate owners within five 
                business days after issuance of a drilling permit under 
                a lease.

SEC. 403. LEASE STIPULATIONS.

    (a) Energy Policy Act of 2005.--Section 363(b)(3)(C) of the Energy 
Policy Act of 2005 (42 U.S.C. 15922(b)(3)(C)) is amended to read as 
follows:
                    ``(C) adequately protective of the resource for 
                which the stipulations are applied;''.
    (b) Revision of Existing Memorandum.--Not later than 180 days after 
the date of the enactment of this Act the Secretary of the Interior and 
the Secretary of Agriculture shall revise the memorandum of 
understanding under section 363(b)(3)(C) of the Energy Policy Act of 
2005 (42 U.S.C. 15922) in accordance with the amendment made by 
subsection (a).

SEC. 404. MASTER LEASING PLANS.

    Section 17(a) of the Mineral Leasing Act (30 U.S.C. 226(a)), as 
amended by section 401, is further amended by adding at the end the 
following:
            ``(3) Master leasing plans.--
                    ``(A) In general.--The Secretary may adopt and 
                implement a master leasing plan to govern the issuance 
                of oil and gas leases under this Act for any Federal 
                lands, in accordance with Bureau of Land Management 
                Instruction Memorandum No. 2010-117, dated May 17, 
                2010, as in effect on April 24, 2017, and without 
                regard to any recision, revocation, amendment, or other 
                modification to such memorandum after such date.
                    ``(B) Factors and considerations.--In deciding 
                whether to adopt and implement master leasing plans, 
                the Secretary--
                            ``(i) shall construe the factors stated in 
                        such Instruction Memorandum broadly; and
                            ``(ii) shall consider the benefits of 
                        avoiding conflicts and protecting other 
                        resources exercising discretion for adopting 
                        master leasing plan.
                    ``(C) Requirement.--The Secretary shall adopt and 
                implement a master leasing plan under subparagraph (A) 
                applicable to leases for Federal lands in a State or 
                county of a State, if requested by the government of 
                such State or county, respectively.
                    ``(D) Petitions.--
                            ``(i) In general.--Any person who is a 
                        resident of a State or county of a State may 
                        submit a petition to the Secretary requesting 
                        the Secretary to adopt and implement a master 
                        leasing plan under subparagraph (A) applicable 
                        to the issuance of leases for Federal lands in 
                        that State or county, respectively.
                            ``(ii) Consideration.--If the Secretary 
                        receives such a petition, the Secretary shall 
                        promptly issue a determination of whether or 
                        not the adoption and implementation of such a 
                        master leasing plan is appropriate.''.

SEC. 405. PARCEL REVIEW.

    Section 17(a) of the Mineral Leasing Act (30 U.S.C. 226(a)), as 
amended by sections 401 and 404 of this Act, is further amended by 
adding at the end the following:
            ``(4) Parcel review.--The Secretary shall issue oil and gas 
        leases under this Act only in accordance with subsections C 
        through I of section III of Bureau of Land Management 
        Instruction Memorandum No. 2010-117, dated May 17, 2010.''.

SEC. 406. ACREAGE LIMITATIONS.

    Section 27(d)(1) of the Mineral Leasing Act (30 U.S.C. 184(d)(1)) 
is amended by striking ``, and acreage under any lease any portion of 
which has been committed to a federally approved unit or cooperative 
plan or communitization agreement or for which royalty (including 
compensatory royalty or royalty in-kind) was paid in the preceding 
calendar year,''.

SEC. 407. LAND MANAGEMENT.

    Section 17(g) of the Mineral Leasing Act (30 U.S.C. 226(g)) is 
further amended by adding at the end the following:
            ``(9) Multiple-use management.--The Secretary of the 
        Interior, or for National Forest lands, the Secretary of 
        Agriculture, shall manage lands that are subject to an oil and 
        gas lease under this Act in accordance with the principles, 
        policies, and requirements relating to multiple use under the 
        Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1701 
        et seq.), until the beginning of operations under such 
        lease.''.

SEC. 408. OIL SHALE.

    Section 21(a) of the Mineral Leasing Act (30 U.S.C. 241(a)) is 
amended--
            (1) in paragraph (1), by striking ``The Secretary of the 
        Interior'' and inserting ``Subject to paragraph (6), the 
        Secretary of the Interior''; and
            (2) by adding at the end the following:
    ``(6) The Secretary may not issue any lease for oil shale under 
this Act before the date the Secretary issues a finding that the 
technical and economic feasibility of development of and production 
from such deposit has been demonstrated under section 369 of the Energy 
Policy Act of 2005 (42 U.S.C. 15927).''.

                     Subtitle B--Permitting Reforms

SEC. 411. CATEGORICAL EXCLUSIONS.

    Section 390 of the Energy Policy Act of 2005 (42 U.S.C. 15942) is 
amended by adding at the end the following:
    ``(c) Limitation Based on Extraordinary Circumstances.--The 
categorical exclusion established under subsection (a) shall be subject 
to extraordinary circumstances in accordance with the Departmental 
Manual, 516 DM 2.3A(3) and 516 DM 2, Appendix 2 (or successor 
provisions).''.

SEC. 412. PERMITTING DEADLINE.

    Section 17(p) of the Mineral Leasing Act (30 U.S.C. 226(p)) is 
amended--
            (1) by striking the heading and inserting the following: 
        ``Notice of Receipt of Permit Applications.--'';
            (2) by striking paragraphs (2) and (3); and
            (3) in paragraph (1)--
                    (A) by striking ``(1) In general.--'';
                    (B) by redesignating subparagraphs (A) and (B) as 
                paragraphs (1) and (2), respectively; and
                    (C) by moving paragraphs (1) and (2), as so 
                redesignated, 2 ems to the left.

SEC. 413. ABANDONED AND ORPHANED WELLS.

    (a) Definition.--As used in this section, the term ``abandoned 
well'' means any well drilled for the purpose of exploring for or 
developing oil or gas resources (including coalbed methane) that--
            (1) has not been in operation for a period of 12 continuous 
        months, unless the owner or operator has notified the Secretary 
        of the Interior (for wells drilled to explore for or develop 
        minerals owned by the United States) or the relevant State 
        regulatory agency (for wells drilled to explore for or develop 
        minerals not owned by the United States) that the well has been 
        temporarily shut down; or
            (2) has not been operative for more than 60 continuous 
        months after the owner or operator has notified the Secretary 
        of the Interior (for wells drilled to explore for or develop 
        minerals owned by the United States) or the relevant State 
        regulatory agency (for wells drilled to explore for or develop 
        minerals not owned by the United States) that the well has been 
        temporarily shut down.
    (b) Federal Remediation Program.--
            (1) Establishment of program.--
                    (A) The Secretary of the Interior, in cooperation 
                with the Secretary of Agriculture, shall establish a 
                program to ensure to the maximum extent feasible the 
                remediation, reclamation, and closure of abandoned 
                wells that--
                            (i) are located on lands administered by an 
                        agency of the Department of the Interior or the 
                        Forest Service; or
                            (ii) were drilled to explore for or develop 
                        minerals owned by the United States located on 
                        lands with respect to which the surface estate 
                        is not owned by the United States.
                    (B) In implementing the program, the Secretary of 
                the Interior--
                            (i) shall cooperate with the Secretary of 
                        Agriculture and the States with respect to the 
                        Federal lands covered by the program are 
                        located; and
                            (ii) shall consult with the Secretary of 
                        Energy and the Interstate Oil and Gas Compact 
                        Commission.
                    (C) The Secretary of the Interior shall establish 
                the program by no later than 3 years after the date of 
                enactment of this section.
            (2) Program elements.--The program established under 
        paragraph (1) shall--
                    (A) provide for identification of abandoned wells 
                to be covered by the program;
                    (B) establish a means of ranking critical sites for 
                priority in remediation based on potential 
                environmental harm, other land use priorities, and 
                public health and safety; and
                    (C) provide as far as possible for identifying any 
                lessees or other persons responsible for abandoned 
                wells, and for recovering the costs of remediation to 
                the maximum extent feasible.
            (3) Plan.--Within 6 months after the date of enactment of 
        this section, the Secretary of the Interior, in cooperation 
        with the Secretary of Agriculture, shall prepare a plan for 
        implementing the program established under paragraph (1). A 
        copy of the plan shall be transmitted to the Committee on 
        Natural Resources of the House of Representatives and the 
        Committee on Energy and Natural Resources of the Senate.
            (4) Review and report.--
                    (A) No later than 3 years after the date of 
                enactment of this section, the Secretary of the 
                Interior, in consultation with the Secretary of 
                Agriculture, shall complete a review of the status of 
                remediation, reclamation, and closure actions under the 
                program.
                    (B) Upon completion of the review required by 
                subparagraph (A), the Secretary of the Interior shall 
                provide to the Committee on Natural Resources of the 
                House of Representatives and the Committee on Energy 
                and Natural Resources of the Senate--
                            (i) a report on the results of the review;
                            (ii) information regarding any wells on 
                        lands covered by the program that have been 
                        abandoned since the date of enactment of this 
                        section; and
                            (iii) any recommendations the Secretary may 
                        choose to make regarding legislative or 
                        administration steps to further the purposes 
                        for which the program was established.
    (c) Assistance to States and Tribes.--
            (1) State program.--The Secretary of the Interior, in 
        consultation with the Secretary of Energy, shall establish a 
        program to provide technical assistance to facilitate State 
        efforts to develop and implement practical and economical 
        remedies for environmental problems caused by abandoned wells 
        on lands that are not owned by the United States. The Secretary 
        shall work with the States, through the Interstate Oil and Gas 
        Compact Commission, to assist the States in quantifying and 
        mitigating environmental risks of onshore abandoned wells on 
        State and private lands.
            (2) Tribal program.--The Secretary of the Interior, in 
        consultation with the Secretary of Energy, shall establish a 
        program to provide technical assistance to facilitate efforts 
        by Indian Tribes to develop and implement practical and 
        economical remedies for environmental problems caused by 
        abandoned wells on Indian lands, including lands held in trust 
        by the United States.
            (3) Program elements.--So far as possible, the programs 
        established under this section shall include--
                    (A) mechanisms to facilitate identification of 
                responsible parties;
                    (B) criteria for ranking critical sites based on 
                factors such as other land use priorities, potential 
                environmental harm and public visibility; and
                    (C) information and training programs regarding 
                best practices for remediation of different types of 
                sites.
    (d) Fund.--
            (1) Establishment.--There is established in the Treasury a 
        separate account to be known as the Abandoned and Orphaned Oil 
        and Gas Well Cleanup Fund.
            (2) Contents.--The account shall consist of amounts 
        deposited in the account under section 35(d) of the Mineral 
        Leasing Act.
            (3) Use.--Of the amounts deposited into the account each 
        fiscal year, there shall be available to the Secretary of the 
        Interior--
                    (A) $5,000,000 to carry out subsection (b); and
                    (B) $5,000,000 to carry out subsection (c).
    (e) Surcharge Fee for Applications Permits To Drill.--Section 35(d) 
of the Mineral Leasing Act (30 U.S.C. 191(d)) is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (2), by inserting ``under paragraph (1)'' 
        after ``the fee'';
            (2) in paragraph (3)--
                    (A) by striking ``this subsection'' and inserting 
                ``paragraph (1)''; and
                    (B) in subparagraph (B), by striking ``the fees'' 
                and inserting ``such fees''; and
            (3) by striking paragraph (4) and inserting the following:
            ``(4) Surcharge.--
                    ``(A) In general.--In addition to the fee collected 
                under paragraph (1), the Secretary shall collect a 
                surcharge fee for each such new application for a 
                permit to drill in the amount of $250 (as indexed as 
                provided in paragraph (2)).
                    ``(B) Deposit.--Amounts collected as a surcharge 
                fee under this paragraph shall be deposited into the 
                Abandoned and Orphaned Oil and Gas Well Cleanup Fund 
                established by section 413 of the Sustainable Energy 
                Development Reform Act.''.

SEC. 414. ONLINE PUBLICATION OF NOTICES OF STAKING AND APPLICATIONS FOR 
              PERMITS TO DRILL.

    Section 17(g) of the Mineral Leasing Act (30 U.S.C. 226(g)), as 
amended by this Act, is further amended by adding at the end the 
following:
            ``(10) Publication of notices of staking and applications 
        for permits to drill.--
                    ``(A) Onsite review.--No onsite review may be 
                conducted pursuant to a notice of staking under Onshore 
                Oil and Gas Order No. 1 of the Bureau of Land 
                Management (dated March 7, 2007), or any successor 
                authority, before the end of the 10-day period 
                beginning on the date the Secretary publishes such 
                notice on the Internet.
                    ``(B) Permits to drill.--No permit authorizing 
                drilling for purposes of exploration for, or 
                development or production of, oil or gas under this Act 
                may be issued before the end of the 30-day period 
                beginning on the date the Secretary publishes the 
                application for such permit on the Internet.''.

SEC. 415. HAVING OPEN ACCESS TO RELEVANT DATA.

    (a) Short Title.--This section may be cited as the ``Having Open 
Access to Relevant Data Act'' or the ``HOARD Act''.
    (b) Report on APDs.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than January 1 of each year, the 
        Secretary of the Interior shall submit to Congress a report on 
        the following statistics:
                    (A) The number of APDs approved by the BLM during 
                the previous fiscal year for which the applicant has 
                not begun drilling by the end of such year.
                    (B) The number of APDs approved by the BLM during 
                any fiscal year for which the applicant has not begun 
                drilling by the end of the previous fiscal year.
                    (C) With respect to APDs approved by the BLM during 
                the previous fiscal year, the average number of days 
                between receipt of an APD by the BLM and the approval 
                of such APD, disaggregated by the average number of 
                such days--
                            (i) the APD was being processed by BLM; and
                            (ii) the BLM was waiting on additional 
                        information from the applicant.
                    (D) With respect to APDs approved by the BLM during 
                the previous fiscal year, the average cost of approving 
                an APD.
            (2) Disaggregation.--The Secretary of the Interior shall 
        disaggregate each statistic required under paragraph (1) by the 
        location of the site for which the APD was requested, including 
        by--
                    (A) the State in which such site is located;
                    (B) the BLM field office that administers the land 
                upon which such site is located;
                    (C) whether or not the site is located on Federal 
                land; and
                    (D) whether or not the site is located on Indian 
                land.
    (c) Discouraging Hoarding and Speculation.--
            (1) Limitation on federal funds used for streamlining 
        processing of apds.--No Federal funds may be used to streamline 
        BLM processing of APDs during a fiscal year if, on the last day 
        of the previous fiscal year, the number of APDs approved by the 
        BLM during any fiscal year, but for which the applicant has not 
        begun drilling, is greater than twice the number of APDs 
        received by the BLM during any fiscal year for which the BLM 
        has neither approved nor requested more information from the 
        applicant.
            (2) Limitation on number of outstanding apds per 
        applicant.--If any applicant, including its affiliates, has 
        received greater than 100 approved APDs from the BLM for which 
        such applicant, including its affiliates, has not begun 
        drilling, then such applicant, including its affiliates, shall 
        not be eligible to participate in the competitive and 
        noncompetitive bidding processes for oil and gas exploration 
        and production under the Minerals Leasing Act (30 U.S.C. 181 et 
        seq.) during the 5-year period beginning on the first day of 
        the next fiscal year.
    (d) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Affiliate.--With respect to an applicant, the term 
        ``affiliate'' means any person that controls, is controlled by, 
        or is under common control with the applicant.
            (2) APD.--The term ``APD'' means an application received by 
        the BLM for a permit to drill an oil or gas well.
            (3) BLM.--The term ``BLM'' means the Bureau of Land 
        Management.

                    Subtitle C--Operational Reforms

SEC. 421. BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES.

    Not later than 1 year after the date of enactment of this Act, the 
Secretary of the Interior shall promulgate final regulations that 
require oil and gas operators to use best management practices that 
ensure the sound, efficient, and environmentally responsible 
development of oil and gas on Federal lands in a manner that avoids 
where practical, minimizes, and mitigates actual and anticipated 
impacts to environmental habitat functions resulting from oil and gas 
development. Such regulations may allow the Secretary to approve site-
specific adjustments to address unique issues and circumstances, on a 
case-by-case basis. All such regulations shall be consistent with the 
United States trust responsibility to Indian Tribes.

SEC. 422. INSPECTION FEE.

    (a) In General.--Section 108 of the Federal Oil and Gas Royalty 
Management Act of 1982 (30 U.S.C. 1718) is amended by adding at the end 
the following:
    ``(d) Inspection Fee.--
            ``(1) In general.--The designated operator under each oil 
        and gas lease on Federal or Indian lands, or each unit and 
        communitization agreement that includes one or more such 
        Federal or Indian leases, that is subject to inspection under 
        subsection (b) and that is in force at the start of fiscal year 
        2017, shall pay a nonrefundable inspection fee in an amount 
        that, except as provided in paragraph (2), is established by 
        the Secretary by regulation and is sufficient to recover the 
        full costs incurred by the United States for inspection and 
        enforcement with respect to such leases.
            ``(2) Amount.--Until the effective date of regulations 
        under paragraph (1), the amount of the fee shall be--
                    ``(A) $700 for each lease or unit or 
                communitization agreement with no active or inactive 
                wells, but with surface use, disturbance or 
                reclamation;
                    ``(B) $1,225 for each lease or unit or 
                communitization agreement with 1 to 10 wells, with any 
                combination of active or inactive wells;
                    ``(C) $4,900 for each lease or unit or 
                communitization agreement with 11 to 50 wells, with any 
                combination of active or inactive wells; and
                    ``(D) $9,800 for each lease or unit or 
                communitization agreement with more than 50 wells, with 
                any combination of active or inactive wells.
            ``(3) Due date.--Payment of the fee under this section 
        shall be due not later than 30 days after the Secretary 
        provides notice of the assessment of the fee.
            ``(4) Penalty.--If the designated operator fails to pay the 
        full amount of the fee as prescribed in this section, the 
        Secretary may, in addition to utilizing any other applicable 
        enforcement authority, assess civil penalties against the 
        operator under section 109 in the same manner as if this 
        section were a mineral leasing law.''.
    (b) Assessment for Fiscal Year 2018.--The Secretary of the Interior 
shall assess the fee under the amendment made by subsection (a) for 
fiscal year 2018, and provide notice of such assessment to each 
designated operator who is liable for such fee, by not later than 60 
days after the date of the enactment of this Act.

SEC. 423. PROTECTION OF WATER RESOURCES.

    (a) Mineral Leasing Act Requirements.--Section 17 of the Mineral 
Leasing Act (30 U.S.C. 226) is amended by adding at the end the 
following:
    ``(r) Water Requirements.--
            ``(1) An operator producing oil or gas (including coalbed 
        methane) under a lease issued under this Act shall--
                    ``(A) replace the water supply of a water user who 
                obtains all or part of such user's supply of water for 
                domestic, agricultural, or other purposes from an 
                underground or surface source that has been affected by 
                contamination, diminution, or interruption proximately 
                resulting from drilling operations for such production; 
                and
                    ``(B) comply with all applicable requirements of 
                Federal and State law for discharge of any water 
                produced under the lease.
            ``(2) An application for a permit to drill under a lease 
        under this Act shall be accompanied by a proposed water 
        management plan including provisions to--
                    ``(A) protect the quantity and quality of surface 
                and ground water systems, both on-site and off-site, 
                from adverse effects of the exploration, development, 
                and reclamation processes or to provide alternative 
                sources of water if such protection cannot be assured;
                    ``(B) protect the rights of present users of water 
                that would be affected by operations under the lease, 
                including the discharge of any water produced in 
                connection with such operations that is not reinjected; 
                and
                    ``(C) identify any agreements with other parties 
                for the beneficial use of produced waters and the steps 
                that will be taken to comply with State and Federal 
                laws related to such use.''.
    (b) Relation to State Law.--Nothing in this section or any 
amendment made by this section shall--
            (1) be construed as impairing or in any manner affecting 
        any right or jurisdiction of any State with respect to the 
        waters of such State; or
            (2) be construed as limiting, altering, modifying, or 
        amending any of the interstate compacts or equitable 
        apportionment decrees that apportion water among and between 
        States.

SEC. 424. METHANE EMISSIONS.

    (a) In General.--Title I of the Federal Oil and Gas Royalty 
Management Act of 1982 (30 U.S.C. 1711 et seq.) is amended by adding at 
the end the following:

``SEC. 118. GAS WASTE REDUCTION AND ENHANCEMENT OF GAS MEASURING AND 
              REPORTING.

    ``(a) Rules for Preventing and Reducing Waste of Gas Via Venting, 
Flaring, and Fugitive Releases.--
            ``(1) Requirement to issue rules.--The Secretary shall 
        issue rules that establish requirements for reducing and 
        preventing the waste of gas, including by venting, flaring, and 
        fugitive releases, from covered operations.
            ``(2) Content of rules.--The rules shall--
                    ``(A) require that 99 percent of all gas produced 
                that is subject to a mineral leasing law be captured 
                annually within 5 years after the enactment of the 
                Sustainable Energy Development Reform Act;
                    ``(B) require flaring of gas, rather than venting, 
                in all instances in which gas capture is not viable;
                    ``(C) require that every application for a permit 
                to drill a production well--
                            ``(i) demonstrate sufficient infrastructure 
                        is in place to capture produced gas; and
                            ``(ii) be subject to public comments for a 
                        period of 30 days;
                    ``(D) prohibit all new wells from flaring, within 2 
                years after the date of the enactment of the 
                Sustainable Energy Development Reform Act;
                    ``(E) require the operator of any covered operation 
                that routinely flares gas before the effective date of 
                the prohibition under subparagraph (D) to submit a gas 
                capture plan to the Secretary no later than 6 months 
                after such effective date that ensures the requirement 
                in subparagraph (A) will be met;
                    ``(F) require the operator of any covered operation 
                that routinely flares gas before the effective date of 
                the prohibition under subparagraph (D) to demonstrate a 
                yearly decrease in the amount of gas flared, as a 
                fraction of gas produced, to meet the requirement under 
                subparagraph (A);
                    ``(G) set performance standards based on modern 
                equipment, to be updated every 5 years, that minimize 
                gas loss from--
                            ``(i) storage tanks;
                            ``(ii) dehydrators;
                            ``(iii) compressors;
                            ``(iv) open-ended valves or lines;
                            ``(v) pumps; and
                            ``(vi) other equipment for which the 
                        Secretary considers such standards are 
                        necessary;
                    ``(H) require the replacement of all high-bleed 
                gas-actuated pneumatic devices with low-bleed or no-
                bleed devices;
                    ``(I) set performance standards based on modern 
                procedures and equipment, to be updated every 5 years, 
                that minimize gas loss from--
                            ``(i) downhole maintenance;
                            ``(ii) liquids unloading;
                            ``(iii) well completion; and
                            ``(iv) other procedures for which the 
                        Secretary considers such standards are 
                        necessary;
                    ``(J) require all operators to have regularly 
                scheduled leak detection programs that assess the 
                entire covered operation using an infrared camera or 
                other equipment with equivalent sensitivity and the 
                ability to survey similarly large areas;
                    ``(K) require any leaks found during leak detection 
                programs required under subparagraph (J), or otherwise, 
                to be repaired within 2 weeks; and
                    ``(L) require recordkeeping for--
                            ``(i) equipment maintenance;
                            ``(ii) leak detection and repair;
                            ``(iii) venting events;
                            ``(iv) flaring events; and
                            ``(v) other operations for which the 
                        Secretary considers such requirements are 
                        necessary.
    ``(b) Gas Measuring, Reporting, and Transparency Requirements.--
            ``(1) In general.--The Secretary shall, in accordance with 
        this subsection, establish new requirements for measuring and 
        reporting the production and disposition of all gas subject to 
        the mineral leasing laws to allow for more accurate accounting 
        of all such gas that is consumed or lost by venting and 
        flaring, and of fugitive releases of such gas.
            ``(2) Measuring and reporting requirements.--To account for 
        all gas referred to in paragraph (1), the Secretary shall issue 
        rules requiring oil or gas operators to--
                    ``(A) measure all production and disposition of gas 
                with such accuracy that fugitive gas releases can be 
                calculated;
                    ``(B) install metering devices to measure all 
                vented and flared gas; and
                    ``(C) report to the Secretary the volumes of gas 
                measured under the requirements under subparagraph (A), 
                including--
                            ``(i) all new measured values for 
                        production and disposition, including vented 
                        and flared volumes; and
                            ``(ii) fugitive releases based on 
                        guidelines for their calculation established by 
                        the Secretary in the rule.
            ``(3) Transparency.--The Secretary shall make all new data 
        produced under the requirements established by the Secretary 
        under this subsection, including calculated fugitive releases 
        and volumes of gas lost to venting and flaring, publicly 
        available through the internet--
                    ``(A) without a fee or other access charge;
                    ``(B) in a searchable, sortable, and downloadable 
                manner, to the extent technically possible; and
                    ``(C) as soon as technically practicable after the 
                report by the operator is filed.
    ``(c) Application.--Except as otherwise specified in this section, 
the requirements established by the Secretary under this section shall 
apply to--
            ``(1) the construction and operation of any covered 
        operation initiated after the date of the issuance of rules 
        under this section; and
            ``(2) after the end of the 1-year period beginning on the 
        date of the issuance of such rules, any covered operation 
        initiated before the date of the issuance of such rules.
    ``(d) Enforcement Mechanisms.--
            ``(1) In general.--The Secretary shall include in the rules 
        issued under this section consistent enforcement mechanisms for 
        covered operations that are not in compliance with the 
        requirements established by the rules.
            ``(2) Requirements.--The enforcement mechanisms under 
        paragraph (1) shall include--
                    ``(A) civil penalties for unauthorized venting and 
                flaring, which shall--
                            ``(i) apply in lieu of the penalties under 
                        section 109; and
                            ``(ii) include production restrictions and 
                        civil monetary penalties equivalent to 3 times 
                        the market value of the vented or flared gas; 
                        and
                    ``(B) civil penalties that apply to noncompliance 
                with other new or existing procedures, which shall--
                            ``(i) apply in addition to or in lieu of 
                        the penalties under section 109;
                            ``(ii) include production restrictions or 
                        monetary penalties, or both; and
                            ``(iii) in the case of monetary penalties, 
                        be proportional to market conditions.
    ``(e) Definitions.--In this section:
            ``(1) Covered operations.--The term `covered operations' 
        means all oil and gas operations that are subject to mineral 
        leasing law or title V of the Federal Land Policy and 
        Management Act of 1976 (30 U.S.C. 1761 et seq.), regardless of 
        size, including production, storage, gathering, processing, and 
        handling operations.
            ``(2) Flare and flaring.--The term `flaring' means the 
        intentional and controlled burning of gas that occurs in the 
        course of oil and gas operations to limit release of gas to the 
        atmosphere.
            ``(3) Fugitive release.--The term `fugitive release' means 
        the unintentional and uncontrolled release of gas into the 
        atmosphere in the course of oil and gas operations.
            ``(4) Gas capture plan.--The term `gas capture plan' means 
        a plan that includes specific goals, including equipment and 
        timelines, for capturing, gathering, and processing gas 
        produced under an oil or gas lease.
            ``(5) Gas release.--The term `gas release' includes all gas 
        that is discharged to the atmosphere via venting or fugitive 
        release.
            ``(6) Vent and venting.--The term `venting' means the 
        intentional and controlled release of gas into the atmosphere 
        in the course of oil and gas operations.''.
    (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of contents in section 1 of that 
Act is amended by adding at the end of the items relating to title I 
the following:

``Sec. 118. Gas waste reduction and enhancement of gas measuring and 
                            reporting.''.
    (c) Deadline.--The Secretary of the Interior shall issue rules 
required by the amendments made by this section by not later than 1 
year after the date of the enactment of this Act.
    (d) Interim Application of Prior Rule.--The final rule entitled 
``Waste Prevention, Production Subject to Royalties, and Resource 
Conservation'', as published in the Federal Register November 18, 2016 
(81 Fed. Reg. 83008), shall apply until the date of the publication of 
a final rule under the amendment made by subsection (a).
    (e) Assessment of Venting, Flaring, and Fugitive Releases.--Not 
later than 6 months after the end of the 1-year period beginning on the 
date the Secretary of the Interior first receives data submitted under 
the requirements established under subsection (b) of section 118 of the 
Federal Oil and Gas Royalty Management Act of 1982, as amended by this 
section, the Secretary shall--
            (1) submit a report to Congress describing--
                    (A) the volume of fugitive releases, and gas 
                consumed or lost by venting and flaring, from covered 
                operations (as those terms are used in such section);
                    (B) additional rules the Secretary considers 
                necessary to further curtail venting, flaring, and 
                fugitive releases, or the rational basis for not 
                issuing new rules if the Secretary considers new rules 
                are not necessary; and
                    (C) recommendations for new statutory authority 
                necessary to limit venting, flaring, or fugitive 
                releases; and
            (2) issue rules described in the report under paragraph 
        (1)(B) within 1 year after the date of the submission of the 
        report.

SEC. 425. FRACKING REGULATION ON FEDERAL LANDS.

    (a) In General.--Not later than 1 year after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of the Interior, acting through 
the Bureau of Land Management, shall issue regulations governing the 
use of hydraulic fracturing under oil and gas leases for Federal lands.
    (b) Included Provisions.--The regulations under this section shall 
include--
            (1) requirement of baseline water testing; and
            (2) full disclosure to the public of chemicals used for 
        hydraulic fracturing, on an appropriate internet website.
    (c) Interim Application of Prior Rule.--The final rule entitled 
``Oil and Gas; Hydraulic Fracturing on Federal and Indian Lands'', as 
published in the Federal Register March 26, 2015 (80 Fed. Reg. 16128), 
and corrected by the rule published March 30, 2015 (80 Fed. Reg. 
16577), shall apply until the date of the publication of a final rule 
under subsection (a).

SEC. 426. CLOSING LOOPHOLES.

    (a) Safe Drinking Water Act.--
            (1) Hydraulic fracturing.--Section 1421(d)(1) of the Safe 
        Drinking Water Act (42 U.S.C. 300h(d)(1)) is amended by 
        striking subparagraph (B) and inserting the following:
            ``(B) includes the underground injection of fluids or 
        propping agents pursuant to hydraulic fracturing operations 
        related to oil, gas, or geothermal production activities; but
            ``(C) excludes the underground injection of natural gas for 
        purposes of storage.''.
            (2) Disclosure of hydraulic fracturing chemicals; medical 
        emergencies; proprietary chemical formulas.--Section 1421(b) of 
        the Safe Drinking Water Act (42 U.S.C. 300H(b)) is amended by 
        adding at the end the following:
            ``(4)(A) Regulations included under paragraph (1)(C) shall 
        include the following requirements:
                    ``(i) A person conducting hydraulic fracturing 
                operations shall disclose to the State (or the 
                Administrator if the Administrator has primary 
                enforcement responsibility in the State)--
                            ``(I) prior to the commencement of any 
                        hydraulic fracturing operations at any lease 
                        area or portion thereof, a list of chemicals 
                        intended for use in any underground injection 
                        during such operations, including 
                        identification of the chemical constituents of 
                        mixtures, Chemical Abstracts Service numbers 
                        for each chemical and constituent, material 
                        safety data sheets when available, and the 
                        anticipated volume of each chemical; and
                            ``(II) not later than 30 days after the end 
                        of any hydraulic fracturing operations, the 
                        list of chemicals used in each underground 
                        injection during such operations, including 
                        identification of the chemical constituents of 
                        mixtures, Chemical Abstracts Service numbers 
                        for each chemical and constituent, material 
                        safety data sheets when available, and the 
                        volume of each chemical used.
                    ``(ii) The State or the Administrator, as 
                applicable, shall make the disclosure of chemical 
                constituents referred to in clause (i) available to the 
                public, including by posting the information on an 
                appropriate internet website.
                    ``(iii) Whenever the State or the Administrator, or 
                a treating physician or nurse, determines that a 
                medical emergency exists and the proprietary chemical 
                formula of a chemical used in hydraulic fracturing 
                operations is necessary for medical treatment, the 
                person conducting the hydraulic fracturing operations 
                shall, upon request, immediately disclose the 
                proprietary chemical formulas or the specific chemical 
                identity of a trade secret chemical to the State, the 
                Administrator, or the treating physician or nurse, 
                regardless of whether a written statement of need or a 
                confidentiality agreement has been provided. The person 
                conducting the hydraulic fracturing operations may 
                require a written statement of need and a 
                confidentiality agreement as soon thereafter as 
                circumstances permit.
            ``(B) Subparagraphs (A)(i) and (A)(ii) do not authorize the 
        State (or the Administrator) to require the public disclosure 
        of proprietary chemical formulas.''.
    (b) Clean Water Act.--
            (1) Limitation on permit requirement.--Section 402(l) of 
        the Federal Water Pollution Control Act (33 U.S.C. 1342) is 
        amended by striking paragraph (2) and redesignating paragraph 
        (3) as paragraph (2).
            (2) Definitions.--Section 502 of the Federal Water 
        Pollution Control Act (33 U.S.C. 1362) is amended--
                    (A) by striking paragraph (24); and
                    (B) by redesignating paragraphs (25) and (26) as 
                paragraphs (24) and (25), respectively.
            (3) Study.--
                    (A) In general.--The Secretary of the Interior 
                shall conduct a study of stormwater impacts with 
                respect to any area that the Secretary determines may 
                be contaminated by stormwater runoff associated with 
                oil or gas operations, which shall include--
                            (i) an analysis of measurable contamination 
                        in such area;
                            (ii) an analysis of ground water resources 
                        in such area; and
                            (iii) an analysis of the susceptibility of 
                        aquifers in such area to contamination from 
                        stormwater runoff associated with such 
                        operations.
                    (B) Report.--Not later than 1 year after the date 
                of enactment of this section, the Secretary shall 
                submit to Congress a report on the results of studies 
                conducted under subparagraph (A).
    (c) Clean Air Act.--
            (1) Repeal of exemption for aggregation of emissions from 
        oil and gas sources.--Section 112(n) of the Clean Air Act (42 
        U.S.C. 7412(n)) is amended by striking paragraph (4).
            (2) Hydrogen sulfide as a hazardous air pollutant.--The 
        Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency shall--
                    (A) not later than 180 days after the date of 
                enactment of this Act, issue a final rule adding 
                hydrogen sulfide to the list of hazardous air 
                pollutants under section 112(b) of the Clean Air Act 
                (42 U.S.C. 7412(b)); and
                    (B) not later than 365 days after a final rule 
                under paragraph (1) is issued, revise the list under 
                section 112(c) of such Act (42 U.S.C. 7412(c)) to 
                include categories and subcategories of major sources 
                and area sources of hydrogen sulfide, including oil and 
                gas wells.
    (d) Solid Waste Disposal Act.--
            (1) Identification or listing, and regulation under 
        subtitle c.--Paragraph (2) of section 3001(b) of the Solid 
        Waste Disposal Act (42 U.S.C. 6921(b)) is amended to read as 
        follows:
    ``(2) Not later than 1 year after the date of enactment of the 
Sustainable Energy Development Reform Act, the Administrator shall--
            ``(A) determine whether drilling fluids, produced waters, 
        and other wastes associated with the exploration, development, 
        or production of crude oil, natural gas, or geothermal energy 
        meet the criteria promulgated under this section for the 
        identification or listing of hazardous waste;
            ``(B) identify or list as hazardous waste any drilling 
        fluids, produced waters, or other wastes associated with the 
        exploration, development, or production of crude oil, natural 
        gas, or geothermal energy that the Administrator determines, 
        pursuant to subparagraph (A), meet the criteria promulgated 
        under this section for the identification or listing of 
        hazardous waste; and
            ``(C) promulgate regulations under sections 3002, 3003, and 
        3004 for wastes identified or listed as hazardous waste 
        pursuant to subparagraph (B), except that the Administrator is 
        authorized to modify the requirements of such sections to take 
        into account the special characteristics of such wastes so long 
        as such modified requirements protect human health and the 
        environment.''.
            (2) Regulation under subtitle d.--Section 4010(c) of the 
        Solid Waste Disposal Act (42 U.S.C. 6949a(c)) is amended by 
        adding at the end the following new paragraph:
            ``(7) Drilling fluids, produced waters, and other wastes 
        associated with the exploration, development, or production of 
        crude oil, natural gas, or geothermal energy.--Not later than 1 
        year after the date of enactment of the Sustainable Energy 
        Development Reform Act, the Administrator shall promulgate 
        revisions of the criteria promulgated under section 4004(a) and 
        under section 1008(a)(3) for facilities that may receive 
        drilling fluids, produced waters, or other wastes associated 
        with the exploration, development, or production of crude oil, 
        natural gas, or geothermal energy, that are not identified or 
        listed as hazardous waste pursuant to section 3001(b)(2). The 
        criteria shall be those necessary to protect human health and 
        the environment and may take into account the practicable 
        capability of such facilities. At a minimum such revisions for 
        facilities potentially receiving such wastes should require 
        ground water monitoring as necessary to detect contamination, 
        establish criteria for the acceptable location of new or 
        existing facilities, and provide for corrective action and 
        financial assurance as appropriate.''.

SEC. 427. TRANSPARENCY IN MANAGEMENT OF LEASES.

    Section 17(a) of the Mineral Leasing Act (30 U.S.C. 226(a)), as 
amended by sections 401, 404, and 405 of this Act, is further amended 
by adding at the end the following:
            ``(5) Transparency in management of leases.--The Secretary 
        shall make available on a public Internet website for each 
        lease under this section--
                    ``(A) the identity of--
                            ``(i) each person who is or has been a 
                        lessee under the lease; and
                            ``(ii) each person who is or has been an 
                        operator under the lease;
                    ``(B) notice of each transfer of the lease; and
                    ``(C) notice of each suspension of operations, each 
                suspension of production, and each suspension of 
                operations and production.''.

SEC. 428. LEASE CANCELLATION FOR IMPROPER ISSUANCE.

    Section 31(b) of the Mineral Leasing Act (30 U.S.C. 188(b)) is 
amended by inserting ``if the lease was improperly issued or'' after 
``30 days notice''.

SEC. 429. PROTECTING NATIONAL PARKS AND WILDLIFE REFUGES.

    (a) In General.--Each of the rules described in subsection (b) 
shall apply as published on the date referred to in such subsection for 
such rule, unless--
            (1) the Secretary of the Interior determines that 
        modifications to such rule are necessary; and
            (2) such modifications are more protective of National 
        Parks or National Wildlife Refuges, as applicable.
    (b) Rules Described.--The rules referred to in subsection (a) are--
            (1) the rule entitled ``General Provisions and Non-Federal 
        Oil and Gas Rights; Final Rule'', as published in the Federal 
        Register November 4, 2016 (81 Fed. Reg. 77972); and
            (2) the rule entitled ``Management of Non-Federal Oil and 
        Gas Rights'', as published November 14, 2016 (81 Fed. Reg. 
        79948).

                 TITLE V--OFFSHORE OIL AND GAS REFORMS

             Subtitle A--Regional Coordination and Planning

SEC. 501. DEFINITIONS.

    In this subtitle:
            (1) Affected indian tribe.--The term ``affected Indian 
        tribe'' means an Indian tribe that has federally reserved 
        rights that are affirmed by treaty, statute, Executive order, 
        Federal court order, or other Federal law in the area at issue.
            (2) Coastal state.--The term ``coastal State'' has the 
        meaning given the term in section 304 of the Coastal Zone 
        Management Act of 1972 (16 U.S.C. 1453).
            (3) Important ecological area.--The term ``important 
        ecological area'' means an area that contributes significantly 
        to local or larger marine ecosystem health or is an especially 
        unique or sensitive marine ecosystem.
            (4) Marine ecosystem health.--The term ``marine ecosystem 
        health'' means the ability of an ecosystem in ocean and coastal 
        waters to support and maintain patterns, important processes, 
        and productive, sustainable, and resilient communities of 
        organisms, having a species composition, diversity, and 
        functional organization resulting from the natural habitat of 
        the region, such that it is capable of supporting a variety of 
        activities and providing a complete range of ecological 
        benefits. Such an ecosystem would be characterized by a variety 
        of factors, including--
                    (A) a complete diversity of native species and 
                habitat wherein each native species is able to maintain 
                an abundance, population structure, and distribution 
                supporting its ecological and evolutionary functions, 
                patterns, and processes; and
                    (B) a physical, chemical, geological, and microbial 
                environment that is necessary to achieve such 
                diversity.
            (5) Outer continental shelf.--The term ``Outer Continental 
        Shelf'' has the meaning that the term ``outer Continental 
        Shelf'' has in the Outer Continental Shelf Lands Act (43 U.S.C. 
        1331 et seq.).
            (6) Regional ocean partnership.--The term ``Regional Ocean 
        Partnership'' means voluntary, collaborative management 
        initiatives developed and entered into by the Governors of two 
        or more coastal States or created by an interstate compact for 
        the purpose of addressing more than one ocean, coastal, or 
        Great Lakes issue and to implement policies and activities 
        identified under special area management plans under the 
        Coastal Zone Management Act of 1972 (16 U.S.C. 1451 et seq.) or 
        other agreements developed and signed by the Governors.
            (7) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary 
        of the Interior.

SEC. 502. REGIONAL COORDINATION.

    (a) In General.--The purpose of this subtitle is--
            (1) to promote better coordination, communication, and 
        collaboration between Federal agencies with authorities for 
        ocean, coastal, and Great Lakes management; and
            (2) to promote coordinated and collaborative regional 
        planning efforts using the best available science in decisions 
        affecting the sustainable development and use of Federal 
        renewable and nonrenewable resources on, in, or above the ocean 
        (including the Outer Continental Shelf) and the Great Lakes to 
        ensure the protection and maintenance of marine ecosystem 
        health and for the long-term economic and environmental benefit 
        of the United States.
    (b) Objectives of Regional Efforts.--Such regional efforts shall 
achieve the following objectives:
            (1) Greater systematic communication and coordination among 
        Federal, coastal State, and affected tribal governments 
        concerned with the conservation of and the sustainable 
        development and use of Federal renewable and nonrenewable 
        resources of the oceans, coasts, and Great Lakes.
            (2) To the maximum extent feasible, greater reliance on a 
        multiobjective, science- and ecosystem-based, spatially 
        explicit management approach that integrates regional economic, 
        ecological, affected tribal, and social objectives into ocean, 
        coastal, and Great Lakes management decisions.
            (3) Identification and prioritization of shared State and 
        Federal ocean, coastal, and Great Lakes management issues.
            (4) Identification of data and information needed by the 
        Regional Coordination Councils established under section 503.
    (c) Regions.--There are hereby designated the following 
Coordination Regions:
            (1) Pacific region.--The Pacific Coordination Region, which 
        shall consist of the coastal waters and Exclusive Economic Zone 
        adjacent to the States of Washington, Oregon, and California.
            (2) Gulf of mexico region.--The Gulf of Mexico Coordination 
        Region, which shall consist of the coastal waters and Exclusive 
        Economic Zone adjacent to the States of Texas, Louisiana, 
        Mississippi, and Alabama, and the west coast of Florida.
            (3) North atlantic region.--The North Atlantic Coordination 
        Region, which shall consist of the coastal waters and Exclusive 
        Economic Zone adjacent to the States of Maine, New Hampshire, 
        Massachusetts, Rhode Island, and Connecticut.
            (4) Mid atlantic region.--The Mid Atlantic Coordination 
        Region, which shall consist of the coastal waters and Exclusive 
        Economic Zone adjacent to the States of New York, New Jersey, 
        Pennsylvania, Delaware, Maryland, and Virginia.
            (5) South atlantic region.--The South Atlantic Coordination 
        Region, which shall consist of the coastal waters and Exclusive 
        Economic Zone adjacent to the States of North Carolina, South 
        Carolina, Georgia, the east coast of Florida, and the Straits 
        of Florida Planning Area.
            (6) Alaska region.--The Alaska Coordination Region, which 
        shall consist of the coastal waters and Exclusive Economic Zone 
        adjacent to the State of Alaska.
            (7) Pacific islands region.--The Pacific Islands 
        Coordination Region, which shall consist of the coastal waters 
        and Exclusive Economic Zone adjacent to the State of Hawaii, 
        the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, American 
        Samoa, and Guam.
            (8) Caribbean region.--The Caribbean Coordination Region, 
        which shall consist of the coastal waters and Exclusive 
        Economic Zone adjacent to Puerto Rico and the United States 
        Virgin Islands.
            (9) Great lakes region.--The Great Lakes Coordination 
        Region, which shall consist of waters of the Great Lakes in the 
        States of Illinois, Indiana, Michigan, Minnesota, New York, 
        Ohio, Pennsylvania, and Wisconsin.

SEC. 503. REGIONAL COORDINATION COUNCILS.

    (a) In General.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Chairman of the Council on Environmental 
Quality, in consultation with the affected coastal States and affected 
Indian tribes, shall establish or designate a Regional Coordination 
Council for each of the Coordination Regions designated by section 
502(c).
    (b) Membership.--
            (1) Federal representatives.--Not later than 90 days after 
        the date of the enactment of this Act, the Chairman of the 
        Council on Environmental Quality shall publish the titles of 
        the officials of each Federal agency and department that shall 
        participate in each Council. The Councils shall include 
        representatives of each Federal agency and department that has 
        authority related to the development of ocean, coastal, or 
        Great Lakes policies or engages in planning, management, or 
        scientific activities that significantly affect or inform the 
        use of ocean, coastal, or Great Lakes resources. The Chairman 
        of the Council on Environmental Quality shall determine which 
        Federal agency representative shall serve as the chairperson of 
        each Council.
            (2) Coastal state representatives.--
                    (A) Notice of intent to participate.--Not later 
                than 3 months after the date of the enactment of this 
                Act, the Governor of each coastal State within each 
                Coordination Region designated by section 502(c) that 
                intends to participate in the Regional Coordination 
                Council for the Region shall inform the Chairman of the 
                Council on Environmental Quality.
                    (B) Appointment of responsible state official.--The 
                Governor of each coastal State that intends to 
                participate in the Regional Coordination Council for 
                the Region shall appoint an officer or employee of the 
                coastal State agency with primary responsibility for 
                overseeing ocean and coastal policy or resource 
                management to that Council.
            (3) Regional fishery management council representation.--
        The Chairman of each Regional Fishery Management Council with 
        jurisdiction in the Coordination Region of a Regional 
        Coordination Council and the executive director of the 
        interstate marine fisheries commission with jurisdiction in the 
        Coordination Region of a Regional Coordination Council shall 
        each serve as a member of the Council.
            (4) Regional ocean partnership representation.--A 
        representative of any Regional Ocean Partnership that has been 
        established for any part of the Coordination Region of a 
        Regional Coordination Council may appoint a representative to 
        serve on the Council in addition to any Federal or State 
        appointments.
            (5) Tribal representation.--An appropriate tribal official 
        selected by affected Indian tribes situated in the affected 
        Coordination Region may elect to appoint a representative of 
        such tribes collectively to serve as a member of the Regional 
        Coordination Council for that Region.
            (6) Local representation.--The Chairman of the Council on 
        Environmental Quality shall, in consultation with the Governors 
        of the coastal States within each Coordination Region, identify 
        and appoint representatives of county and local governments, as 
        appropriate, to serve as members of the Regional Coordination 
        Council for that Region.
    (c) Advisory Committee.--Each Regional Coordination Council shall 
establish an advisory committee made up of a balanced representation 
from the energy, shipping, and transportation, marine tourism, and 
recreation industries, from marine environmental nongovernmental 
organizations, and from scientific and educational authorities with 
expertise in the conservation and management of ocean, coastal, and 
Great Lakes resources to advise the Council during the development of 
Regional Assessments and Regional Strategic Plans and in its other 
activities.
    (d) Coordination With Existing Programs.--Each Regional 
Coordination Council shall build upon and complement current State, 
multistate, and regional capacity and governance and institutional 
mechanisms to manage and protect ocean waters, coastal waters, and 
ocean resources.

SEC. 504. REGIONAL STRATEGIC PLANS.

    (a) Initial Regional Assessment.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 1 year after the date of 
        the enactment of this Act, each Regional Coordination Council 
        shall prepare an initial assessment of its Coordination Region 
        that identifies deficiencies in data and information necessary 
        to informed decisionmaking. Each initial assessment shall, to 
        the extent feasible--
                    (A) identify the Coordination Region's renewable 
                and nonrenewable resources, including current and 
                potential energy resources;
                    (B) identify and include a spatially and temporally 
                explicit inventory of existing and potential uses of 
                the Coordination Region, including fishing and fish 
                habitat, tourism, recreation, and energy development;
                    (C) document the health and relative environmental 
                sensitivity of the marine ecosystem within the 
                Coordination Region, including a comprehensive survey 
                and status assessment of species, habitats, and 
                indicators of ecosystem health;
                    (D) identify marine habitat types and important 
                ecological areas within the Coordination Region;
                    (E) assess the Coordination Region's marine economy 
                and cultural attributes and include regionally specific 
                ecological and socio-economic baseline data;
                    (F) identify and prioritize additional scientific 
                and economic data necessary to inform the development 
                of Strategic Plans; and
                    (G) include other information to improve decision 
                making as determined by the Regional Coordination 
                Council.
            (2) Data.--Each initial assessment shall--
                    (A) use the best available data;
                    (B) collect and provide data in a spatially 
                explicit manner wherever practicable and provide such 
                data to the interagency comprehensive digital mapping 
                initiative as described in section 2 of Public Law 109-
                58 (42 U.S.C. 15801); and
                    (C) make publicly available any such data that is 
                not classified information.
            (3) Public participation.--Each Regional Coordination 
        Council shall provide adequate opportunity for review and input 
        by stakeholders and the general public during the preparation 
        of the initial assessment and any revised assessments.
    (b) Regional Strategic Plans.--
            (1) Requirement.--Not later than 3 years after the 
        completion of the initial regional assessment, each Regional 
        Coordination Council shall prepare and submit to the Chairman 
        of the Council on Environmental Quality a multiobjective, 
        science- and ecosystem-based, spatially explicit, integrated 
        Strategic Plan in accordance with this subsection for the 
        Council's Coordination Region.
            (2) Management objective.--The management objective of the 
        Strategic Plans under this subsection shall be to foster 
        comprehensive, integrated, and sustainable development and use 
        of ocean, coastal, and Great Lakes resources, while protecting 
        marine ecosystem health and sustaining the long-term economic 
        and ecosystem values of the oceans.
            (3) Contents.--Each Strategic Plan prepared by a Regional 
        Coordination Council shall--
                    (A) be based on the initial regional assessment and 
                updates for the Coordination Region under subsections 
                (a) and (c), respectively;
                    (B) foster the sustainable and integrated 
                development and use of ocean, coastal, and Great Lakes 
                resources in a manner that protects the health of 
                marine ecosystems;
                    (C) identify areas with potential for siting and 
                developing renewable energy resources and oil and gas 
                projects in the Coordination Region covered by the 
                Strategic Plan;
                    (D) identify other current and potential uses of 
                the ocean and coastal resources in the Coordination 
                Region;
                    (E) identify and recommend long-term monitoring 
                needs for ecosystem health and socioeconomic variables 
                within the Coordination Region covered by the Strategic 
                Plan;
                    (F) identify existing State and Federal regulating 
                authorities within the Coordination Region covered by 
                the Strategic Plan;
                    (G) identify best available technologies to 
                minimize adverse environmental impacts and use 
                conflicts in the development of ocean and coastal 
                resources in the Coordination Region;
                    (H) identify additional research, information, and 
                data needed to carry out the Strategic Plan;
                    (I) identify performance measures and benchmarks 
                for purposes of fulfilling the responsibilities under 
                this section to be used to evaluate the Strategic 
                Plan's effectiveness;
                    (J) define responsibilities and include an analysis 
                of the gaps in authority, coordination, and resources, 
                including funding, that must be filled in order to 
                fully achieve those performance measures and 
                benchmarks; and
                    (K) include such other information at the Chairman 
                of the Council on Environmental Quality determines is 
                appropriate.
            (4) Public participation.--Each Regional Coordination 
        Council shall provide adequate opportunities for review and 
        input by stakeholders and the general public during the 
        development of the Strategic Plan and any Strategic Plan 
        revisions.
    (c) Updated Regional Assessments.--Each Regional Coordination 
Council shall update the initial regional assessment prepared under 
subsection (a) in coordination with each Strategic Plan revision under 
subsection (e) to provide more detailed information regarding the 
required elements of the assessment and to include any relevant new 
information that has become available in the interim.
    (d) Review and Approval.--
            (1) Commencement of review.--Not later than 10 days after 
        the receipt of a Strategic Plan under this section, or any 
        revision to such a Strategic Plan, from a Regional Coordination 
        Council, the Chairman of the Council of Environmental Quality 
        shall commence a review of the Strategic Plan or the revised 
        Strategic Plan, respectively.
            (2) Public notice and comment.--Immediately after receipt 
        of such a Strategic Plan or revision, the Chairman of the 
        Council of Environmental Quality shall publish the Strategic 
        Plan or revision in the Federal Register and provide an 
        opportunity for the submission of public comment for a 90-day 
        period beginning on the date of such publication.
            (3) Requirements for approval.--Before approving a 
        Strategic Plan, or any revision to a Strategic Plan, the 
        Chairman of the Council on Environmental Quality must find that 
        the Strategic Plan or revision--
                    (A) is consistent with the Outer Continental Shelf 
                Lands Act;
                    (B) complies with subsection (b); and
                    (C) complies with the purposes of this subtitle as 
                identified in section 502(a) and the objectives 
                identified in section 502(b).
            (4) Deadline for completion.--Not later than 180 days after 
        the receipt of a Strategic Plan, or a revision to a Strategic 
        Plan, the Chairman of the Council of Environmental Quality 
        shall approve or disapprove the Strategic Plan or revision. If 
        the Chairman disapproves the Strategic Plan or revision, the 
        Chairman shall transmit to the Regional Coordination Council 
        that submitted the Strategic Plan or revision, an 
        identification of the deficiencies and recommendations to 
        improve it. The Council shall submit a revised Strategic Plan 
        or revision to such plan not later than 180 days after 
        receiving the recommendations from the Chairman.
    (e) Plan Revision.--Each Strategic Plan shall be reviewed and 
revised by the relevant Regional Coordination Council at least once 
every 5 years. Such review and revision shall be based on the most 
recently updated regional assessment. Any proposed revisions to the 
Strategic Plan shall be submitted to the Chairman of the Council on 
Environmental Quality for review and approval pursuant to this section.

SEC. 505. REGULATIONS.

    The Chairman of the Council on Environmental Quality may issue such 
regulations as the Chairman considers necessary to ensure proper 
administration of this subtitle.

SEC. 506. OCEAN RESOURCES CONSERVATION AND ASSISTANCE (ORCA) FUND.

    (a) Establishment.--
            (1) In general.--There is established in the Treasury of 
        the United States a separate account to be known as the Ocean 
        Resources Conservation and Assistance Fund, referred to in this 
        section as the ``ORCA Fund''.
            (2) Credits.--The ORCA Fund shall be credited with amounts 
        as specified in section 9 of the Outer Continental Shelf Lands 
        Act (43 U.S.C. 1338), as amended by section 514 of this title.
            (3) Allocation of the orca fund.--
                    (A) In general.--Of the amounts deposited in the 
                ORCA Fund each fiscal year--
                            (i) 70 percent shall be allocated to the 
                        Secretary of Commerce, of which--
                                    (I) \1/2\ shall be used to make 
                                grants to coastal States and affected 
                                Indian tribes under subsection (b); and
                                    (II) \1/2\ shall be used for the 
                                ocean, coastal, and Great Lakes grants 
                                program established by subsection (c);
                            (ii) 20 percent shall be allocated to the 
                        Secretary of Commerce to carry out the purposes 
                        of subsection (e); and
                            (iii) 10 percent shall be allocated to the 
                        Secretary of Commerce to make grants to 
                        Regional Ocean Partnerships under subsection 
                        (d).
                    (B) Availability.--Amounts allocated to the 
                Secretary of Commerce under subparagraph (A) shall be 
                available without further appropriation.
            (4) Procedures.--The Secretary of Commerce shall establish 
        application, review, oversight, financial accountability, and 
        performance accountability procedures for each grant program 
        for which funds are allocated under this subsection.
    (b) Grants to Coastal States.--
            (1) Grant authority.--The Secretary of Commerce may use 
        amounts allocated under subsection (a)(3)(A)(i)(I) to make 
        grants to--
                    (A) coastal States pursuant to the formula 
                established under section 306(c) of the Coastal Zone 
                Management Act of 1972 (16 U.S.C. 1455(c)); and
                    (B) affected Indian tribes based on and 
                proportional to any specific coastal and ocean 
                management authority granted to an affected tribe 
                pursuant to affirmation of a Federal reserved right.
            (2) Eligibility.--To be eligible to receive a grant under 
        this subsection, a coastal State or affected Indian tribe must 
        prepare and revise a 5-year plan and annual work plans that--
                    (A) demonstrate that activities for which the 
                coastal State or affected Indian tribe will use the 
                funds are consistent with the eligible uses of the Fund 
                described in subsection (f); and
                    (B) provide mechanisms to ensure that funding is 
                made available to government, nongovernment, and 
                academic entities to carry out eligible activities at 
                the county and local level.
            (3) Approval of state and affected tribal plans.--
                    (A) In general.--Plans required under paragraph (2) 
                must be submitted to and approved by the Secretary of 
                Commerce.
                    (B) Public input and comment.--In determining 
                whether to approve such plans, the Secretary of 
                Commerce shall provide opportunity for, and take into 
                consideration, public input and comment on the plans 
                from stakeholders and the general public.
            (4) Oil spill planning and response grants.--For each of 
        the fiscal years 2018-2022, the Secretary of Commerce may use 
        funds allocated for grants under this subsection to make grants 
        to coastal States and affected tribes under section 321 of the 
        Coastal Zone Management Act of 1972 (16 U.S.C. 1451 et seq.), 
        as amended by this Act.
            (5) Use of funds.--Any amounts provided as a grant under 
        this subsection, other than as a grant under paragraph (4), may 
        only be used for activities described in subsection (f).
    (c) Ocean and Coastal Competitive Grants Program.--
            (1) Establishment.--The Secretary of Commerce shall use 
        amounts allocated under subsection (a)(3)(A)(i)(II) to make 
        competitive grants for conservation and management of ocean, 
        coastal, and Great Lakes ecosystems and marine resources.
            (2) Ocean, coastal, and great lakes review panel.--
                    (A) In general.--The Secretary of Commerce shall 
                establish an Ocean, Coastal, and Great Lakes Review 
                Panel (in this subsection referred to as the 
                ``Panel''), which shall consist of 12 members appointed 
                by the Secretary of Commerce with expertise in the 
                conservation and management of ocean, coastal, and 
                Great Lakes ecosystems and marine resources. In 
                appointing members to the Council, the Secretary of 
                Commerce shall include a balanced diversity of 
                representatives of relevant Federal agencies, the 
                private sector, nonprofit organizations, and academia.
                    (B) Functions.--The Panel shall--
                            (i) review, in accordance with the 
                        procedures and criteria established under 
                        paragraph (3), grant applications under this 
                        subsection;
                            (ii) make recommendations to the Secretary 
                        of Commerce regarding which grant applications 
                        should be funded and the amount of each grant; 
                        and
                            (iii) establish any specific requirements, 
                        conditions, or limitations on a grant 
                        application recommended for funding.
            (3) Procedures and eligibility criteria for grants.--
                    (A) In general.--The Secretary of Commerce shall 
                establish--
                            (i) procedures for applying for a grant 
                        under this subsection and criteria for 
                        evaluating applications for such grants; and
                            (ii) criteria, in consultation with the 
                        Panel, to determine what persons are eligible 
                        for grants under the program.
                    (B) Eligible persons.--Persons eligible under the 
                criteria under subparagraph (A)(ii) shall include 
                Federal, State, affected tribal, and local agencies, 
                fishery or wildlife management organizations, nonprofit 
                organizations, and academic institutions.
            (4) Approval of grants.--In making grants under this 
        subsection the Secretary of Commerce shall give the highest 
        priority to the recommendations of the Panel. If the Secretary 
        of Commerce disapproves a grant recommended by the Panel, the 
        Secretary of Commerce shall explain that disapproval in 
        writing.
            (5) Use of grant funds.--Any amounts provided as a grant 
        under this subsection may only be used for activities described 
        in subsection (f).
    (d) Grants to Regional Ocean Partnerships.--
            (1) Grant authority.--The Secretary of Commerce may use 
        amounts allocated under subsection (a)(3)(A)(iii) to make 
        grants to Regional Ocean Partnerships.
            (2) Eligibility.--In order to be eligible to receive a 
        grant, a Regional Ocean Partnership must prepare and annually 
        revise a plan that--
                    (A) identifies regional science and information 
                needs, regional goals and priorities, and mechanisms 
                for facilitating coordinated and collaborative 
                responses to regional issues;
                    (B) establishes a process for coordinating and 
                collaborating with the Regional Coordination Councils 
                established under section 503 to address regional 
                issues and information needs and achieve regional goals 
                and priorities; and
                    (C) demonstrates that activities to be carried out 
                with such funds are eligible uses of the funds 
                identified in subsection (f).
            (3) Approval by secretary.--Such plans must be submitted to 
        and approved by the Secretary of Commerce.
            (4) Public input and comment.--In determining whether to 
        approve such plans, the Secretary of Commerce shall provide 
        opportunity for, and take into consideration, input and comment 
        on the plans from stakeholders and the general public.
            (5) Use of funds.--Any amounts provided as a grant under 
        this subsection may only be used for activities described in 
        subsection (f).
    (e) Long-Term Ocean and Coastal Observations.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary of Commerce shall use the 
        amounts allocated under subsection (a)(3)(A)(ii) to build, 
        operate, and maintain the system established under section 
        12304 of Public Law 111-11 (33 U.S.C. 3603), in accordance with 
        the purposes and policies for which the system was established.
            (2) Administration of funds.--The Secretary of Commerce 
        shall administer and distribute funds under this subsection 
        based upon comprehensive system budgets adopted by the Council 
        referred to in section 12304(c)(1)(A) of Public Law 111-11 (33 
        U.S.C. 3603(c)(1)(A)).
    (f) Eligible Use of Funds.--Any funds made available under this 
section may only be used for activities that contribute to the 
conservation, protection, maintenance, and restoration of ocean, 
coastal, and Great Lakes ecosystems in a manner that is consistent with 
Federal environmental laws and that avoids environmental degradation, 
including--
            (1) activities to conserve, protect, maintain, and restore 
        coastal, marine, and Great Lakes ecosystem health;
            (2) activities to protect marine biodiversity and living 
        marine and coastal resources and their habitats, including fish 
        populations;
            (3) the development and implementation of multiobjective, 
        science- and ecosystem-based plans for monitoring and managing 
        the wide variety of uses affecting ocean, coastal, and Great 
        Lakes ecosystems and resources that consider cumulative impacts 
        and are spatially explicit where appropriate;
            (4) activities to improve the resiliency of those 
        ecosystems;
            (5) activities to improve the ability of those ecosystems 
        to become more resilient, and to adapt to and withstand the 
        impacts of climate change and ocean acidification;
            (6) planning for and managing coastal development to 
        minimize the loss of life and property associated with sea 
        level rise and the coastal hazards resulting from it;
            (7) research, assessment, monitoring, and dissemination of 
        information that contributes to the achievement of these 
        purposes;
            (8) research of, protection of, enhancement to, and 
        activities to improve the resiliency of culturally significant 
        areas and resources; and
            (9) activities designed to rescue, rehabilitate, and 
        recover injured marine mammals, marine birds, and sea turtles.

SEC. 507. WAIVER.

    The Federal Advisory Committee Act (5 U.S.C. App.) shall not apply 
to the Regional Coordination Councils established under section 503.

        Subtitle B--Outer Continental Shelf Lands Act Amendments

SEC. 511. NATIONAL POLICY FOR THE OUTER CONTINENTAL SHELF.

    Section 3 of the Outer Continental Shelf Lands Act (43 U.S.C. 1332) 
is amended--
            (1) by striking paragraph (3) and inserting the following:
            ``(3) the outer Continental Shelf is a vital national 
        resource reserve held by the Federal Government for the public, 
        that should be managed in a manner that--
                    ``(A) recognizes the need of the United States for 
                domestic sources of energy, food, minerals, and other 
                resources;
                    ``(B) minimizes the potential impacts of 
                development of those resources on the marine and 
                coastal environment and on human health and safety; and
                    ``(C) acknowledges the long-term economic value to 
                the United States of the balanced and orderly 
                management of those resources that safeguards the 
                environment and respects the multiple values and uses 
                of the outer Continental Shelf;'';
            (2) in paragraph (4), by striking the period at the end and 
        inserting a semicolon;
            (3) in paragraph (5), by striking ``should be'' and 
        inserting ``shall be'', and striking ``; and'' and inserting a 
        semicolon;
            (4) by redesignating paragraph (6) as paragraph (7);
            (5) by inserting after paragraph (5) the following:
            ``(6) exploration, development, and production of energy 
        and minerals on the outer Continental Shelf should be allowed 
        only when those activities can be accomplished in a manner that 
        minimizes--
                    ``(A) harmful impacts to life (including fish and 
                other aquatic life) and health;
                    ``(B) damage to the marine, coastal, and human 
                environments and to property; and
                    ``(C) harm to other users of the waters, seabed, or 
                subsoil; and''; and
            (6) in paragraph (7) (as so redesignated), by--
                    (A) striking ``should be'' and inserting ``shall 
                be'';
                    (B) inserting ``best available'' after ``using''; 
                and
                    (C) striking ``or minimize''.

SEC. 512. OCS LEASING STANDARD.

    Section 5 of the Outer Continental Shelf Lands Act (43 U.S.C. 1334) 
is amended--
            (1) in subsection (a), by striking ``The Secretary may at 
        any time'' and inserting ``The Secretary shall'';
            (2) in the second sentence of subsection (a), by inserting 
        after ``provide for'' the following: ``operational safety, the 
        protection of the marine and coastal environment, and'';
            (3) in subsection (a), by inserting ``and the Secretary of 
        Commerce with respect to matters that may affect the marine and 
        coastal environment'' after ``which may affect competition'';
            (4) in clause (ii) of subsection (a)(2)(A), by striking ``a 
        reasonable period of time'' and inserting ``30 days''; and
            (5) in subsection (a)(7), by inserting ``in a manner that 
        minimizes harmful impacts to the marine and coastal 
        environment'' after ``lease area''.

SEC. 513. OCS LEASING PROCEDURES.

    (a) Financial Assurance and Fiscal Responsibility.--Section 8 of 
the Outer Continental Shelf Lands Act (43 U.S.C. 1337) is amended by 
adding at the end the following:
    ``(q) Review of Bond and Surety Amounts.--Not later than May 1, 
2018, and every 5 years thereafter, the Secretary shall review the 
minimum financial responsibility requirements for leases issued under 
this section and shall ensure that any bonds or surety required are 
adequate to comply with the requirements of this Act or the Oil 
Pollution Act of 1990 (33 U.S.C. 2701 et seq.).
    ``(r) Periodic Fiscal Review and Report.--
            ``(1) In general.--Not later than 1 year after the date of 
        enactment of this subsection and every 3 years thereafter, the 
        Secretary shall carry out a review and prepare a report setting 
        forth--
                    ``(A)(i) the royalty and rental rates included in 
                new offshore oil and gas leases; and
                    ``(ii) the rationale for the rates;
                    ``(B) whether, in the view of the Secretary, the 
                royalty and rental rates described in subparagraph (A) 
                will yield a fair return to the public while promoting 
                the production of oil and gas resources in a timely 
                manner;
                    ``(C)(i) the minimum bond or surety amounts 
                required pursuant to offshore oil and gas leases; and
                    ``(ii) the rationale for the minimum amounts;
                    ``(D) whether the bond or surety amounts described 
                in subparagraph (C) are adequate to comply with 
                subsection (q); and
                    ``(E) whether the Secretary intends to modify the 
                royalty or rental rates, or bond or surety amounts, 
                based on the review.
            ``(2) Public participation.--In carrying out a review and 
        preparing a report under paragraph (1), the Secretary shall 
        provide to the public an opportunity to participate.
            ``(3) Report deadline.--Not later than 30 days after the 
        date on which the Secretary completes a report under paragraph 
        (1), the Secretary shall transmit copies of the report to--
                    ``(A) the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources 
                of the Senate; and
                    ``(B) the Committee on Natural Resources of the 
                House of Representatives.
    ``(s) Comparative Review of Fiscal System.--
            ``(1) In general.--Not later than 2 years after the date of 
        enactment of this subsection and every 5 years thereafter, the 
        Secretary shall carry out a comprehensive review of all 
        components of the Federal offshore oil and gas fiscal system, 
        including requirements for--
                    ``(A) bonus bids;
                    ``(B) rental rates;
                    ``(C) royalties; and
                    ``(D) oil and gas taxes.
            ``(2) Requirements.--
                    ``(A) Contents; scope.--A review under paragraph 
                (1) shall include--
                            ``(i) the information and analyses 
                        necessary to compare the offshore bonus bids, 
                        rents, royalties, and taxes of the Federal 
                        Government to the offshore bonus bids, rents, 
                        royalties, and taxes of other resource owners, 
                        including States and foreign countries; and
                            ``(ii) an assessment of the overall 
                        offshore oil and gas fiscal system in the 
                        United States, as compared to foreign 
                        countries.
                    ``(B) Advisory committee.--In carrying out a review 
                under paragraph (1), the Secretary shall convene and 
                seek the advice of the Royalty Policy Committee.
            ``(3) Report.--
                    ``(A) In general.--The Secretary shall prepare a 
                report that contains--
                            ``(i) the contents and results of the 
                        review carried out under paragraph (1) for the 
                        period covered by the report; and
                            ``(ii) any recommendations of the Secretary 
                        based on the contents and results of the 
                        review.
                    ``(B) Report deadline.--Not later than 30 days 
                after the date on which the Secretary completes a 
                report under paragraph (1), the Secretary shall 
                transmit copies of the report to the Committee on 
                Natural Resources of the House of Representatives and 
                the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources of the 
                Senate.''.
    (b) Environmental Diligence.--Section 8 of the Outer Continental 
Shelf Lands Act (43 U.S.C. 1337) is amended by striking subsection (d) 
and inserting the following:
    ``(d) Requirement for Certification of Responsible Stewardship.--
            ``(1) Certification requirement.--No bid or request for a 
        lease, easement, or right-of-way under this section, or for a 
        permit to drill under section 11(d), may be submitted by any 
        person unless the person certifies to the Secretary that the 
        person (including any related person and any predecessor of 
        such person or related person) meets each of the following 
        requirements:
                    ``(A) The person is meeting due diligence, safety, 
                and environmental requirements on other leases, 
                easements, and rights-of-way.
                    ``(B) In the case of a person that is a responsible 
                party for a vessel or a facility from which oil is 
                discharged, for purposes of section 1002 of the Oil 
                Pollution Act of 1990 (33 U.S.C. 2702), the person has 
                met all of its obligations under that Act to provide 
                compensation for covered removal costs and damages.
            ``(2) Enforcement.--If the Secretary determines that a 
        certification made under paragraph (1) is false, the Secretary 
        shall cancel any lease, easement, or right-of-way and shall 
        revoke any permit with respect to which the certification was 
        required under such paragraph.
            ``(3) Definition of related person.--For purposes of this 
        subsection, the term `related person' includes a parent, 
        subsidiary, affiliate, member of the same controlled group, 
        contractor, subcontractor, a person holding a controlling 
        interest or in which a controlling interest is held, and a 
        person with substantially the same board members, senior 
        officers, or investors.''.
    (c) Review of Impacts of Lease Sales on the Marine and Coastal 
Environment by Secretary.--Section 8 of the Outer Continental Shelf 
Lands Act (43 U.S.C. 1337) is amended by adding at the end of 
subsection (a) the following:
            ``(9) At least 60 days prior to any lease sale, the 
        Secretary shall request a review by the Secretary of Commerce 
        of the proposed sale with respect to impacts on the marine and 
        coastal environment. The Secretary of Commerce shall complete 
        and submit in writing the results of that review within 60 days 
        after receipt of the Secretary of the Interior's request.''.
    (d) Terms and Provisions.--Section 8(b) of the Outer Continental 
Shelf Lands Act (43 U.S.C. 1337(b)) is amended by striking ``An oil and 
gas lease issued pursuant to this section shall'' and inserting ``An 
oil and gas lease may be issued pursuant to this section only if the 
Secretary determines that activities under the lease are not likely to 
result in any condition described in section 5(a)(2)(A)(i), and 
shall''.

SEC. 514. FUNDING.

    Section 9 of the Outer Continental Shelf Lands Act (43 U.S.C. 1338) 
is amended to read as follows:

``SEC. 9. DISPOSITION OF REVENUES.

    ``(a) General.--Except as provided in subsections (b), (c), and 
(d), all rentals, royalties, and other sums paid to the Secretary or 
the Secretary of the Navy under any lease on the outer Continental 
Shelf for the period from June 5, 1950, to date, and thereafter shall 
be deposited in the Treasury of the United States and credited to 
miscellaneous receipts.
    ``(b) Land and Water Conservation Fund.--Effective for fiscal year 
2018 and each fiscal year thereafter, $900,000,000 of the amounts 
referred to in subsection (a) shall be deposited in the Treasury of the 
United States and credited to the Land and Water Conservation Fund. 
These sums shall be available to the Secretary, without further 
appropriation or fiscal year limitation, for carrying out the purposes 
of chapter 2003 of title 54, United States Code.
    ``(c) Historic Preservation Fund.--Effective for fiscal year 2018 
and each fiscal year thereafter, $150,000,000 of the amounts referred 
to in subsection (a) shall be deposited in the Treasury of the United 
States and credited to the Historic Preservation Fund. These sums shall 
be available to the Secretary, without further appropriation or fiscal 
year limitation, for carrying out the purposes of chapters 3021 through 
3039 of title 54, United States Code.
    ``(d) Ocean Resources Conservation and Assistance Fund.--Effective 
for each fiscal year 2018 and thereafter, 10 percent of the amounts 
referred to in subsection (a) shall be deposited in the Treasury of the 
United States and credited to the Ocean Resources Conservation and 
Assistance Fund established by section 506 of the Sustainable Energy 
Development Reform Act. These sums shall be available to the Secretary, 
without further appropriation or fiscal year limitation, for carrying 
out the purposes of such section.
    ``(e) Savings Provision.--Nothing in this section shall decrease 
the amount any State shall receive pursuant to section 8(g) of this Act 
or section 105 of the Gulf of Mexico Energy Security Act (43 U.S.C. 
1331 note).''.

SEC. 515. EXPLORATION PLANS.

    (a) Limitation on Harm From Agency Exploration.--Section 11(a)(1) 
of the Outer Continental Shelf Lands Act (43 U.S.C. 1340(a)(1)) is 
amended by striking ``unduly harmful to'' and inserting ``likely to 
harm''.
    (b) Exploration Plan Review.--Section 11(c)(1) of the Outer 
Continental Shelf Lands Act (43 U.S.C. 1340(c)(1)), is amended--
            (1) by inserting ``(A)'' before the first sentence;
            (2) in paragraph (1)(A), as designated by the amendment 
        made by paragraph (1) of this subsection--
                    (A) by striking ``and the provisions of such 
                lease'' and inserting ``the provisions of such lease, 
                and other applicable environmental and natural resource 
                conservation laws''; and
                    (B) by striking the fourth sentence and inserting 
                the following:
                    ``(B) The Secretary shall approve such plan, as 
                submitted or modified, within 90 days after its 
                submission and it is made publicly accessible by the 
                Secretary, or within such additional time as the 
                Secretary determines is necessary to complete any 
                environmental, safety, or other reviews, if the 
                Secretary determines that--
                            ``(i) any proposed activity under such plan 
                        is not likely to result in any condition 
                        described in section 5(a)(2)(A)(i);
                            ``(ii) the plan complies with other 
                        applicable environmental or natural resource 
                        conservation laws; and
                            ``(iii) the applicant has demonstrated the 
                        capability and technology to respond 
                        immediately and effectively to a worst-case oil 
                        spill in real-world conditions in the area of 
                        the proposed activity.''; and
            (3) by adding at the end the following:
            ``(5) If the Secretary requires greater than 90 days to 
        review an exploration plan submitted pursuant to any oil and 
        gas lease issued or maintained under this Act, then the 
        Secretary may provide for a suspension of that lease pursuant 
        to section 5 until the review of the exploration plan is 
        completed.''.
    (c) Requirements.--Section 11(c) of the Outer Continental Shelf 
Lands Act (43 U.S.C. 1340(c)) is amended by amending paragraph (3) to 
read as follows:
            ``(3) An exploration plan submitted under this subsection 
        shall include, in the degree of detail that the Secretary may 
        by regulation require--
                    ``(A) a schedule of anticipated exploration 
                activities to be undertaken;
                    ``(B) a detailed and accurate description of 
                equipment to be used for such activities, including--
                            ``(i) a description of each drilling unit;
                            ``(ii) a statement of the design and 
                        condition of major safety-related pieces of 
                        equipment, including independent third-party 
                        certification of such equipment; and
                            ``(iii) a description of any new technology 
                        to be used;
                    ``(C) a map showing the location of each well to be 
                drilled;
                    ``(D) a scenario for the potential blowout of the 
                well involving the highest potential volume of liquid 
                hydrocarbons, along with a complete description of a 
                response plan to both control the blowout and manage 
                the accompanying discharge of hydrocarbons, including 
                the likelihood for surface intervention to stop the 
                blowout, the availability of a rig to drill a relief 
                well, an estimate of the time it would take to drill a 
                relief well, a description of other technology that may 
                be used to regain control of the well or capture 
                escaping hydrocarbons and the potential timeline for 
                using that technology for its intended purpose, and the 
                strategy, organization, and resources necessary to 
                avoid harm to the environment and human health from 
                hydrocarbons;
                    ``(E) an analysis of the potential impacts of the 
                worst-case-scenario discharge of hydrocarbons on the 
                marine, coastal, and human environments for activities 
                conducted pursuant to the proposed exploration plan; 
                and
                    ``(F) such other information deemed pertinent by 
                the Secretary.''.
    (d) Drilling Permits.--Section 11(d) of the Outer Continental Shelf 
Lands Act (43 U.S.C. 1340(d)) is amended to read as follows:
    ``(d) Drilling Permits.--
            ``(1) In general.--The Secretary shall, by regulation, 
        require that any lessee operating under an approved exploration 
        plan obtain a permit prior to drilling any well in accordance 
        with such plan, and prior to any significant modification of 
        the well design as originally approved by the Secretary.
            ``(2) Engineering review required.--The Secretary may not 
        grant any drilling permit or modification of the permit prior 
        to completion of a full engineering review of the well system, 
        including a determination that critical safety systems, 
        including blowout prevention, will utilize best available 
        technology and that blowout prevention systems will include 
        redundancy and remote triggering capability.
            ``(3) Operator safety and environmental management 
        required.--The Secretary shall not grant any drilling permit or 
        modification of the permit prior to completion of a safety and 
        environmental management plan to be utilized by the operator 
        during all well operations.''.
    (e) Exploration Permit Requirements.--Section 11(g) of the Outer 
Continental Shelf Lands Act (43 U.S.C. 1340(g)) is amended--
            (1) by striking ``shall be issued'' and inserting ``may be 
        issued'';
            (2) by inserting ``and after consultation with the 
        Secretary of Commerce,'' after ``in accordance with regulations 
        issued by the Secretary'';
            (3) by striking the ``and'' at the end of paragraph (2);
            (4) in paragraph (3), by striking ``will not be unduly 
        harmful to'' and inserting ``is not likely to harm'';
            (5) by striking the period at the end of paragraph (3) and 
        inserting a semicolon; and
            (6) by adding at the end the following:
            ``(4) the exploration will be conducted in accordance with 
        other applicable environmental and natural resource 
        conservation laws;
            ``(5) in the case of geophysical surveys, the applicant 
        shall use the best available technologies and methods to 
        minimize impacts on marine life; and
            ``(6) in the case of drilling operations, the applicant has 
        available oil spill response and clean-up equipment and 
        technology that has been demonstrated to be capable of 
        effectively remediating a worst-case release of oil.''.
    (f) Environmental Review of Plans.--Section 11 of the Outer 
Continental Shelf Lands Act (43 U.S.C. 1340) is amended by adding at 
the end the following:
    ``(i) Environmental Review of Plans.--The Secretary shall treat the 
approval of an exploration plan, or a significant revision of such a 
plan, as an agency action requiring preparation of an environmental 
assessment or environmental impact statement in accordance with the 
National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 (42 U.S.C. 4321 et seq.) and 
shall require that such plan be based on the best available technology 
to ensure safety in carrying out both the drilling of the well and any 
oil spill response.
    ``(j) Disapproval of Plan.--
            ``(1) In general.--The Secretary shall disapprove an 
        exploration plan if the Secretary determines, because of 
        exceptional geological conditions in the lease areas, 
        exceptional resource values in the marine or coastal 
        environment, or other exceptional circumstances, that--
                    ``(A) implementation of the plan would probably 
                cause serious harm or damage to life (including fish 
                and other aquatic life), to property, to any mineral 
                deposits (in areas leased or not leased), to the 
                national security or defense, or to the marine, 
                coastal, or human environments;
                    ``(B) the threat of harm or damage will not 
                disappear or decrease to an acceptable extent within a 
                reasonable period of time; and
                    ``(C) the advantages of disapproving the plan 
                outweigh the advantages of exploration.
            ``(2) Cancellation of lease for disapproval of plan.--If a 
        plan is disapproved under this subsection, the Secretary may 
        cancel such lease in accordance with subsection (c)(1) of this 
        section.''.

SEC. 516. 5-YEAR PROGRAMS.

    Section 18 of the Outer Continental Shelf Lands Act (43 U.S.C. 
1344) is amended--
            (1) in subsection (a) in the second sentence by striking 
        ``meet national energy needs'' and inserting ``balance national 
        energy needs and the protection of the marine and coastal 
        environment and all the resources in that environment,'';
            (2) in subsection (a)(1), by striking ``considers'' and 
        inserting ``gives equal consideration to'';
            (3) in subsection (a)(2)(A)--
                    (A) by striking ``existing'' and inserting ``the 
                best available scientific''; and
                    (B) by inserting ``, including at least three 
                consecutive years of data'' after ``information'';
            (4) in subsection (a)(2)(D), by inserting ``, potential and 
        existing sites of renewable energy installations'' after 
        ``deepwater ports,'';
            (5) in subsection (a)(2)(H), by inserting ``including the 
        availability of infrastructure to support oil spill response'' 
        before the period;
            (6) in subsection (a)(3), by--
                    (A) striking ``to the maximum extent 
                practicable,'';
                    (B) striking ``obtain a proper balance between'' 
                and inserting ``minimize''; and
                    (C) striking ``damage,'' and all that follows 
                through the period and inserting ``damage and adverse 
                impacts on the marine, coastal, and human environments, 
                and enhancing the potential for the discovery of oil 
                and gas.'';
            (7) in subsection (b)(1), by inserting ``environmental, 
        marine, and energy'' after ``obtain'';
            (8) in subsection (b)(2), by inserting ``environmental, 
        marine, and'' after ``interpret the'';
            (9) in subsection (b)(3), by striking ``and'' after the 
        semicolon at the end;
            (10) by striking the period at the end of subsection (b)(4) 
        and inserting a semicolon;
            (11) by adding at the end of subsection (b) the following:
            ``(5) provide technical review and oversight of exploration 
        plans and a systems review of the safety of well designs and 
        other operational decisions;
            ``(6) conduct regular and thorough safety reviews and 
        inspections; and
            ``(7) enforce all applicable laws and regulations.'';
            (12) in the first sentence of subsection (c)(1), by 
        inserting ``the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration 
        and'' after ``including'';
            (13) in subsection (c)(2)--
                    (A) by inserting after the first sentence the 
                following: ``The Secretary shall also submit a copy of 
                such proposed program to the head of each Federal 
                agency referred to in, or that otherwise provided 
                suggestions under, paragraph (1).'';
                    (B) in the third sentence, by inserting ``or head 
                of a Federal agency'' after ``such Governor''; and
                    (C) in the fourth sentence, by inserting ``or 
                between the Secretary and the head of a Federal 
                agency,'' after ``affected State,'';
            (14) in the second sentence of subsection (d)(2), by 
        inserting ``, the head of a Federal agency,'' after ``Attorney 
        General'';
            (15) in subsection (g), by inserting after the first 
        sentence the following: ``Such information may include existing 
        inventories and mapping of marine resources previously 
        undertaken by the Department of the Interior and the National 
        Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, information provided by 
        the Department of Defense, and other available data regarding 
        energy or mineral resource potential, navigation uses, 
        fisheries, aquaculture uses, recreational uses, habitat, 
        conservation, and military uses on the outer Continental 
        Shelf.''; and
            (16) by adding at the end the following:
    ``(i) Research and Development.--The Secretary shall carry out a 
program of research and development to ensure the continued improvement 
of methodologies for characterizing resources of the outer Continental 
Shelf and conditions that may affect the ability to develop and use 
those resources in a safe, sound, and environmentally responsible 
manner. Such research and development activities may include activities 
to provide accurate estimates of energy and mineral reserves and 
potential on the Outer Continental Shelf and any activities that may 
assist in filling gaps in environmental data needed to develop each 
leasing program under this section.''.

SEC. 517. ENVIRONMENTAL STUDIES.

    (a) Information Needed for Assessment and Management of 
Environmental Impacts.--Section 20 of the Outer Continental Shelf Lands 
Act (43 U.S.C. 1346) is amended by striking so much as precedes 
subsection (a)(2) and inserting the following:

``SEC. 20. ENVIRONMENTAL STUDIES.

    ``(a)(1) The Secretary, in cooperation with the Secretary of 
Commerce, shall conduct a study no less than once every three years of 
any area or region included in any oil and gas lease sale or other 
lease in order to establish information needed for assessment and 
management of environmental impacts on the human, marine, and coastal 
environments of the outer Continental Shelf and the coastal areas which 
may be affected by oil and gas or other mineral development in such 
area or region.''.
    (b) Impacts of Deep Water Spills.--Section 20 of the Outer 
Continental Shelf Lands Act (43 U.S.C. 1346) is amended by--
            (1) redesignating subsections (c) through (f) as (d) 
        through (g); and
            (2) inserting after subsection (b) the following:
    ``(c) The Secretary shall conduct research to identify and reduce 
data gaps related to impacts of deepwater hydrocarbon spills, 
including--
            ``(1) effects to benthic substrate communities and species;
            ``(2) water column habitats and species;
            ``(3) surface and coastal impacts from spills originating 
        in deep waters; and
            ``(4) the use of dispersants.''.

SEC. 518. INSPECTIONS AND CERTIFICATIONS.

    Section 22 of the Outer Continental Shelf Lands Act (43 U.S.C. 
1348) is amended--
            (1) by amending subsection (c) to read as follows:
    ``(c) Inspections.--The Secretary and the Secretary of the 
department in which the Coast Guard is operating shall individually, or 
jointly if they so agree, promulgate regulations to provide for--
            ``(1) scheduled onsite inspection, at least once a year, of 
        each facility on the outer Continental Shelf which is subject 
        to any environmental or safety regulation promulgated pursuant 
        to this Act, which inspection shall include all safety 
        equipment designed to prevent or ameliorate blowouts, fires, 
        spillages, or other major accidents;
            ``(2) scheduled onsite inspection, at least once a month, 
        of each facility on the outer Continental Shelf engaged in 
        drilling operations and which is subject to any environmental 
        or safety regulation promulgated pursuant to this Act, which 
        inspection shall include all safety equipment designed to 
        prevent or ameliorate blowouts, fires, spillages, or other 
        major accidents;
            ``(3) periodic onsite inspection without advance notice to 
        the operator of such facility to assure compliance with such 
        environmental or safety regulations; and
            ``(4) periodic audits of each required safety and 
        environmental management plan, and any associated safety case, 
        both with respect to their implementation at each facility on 
        the outer Continental Shelf for which such a plan or safety 
        case is required and with respect to onshore management support 
        for activities at such a facility.'';
            (2) in subsection (d)(1)--
                    (A) by striking ``each major fire and each major 
                oil spillage'' and inserting ``each major fire, each 
                major oil spillage, each loss of well control, and any 
                other accident that presented a serious risk to human 
                or environmental safety''; and
                    (B) by inserting before the period at the end the 
                following: ``, as a condition of the lease or permit'';
            (3) in subsection (d)(2), by inserting before the period at 
        the end the following: ``as a condition of the lease or 
        permit'';
            (4) in subsection (e), by adding at the end the following: 
        ``Any such allegation from any employee of the lessee or any 
        subcontractor of the lessee shall be investigated by the 
        Secretary.'';
            (5) in subsection (b)(1), by striking ``recognized'' and 
        inserting ``uncontrolled''; and
            (6) by adding at the end the following:
    ``(g) Information on Causes and Corrective Actions.--For any 
incident investigated under this section, the Secretary shall promptly 
make available to all lessees and the public technical information 
about the causes and corrective actions taken. All data and reports 
related to any such incident shall be maintained in a data base 
available to the public.
    ``(h) Operator's Annual Certification.--
            ``(1) The Secretary, in cooperation with the Secretary of 
        the department in which the Coast Guard is operating, shall 
        require all operators of all new and existing drilling and 
        production operations to annually certify that their operations 
        are being conducted in accordance with applicable law and 
        regulations.
            ``(2) Each certification shall include, but, not be limited 
        to, statements that verify the operator has--
                    ``(A) examined all well control system equipment 
                (both surface and subsea) being used to ensure that it 
                has been properly maintained and is capable of shutting 
                in the well during emergency operations;
                    ``(B) examined and conducted tests to ensure that 
                the emergency equipment has been function-tested and is 
                capable of addressing emergency situations;
                    ``(C) reviewed all rig drilling, casing, cementing, 
                well abandonment (temporary and permanent), completion, 
                and workover practices to ensure that well control is 
                not compromised at any point while emergency equipment 
                is installed on the wellhead;
                    ``(D) reviewed all emergency shutdown and dynamic 
                positioning procedures that interface with emergency 
                well control operations; and
                    ``(E) taken the necessary steps to ensure that all 
                personnel involved in well operations are properly 
                trained and capable of performing their tasks under 
                both normal drilling and emergency well control 
                operations.
    ``(i) CEO Annual Certification.--Operators of all drilling and 
production operations shall annually submit to the Secretary a general 
statement by the operator's chief executive officer that certifies to 
the operators' compliance with all applicable laws and operating 
regulations.
    ``(j) Third-Party Certification.--All operators that modify or 
upgrade any emergency equipment placed on any operation to prevent 
blow-outs or other well control events, shall have an independent third 
party conduct a detailed physical inspection and design review of such 
equipment within 30 days of its installation. The independent third 
party shall certify that the equipment will operate as originally 
designed and any modifications or upgrades conducted after delivery 
have not compromised the design, performance or functionality of the 
equipment. Failure to comply with this subsection shall result in 
suspension of the lease.''.

SEC. 519. PETITIONS.

    Section 23(c)(3) of the Outer Continental Shelf Lands Act (43 
U.S.C. 1349(c)(3)) is amended by striking ``sixty'' and inserting 
``90''.

                      Subtitle C--Other Provisions

SEC. 521. CONTRACTOR LIABILITY.

    Section 24 of the Outer Continental Shelf Lands Act (43 U.S.C. 
1350) is amended by adding at the end the following:
    ``(f) Liability of Contractors.--A person who enters into a 
contract with a lessee under this Act to provide goods or services to 
be used in activities under a lease under this Act shall be held 
jointly liable with the lessee for any damages resulting from a 
violation of this Act committed by such person in their performance 
under the contract.''.

SEC. 522. AREA-WIDE LEASING.

    The Secretary of the Interior shall seek to enter into an 
arrangement with the National Academy of Sciences to conduct a study to 
estimate the financial impact of the Secretary ceasing to offer oil and 
gas lease sales for the outer Continental Shelf under the area-wide 
system and returning to offering such lease sales under the tract-
nomination system.

SEC. 523. FRONTIER AREAS.

    Section 8 of the Outer Continental Shelf Lands Act (43 U.S.C. 1337) 
is amended by adding at the end the following:
    ``(q) Prohibition of Oil and Gas Leasing in Arctic Planning Area of 
the Outer Continental Shelf.--Notwithstanding any other provision of 
this Act or any other law, the Secretary of the Interior shall not 
issue or renew a lease or any other authorization for the exploration, 
development, or production of oil, natural gas, or any other mineral in 
the Arctic Ocean, including the Beaufort Sea and Chukchi Sea Planning 
Areas.''.

SEC. 524. STRENGTHENING COASTAL STATE OIL SPILL PLANNING AND RESPONSE.

    The Coastal Zone Management Act of 1972 (16 U.S.C. 1451 et seq.) is 
amended by adding at the end the following:

``SEC. 321. STRENGTHENING COASTAL STATE OIL SPILL PLANNING AND 
              RESPONSE.

    ``(a) Grants to States.--The Secretary may make grants to eligible 
coastal states--
            ``(1) to revise management programs approved under section 
        306 (16 U.S.C. 1455) to identify and implement new enforceable 
        policies and procedures to ensure sufficient response 
        capabilities at the state level to address the environmental, 
        economic, and social impacts of oil spills or other accidents 
        resulting from outer Continental Shelf energy activities with 
        the potential to affect any land or water use or natural 
        resource of the coastal zone;
            ``(2) to review and revise, where necessary, applicable 
        enforceable policies and procedures of approved state 
        management programs affecting coastal energy activities to 
        ensure that such policies are consistent with--
                    ``(A) other emergency response plans and policies 
                developed under Federal or State law; and
                    ``(B) new policies and procedures developed under 
                paragraph (1); and
            ``(3) after a State has adopted new or revised enforceable 
        policies and procedures under paragraphs (1) and (2)--
                    ``(A) the State shall submit the policies and 
                procedures to the Secretary; and
                    ``(B) the Secretary shall notify the State whether 
                the Secretary approves or disapproves the incorporation 
                of the policies and procedures into the State's 
                management program pursuant to section 306(e).
    ``(b) Elements.--New enforceable policies and procedures developed 
by coastal states with grants awarded under this section shall 
consider--
            ``(1) other existing emergency response plans, procedures 
        and enforceable policies developed under other Federal or State 
        law that affect the coastal zone;
            ``(2) identification of critical infrastructure essential 
        to facilitate spill or accident response activities;
            ``(3) identification of coordination, logistics, and 
        communication networks between Federal and State government 
        agencies and between State agencies and affected local 
        communities to ensure the efficient and timely dissemination of 
        data and other information;
            ``(4) inventories of shore locations and infrastructure and 
        equipment necessary to respond to oil spills or other accidents 
        resulting from outer Continental Shelf energy activities;
            ``(5) identification and characterization of significant or 
        sensitive marine ecosystems or other areas possessing important 
        conservation, recreational, ecological, historic, or aesthetic 
        values;
            ``(6) inventories and surveys of shore locations and 
        infrastructure capable of supporting alternative energy 
        development; and
            ``(7) other information or actions as may be necessary or 
        as determined by the Secretary.
    ``(c) Guidelines.--The Secretary shall, within 180 days after the 
date of the enactment of this section and after consultation with the 
coastal states, publish guidelines for the application for and use of 
grants under this section.
    ``(d) Participation.--A coastal state shall provide opportunity for 
public participation in developing new enforceable policies and 
procedures under this section pursuant to sections 306(d)(1) and 
306(e), especially by relevant Federal agencies, other coastal state 
agencies, local governments, regional organizations, port authorities, 
and other interested parties and stakeholders, public and private, that 
are related to, or affected by, outer Continental Shelf energy 
activities.
    ``(e) Annual Grants.--
            ``(1) In general.--For each of fiscal years 2018 through 
        2022, the Secretary may make a grant to a coastal state to 
        develop new enforceable polices and procedures as required 
        under this section.
            ``(2) Grant amounts.--The amount of any grant to any one 
        coastal State under this section shall not exceed $750,000 for 
        any fiscal year.
            ``(3) Grant limitations.--A coastal state--
                    ``(A) may not receive more than two grants under 
                this section; and
                    ``(B) may not receive more than one grant under 
                this section in a fiscal year.
            ``(4) No state matching contribution required.--Because it 
        is in the national interest to be able to respond efficiently 
        and effectively at all levels of government to oil spills and 
        other accidents resulting from outer Continental Shelf energy 
        activities, a coastal state shall not be required to contribute 
        any portion of the cost of a grant awarded under this section.
            ``(5) Secretarial review and limit on awards.--After an 
        initial grant is made to a coastal state under this section, no 
        subsequent grant may be made to that coastal state under this 
        section unless the Secretary finds that the coastal state is 
        satisfactorily developing revisions to address offshore energy 
        impacts.
    ``(f) Applicability.--This section shall not be construed to convey 
any new authority to any coastal state or to repeal or supersede any 
existing authority of any coastal state to regulate the siting, 
licensing, leasing, or permitting of energy facilities in areas of the 
outer Continental Shelf under the administration of the Federal 
Government. Nothing in this section repeals or supersedes any existing 
coastal state authority.
    ``(g) Assistance by the Secretary.--The Secretary, to the extent 
practicable, shall provide technical assistance to the coastal states 
under section 310(a) for the purpose of revising approved management 
programs to meet the requirements under this section.''.

SEC. 525. REPEAL OF LIMITATION ON LIABILITY FOR OFFSHORE FACILITIES.

    (a) Repeal.--Section 1004(a) of the Oil Pollution Act of 1990 (33 
U.S.C. 2704(a)) is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (2), by striking the semicolon and 
        inserting ``; and'';
            (2) by striking paragraph (3); and
            (3) by redesignating paragraph (4) as paragraph (3).
    (b) Conforming Amendment.--Section 1004(b)(2) of the Oil Pollution 
Act of 1990 (33 U.S.C. 2704(b)(2)) is amended by striking the second 
sentence.

SEC. 526. EVIDENCE OF FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY FOR OFFSHORE FACILITIES.

    Section 1016 of the Oil Pollution Act of 1990 (33 U.S.C. 2716) is 
amended--
            (1) in subsection (c)(1)--
                    (A) in subparagraph (B), by striking ``subparagraph 
                (A) is'' and all that follows through the period at the 
                end and inserting ``subparagraph (A) is 
                $300,000,000.''; and
                    (B) by striking subparagraph (C) and inserting the 
                following:
                    ``(C) Alternate amount.--
                            ``(i) Specific facilities.--
                                    ``(I) In general.--If the President 
                                determines that an amount of financial 
                                responsibility for a responsible party 
                                that is less than the amount required 
                                by subparagraph (B) is justified based 
                                on the criteria established under 
                                clause (ii), the evidence of financial 
                                responsibility required shall be for an 
                                amount prescribed under such clause by 
                                the President.
                                    ``(II) Minimum amounts.--In no case 
                                shall the evidence of financial 
                                responsibility required under this 
                                section be less than--
                                            ``(aa) $105,000,000 for an 
                                        offshore facility located 
                                        seaward of the seaward boundary 
                                        of a State; or
                                            ``(bb) $30,000,000 for an 
                                        offshore facility located 
                                        landward of the seaward 
                                        boundary of a State.
                            ``(ii) Criteria for determination of 
                        financial responsibility.--The President shall 
                        prescribe the amount of financial 
                        responsibility required under clause (i)(I) 
                        based on the following:
                                    ``(I) The market capacity of the 
                                insurance industry to issue such 
                                instruments.
                                    ``(II) The operational risk of a 
                                discharge and the likely effects of 
                                that discharge on the environment and 
                                the region.
                                    ``(III) The quantity and location 
                                of the oil and gas that is explored 
                                for, drilled for, produced by, or 
                                transported by the responsible party.
                                    ``(IV) The asset value of the owner 
                                of the offshore facility, including the 
                                combined asset value of all partners 
                                that own the facility.
                                    ``(V) The cost of all removal costs 
                                and damages for which the responsible 
                                party may be liable under this Act 
                                based on a worst-case-scenario.
                                    ``(VI) The safety history of the 
                                owner of the offshore facility.
                                    ``(VII) Any other factors that the 
                                President considers appropriate.
                            ``(iii) Adjustment for all offshore 
                        facilities.--
                                    ``(I) In general.--Not later than 3 
                                years after the date of enactment of 
                                the Sustainable Energy Development 
                                Reform Act, and at least once every 3 
                                years thereafter, the President shall 
                                review the levels of financial 
                                responsibility specified in this 
                                subsection and the limit on liability 
                                specified in subsection (f)(4) and may 
                                by regulation revise such levels and 
                                limit upward to the levels and limit 
                                that the President determines are 
                                justified.
                                    ``(II) Notice to congress.--Upon 
                                completion of a review specified in 
                                subclause (I), the President shall 
                                notify Congress as to whether the 
                                President will revise the levels of 
                                financial responsibility and limit on 
                                liability referred to in subclause (I) 
                                and the factors used in making such 
                                determination.
                                    ``(III) Specific adjustments.--Not 
                                less frequently than every 3 years, the 
                                President shall review the amount of 
                                financial responsibility required of a 
                                responsible party under this subsection 
                                and revise that amount, in accordance 
                                with this subsection, as necessary 
                                based on the relative operational, 
                                environmental, and other risks posed by 
                                the quantity, quality, or location of 
                                oil that is explored for, drilled for, 
                                produced by, or transported by the 
                                responsible party at the time of the 
                                review.'';
            (2) in subsection (e) by striking ``self-insurer,'' and 
        inserting ``self-insurer, participation in cooperative 
        arrangements such as pooling or joint insurance,''; and
            (3) in subsection (f)--
                    (A) in paragraph (1) by striking ``Subject'' and 
                inserting ``Except as provided in paragraph (4) and 
                subject''; and
                    (B) by adding at the end the following:
            ``(4) Maximum liability.--The maximum liability of a 
        guarantor of an offshore facility under this subsection is 
        $300,000,000.''.

                         TITLE VI--COAL REFORMS

SEC. 601. POWDER RIVER BASIN.

    (a) Designation.--The Secretary of the Interior shall designate the 
Powder River Coal Production Region, as such region is described in 
``Identification of Coal Production Regions Having Major Federal Coal 
Interests'' (44 Fed. Reg. 219 (November 9, 1979)), as a coal production 
region under section 3400.5 of title 43, Code of Federal Regulations 
(or any successor regulation).
    (b) Lease Requirement.--The Secretary shall offer lease sales for 
the Powder River Coal Production Region, as designated by subsection 
(a), in a manner that maximizes competition.

SEC. 602. DEDUCTIONS.

    Section 7 of the Mineral Leasing Act (30 U.S.C. 207) is amended by 
adding at the end the following:
    ``(d) Royalty Payment Reduction.--The Secretary may not determine a 
lesser amount of royalty than the amount in subsection (a) for washed 
coal.''.

SEC. 603. VALUATION.

    (a) Loophole.--Section 7 of the Mineral Leasing Act (30 U.S.C. 
207), as amended by section 602, is further amended by adding at the 
end the following:
    ``(e) Valuation of Coal.--
            ``(1) In general.--The value of coal for purposes of 
        calculating the required royalty payment under subsection (a) 
        is the gross proceeds accruing to the lessee or the lessee's 
        affiliate under the first arm's-length contract for sale of the 
        coal if--
                    ``(A) the lessee or the lessee's affiliate sells 
                the coal under an arm's-length contract; or
                    ``(B) the lessee or the lessee's affiliate sells 
                the coal to a person under a non-arm's-length contract 
                who then sells the coal under an arm's-length contract.
            ``(2) Definition of arm's-length contract.--In this 
        subsection, the term `arm's-length contract' means a contract 
        or agreement between independent persons who are not affiliates 
        and who have opposing economic interests regarding that 
        contract.''.
    (b) Study.--The Secretary of the Interior shall enter into an 
agreement with the National Academy of Sciences to conduct a study to 
determine the most equitable method for valuation of coal produced on 
Federal lands for purposes of Federal coal leases.

SEC. 604. METHANE RECOVERY.

    Section 2 of the Mineral Leasing Act (30 U.S.C. 201) is amended--
            (1) in subsection (a)(1), by inserting ``and subject to 
        subsection (e)(6),'' after ``deems appropriate,''; and
            (2) by adding at the end the following:
    ``(e) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, any Federal coal 
lease issued under this section and any modification of an existing 
coal lease issued under this section shall include terms that establish 
the following:
            ``(1) Coal mine methane released in conjunction with mining 
        activities shall be deemed to be included within the scope of 
        the coal lease if the United States owns both the coal and gas 
        resources.
            ``(2) Except as provided in paragraph (4), any coal lease 
        issued on lands for which the United States owns both the coal 
        and gas resources shall include a requirement that the lessee 
        recover the coal mine methane associated with the leased coal 
        resources to the maximum feasible extent, taking into account 
        the economics of both the mining and methane-capture 
        operations.
            ``(3) Before the issuance of a lease for recovery of coal 
        by deep mining operations, the Secretary shall require an 
        analysis to determine the extent to which coal mine methane can 
        be economically captured and either put to productive use or 
        flared. The cost of the analysis shall be paid by the lessee 
        and carried out by a person chosen by the Secretary with 
        professional qualifications in the capture of coal mine methane 
        and without financial or other economic ties to the lessee.
            ``(4) If the Secretary determines that recovery or flaring 
        of coal mine methane under a lease is not economically feasible 
        in accordance with paragraph (2), or cannot be carried out in a 
        manner that assures the protection of mine workers, coal mining 
        under such lease may proceed without requiring recovery or 
        flaring of the coal mine methane.
            ``(5) Any coal lease that involves federally owned coal and 
        nonfederally owned gas resources shall require the coal 
        operator to make a reasonable effort to negotiate an 
        arrangement with the gas owner in advance of conducting any 
        mining operations. If the coal lessee and gas owner are unable 
        to arrange for the joint development of the coal and coal mine 
        methane, and if the joint development of those resources is 
        economically feasible, the Secretary may seek a court order to 
        allow coal mining and methane capture to proceed by the coal 
        lessee, subject to a reasonable division of the proceeds from 
        the sale of the coal and methane resources.
            ``(6) Any assessment of fair market value required by 
        subsection (a)(1) shall include the value of any Federal coal 
        mine methane that is associated with Federal coal resources and 
        subject to capture and use under this section.
            ``(7) Any Federal coal mine methane that is captured and 
        used or sold pursuant to a Federal coal lease shall be subject 
        to a royalty of not less than 18.75 percent.''.

SEC. 605. SELF-BONDING.

    Section 509 of the Surface Mining Control and Reclamation Act of 
1977 (30 U.S.C. 1259) is amended--
            (1) by striking subsection (c); and
            (2) by redesignating subsections (d) and (e) as subsections 
        (c) and (d), respectively.

SEC. 606. STREAM PROTECTION.

    (a) Addition of Stream Buffer.--Title V of the Surface Mining 
Control and Reclamation Act of 1977 (30 U.S.C. 1251 et seq.) is amended 
by adding at the end the following:

``SEC. 530. LIMITATIONS ON SURFACE OR UNDERGROUND COAL MINING ACTIVITY.

    ``(a) In General.--Surface or underground coal mining operations 
shall not be conducted if--
            ``(1) such activity would disturb the surface of land 
        within 100 feet of a perennial or intermittent stream, unless 
        the Secretary has authorized such activity to be conducted 
        based on a finding that such disturbance--
                    ``(A) will not cause or contribute to the violation 
                of applicable State or Federal water quality standards; 
                and
                    ``(B) will not adversely affect the water quantity, 
                water quality, or other environmental resources of the 
                stream or downstream waters; or
            ``(2) the Secretary determines that such activity will--
                    ``(A) cause or contribute to the violation of 
                applicable State or Federal water quality standards; or
                    ``(B) adversely affect the water quantity or 
                quality or other environmental resources of the stream.
    ``(b) Measurement of Distance.--The 100-foot distance referred to 
in subsection (a)(1) shall be measured horizontally on a line 
perpendicular to the stream, beginning at the ordinary high water mark.
    ``(c) Definition of Perennial or Intermittent Stream.--In this 
section, the term `perennial or intermittent stream' means a stream or 
part of a stream that--
            ``(1) has flowing water during periods when groundwater 
        provides water for streamflow, but may not have flowing water 
        during other periods; and
            ``(2) has channels that display both a bed-and-bank 
        configuration and an ordinary high water mark.''.
    (b) Directed Rulemaking.--The Secretary shall issue regulations 
under the Surface Mining Control and Reclamation Act of 1977 (30 U.S.C. 
1201 et seq.), including the amendment to such Act made by subsection 
(a), to--
            (1) define ``material damage to the hydrologic balance 
        outside the permit area'' under section 510(a)(b)(3) of such 
        Act (30 U.S.C. 1260 (a)(b)(3)) and require that each permit 
        specify the point at which adverse mining-related impacts on 
        groundwater and surface water would reach that level of damage;
            (2) ensure collection of adequate premining data about the 
        site of a proposed mining operation and adjacent areas to 
        establish an adequate baseline for evaluation of the impacts of 
        mining and the effectiveness of reclamation;
            (3) adjust monitoring requirements to enable timely 
        detection and correction of any adverse trends in the quality 
        or quantity of surface water and groundwater or the biological 
        condition of streams;
            (4) ensure protection or restoration of perennial and 
        intermittent streams and related resources;
            (5) ensure that permittees and regulatory authorities make 
        use of advances in science and technology;
            (6) ensure that land disturbed by mining operations is 
        restored to a condition capable of supporting the uses that it 
        was capable of supporting before mining; and
            (7) update and codify the requirements and procedures for 
        protection of threatened or endangered species and designated 
        critical habitat.

SEC. 607. CERTIFIED STATES.

    Section 411(b) of the Surface Mining Control and Reclamation Act of 
1977 (30 U.S.C. 1240a) is amended--
            (1) by striking ``If the Secretary'' and inserting the 
        following:
            ``(1) In general.--Subject to paragraph (2), if the 
        Secretary'';
            (2) by redesignating paragraphs (1) and (2) as 
        subparagraphs (A) and (B), respectively, and moving such 
        subparagraphs 2 ems to the right; and
            (3) by adding at the end the following:
            ``(2) Office approval.--A State may not undertake a noncoal 
        mine reclamation project under this title on lands, waters, or 
        facilities determined by the Secretary to be eligible under 
        paragraph (1) unless--
                    ``(A) the State demonstrates to the Office's 
                satisfaction that the noncoal mine poses a more extreme 
                danger to public health, safety, property, or the 
                environment than any abandoned coal mine in the State; 
                and
                    ``(B) the State has received approval from the 
                Office to undertake such noncoal mine reclamation 
                project.
            ``(3) Public listing of noncoal projects.--The Office shall 
        maintain a public listing on the website of the Office of the 
        noncoal mine reclamation projects undertaken by each State 
        under this subsection.''.

SEC. 608. ECONOMIC REDEVELOPMENT ON ABANDONED MINE LANDS.

    (a) Economic Revitalization for Coal Country.--
            (1) In general.--Title IV of the Surface Mining Control and 
        Reclamation Act of 1977 (30 U.S.C. 1231 et seq.) is amended by 
        adding at the end the following:

``SEC. 415. ABANDONED MINE LAND ECONOMIC REVITALIZATION.

    ``(a) Definition of Committed.--In this section:
            ``(1) In general.--The term `committed' means that a State 
        or Indian tribe receiving funds under this section has executed 
        a project agreement with an applicant for the funds.
            ``(2) Inclusion.--The term `committed' includes, with 
        respect to a project agreement, any amount used for project 
        planning under subsection (g).
    ``(b) Authorization.--Of the amounts deposited in the fund under 
section 401(b) before October 1, 2007, and not otherwise appropriated, 
$200,000,000 shall be available to the Secretary, without further 
appropriation, for each of fiscal years 2018 through 2022 for 
distribution to States and Indian tribes in accordance with this 
section for the purpose of promoting economic revitalization, 
diversification, and development in economically distressed communities 
through the reclamation and restoration of land and water resources 
adversely affected by coal mining carried out before August 3, 1977.
    ``(c) Use of Funds.--Funds distributed to a State or Indian tribe 
under subsection (d) shall be used only for those projects that meet 
the following criteria:
            ``(1) Related to the reclamation of abandoned mine land and 
        waters.--The project is designed--
                    ``(A) to achieve one or more of the priorities 
                stated in section 403(a); or
                    ``(B) to be conducted on land adjacent to eligible 
                land and waters described in section 403(a) that has 
                previously been remediated or will be remediated under 
                this section.
            ``(2) Contribution to future economic or community 
        development.--
                    ``(A) In general.--The project is reasonably likely 
                to create favorable conditions, as demonstrated in 
                accordance with subparagraph (B), for the economic 
                development of the project site or promote the general 
                welfare through economic and community development of 
                the area in which the project is conducted.
                    ``(B) Demonstration of conditions.--The conditions 
                referred to in subparagraph (A) may be demonstrated by 
                any documentation--
                            ``(i) of the role of the project in the 
                        economic development strategy or other economic 
                        and community development planning process of 
                        the applicable area;
                            ``(ii) of the planned economic and 
                        community use of the project site after the 
                        primary reclamation activities are completed, 
                        which may include contracts, agreements in 
                        principle, or other evidence that, once 
                        reclaimed, the site is reasonably anticipated 
                        to be used for one or more industrial, 
                        commercial, residential, agricultural, or 
                        recreational purposes; or
                            ``(iii) agreed to by the State or Indian 
                        tribe that demonstrates the project will meet 
                        the criteria set forth in this subsection.
            ``(3) Location in community affected by recent decline in 
        mining.--The project will be conducted in a community--
                    ``(A) that has been adversely affected economically 
                by a reduction in coal mining-related activity over the 
                preceding 5 years, as demonstrated by employment data, 
                per capita income, or other indicators of reduced 
                economic activity attributable to the reduction; or
                    ``(B)(i) that has traditionally relied on coal 
                mining for a substantial portion of the economy of the 
                community; and
                    ``(ii) in which the economic contribution of coal 
                mining has significantly declined.
            ``(4) Stakeholder collaboration.--The project has been--
                    ``(A) the subject of project planning under 
                subsection (g); and
                    ``(B) the focus of collaboration, including 
                partnerships, as appropriate, with interested persons 
                or local organizations.
            ``(5) Eligible applicants.--The project has been proposed 
        and will be executed by entities of State, local, county, or 
        tribal government, which may include subcontracting project-
        related activities, as appropriate.
    ``(d) Distribution of Funds.--
            ``(1) Uncertified states.--
                    ``(A) In general.--Of the amount made available 
                under subsection (b), the Secretary shall distribute 
                $195,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2018 through 2022 
                to States and Indian tribes that have a State program 
                approved under section 405 or are referred to in 
                section 402(g)(8)(B), and have not made a certification 
                under section 411(a) in which the Secretary has 
                concurred, as follows:
                            ``(i) Fiscal years 2018 and 2019.--For each 
                        of fiscal years 2018 and 2019, the Secretary 
                        shall allocate to each State and Indian tribe 
                        the funds through a formula based on the 
                        quantity of coal historically produced in each 
                        State or from the land of each Indian tribe 
                        before August 3, 1977.
                            ``(ii) Fiscal years 2020 through 2022.--For 
                        each of fiscal years 2020 through 2022, the 
                        Secretary shall allocate to each State and 
                        Indian tribe--
                                    ``(I) the amount allocated to the 
                                State or Indian tribe for fiscal year 
                                2018, plus any amount reallocated to 
                                the State or Indian tribe under this 
                                paragraph, if the State or Indian tribe 
                                has committed the full amount of the 
                                allocation of the State or Indian tribe 
                                for the preceding fiscal year to 
                                eligible projects; or
                                    ``(II) if the State or Indian tribe 
                                has not committed the full amount of 
                                the allocation of the State or Indian 
                                tribe for the preceding fiscal year to 
                                eligible projects, an amount equal to 
                                the lesser of--
                                            ``(aa) the amount the State 
                                        or Indian tribe has committed 
                                        to eligible projects from the 
                                        allocation of the State or 
                                        Indian tribe for the preceding 
                                        fiscal year; and
                                            ``(bb) the amount allocated 
                                        to the State or Indian tribe 
                                        for fiscal year 2018.
                            ``(iii) Fiscal year 2023.--For fiscal year 
                        2023, the Secretary shall allocate to each 
                        State and Indian tribe the amount reallocated 
                        to the State or Indian tribe under subparagraph 
                        (B), if the State or Indian tribe has committed 
                        the full amount of the allocation of the State 
                        or Indian tribe for fiscal year 2022 to 
                        eligible projects.
                    ``(B) Reallocation of uncommitted funds.--
                            ``(i) Fiscal year 2020 through 2022.--For 
                        each of fiscal years 2020 through 2022, the 
                        Secretary shall reallocate in accordance with 
                        clause (iii) any amount available for 
                        distribution under this subsection that has not 
                        been committed to eligible projects in the 
                        preceding 2 fiscal years, among the States and 
                        Indian tribes that have committed to eligible 
                        projects the full amount of the annual 
                        allocation of the State or Indian tribe for the 
                        preceding fiscal year as described in clause 
                        (iii).
                            ``(ii) Fiscal year 2023.--For fiscal year 
                        2023, the Secretary shall reallocate in 
                        accordance with clause (iii) any amount 
                        available for distribution under this 
                        subsection that has not been committed to 
                        eligible projects or distributed under 
                        subparagraph (A)(iii), among the States and 
                        Indian tribes that have committed to eligible 
                        projects the full amount of the annual 
                        allocation of the State or Indian tribe for 
                        fiscal year 2022.
                            ``(iii) Amount of reallocation.--The amount 
                        reallocated to each State and Indian tribe 
                        under each of clauses (i) and (ii) shall be 
                        determined by the Secretary to reflect, to the 
                        extent practicable--
                                    ``(I) the proportion of unreclaimed 
                                eligible land and waters the State or 
                                Indian tribe has in the inventory 
                                maintained under section 403(c); and
                                    ``(II) the proportion of coal 
                                mining employment loss incurred in the 
                                State or Indian land, respectively, as 
                                determined by the Mine Safety and 
                                Health Administration, over the 5-year 
                                period preceding the fiscal year for 
                                which the reallocation is made.
                    ``(C) Supplemental funds.--Funds distributed under 
                this subsection--
                            ``(i) shall be in addition to, and shall 
                        not affect, the amount of funds distributed to 
                        States and Indian tribes under section 401(f); 
                        and
                            ``(ii) shall not reduce any funds 
                        distributed to a State or Indian tribe by 
                        reason of the application of section 402(g)(8).
            ``(2) Additional funding to certain states and indian 
        tribes.--
                    ``(A) Eligibility.--Of the amount made available 
                under subsection (b), the Secretary shall distribute 
                $5,000,000 for each of the 5 fiscal years beginning in 
                fiscal year 2018 to States and Indian tribes that--
                            ``(i) have a State program approved under 
                        section 405; and
                            ``(ii)(I) have made a certification under 
                        section 411(a) in which the Secretary has 
                        concurred; or
                            ``(II) receive an allocation by reason of 
                        the application of section 402(g)(8)(A).
                    ``(B) Application for funds.--
                            ``(i) In general.--Using the process 
                        described in section 405(f), any State or 
                        Indian tribe described in subparagraph (A) may 
                        submit a grant application to the Secretary for 
                        funds under this paragraph.
                            ``(ii) Review.--The Secretary shall review 
                        each grant application to confirm that the 
                        projects identified in the application for 
                        funding are eligible under subsection (c).
                    ``(C) Distribution of funds.--The amount of funds 
                distributed to each State and Indian tribe under this 
                paragraph shall be determined by the Secretary based on 
                the demonstrated need for the funding to accomplish the 
                purposes of this section.
    ``(e) Resolution of Concerns of Secretary; Congressional 
Notification.--If the Secretary does not agree with a State or Indian 
tribe that a proposed project meets the criteria set forth in 
subsection (c)--
            ``(1) the Secretary and the State or Indian tribe shall 
        meet and confer for a period of not less than 30 days to 
        resolve the concerns of the Secretary;
            ``(2) during that period, the Secretary may consult with 
        any appropriate Federal agency, such as the Appalachian 
        Regional Commission, the Economic Development Administration, 
        and the Bureau of Indian Affairs, to assist with the resolution 
        of the concerns; and
            ``(3) at the end of that period, if the concerns of the 
        Secretary are not resolved, the Secretary shall provide to 
        Congress an explanation of the concerns.
    ``(f) Acid Mine Drainage Treatment.--
            ``(1) In general.--Subject to paragraph (3), a State or 
        Indian tribe that receives funds under this section may retain 
        such portion of the funds as is necessary to supplement the 
        acid mine drainage abatement and treatment fund of the State or 
        Indian tribe established under section 402(g)(6)(A), for future 
        operation and maintenance costs for the treatment of acid mine 
        drainage associated with the individual projects funded under 
        this section.
            ``(2) Application.--A State or Indian tribe shall specify 
        the total funds allotted for costs described in paragraph (1) 
        in the application of the State or Indian tribe submitted under 
        subsection (d)(2)(B).
            ``(3) Condition.--A State or Indian tribe may retain and 
        use funds under this subsection only if the State or Indian 
        tribe demonstrates that the annual grant distributed to the 
        State or Indian tribe pursuant to section 401(f), including any 
        interest from the acid mine drainage abatement and treatment 
        fund of the State or Indian tribe that is not used for the 
        operation or maintenance of preexisting acid mine drainage 
        treatment systems, is insufficient to fund the operation and 
        maintenance of any acid mine drainage treatment system 
        associated with an individual project funded under this 
        section.
    ``(g) Project Planning and Administration.--
            ``(1) States and indian tribes.--
                    ``(A) In general.--A State or Indian tribe may use 
                up to 10 percent of the amounts distributed to the 
                State or Indian tribe under this section for project 
                planning and the costs of administering this section.
                    ``(B) Planning requirements.--Planning under this 
                paragraph may include--
                            ``(i) identification of eligible projects;
                            ``(ii) updating the inventory referred to 
                        in section 403(c);
                            ``(iii) developing project designs;
                            ``(iv) preparing cost estimates; or
                            ``(v) engaging in other similar activities 
                        necessary to facilitate reclamation activities 
                        under this section.
            ``(2) Secretary.--In addition to amounts available for 
        distribution under subsection (b), the Secretary may expend, 
        without further appropriation, not more than $3,000,000 for the 
        5 fiscal years beginning after the date of enactment of this 
        section for staffing and other administrative expenses 
        necessary to carry out this section.
    ``(h) Report to Congress.--Each State and Indian tribe to which 
funds are distributed under this section shall provide to Congress and 
the Secretary at the end of each fiscal year for which the funds are 
distributed a detailed report on--
            ``(1) the various projects that have been undertaken with 
        the funds; and
            ``(2) the community and economic benefits that are 
        resulting, or are expected to result, from the use of the 
        funds.''.
            (2) Clerical amendment.--The table of contents in the first 
        section of the Surface Mining Control and Reclamation Act of 
        1977 (30 U.S.C. prec. 1201) is amended by adding at the end of 
        the items relating to title IV the following:

``Sec. 415. Abandoned mine land economic revitalization.''.
    (b) Technical and Conforming Amendments.--
            (1) Abandoned mine reclamation fund and purposes.--Section 
        401 of the Surface Mining Control and Reclamation Act of 1977 
        (30 U.S.C. 1231) is amended--
                    (A) in subsection (c)--
                            (i) in paragraph (10), by striking ``and'' 
                        at the end;
                            (ii) by redesignating paragraph (11) as 
                        paragraph (12); and
                            (iii) by inserting after paragraph (10) the 
                        following:
            ``(11) to implement section 415; and''; and
                    (B) in subsection (d)(3), by inserting ``and 
                section 415(b)'' before the period at the end.
            (2) Reclamation fee.--Section 402(g) of the Surface Mining 
        Control and Reclamation Act of 1977 (30 U.S.C. 1232(g)) is 
        amended--
                    (A) in paragraph (1), in the matter preceding 
                subparagraph (A), by inserting ``and section 415'' 
                after ``subsection (h)''; and
                    (B) in paragraph (3), by adding at the end the 
                following:
                    ``(F) For the purpose of section 415(b)(2)(A).''.
            (3) Objectives of fund.--Section 403(c) of the Surface 
        Mining Control and Reclamation Act of 1977 (30 U.S.C. 1233(c)) 
        is amended--
                    (A) in the first sentence--
                            (i) by striking ``For'' and inserting the 
                        following:
            ``(1) In general.--For'';
                            (ii) by inserting ``any of'' after ``which 
                        meet''; and
                            (iii) by striking ``paragraphs (1) and (2) 
                        of'';
                    (B) in the second sentence--
                            (i) by striking ``Under'' and inserting the 
                        following:
            ``(2) Amendments.--
                    ``(A) In general.--Under''; and
                            (ii) by inserting after subparagraph (A) 
                        (as so designated) the following:
                    ``(B) Advanced technologies.--As practicable, 
                States and Indian tribes shall offer amendments 
                described in subparagraph (A) based on the use of 
                remote sensing, global positioning systems, and other 
                advanced technologies.'';
                    (C) by striking ``The Secretary shall provide'' and 
                inserting the following:
            ``(3) Assistance.--The Secretary shall provide'';
                    (D) by striking ``The Secretary shall compile'' and 
                inserting the following:
            ``(4) Inventory.--
                    ``(A) In general.--The Secretary shall compile'';
                    (E) in the last sentence by striking ``On'' and 
                inserting the following:
                    ``(B) Projects.--On''; and
                    (F) by adding at the end the following:
                    ``(C) Updates.--The Secretary may perform any work 
                necessary to amend any entry in the inventory that has 
                not been updated by a State or Indian tribe within the 
                preceding 3 years to ensure that the entry is up-to-
                date and accurate.''.

SEC. 609. PROHIBITION ON BLASTING WITHIN ONE MILE OF ANY OCCUPIED 
              DWELLING.

    Section 515(b)(15) of the Surface Mining Control and Reclamation 
Act of 1977 (43 U.S.C. 1265(B)(15)) is amended by adding ``; and'' at 
the end of subparagraph (E), and by adding at the end the following:
                    ``(F) prohibit blasting--
                            ``(i) within one mile of any occupied 
                        dwelling, unless such prohibition is waived by 
                        the owner thereof, and
                            ``(ii) within one mile of any public 
                        building, school, church, community, 
                        institutional building, or public park.''.

SEC. 610. COAL MINERS PENSION PROTECTION.

    (a) In General.--Subsection (i) of section 402 of the Surface 
Mining Control and Reclamation Act of 1977 (30 U.S.C. 1232), as amended 
by the Further Continuing and Security Assistance Appropriations Act, 
2017, is amended--
            (1) by redesignating paragraph (4) as paragraph (5); and
            (2) by inserting after paragraph (3) the following:
            ``(4) Additional amounts.--
                    ``(A) Calculation.--If the dollar limitation 
                specified in paragraph (3)(A) exceeds the aggregate 
                amount required to be transferred under paragraphs (1) 
                and (2) for a fiscal year, the Secretary of the 
                Treasury shall transfer an additional amount equal to 
                the difference between such dollar limitation and such 
                aggregate amount to the trustees of the 1974 UMWA 
                Pension Plan to pay benefits required under that plan.
                    ``(B) Cessation of transfers.--The transfers 
                described in subparagraph (A) shall cease as of the 
                first fiscal year beginning after the first plan year 
                for which the funded percentage (as defined in section 
                432(i)(2) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986) of the 
                1974 UMWA Pension Plan is at least 100 percent.
                    ``(C) Prohibition on benefit increases, etc.--
                During a fiscal year in which the 1974 UMWA Pension 
                Plan is receiving transfers under subparagraph (A), no 
                amendment of such plan which increases the liabilities 
                of the plan by reason of any increase in benefits, any 
                change in the accrual of benefits, or any change in the 
                rate at which benefits become nonforfeitable under the 
                plan may be adopted unless the amendment is required as 
                a condition of qualification under part I of subchapter 
                D of chapter 1 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986.
                    ``(D) Treatment of transfers for purposes of 
                withdrawal liability under erisa.--The amount of any 
                transfer made under subparagraph (A) (and any earnings 
                attributable thereto) shall be disregarded in 
                determining the unfunded vested benefits of the 1974 
                UMWA Pension Plan and the allocation of such unfunded 
                vested benefits to an employer for purposes of 
                determining the employer's withdrawal liability under 
                section 4201 of the Employee Retirement Income Security 
                Act of 1974.
                    ``(E) Requirement to maintain contribution rate.--A 
                transfer under subparagraph (A) shall not be made for a 
                fiscal year unless the persons that are obligated to 
                contribute to the 1974 UMWA Pension Plan on the date of 
                the transfer are obligated to make the contributions at 
                rates that are no less than those in effect on the date 
                which is 30 days before the date of enactment of the 
                Sustainable Energy Development Reform Act.
                    ``(F) Enhanced annual reporting.--
                            ``(i) In general.--Not later than the 90th 
                        day of each plan year beginning after the date 
                        of enactment of the Sustainable Energy 
                        Development Reform Act, the trustees of the 
                        1974 UMWA Pension Plan shall file with the 
                        Secretary of the Treasury or the Secretary's 
                        delegate and the Pension Benefit Guaranty 
                        Corporation a report (including appropriate 
                        documentation and actuarial certifications from 
                        the plan actuary, as required by the Secretary 
                        of the Treasury or the Secretary's delegate) 
                        that contains--
                                    ``(I) whether the plan is in 
                                endangered or critical status under 
                                section 305 of the Employee Retirement 
                                Income Security Act of 1974 and section 
                                432 of the Internal Revenue Code of 
                                1986 as of the first day of such plan 
                                year;
                                    ``(II) the funded percentage (as 
                                defined in section 432(i)(2) of such 
                                Code) as of the first day of such plan 
                                year, and the underlying actuarial 
                                value of assets and liabilities taken 
                                into account in determining such 
                                percentage;
                                    ``(III) the market value of the 
                                assets of the plan as of the last day 
                                of the plan year preceding such plan 
                                year;
                                    ``(IV) the total value of all 
                                contributions made during the plan year 
                                preceding such plan year;
                                    ``(V) the total value of all 
                                benefits paid during the plan year 
                                preceding such plan year;
                                    ``(VI) cash flow projections for 
                                such plan year and either the 6 or 10 
                                succeeding plan years, at the election 
                                of the trustees, and the assumptions 
                                relied upon in making such projections;
                                    ``(VII) funding standard account 
                                projections for such plan year and the 
                                9 succeeding plan years, and the 
                                assumptions relied upon in making such 
                                projections;
                                    ``(VIII) the total value of all 
                                investment gains or losses during the 
                                plan year preceding such plan year;
                                    ``(IX) any significant reduction in 
                                the number of active participants 
                                during the plan year preceding such 
                                plan year, and the reason for such 
                                reduction;
                                    ``(X) a list of employers that 
                                withdrew from the plan in the plan year 
                                preceding such plan year, and the 
                                resulting reduction in contributions;
                                    ``(XI) a list of employers that 
                                paid withdrawal liability to the plan 
                                during the plan year preceding such 
                                plan year and, for each employer, a 
                                total assessment of the withdrawal 
                                liability paid, the annual payment 
                                amount, and the number of years 
                                remaining in the payment schedule with 
                                respect to such withdrawal liability;
                                    ``(XII) any material changes to 
                                benefits, accrual rates, or 
                                contribution rates during the plan year 
                                preceding such plan year;
                                    ``(XIII) any scheduled benefit 
                                increase or decrease in the plan year 
                                preceding such plan year having a 
                                material effect on liabilities of the 
                                plan;
                                    ``(XIV) details regarding any 
                                funding improvement plan or 
                                rehabilitation plan and updates to such 
                                plan;
                                    ``(XV) the number of participants 
                                and beneficiaries during the plan year 
                                preceding such plan year who are active 
                                participants, the number of 
                                participants and beneficiaries in pay 
                                status, and the number of terminated 
                                vested participants and beneficiaries;
                                    ``(XVI) the information contained 
                                on the most recent annual funding 
                                notice submitted by the plan under 
                                section 101(f) of the Employee 
                                Retirement Income Security Act of 1974;
                                    ``(XVII) the information contained 
                                on the most recent Department of Labor 
                                Form 5500 of the plan; and
                                    ``(XVIII) copies of the plan 
                                document and amendments, other 
                                retirement benefit or ancillary benefit 
                                plans relating to the plan and 
                                contribution obligations under such 
                                plans, a breakdown of administrative 
                                expenses of the plan, participant 
                                census data and distribution of 
                                benefits, the most recent actuarial 
                                valuation report as of the plan year, 
                                copies of collective bargaining 
                                agreements, and financial reports, and 
                                such other information as the Secretary 
                                of the Treasury or the Secretary's 
                                delegate, in consultation with the 
                                Secretary of Labor and the Director of 
                                the Pension Benefit Guaranty 
                                Corporation, may require.
                            ``(ii) Electronic submission.--The report 
                        required under clause (i) shall be submitted 
                        electronically.
                            ``(iii) Information sharing.--The Secretary 
                        of the Treasury or the Secretary's delegate 
                        shall share the information in the report under 
                        clause (i) with the Secretary of Labor.
                            ``(iv) Penalty.--Any failure to file the 
                        report required under clause (i) on or before 
                        the date described in such clause shall be 
                        treated as a failure to file a report required 
                        to be filed under section 6058(a) of the 
                        Internal Revenue Code of 1986, except that 
                        section 6652(e) of such Code shall be applied 
                        with respect to any such failure by 
                        substituting `$100' for `$25'. The preceding 
                        sentence shall not apply if the Secretary of 
                        the Treasury or the Secretary's delegate 
                        determines that reasonable diligence has been 
                        exercised by the trustees of such plan in 
                        attempting to timely file such report.
                    ``(G) 1974 umwa pension plan defined.--For purposes 
                of this paragraph, the term `1974 UMWA Pension Plan' 
                has the meaning given the term in section 9701(a)(3) of 
                the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, but without regard 
                to the limitation on participation to individuals who 
                retired in 1976 and thereafter.''.
    (b) Customs User Fees.--
            (1) In general.--Section 13031(j)(3)(A) of the Consolidated 
        Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1985 (19 U.S.C. 
        58c(j)(3)(A)), as amended by section 105(a) of the Health 
        Benefits for Miners Act of 2017, is amended by striking 
        ``January 14, 2026'' and inserting ``May 13, 2026''.
            (2) Rate for merchandise processing fees.--Section 503 of 
        the United States-Korea Free Trade Agreement Implementation Act 
        (Public Law 112-41; 19 U.S.C. 3805 note), as amended by section 
        105(b) of the Health Benefits for Miners Act of 2017, is 
        amended by striking ``January 14, 2026'' and inserting ``May 
        13, 2026''.

                 TITLE VII--LAND MANAGEMENT AND SCIENCE

SEC. 701. ANWR.

    (a) Inclusion of Arctic Coastal Plain.--In furtherance of the 
Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1131 et seq.), an area within the Arctic 
National Wildlife Refuge in the State of Alaska comprising 
approximately 1,559,538 acres, as generally depicted on a map entitled 
``Arctic National Wildlife Refuge--1002 Area Alternative E--Wilderness 
Designation'' and dated October 28, 1991, is hereby designated as 
wilderness and, therefore, as a component of the National Wilderness 
Preservation System.
    (b) Availability of Map.--The map referred to in subsection (a) 
shall be available for inspection in the appropriate office of the 
Secretary of the Interior.
    (c) Administration.--The Secretary of the Interior shall administer 
the area designated as wilderness by subsection (a) in accordance with 
the Wilderness Act as part of the wilderness area already in existence 
within the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge as of the date of the 
enactment of this Act.

SEC. 702. LAND MANAGEMENT STANDARD.

    Section 302(b) of the Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 
1976 (43 U.S.C. 1732(b)) is amended in the last sentence by inserting 
``degradation'' after ``unnecessary''.

SEC. 703. GEOLOGICAL AND GEOPHYSICAL DATA.

    Section 351(k) of the Energy Policy Act of 2005 (42 U.S.C. 
15908(k)) is amended by striking ``2006 through 2010'' and inserting 
``2018 through 2022''.

SEC. 704. LAND AND WATER CONSERVATION FUND.

    (a) In General.--Section 200302 of title 54, United States Code, is 
amended--
            (1) in subsection (b), in the matter preceding paragraph 
        (1), by striking ``During the period ending September 30, 2018, 
        there'' and inserting ``There''; and
            (2) in subsection (c)(1), by striking ``through September 
        30, 2018''.
    (b) Public Access.--Section 200306 of title 54, United States Code, 
is amended by adding at the end the following:
    ``(c) Public Access.--For each fiscal year, not less than 1.5 
percent of amounts made available for expenditure in such fiscal year 
under section 200303, or $10,000,000, whichever is greater, shall be 
used for projects that secure recreational public access to existing 
Federal public land for hunting, fishing, and other recreational 
purposes.''.
    (c) Parity for Territories and the District of Columbia.--Section 
200305(b) of title 54, United States Code, is amended by striking 
paragraph (5).

SEC. 705. MITIGATION.

    The provisions of the order of the Secretary of the Interior 
numbered 3349 and dated March 29, 2017 (relating to American energy 
independence) that revoke the order of the Secretary numbered 3330 and 
dated October 31, 2013 (relating to improving mitigation policies and 
practices of the Department of the Interior) shall have no force or 
effect, and the order of the Secretary numbered 3330 shall apply as 
published on October 31, 2013.
                                 &lt;all&gt;
</pre></body></html>
