<html><body><pre>
[Congressional Bills 117th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[S. 3144 Introduced in Senate (IS)]

&lt;DOC&gt;






117th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                S. 3144

   To establish the Sutton Mountain National Monument, to authorize 
certain land exchanges in the State of Oregon, to convey certain Bureau 
of Land Management land in the State of Oregon to the city of Mitchell, 
  Oregon, and Wheeler County, Oregon, for conservation, economic, and 
        community development purposes, and for other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                   IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

                            November 3, 2021

Mr. Merkley (for himself and Mr. Wyden) introduced the following bill; 
   which was read twice and referred to the Committee on Energy and 
                           Natural Resources

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
   To establish the Sutton Mountain National Monument, to authorize 
certain land exchanges in the State of Oregon, to convey certain Bureau 
of Land Management land in the State of Oregon to the city of Mitchell, 
  Oregon, and Wheeler County, Oregon, for conservation, economic, and 
        community development purposes, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Sutton Mountain and Painted Hills 
Area Wildfire Resiliency Preservation and Economic Enhancement Act''.

SEC. 2. DEFINITIONS.

    In this Act:
            (1) Active habitat restoration.--The term ``active habitat 
        restoration'' means, with respect to an area, to restore and 
        enhance the ecological health of the area through the use of 
        management tools consistent with this Act.
            (2) City.--The term ``City'' means the city of Mitchell, 
        Oregon.
            (3) County.--The term ``County'' means Wheeler County, 
        Oregon.
            (4) Ecological health.--The term ``ecological health'' 
        means the ability of the ecological processes of a native 
        ecosystem to function in a manner that maintains the structure, 
        composition, activity, and resilience of the ecosystem over 
        time, including an ecologically appropriate diversity of plant 
        and animal communities, habitats, and conditions that are 
        sustainable through successional processes.
            (5) Landowner.--The term ``landowner'' means an owner of 
        non-Federal land that enters into a land exchange with the 
        Secretary under section 4(a).
            (6) Lower unit.--The term ``Lower Unit'' means the area 
        that consists of the approximately 27,184 acres of land 
        generally depicted as ``Proposed National Monument-Lower Unit'' 
        on the Map.
            (7) Management plan.--The term ``management plan'' means 
        the management plan for the Monument developed by the Secretary 
        under section 3(d)(2).
            (8) Map.--The term ``Map'' means the map prepared by the 
        Bureau of Land Management entitled ``Sutton Complex-Painted 
        Hills National Monument Proposal'' and dated October 27, 2021.
            (9) Monument.--The term ``Monument'' means the Sutton 
        Mountain National Monument established by section 3(a).
            (10) Passive habitat management.--The term ``passive 
        habitat management'' means those actions that are proposed or 
        implemented to address degraded or non-functioning resource 
        conditions that are expected to improve the ecological health 
        of the area without additional on-the-ground actions, such that 
        resource objectives and desired outcomes are anticipated to be 
        reached without additional human intervention.
            (11) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary 
        of the Interior.
            (12) State.--The term ``State'' means the State of Oregon.
            (13) Upper unit.--The term ``Upper Unit'' means the area 
        that consists of the approximately 38,023 acres of land 
        generally depicted as ``Proposed National Monument-Upper Unit'' 
        on the Map.

SEC. 3. ESTABLISHMENT OF SUTTON MOUNTAIN NATIONAL MONUMENT.

    (a) In General.--There is established in the State the Sutton 
Mountain National Monument, consisting of the following 2 management 
units, as generally depicted on the Map:
            (1) Upper Unit.
            (2) Lower Unit.
    (b) Purposes.--The purposes of the Monument are--
            (1) to increase the wildfire resiliency of Sutton Mountain 
        and the surrounding area; and
            (2) to conserve, protect, and enhance the long-term 
        ecological health of Sutton Mountain and the surrounding area 
        for present and future generations.
    (c) Objectives.--To further the purposes of the Monument described 
in subsection (b), and consistent with those purposes, the Secretary 
shall manage the Monument for the benefit of present and future 
generations--
            (1) to support and promote the growth of local communities 
        and economies;
            (2) to promote the scientific and educational values of the 
        Monument;
            (3) to maintain sustainable grazing on the Federal land 
        within the Upper Unit and Lower Unit, in accordance with 
        applicable Federal law;
            (4) to promote recreation, historical, cultural, and other 
        uses that are sustainable, in accordance with applicable 
        Federal law;
            (5) to ensure the conservation, protection, restoration, 
        and improved management of the ecological, social, and economic 
        environment of the Monument, including geological, 
        paleontological, biological, wildlife, riparian, and scenic 
        resources;
            (6) to reduce the risk of wildfire within the Monument and 
        the surrounding area, including through juniper removal and 
        habitat restoration, as appropriate; and
            (7)(A) to allow for active habitat restoration in the Lower 
        Unit; and
            (B) to allow for passive habitat management in the Upper 
        Unit and Lower Unit.
    (d) Management Authorities.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary shall manage the Monument--
                    (A) in accordance with--
                            (i) the Federal Land Policy and Management 
                        Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.) and other 
                        applicable laws; and
                            (ii) this Act; and
                    (B) in a manner that--
                            (i) improves wildfire resiliency; and
                            (ii) ensures the conservation, protection, 
                        and improved management of the ecological, 
                        social, and economic environment of the 
                        Monument, including geological, 
                        paleontological, biological, wildlife, 
                        riparian, and scenic resources, North American 
                        Indian Tribal and cultural and archaeological 
                        resource sites, and additional cultural and 
                        historic sites and culturally significant 
                        native species.
            (2) Management plan.--
                    (A) In general.--Not later than 2 years after the 
                date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall 
                develop a comprehensive management plan for the long-
                term conservation and management of the Monument that 
                fulfills the purposes of the Monument described in 
                subsection (b).
                    (B) Requirements.--The management plan developed 
                under subparagraph (A) shall--
                            (i) describe the appropriate uses and 
                        management of each of the Upper Unit and the 
                        Lower Unit, consistent with the purposes and 
                        objectives of this Act;
                            (ii) include an assessment of ecological 
                        conditions of the Monument, including an 
                        assessment of--
                                    (I) the status, causes, and rate of 
                                juniper encroachments at the Monument; 
                                and
                                    (II) the ecological impacts of the 
                                juniper encroachments at the Monument;
                            (iii) identify science-based, short-term 
                        and long-term, active habitat restoration and 
                        passive habitat management actions--
                                    (I) to reduce wildfire risk and 
                                improve the resilience of native plant 
                                communities; and
                                    (II) to restore historical native 
                                vegetation communities, including the 
                                prioritization of the removal of 
                                invasive annual grasses and juniper 
                                trees in the Lower Unit;
                            (iv) include a habitat restoration 
                        opportunities component that prioritizes--
                                    (I) restoration within the Lower 
                                Unit; and
                                    (II) maintenance of the existing 
                                wilderness character of the Upper Unit;
                            (v) include a riparian conservation and 
                        restoration component to support anadromous and 
                        other native fish, wildlife, and other riparian 
                        resources and values in the monument;
                            (vi) include a recreational enhancement 
                        component that prioritizes--
                                    (I) new and expanded opportunities 
                                for mechanized and nonmechanized 
                                recreation in the Lower Unit; and
                                    (II) enhancing nonmechanized, 
                                primitive, and unconfined recreation 
                                opportunities in the Upper Unit;
                            (vii) include an active habitat restoration 
                        component that prioritizes, with respect to the 
                        Lower Unit--
                                    (I) the restoration of native 
                                ecosystems;
                                    (II) the enhancement of recreation 
                                and grazing activities; and
                                    (III) activities that will reduce 
                                wildfire risk;
                            (viii) include a passive habitat management 
                        component that prioritizes, with respect to the 
                        Upper Unit--
                                    (I) the restoration of native 
                                ecosystems; and
                                    (II) management activities that 
                                will reduce the risk of wildfire;
                            (ix) determine measurable and achievable 
                        management objectives, consistent with the 
                        management objectives described in subsection 
                        (c), to ensure the ecological health of the 
                        Monument;
                            (x) develop a monitoring program for the 
                        Monument so that progress towards ecological 
                        health objectives can be determined;
                            (xi) include, as an integral part, a 
                        comprehensive transportation plan developed in 
                        accordance with subsection (e); and
                            (xii) include, as an integral part, a 
                        wildfire mitigation plan developed in 
                        accordance with paragraph (4).
            (3) Wildfire risk assessment.--Not later than 1 year after 
        the date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary, in 
        consultation with the Governor's Council on Wildfire Response 
        of the State, shall conduct a wildfire risk assessment of the 
        Upper Unit and the Lower Unit.
            (4) Wildfire mitigation plan.--
                    (A) In general.--Not later than 2 years after the 
                date on which the wildfire risk assessment is conducted 
                under paragraph (3), the Secretary shall develop, based 
                on the wildfire risk assessment, a wildfire mitigation 
                plan as part of the management plan developed under 
                paragraph (2) that identifies, evaluates, and 
                prioritizes management activities that can be 
                implemented in the Lower Unit to mitigate wildfire risk 
                to structures and communities located near the 
                Monument.
                    (B) Plan components.--The wildfire mitigation plan 
                developed under subparagraph (A) shall include--
                            (i) appropriate vegetation management 
                        projects (including mechanical treatments to 
                        reduce hazardous fuels and improve ecological 
                        health and resiliency);
                            (ii) necessary evacuation routes for 
                        communities located near the Monument, to be 
                        developed in consultation with the State and 
                        local fire agencies;
                            (iii) strategies for public dissemination 
                        of emergency evacuation plans and routes;
                            (iv) appropriate passive habitat management 
                        activities; and
                            (v) strategies or management requirements 
                        to protect items of value identified at the 
                        Monument, consistent with the applicable fire 
                        management plan and the document prepared by 
                        the National Interagency Fire Center entitled 
                        ``Interagency Standards for Fire and Fire 
                        Aviation Operations'' or successor interagency 
                        agreement or guidance.
                    (C) Applicable law.--The wildfire mitigation plan 
                under subparagraph (A) shall be developed in accordance 
                with--
                            (i) this Act; and
                            (ii) any other applicable law.
            (5) Temporary roads.--
                    (A) In general.--Consistent with the purposes of 
                this Act and the comprehensive transportation plan 
                under subsection (e), the Secretary may travel off-road 
                or establish temporary roads within the Lower Unit to 
                implement the wildfire mitigation plan developed under 
                paragraph (4).
                    (B) Effect on wildfire management.--Nothing in this 
                section affects the authority of the Secretary, in 
                cooperation with other Federal, State, and local 
                agencies, as appropriate, to conduct wildland fire 
                operations at the Monument, consistent with the 
                purposes of this Act.
            (6) Incorporation of acquired land and interests in land.--
        Any land or interest in land within the boundary of the 
        Monument or adjacent to the Monument that is acquired by the 
        United States shall--
                    (A) become part of the Monument; and
                    (B) be managed in accordance with--
                            (i) this Act; and
                            (ii) applicable Federal laws.
    (e) Comprehensive Transportation Plan.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary shall develop as part of the 
        management plan a comprehensive transportation plan for the 
        Monument, which shall address--
                    (A) motorized, mechanized, and nonmotorized use;
                    (B) the maintenance and closure of motorized and 
                nonmotorized routes; and
                    (C) travel access.
            (2) Prohibition of motorized and mechanized use in the 
        upper unit.--Except as provided in paragraphs (3), (4), and 
        (7), motorized and mechanized use shall be prohibited in the 
        Upper Unit.
            (3) Prohibition of off-road motorized travel.--Except in 
        cases in which motorized or mechanized vehicles are needed for 
        administrative purposes, ecological restoration projects, or to 
        respond to an emergency, the use of motorized or mechanized 
        vehicles in the Monument shall be permitted only on routes 
        designated by the transportation plan developed under paragraph 
        (1).
            (4) Prohibition of new construction.--Except as provided in 
        paragraph (5), no new motorized routes of any type shall be 
        constructed within the Monument unless the Secretary 
        determines, in consultation with the public, that the motorized 
        route is necessary for public safety in the Upper Unit or Lower 
        Unit.
            (5) Temporary motorized routes in the lower unit.--
        Notwithstanding paragraph (4), temporary motorized routes may 
        be developed in the Lower Unit to assist with the removal of 
        juniper.
            (6) Trails.--Nothing in this subsection limits the 
        authority of the Secretary to construct or maintain trails for 
        nonmotorized or nonmechanized use in the Upper Unit or Lower 
        Unit.
            (7) Access to inholdings.--The Secretary shall provide 
        reasonable access to inholdings within the boundaries of the 
        Monument to provide private landowners the reasonable use of 
        the inholdings, in accordance with section 1323(b) of the 
        Alaska National Interest Lands Conservation Act (16 U.S.C. 
        3210(b)).
            (8) Modifications to existing roads.--
                    (A) In general.--Consistent with the purposes of 
                this Act, the existing roads described in subparagraph 
                (B) may be modified or altered within 50 feet on either 
                side of the applicable road, as the Secretary 
                determines to be necessary to support use of motorized 
                or mechanized vehicles for access, utility development, 
                or public safety.
                    (B) Description of roads.--The roads referred to in 
                subparagraph (A) are Burnt Ranch Road, Twickenham Road, 
                Girds Creek Road, and the Logging Road, as depicted on 
                the Map.
                    (C) Right-of-way.--The Secretary shall grant to the 
                County a right-of-way for maintenance and repair within 
                50 feet of Twickenham Road and Girds Creek Road.
    (f) Grazing.--
            (1) In general.--The grazing of livestock in the Monument, 
        if established before the date of enactment of this Act, shall 
        be allowed to continue--
                    (A) subject to--
                            (i) such reasonable regulations, policies, 
                        and practices as the Secretary considers 
                        necessary; and
                            (ii) applicable law (including 
                        regulations); and
                    (B) in a manner consistent with the authorities 
                described in subsection (d).
            (2) Voluntary relinquishment of grazing permits or 
        leases.--
                    (A) Acceptance by secretary.--The Secretary shall 
                accept the voluntary relinquishment of any valid 
                existing permits or leases authorizing grazing on 
                public land, all or a portion of which is within the 
                Monument.
                    (B) Termination.--With respect to each permit or 
                lease voluntarily relinquished under subparagraph (A), 
                the Secretary shall--
                            (i) terminate the grazing permit or lease; 
                        and
                            (ii) ensure a permanent end to grazing on 
                        the land covered by the permit or lease.
                    (C) Partial relinquishment.--
                            (i) In general.--If a person holding a 
                        valid grazing permit or lease voluntarily 
                        relinquishes less than the full level of 
                        grazing use authorized under the permit or 
                        lease under subparagraph (A), the Secretary 
                        shall--
                                    (I) reduce the authorized grazing 
                                level to reflect the voluntary 
                                relinquishment; and
                                    (II) modify the permit or lease to 
                                reflect the revised level.
                            (ii) Authorized level.--To ensure that 
                        there is a permanent reduction in the 
                        authorized level of grazing on the land covered 
                        by a permit or lease voluntarily relinquished 
                        under clause (i), the Secretary shall not allow 
                        grazing use to exceed the authorized level 
                        established under that clause.
    (g) Prohibition on Construction of New Facilities.--No new 
facilities may be constructed in the Monument unless the Secretary 
determines that the facility--
            (1) will be minimal in nature;
            (2) is consistent with the purposes of the Monument 
        described in subsection (b); and
            (3) is necessary--
                    (A) to enhance botanical, fish, wildlife, or 
                watershed conditions;
                    (B) to provide for public information, health, or 
                safety;
                    (C) for the management of livestock; or
                    (D) for the management, but not promotion, of 
                recreation.
    (h) Release of Wilderness Study Area.--
            (1) Finding.--Congress finds that, for purposes of section 
        603(c) of the Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 1976 
        (43 U.S.C. 1782(c)), any portion of Federal land designated as 
        a wilderness study area within the Monument as of the date of 
        enactment of this Act has been adequately studied for 
        wilderness designation.
            (2) Release.--The land described in paragraph (1)--
                    (A) is no longer subject to section 603(c) of the 
                Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 1976 (43 
                U.S.C. 1782(c)); and
                    (B) shall be managed in accordance with--
                            (i) this Act; and
                            (ii) applicable land use plans adopted 
                        under section 202 of that Act (43 U.S.C. 1712).
    (i) Effect on Existing Rights.--Nothing in this section--
            (1) terminates any valid right-of-way on land included in 
        the Monument that is in existence on the date of enactment of 
        this Act; or
            (2) affects the ability of an owner of a private inholding 
        within, or private land adjoining, the boundary of the Monument 
        to obtain permits or easements from any Federal agency with 
        jurisdiction over the Monument to support existing uses, 
        access, management, or maintenance of the private property.
    (j) Water Rights and Infrastructure.--Nothing in this section--
            (1) constitutes an express or implied claim or denial on 
        the part of the Federal Government regarding an exemption from 
        State water laws; or
            (2) prohibits access to existing water infrastructure 
        within the boundaries of the Monument.
    (k) Tribal Rights.--Nothing in this section alters, modifies, 
enlarges, diminishes, or abrogates the treaty rights of any Indian 
Tribe.

SEC. 4. LAND EXCHANGES.

    (a) Authorization.--
            (1) Faulkner exchange.--
                    (A) In general.--Subject to subsections (b) through 
                (h), if the owner of the non-Federal land described in 
                subparagraph (B)(i) offers to convey to the United 
                States all right, title, and interest of the landowner 
                in and to the non-Federal land, the Secretary shall--
                            (i) accept the offer; and
                            (ii) on receipt of acceptable title to the 
                        non-Federal land and subject to valid existing 
                        rights, convey to the landowner all right, 
                        title, and interest of the United States in and 
                        to the Federal land described in subparagraph 
                        (B)(ii).
                    (B) Description of land.--
                            (i) Non-federal land.--The non-Federal land 
                        referred to in subparagraph (A) is the 
                        approximately 15 acres of non-Federal land 
                        identified on the Map as ``Faulkner to BLM''.
                            (ii) Federal land.--The Federal land 
                        referred to in subparagraph (A)(ii) is the 
                        approximately 10 acres of Federal land 
                        identified on the Map as ``BLM to Faulkner''.
            (2) Quant exchange.--
                    (A) In general.--Subject to subsections (b) through 
                (h), if the owner of the non-Federal land described in 
                subparagraph (B)(i) offers to convey to the United 
                States all right, title, and interest of the landowner 
                in and to the non-Federal land, the Secretary shall--
                            (i) accept the offer; and
                            (ii) on receipt of acceptable title to the 
                        non-Federal land and subject to valid existing 
                        rights, convey to the landowner all right, 
                        title, and interest of the United States in and 
                        to the Federal land described in subparagraph 
                        (B)(ii).
                    (B) Description of land.--
                            (i) Non-federal land.--The non-Federal land 
                        referred to in subparagraph (A) is the 
                        approximately 236 acres of non-Federal land 
                        identified on the Map as ``Quant to BLM''.
                            (ii) Federal land.--The Federal land 
                        referred to in subparagraph (A)(ii) is the 
                        approximately 271 acres of Federal land 
                        identified on the Map as ``BLM to Quant''.
            (3) Twickenham livestock llc exchange.--
                    (A) In general.--Subject to subsections (b) through 
                (h), if the owner of the non-Federal land described in 
                subparagraph (B)(i) offers to convey to the United 
                States all right, title, and interest of the landowner 
                in and to the non-Federal land, the Secretary shall--
                            (i) accept the offer; and
                            (ii) on receipt of acceptable title to the 
                        non-Federal land and subject to valid existing 
                        rights, convey to the landowner all right, 
                        title, and interest of the United States in and 
                        to the Federal land described in subparagraph 
                        (B)(ii).
                    (B) Description of land.--
                            (i) Non-federal land.--The non-Federal land 
                        referred to in subparagraph (A) is the 
                        approximately 574 acres of non-Federal land 
                        identified on the Map as ``Twickenham to BLM''.
                            (ii) Federal land.--The Federal land 
                        referred to in subparagraph (A)(ii) is the 
                        approximately 566 acres of Federal land 
                        identified on the Map as ``BLM to Twickenham''.
    (b) Applicable Law.--Except as otherwise provided in this section, 
the Secretary shall carry out each land exchange under subsection (a) 
in accordance with section 206 of the Federal Land Policy and 
Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1716).
    (c) Conditions.--Each land exchange under subsection (a) shall be 
subject to such terms and conditions as the Secretary may require.
    (d) Equal Value Exchange.--
            (1) In general.--The value of the Federal land and non-
        Federal land to be exchanged under subsection (a)--
                    (A) shall be equal; or
                    (B) shall be made equal in accordance with 
                paragraph (2).
            (2) Equalization.--
                    (A) Surplus of federal land.--If the value of 
                Federal land exceeds the value of non-Federal land to 
                be conveyed under a land exchange authorized under 
                subsection (a), the value of the Federal land and non-
                Federal land shall be equalized by reducing the acreage 
                of the Federal land to be conveyed, as determined to be 
                appropriate and acceptable by the Secretary and the 
                landowner.
                    (B) Surplus of non-federal land.--If the value of 
                the non-Federal land exceeds the value of the Federal 
                land, the value of the Federal land and non-Federal 
                land shall be equalized by reducing the acreage of the 
                non-Federal land to be conveyed, as determined to be 
                appropriate and acceptable by the Secretary and the 
                landowner.
    (e) Appraisals.--
            (1) In general.--As soon as practicable after the date of 
        enactment of this Act, the Secretary and the landowner shall 
        select an appraiser to conduct an appraisal of the Federal land 
        and non-Federal land to be exchanged under subsection (a).
            (2) Requirements.--An appraisal under paragraph (1) shall 
        be conducted in accordance with nationally recognized appraisal 
        standards, including--
                    (A) the Uniform Appraisal Standards for Federal 
                Land Acquisitions; and
                    (B) the Uniform Standards of Professional Appraisal 
                Practice.
    (f) Surveys.--
            (1) In general.--The exact acreage and legal description of 
        the Federal land and non-Federal land to be exchanged under 
        subsection (a) shall be determined by surveys approved by the 
        Secretary.
            (2) Costs.--The Secretary and the landowner shall divide 
        equally between the Secretary and the landowner--
                    (A) the costs of any surveys conducted under 
                paragraph (1); and
                    (B) any other administrative costs of carrying out 
                the land exchange under this section.
    (g) Valid Existing Rights.--The exchange of Federal land and non-
Federal land under subsection (a) shall be subject to any easements, 
rights-of-way, and other valid rights in existence on the date of 
enactment of this Act.
    (h) Deadline for Completion of Land Exchange.--It is the intent of 
Congress that the land exchanges under subsection (a) be completed by 
the date that is not later than 2 years after the date of enactment of 
this Act.

SEC. 5. WITHDRAWAL.

    (a) In General.--Subject to valid existing rights, the Federal land 
and any interest in the Federal land included within the Monument is 
withdrawn from--
            (1) entry, appropriation, new rights-of-way, and disposal 
        under the public land laws;
            (2) location, entry, and patent under the mining laws; and
            (3) operation of--
                    (A) the mineral leasing and geothermal leasing 
                laws; and
                    (B) except as provided in subsection (b), the 
                minerals materials laws.
    (b) Road Maintenance.--As the Secretary determines to be consistent 
with the purposes of this Act and the management plan, the Secretary 
may permit the development of saleable mineral resources, for road 
maintenance use only, in a location identified on the Map as an 
existing ``gravel pit'' within the area withdrawn by subsection (a), if 
the development was authorized before the date of enactment of this 
Act.

SEC. 6. TREATMENT OF STATE LAND AND MINERAL INTERESTS.

    (a) Acquisition Required.--The Secretary shall acquire, for 
approximately equal value and as agreed to by the Secretary and the 
State, any land and interests in land owned by the State within the 
area withdrawn by section 5(a).
    (b) Acquisition Methods.--The Secretary shall acquire the State 
land and interests in land under subsection (a) in exchange for--
            (1) the conveyance of Federal land or Federal mineral 
        interests that are outside the boundaries of the area withdrawn 
        by section 5(a);
            (2) a payment to the State; or
            (3) a combination of the methods described in paragraphs 
        (1) and (2).

SEC. 7. CONVEYANCES OF BUREAU OF LAND MANAGEMENT LAND TO THE CITY OF 
              MITCHELL, OREGON, AND WHEELER COUNTY, OREGON.

    (a) In General.--Notwithstanding the land use planning requirements 
of sections 202 and 203 of the Federal Land Policy and Management Act 
of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1712, 1713)--
            (1) on the request of the City, the Secretary shall convey 
        to the City, without consideration, the approximately 1,327 
        acres of Federal land generally depicted on the Map as ``City 
        of Mitchell Conveyance''; and
            (2) on request of the County, the Secretary shall convey to 
        the County, without consideration, the approximately 159 acres 
        of Federal land generally depicted on the Map as ``Wheeler 
        County Conveyance''.
    (b) Use of Conveyed Land.--
            (1) In general.--Subject to paragraphs (2) and (3), the 
        Federal land conveyed under subsection (a) shall be used for 
        recreation or other public purposes consistent with the Act of 
        June 14, 1926 (commonly known as the ``Recreation and Public 
        Purposes Act'') (44 Stat. 741, chapter 578; 43 U.S.C. 869 et 
        seq.).
            (2) Affordable or senior housing.--Not more than 50 acres 
        of the Federal land conveyed under subsection (a)(1) may be 
        used for the construction of affordable or senior housing.
            (3) Economic development.--Not more than 50 acres of the 
        Federal land conveyed under subsection (a)(1) may be used to 
        support economic development.
    (c) Map and Legal Descriptions.--
            (1) In general.--As soon as practicable after the date of 
        enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall finalize legal 
        descriptions of the parcels of land to be conveyed under 
        subsection (a).
            (2) Corrections of errors.--The Secretary may correct minor 
        errors in the Map or the legal descriptions.
            (3) Availability.--The Map and legal descriptions shall be 
        on file and available for public inspection in the appropriate 
        offices of the Bureau of Land Management.
    (d) Reversion.--
            (1) In general.--If any parcel of land conveyed under 
        subsection (a) ceases to be used for the purposes described in 
        subsection (b), the land shall, at the discretion of the 
        Secretary based on the determination of the Secretary of the 
        best interests of the United States, revert to the United 
        States.
            (2) Responsibility of local governmental entity.--If the 
        Secretary determines under paragraph (1) that the land should 
        revert to the United States, and if the Secretary determines 
        that the land is contaminated with hazardous waste, the City or 
        the County, as applicable, shall be responsible for remediation 
        of the contamination.
    (e) Tribal Rights.--Nothing in this section alters, modifies, 
enlarges, diminishes, or abrogates the treaty rights of any Indian 
Tribe.

SEC. 8. COORDINATION WITH UNITS OF LOCAL GOVERNMENT.

     The Secretary shall coordinate with units of local government, 
including the County commission and the City, in accordance with 
section 202 of the Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 1976 (43 
U.S.C. 1712) and section 1610.3-1 of title 43, Code of Federal 
Regulations (or a successor regulation) in--
            (1) developing the management plan;
            (2) prioritizing implementation of project-level activities 
        under the management plan;
            (3) developing activities that implement the management 
        plan; and
            (4) carrying out any other activities under this Act.

SEC. 9. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.

    There are authorized to be appropriated such sums as are necessary 
to carry out this Act.
                                 &lt;all&gt;
</pre></body></html>
