<html><body><pre>
[Congressional Bills 108th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[S. 2648 Introduced in Senate (IS)]







108th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                S. 2648

   To strengthen programs relating to ocean science and training by 
    providing improved advice and coordination of efforts, greater 
interagency cooperation, and the strengthening and expansion of related 
     programs administered by the National Oceanic and Atmospheric 
                            Administration.


_______________________________________________________________________


                   IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

                             July 13, 2004

Mr. Hollings (for himself, Mr. Stevens, and Mr. Inouye) introduced the 
 following bill; which was read twice and referred to the Committee on 
                 Commerce, Science, and Transportation

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
   To strengthen programs relating to ocean science and training by 
    providing improved advice and coordination of efforts, greater 
interagency cooperation, and the strengthening and expansion of related 
     programs administered by the National Oceanic and Atmospheric 
                            Administration.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE; TABLE OF CONTENTS.

    (a) Short Title.--This Act may be cited as the ``Ocean Research 
Coordination and Advancement Act''.
    (b) Table of Contents.--The table of contents for this Act is as 
follows:

Sec. 1. Short title; table of contents.
Sec. 2. Findings.
Sec. 3. Definitions.
             TITLE I--OCEAN SCIENCE COORDINATION AND ADVICE

Sec. 101. National Ocean Science Committee.
Sec. 102. Subcommittee on Ocean Education. 
Sec. 103. Ocean Research and Education Advisory Panel.
 TITLE II--INTERAGENCY PROGRAMS TO ADVANCE OCEAN AND COASTAL KNOWLEDGE

Sec. 201. National strategy for ocean science, education, and 
                            technology.
Sec. 202. National ocean partners program.
Sec. 203. Ocean and coastal education program.
Sec. 204. Ocean science and technology scholarship program.
                        TITLE III--NOAA PROGRAMS

Sec. 301. Research plan.
Sec. 302. Marine ecosystem research.
Sec. 303. National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration education 
                            program.
Sec. 304. Amendment to the National Sea Grant College Program Act.
                        TITLE IV--AUTHORIZATIONS

Sec. 401. Authorization of appropriations.

SEC. 2. FINDINGS.

    The Congress finds the following:
            (1) The coastal regions and marine waters of the United 
        States are vital to the Nation's public safety, homeland 
        security, transportation, trade, energy production, recreation 
        and tourism, food production, scientific research and 
        education, environmental health, and historical and cultural 
        heritage.
            (2) Coastal development, resource extraction, and other 
        human activities, coupled with an expanding coastal population, 
        are contributing to processes of environmental change that may 
        significantly threaten the long-term health and sustainability 
        of marine and coastal ecosystems.
            (3) The ocean remains one of the least explored and 
        understood environments on the planet providing a frontier for 
        new discoveries and requiring regional, ecosystem-based 
        management approaches.
            (4) Development and implementation of education and 
        training programs are essential to build a national scientific 
        and technological workforce that meets the needs of growing 
        ocean and coastal economies and better prepares the Nation for 
        competition in the global economy.
            (5) A coordinated program of education and basic and 
        applied research would assist the Nation and the world to 
        further knowledge of the oceans and the global climate system, 
        ensure homeland and national security, develop innovative 
        marine products, improve weather and climate forecasts, 
        strengthen management of marine and coastal resources, increase 
        the safety and efficiency of maritime operations, and protect 
        the environment and mitigate man-made and natural hazards.
            (6) Increased Federal cooperation and investment are 
        essential to build on ocean and coastal research and education 
        activities that are taking place within numerous federal, 
        state, and local agencies, academic institutions and industries 
        and to establish new partnerships for sharing ocean science 
        resources, intellectual talent, and facilities.

SEC. 3. DEFINITIONS.

    In this Act:
            (1) Advisory panel.--The term ``Advisory Panel'' means the 
        Ocean Research and Education Advisory Panel established under 
        section 108.
            (2) Committee.--The term ``Committee'' means the National 
        Ocean Science Committee established under section 101.
            (3) Council.--The term ``Council'' means the National 
        Science and Technology Council.
            (4) Ocean science.--The term ``ocean science'' includes the 
        exploration of ocean, coastal, and Great Lakes environments, 
        the development of methods and instruments to study and monitor 
        such environments, and the conduct of basic and applied 
        research and education activities to advance understanding of--
                    (A) the physics, chemistry, biology, and geology of 
                the oceans, coasts, and Great Lakes;
                    (B) marine and coastal processes and interactions 
                with other components of the total Earth system; and
                    (C) the impacts of the oceans, coastal regions, and 
                Great Lakes on society and manner in which such 
                environments are influenced by human activity.
            (5) Strategy.--The term ``strategy'' means the National 
        Strategy for Ocean Science, Education, and Technology developed 
        under section 201.
            (6) Subcommittee.--The term ``Subcommittee'' means the 
        Subcommittee on Ocean Education established under section 102.

             TITLE I--OCEAN SCIENCE COORDINATION AND ADVICE

SEC. 101. NATIONAL OCEAN SCIENCE COMMITTEE.

    (a) Committee.--The Chair of the National Science and Technology 
Council, in consultation with the Chair of the Council on Ocean 
Stewardship, shall establish a National Ocean Science Committee.
    (b) Membership.--The Committee shall be composed of the following 
members:
            (1) The Administrator of the National Oceanic and 
        Atmospheric Administration.
            (2) The Secretary of the Navy.
            (3) The Director of the National Science Foundation.
            (4) The Administrator of the National Aeronautics and Space 
        Administration.
            (5) The Under Secretary of Energy for Energy, Science, and 
        Environment.
            (6) The Administrator of the Environmental Protection 
        Agency.
            (7) The Under Secretary of Homeland Security for Research 
        and Development.
            (8) The Commandant of the Coast Guard.
            (9) The Director of the United States Geological Survey.
            (10) The Director of the Minerals Management Service.
            (11) The Commanding General of the Army Corps of Engineers.
            (12) The Director of the National Institutes of Health.
            (13) Under Secretary of Agriculture for Research, 
        Education, and Economics.
            (14) The Assistant Secretary of State for Oceans and 
        International Environmental and Scientific Affairs.
            (15) The Director of the Defense Advanced Research Projects 
        Agency.
            (16) The Director of the Office of Science and Technology 
        Policy.
            (17) The Director of the Office of Management and Budget.
            (18) The leadership of such other Federal agencies and 
        departments as the chair and vice chairs of the Committee deem 
        appropriate
    (c) Chair and Vice Chairs.--The chair and vice chairs of the 
Committee shall be appointed every 2 years by a selection subcommittee 
of the Committee composed of, at a minimum, the Administrator of the 
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, the Director of the 
National Science Foundation, and the Secretary of the Navy. The term of 
office of the chair and vice chairs shall be 2 years. A person who has 
previously served as chair or vice chair may be reappointed.
    (d) Responsibilities.--The Committee shall--
            (1) serve as the primary source of advice and support on 
        ocean science for the Council and the Council on Ocean 
        Stewardship and assist in carrying out the functions of the 
        Council as they relate to such matters, including budgetary 
        analyses;
            (2) serve as the committee on ocean science for the Council 
        and carry out its functions under section 401 of the National 
        Science and Technology Policy, Organization, and Priorities Act 
        of 1976 (42 U.S.C. 6651) that relate to ocean sciences;
            (3) improve cooperation among Federal departments and 
        agencies with respect to ocean science budgets, programs, 
        operations, facilities and personnel;
            (4) provide a forum for development of the strategy and 
        oversee its implementation;
            (5) suggest policies and procedures and provide support for 
        interagency ocean science programs, including the National 
        Ocean Partners Program;
            (6) oversee the implementation of an integrated and 
        sustained ocean and coastal observing system;
            (7) establish interagency subcommittees and working groups 
        as appropriate to develop comprehensive and balanced Federal 
        programs and approaches to ocean science needs;
            (8) coordinate United States government activities with 
        those of other nations and with international ocean observing 
        efforts, research and technology and education; and
            (9) carry out such other activities as the Council may 
        require.

SEC. 102. SUBCOMMITTEE ON OCEAN EDUCATION.

    (a) Membership.--The Committee shall establish a Subcommittee on 
Ocean Education. Each member of the Committee and the Under Secretary 
of Education may designate a senior Federal agency representative with 
expertise in education to serve on the Subcommittee. The Committee 
shall select a Chair and one or more Vice Chairs from the membership of 
the Subcommittee.
    (b) Responsibilities.--The Subcommittee shall--
            (1) support and advise the Committee and the Council on 
        matters related to ocean and coastal education and outreach and 
        lead development of a common perspective;
            (2) provide recommendations on education goals and 
        priorities for the strategy and guidance for educational 
        investments;
            (3) foster the development of education and outreach 
        programs that are integrated with and based upon Federal ocean 
        science programs;
            (4) coordinate Federal ocean and coastal education 
        activities for students at all levels, including funding for 
        educational opportunities at the undergraduate, graduate; and 
        post-doctoral levels;
            (5) identify and work to establish linkages among Federal 
        programs and those of States, academic institutions, museums 
        and aquaria, industry, foundations and other non-governmental 
        organizations;
            (6) facilitate Federal agency efforts to work with 
        minority-serving institutions, historically black colleges and 
        universities, and traditionally majority-serving institutions 
        to ensure that students of underrepresented groups have access 
        to and support for pursuing ocean-related careers; and
            (7) carry out such other activities as the Committee and 
        the Council request.

SEC. 103. OCEAN RESEARCH AND EDUCATION ADVISORY PANEL.

    (a) Membership.--The Committee shall maintain an Ocean Research and 
Education Advisory Panel consisting of not less than 10 and not more 
than 18 members appointed by the chair, including the following:
            (1) Members representing the National Academy of Sciences, 
        the National Academy of Engineering and the Institute of 
        Medicine.
            (2) Members selected from among individuals representing 
        ocean industries, State governments, academia, and such other 
        participants in ocean and coastal activities as the chair 
        considers appropriate.
            (3) Members selected from among individuals eminent in the 
        fields of marine science, marine policy, ocean engineering or 
        related fields.
            (4) Members selected from among individuals eminent in the 
        field of education.
    (b) Responsibilities.--The advisory panel will advise the Committee 
on the following:
            (1) Development and implementation of the strategy.
            (2) Policies and procedures to implement the National Ocean 
        Partners Program and on establishment of topics and selection 
        and allocation of funds for partnership projects.
            (3) Matters relating to national oceanographic data 
        requirements, ocean and coastal observing systems, ocean 
        science education and training, oceanographic facilities, and 
        modernization of the nation's marine laboratories.
            (4) Any additional matters that the Committee considers 
        appropriate.
    (c) Procedural Matters.--
            (1) All meetings of the Advisory Panel shall be open to the 
        public, except that a meeting or any portion of it may be 
        closed to the public if it concerns matters or information that 
        pertains to national security, employment matters, litigation, 
        or other reasons provided under section 552b of title 5, United 
        States Code. Interested persons shall be permitted to appear at 
        open meetings and present oral or written statements on the 
        subject matter of the meeting. The Advisory Panel may 
        administer oaths or affirmations to any person appearing before 
        it.
            (2) All open meetings of the Advisory Panel shall be 
        preceded by timely public notice in the Federal Register of the 
        time, place, and subject of the meeting.
            (3) Minutes of each meeting shall be kept and shall include 
        a record of the people present, a description of the discussion 
        that occurred, and copies of all statements filed. Subject to 
        section 552 of title 5, United States Code, the minutes and 
        records of all meetings and other documents that were made 
        available to or prepared for the Advisory Panel shall be 
        available for public inspection and copying at a single 
        location in the partners program office.
            (4) The Federal Advisory Committee Act (5 U.S.C. App.) does 
        not apply to the Advisory Panel.
    (d) Funding.--The Chair and Vice Chairs of the Committee annually 
shall make funds available to support the activities of the Advisory 
Panel.

 TITLE II--INTERAGENCY PROGRAMS TO ADVANCE OCEAN AND COASTAL KNOWLEDGE

SEC. 201. NATIONAL STRATEGY FOR OCEAN SCIENCE, EDUCATION, AND 
              TECHNOLOGY.

    (a) In General--The Chair of the Council, through the Committee, 
shall develop a National Strategy for Ocean Science, Education and 
Technology. The Chair shall submit the strategy to the Congress within 
one year after the date of enactment of this title, and a revised 
strategy shall be submitted at least once every three years thereafter. 
The initial strategy shall be based on the recommendations of the 
United States Commission on Ocean Policy and shall establish, for the 
10-year period beginning in the year the strategy is submitted, the 
scientific goals and priorities for research, technology, education, 
outreach, and operations which most effectively advance knowledge and 
provide usable information for ocean policy decisions.
    (b) Specific Actions.--The strategy shall--
            (1) provide for a doubling of the Federal investment in 
        ocean science research over 5 years and for additional 
        investments in education and outreach, technology development, 
        and ocean exploration;
            (2) identify and address relevant programs and activities 
        of the members of the Committee that contribute to the goals 
        and priorities, setting forth the role of and funding for each 
        such member in implementing the strategy;
            (3) establish mechanisms for accelerating the transition 
        of--
                    (A) commercial or military technologies and data to 
                civilian research, education, and operations 
                applications; and
                    (B) technologies and tools developed by government 
                and university scientists to operations, including both 
                governmental and non-governmental uses;
            (4) consider and use, as appropriate, reports and studies 
        conducted by Federal agencies and departments, the National 
        Research Council, or other entities; and
            (5) make recommendations for the coordination of Federal 
        ocean science activities with those of States, regional 
        entities, other nations, and international organizations.
    (c) Elements.--The strategy shall include the following elements:
            (1) Global measurements on all relevant spatial and time 
        scales.
            (2) Partnerships among Federal agencies, states, academia, 
        industries, and other members of the ocean science community.
            (3) Oceanographic facility support, including the 
        procurement, maintenance and operation of observing and 
        research platforms, such as ships and aircraft, laboratories, 
        and related infrastructure.
            (4) Focused research initiatives and competitive research 
        grants.
            (5) Technology and sensor development, including the 
        transition of such technologies to operations.
            (6) Workforce and professional development including 
        traineeships, scholarships, fellowships and internships.
            (7) Ocean science education coordination and establishment 
        of mechanisms to improve ocean literacy and contribute to 
        public awareness of the condition and importance of the oceans.
            (8) Information management systems that allow analysis of 
        data from varied sources to produce information readily usable 
        by policymakers and stakeholders.
    (d) Public Participation.--In developing the strategy, the 
Committee shall consult with the Advisory Panel, academic, State, 
industry, and conservation groups and representatives. Not later than 
90 days before the Chair of the Council submits the strategy, or any 
revision thereof, to the Congress, a summary of the proposed strategy 
or revision shall be published in the Federal Register for a public 
comment period of not less than 60 days.

SEC. 202. NATIONAL OCEAN PARTNERS PROGRAM.

    (a) Purpose.--Building on the program established under section 
7901 of title 10, United States Code, the Committee shall establish and 
maintain a National Ocean Partners Program that identifies and carries 
out ocean science partnerships among the National Oceanic and 
Atmospheric Administration, the National Science Foundation, the Office 
of Naval Research and Oceanographer of the Navy, other Federal 
agencies, States, academia, industries, and other members of the ocean 
science community.
    (b) Project Selection.--At least annually, the Committee shall 
establish a limited number of topics for partnership awards and 
partners may submit projects on such topics for implementation under 
the program. Partnership projects shall be competitively reviewed, 
selected, and allocated funding based on the following criteria:
            (1) The project is consistent with the strategy and 
        addresses--
                    (A) ocean and coastal observing systems;
                    (B) ocean education;
                    (C) ocean infrastructure coordination; or
                    (D) interagency collaboration on national ocean 
                science and research priorities.
            (2) The project has broad participation within the ocean 
        community.
            (3) The partners have a long-term commitment to the 
        objectives of the project.
            (4) Resources supporting the project are shared among the 
        partners.
            (5) The project includes a plan for education and outreach.
            (6) The project has been subject to peer review.
    (c) Annual Report.-- Not later than March 1 of each year, the 
Committee shall submit to Congress a report on the National Ocean 
Partners Program. The report shall contain the following:
            (1) A description of activities of the program carried out 
        during the previous fiscal year, together with a list of the 
        members of the Advisory Panel and any working groups in 
        existence during that fiscal year.
            (2) A general outline of the activities planned for the 
        program during the fiscal year in which the report is prepared.
            (3) A summary of projects continued from the previous 
        fiscal year and projects expected to be started during the 
        fiscal year in which the report is prepared and during the 
        following fiscal year.
            (4) An analysis of trends in the Federal investment in 
        ocean science research, education and technology development.
    (d) Partners Program Office.--The Committee shall establish a 
program office for the National Ocean Partners Program. The Committee 
shall use competitive procedures in selecting an operator for the 
partners program office and supervise performance of duties by such 
office. Responsibilities of the partners program office shall include--
            (1) support for the activities of the Committee and any 
        working groups or subcommittees under this section;
            (2) management of the process for proposing partnership 
        projects to the Committee, including the peer review process 
        for such projects;
            (3) annual preparation and submission to the Committee of 
        status information on all partnership projects and program 
        activities;
            (4) development and maintenance of a database on 
        investments by Federal agencies in ocean and coastal research 
        and education; and
            (5) any additional duties for the administration of the 
        National Ocean Partners Program or to support Committee 
        activities that the Committee considers appropriate.
    (e) Contract, Grant, and Interagency Financing Authority.--
            (1) The Committee may authorize one or more of the members 
        of the Committee to enter into contracts and make grants, using 
        funds appropriated pursuant to an authorization for the 
        National Ocean Partners Program, for the purpose of 
        implementing the program and carrying out the responsibilities 
        of the Committee. A project or activity under such program may 
        be established by any instrument that the Committee considers 
        appropriate, including grants, memoranda of understanding, 
        cooperative research and development agreements, and similar 
        instruments.
            (2) The members of the Committee are authorized to 
        participate in interagency financing and share, transfer, 
        receive and spend funds appropriated to any member of the 
        Committee for the purposes of carrying out any administrative 
        or programmatic project or activity under the National Ocean 
        Partnership Program, including support for a common 
        infrastructure and system integration for an ocean observing 
        system. Funds may be transferred among such departments and 
        agencies through an appropriate instrument that specifies the 
        goods, services, or space being acquired from another Committee 
        member and the costs of the same.
            (3) The Committee shall establish uniform proposal request 
        and application procedures and reporting requirements for use 
        by each Committee member that are applicable to all projects 
        and activities under the National Ocean Partners Program.
            (4) Projects under the program may include demonstration 
        projects.
    (f) Transitional Plan.--The Committee shall submit a plan and 
recommendations to the Congress for the transition of the National 
Oceanographic Partnership Program under chapter 665 of title 10, United 
States Code, to the National Ocean Partners Program established under 
subsection (a) of this section not later than 2 years after the date of 
enactment of this Act.
    (g) Sunset of National Oceanographic Partnership Program.--Chapter 
665 of title 10, United States Code, is repealed as of the date that is 
3 years after the date of enactment of this Act.

SEC. 203. OCEAN AND COASTAL EDUCATION PROGRAM.

    (a) Establishment.--Consistent with the strategy, the Committee, 
through the Subcommittee, shall establish an interagency ocean and 
coastal education program to improve public awareness, understanding 
and appreciation of the role of the oceans in meeting our Nation's 
economic, social and environmental needs. The ocean and coastal 
education program shall include formal education activities for 
elementary, secondary, undergraduate, graduate and postdoctoral 
students, continuing education activities for adults, and informal 
education activities for learners of all ages.
    (b) Elements.--The program shall use appropriate interagency 
coordination mechanisms and shall, at a minimum, provide sustained 
funding for--
            (1) a national network of Centers for Ocean Sciences 
        Education Excellence to improve the acquisition of knowledge by 
        students at all levels;
            (2) a regional education network to support academic 
        competition and experiential learning opportunities for high 
        school students;
            (3) teacher enrichment programs that provide for 
        participation in research expeditions, voyages of exploration 
        and the conduct of scientific research;
            (4) development of model instructional programs for 
        students at all levels;
            (5) student training and support to provide diverse ocean-
        related education opportunities at the undergraduate, graduate, 
        and postdoctoral levels; and
            (6) mentoring programs and partnerships with minority-
        serving institutions to ensure diversity in the ocean and 
        coastal workforce.

SEC. 204. OCEAN SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY SCHOLARSHIP PROGRAM.

    (a) Establishment.--
            (1) The Committee shall establish a National Ocean Science 
        and Technology Scholarship Program that is designed to recruit 
        and prepare students for careers with Federal agencies and 
        departments represented on the Committee (hereinafter referred 
        to as ``participating agencies''). The program shall award 
        scholarships to individuals who are eligible to participate and 
        selected through a competitive process primarily on the basis 
        of academic merit, with consideration given to financial need 
        and the goal of promoting the participation of individuals 
        identified in section 33 or 34 of the Science and Engineering 
        Equal Opportunities Act (42 U.S.C. 1885a or 1885b).
            (2) To carry out the program, participating agencies shall 
        enter into contractual agreements with individuals selected 
        under paragraph (1) under which the individuals agree to serve 
        as full-time employees of the participating agency for the 
        period described in subsection (d), in positions needed by the 
        participating agency and for which the individuals are 
        qualified, in exchange for receiving a scholarship.
    (b) Eligibility Criteria.--In order to be eligible to participate 
in the program, an individual shall--
            (1) be enrolled or accepted for enrollment as a full-time 
        student at an institution of higher education (as defined in 
        section 101(a) of the Higher Education Act of 1965) in an 
        academic field or discipline described in the list made 
        available under subsection (c);
            (2) be a United States citizen;
            (3) at the time of the initial scholarship award, not be an 
        employee of the department or agency providing the award;
            (4) not have received a scholarship under this section for 
        more than 4 academic years, unless the participating agency 
        grants a waiver; and
            (5) submit an application to a participating agency at such 
        time, in such manner, and containing such information, 
        agreements, or assurances as the participating agency may 
        require.
    (c) Scholarship Availability and Limits.--
            (1) The Committee shall make publicly available a list of 
        academic programs and fields of study for which scholarships 
        under the program may be used and shall update the list as 
        necessary.
            (2) A participating agency may provide a scholarship to an 
        eligible individual to cover tuition, fees, and other 
        authorized expenses as established by regulation. The dollar 
        amount of a scholarship for an academic year shall in no case 
        exceed the cost of attendance as such cost is determined in 
        section 472 of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 
        1087ll).
            (3) The participating agency may enter into a contractual 
        agreement with an institution of higher education under which 
        the amounts provided for a scholarship under this section for 
        tuition, fees, and other authorized expenses are paid directly 
        to the institution with respect to which the scholarship is 
        provided.
    (d) Service.--
            (1) Except as provided in subsection (f), the period of 
        service for which an individual shall be obligated to serve as 
        an employee of the participating agency is 12 months for each 
        academic year for which a scholarship under this section is 
        provided.
            (2) Except as provided in subsection (f), obligated service 
        under paragraph (1) may include contract employment if a full 
        time equivalent position is not immediately available and shall 
        begin not later than 60 days after the individual obtains the 
        educational degree for which the scholarship was provided.
    (e) Repayment.--
            (1) Scholarship recipients who fail to maintain a high 
        level of academic standing, as defined by the participating 
        agency, who are dismissed from their educational institutions 
        for disciplinary reasons, or who voluntarily terminate academic 
        training before graduation from the educational program for 
        which the scholarship was awarded, shall be in breach of their 
        contractual agreement and, in lieu of any service obligation 
        arising under such agreement, shall be liable to the United 
        States for repayment within 1 year after the date of default of 
        all scholarship funds paid to them and to the institution of 
        higher education on their behalf under the agreement, except as 
        provided in subsection (f). The repayment period may be 
        extended by the participating agency when determined to be 
        necessary.
            (2) Scholarship recipients who, for any reason, fail to 
        begin or complete their service obligation after completion of 
        academic training, or fail to comply with the terms and 
        conditions of deferment established by the participating agency 
        pursuant to subsection (f), shall be in breach of their 
        contractual agreement. When recipients breach their agreements 
        pursuant to this paragraph, the recipient shall be liable to 
the United States for an amount equal to the total amount of 
scholarships received by such individual under this section; plus the 
interest on the amounts of such awards which would be payable if at the 
time the awards were received they were loans bearing interest at the 
maximum legal prevailing rate, as determined by the Treasurer of the 
United States, multiplied by 3.
    (f) Deferral, Cancellation, or Waiver.--The participating agency 
shall by regulation provide for the deferral or the partial or total 
waiver or suspension of any obligation of service or payment incurred 
by an individual under the program (or a contractual agreement 
thereunder) whenever the participating agency determines that such a 
deferral, waiver or suspension is appropriate, compliance by the 
individual is impossible or would involve extreme hardship, or if 
enforcement of such obligation with respect to the individual would be 
contrary to the best interests of the Government.

          TITLE III--NOAA OCEAN SCIENCE AND EDUCATION PROGRAMS

SEC. 301. RESEARCH PLAN.

    The Administrator of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric 
Administration shall develop a 20-year integrated research plan for the 
agency setting forth research goals and priorities, as well as 
programmatic actions to carry out those goals and priorities. The plan 
shall--
            (1) articulate goals, priorities, and programmatic actions 
        for the agency in 5-year phases;
            (2) identify linkages between Administration research 
        activities and missions;
            (3) identify how Administration laboratories, joint 
        institutes, cooperative institutes, joint centers, and the 
        extramural scientific community will participate and assist in 
        achieving the goals of the plan;
            (4) consider the recommendations of relevant reports 
        prepared by the National Research Council and international 
        scientific institutions and organizations;
            (5) be developed in consultation with programmatic offices, 
        the extramural scientific community, and interested members of 
        the public; and
            (6) be revised or updated every 5-to-7 years.

SEC. 302. MARINE ECOSYSTEM RESEARCH.

    (a) Marine Ecosystem Research Program.--The Administrator of the 
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, in cooperation with 
the National Science Foundation, the United States Geological Survey, 
the Office of Naval Research, and other members of the Committee, shall 
establish and maintain a 10-year interagency marine ecosystem research 
program, including competitive research grants to the scientific 
community, that complements or strengthens the Federal program for the 
purposes of--
            (1) improving national understanding of marine ecosystem 
        status and trends, including the patterns, processes, and 
        consequences of changing marine biological diversity;
            (2) improving the linkages between marine ecological and 
        oceanographic sciences and providing a basis for ecosystem-
        based management of the oceans and coastal resources;
            (3) increasing the effectiveness of ocean, coastal and 
        fisheries conservation and management through application of 
        ecosystem-based approaches;
            (4) facilitating and encouraging the use of new 
        technological advances, predictive models, and historical 
        perspectives to characterize and assess marine ecosystems and 
        to investigate marine biodiversity;
            (5) strengthening and expanding the field of marine 
        taxonomy, including use of genomics and proteomics;
            (6) using new understanding gained through the program to 
        improve predictions of the impacts of human activities on the 
        marine environment, including pollution and coastal 
        development, and of the impacts of changes in the marine 
        environment on human well-being; and
            (7) providing Federal, regional, and State decision makers 
        with usable information and products to support policy and 
        technical decisions under existing authorities, including the 
        Magnuson-Stevens Fishery Conservation and Management Act, the 
        Marine Mammal Protection Act, the National Marine Sanctuaries 
        Act, and the Coastal Zone Management Act.
    (b) Program Elements.--The research program established under this 
section shall provide for the following:
            (1) Dynamic access to biological and other data through an 
        integrated ocean biogeographic information system that--
                    (A) links marine databases; and manages data 
                generated by the program; and
                    (B) supports understanding of marine systems 
                required for ecosystem-based conservation and 
                management, including analysis of biodiversity and 
                related physical and ecological parameters.
            (2) Integrated national and regional studies and products 
        that focus on appropriate scales to support ecosystem-based 
        management; including habitat mapping and assessment.
            (3) Improved biological sensors for ocean and coastal 
        observing systems.
            (4) Investment in exploration and taxonomy to study little 
        known areas and describe new species.
            (5) Studies of earlier changes in marine populations to 
        trace information on biological abundance and diversity to the 
        earliest historical periods of minimum human impact.
            (6) Improved predictive capability to enhance the 
        effectiveness of conservation and management programs and to 
        facilitate and minimize adverse impacts of human activities and 
        natural processes on marine and coastal ecosystems.
            (7) Pilot projects focused on priority information needs 
        for critical living marine resource management decisions under 
        existing statutory authorities.
    (c) Baseline Report and Biennial Assessments.--The Administrator of 
the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, through the 
Committee, shall prepare and submit to the President and Congress--
            (1) a baseline report on the state of knowledge concerning 
        marine ecosystems and their sub-components, including 
        recommendations for improving such knowledge base, considering 
        the recommendations of the United States Commission on Ocean 
        Policy and the priorities established under subsection (a) not 
        later than 1 year after the date of enactment of this Act; and
            (2) a biennial assessment not later than 2 years after the 
        date of submission of the baseline report required under 
        subsection (d)(1) and every 2 years thereafter that--
                    (A) integrates, evaluates, and interprets the 
                findings of the program and discusses the scientific 
                uncertainties associated with such findings; and
                    (B) analyzes current trends in marine and coastal 
                ecosystems, both human-induced and natural, and 
                projects major trends for the subsequent decade.

SEC. 303. NATIONAL OCEANIC AND ATMOSPHERIC ADMINISTRATION EDUCATION 
              PROGRAM.

    (a) In General.--
            (1) The Administrator of the National Oceanic and 
        Atmospheric Administration shall conduct, develop support, 
        promote, and coordinate education activities that meet the 
        defined program scope under section 203(b) and that enhance 
        public awareness and understanding of the science, service, and 
        stewardship missions of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric 
        Administration. In planning the program, the Administrator 
        shall consult with the Subcommittee and build upon the 
        educational programs and activities of the National Sea Grant 
        College Program, The National Marine Sanctuaries Program, the 
        National Estuarine Research Reserve System, and programs 
        relating to ocean exploration, undersea research, and oceans 
        and human health.
            (2) Authorized activities for the program shall include 
        education of the general public, teachers, students at all 
        levels, and ocean and coastal managers and stakeholders.
            (3) In carrying out educational activities, the 
        Administrator may enter into grants, contracts, cooperative 
        agreements, resource sharing agreements or interagency 
        financing with Federal, State and regional agencies, tribes, 
        commercial organizations, educational institutions, non-profit 
        organizations or other persons.
    (b) Goals.--The Administrator of the National Oceanic and 
Atmospheric Administration, in consultation with the appropriate 
program directors, shall ensure that educational activities and 
programs conducted pursuant to subsection (a) shall--
            (1) integrate agency science into high-quality educational 
        materials;
            (2) improve access to National Oceanic and Atmospheric 
        Administration educational resources;
            (3) support educator professional development programs to 
        improve understanding and use of agency sciences;
            (4) promote participation in agency-related sciences and 
        careers, particularly by members of underrepresented groups;
            (5) leverage partnerships to enhance formal and informal 
        environmental science education; and
            (6) build capability within the agency for educational 
        excellence.
    (c) Educational Partnership Program.--The Administrator of the 
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration shall establish an 
educational partnership with minority serving institutions to provide 
support for cooperative science centers, an environmental 
entrepreneurship program, a graduate sciences program and an 
undergraduate scholarship program.
    (d) NOAA Ocean Education Plan.--The Administrator of the National 
Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration shall develop an ocean education 
plan setting forth ocean education goals and priorities for the agency, 
as well as programmatic actions to carry out such goals and priorities 
over the next 20 years. The plan may be prepared as part of the 
research plan required by section 301 or may be prepared separately and 
shall--
            (1) set forth the Administration's goals, priorities, and 
        programmatic activities for ocean education in 5-year phases;
            (2) identify linkages between NOAA ocean education 
        activities and NOAA programs and missions;
            (3) consider the recommendations of ocean science and 
        education experts, as well as those of professional education 
        associations or organizations;
            (4) be developed in consultation with programmatic offices, 
        ocean science and education experts, and interested members of 
        the public; and
            (5) be revised or updated every 5-to-7 years.

SEC. 304. AMENDMENT TO THE NATIONAL SEA GRANT COLLEGE PROGRAM ACT.

    Section 212(a) of the National Sea Grant College Program Act (33 
U.S.C 1131(a)) is amended by adding at the end the following:
    ``(3) Marine and aquatic science education.--In addition to the 
amounts authorized for each fiscal year under paragraphs (1) and (2), 
there are authorized to be appropriated for marine and aquatic science 
education in each of fiscal years 2005 through 2010--
            ``(A) $6,000,000 in increased funding for the educational 
        activities of sea grant programs;
            ``(B) $4,000,000 for competitive grants for projects and 
        research that target national and regional marine and aquatic 
        science literacy;
            ``(C) $4,000,000 for competitive grants to support 
        educational partnerships under the national Coastal and Ocean 
        Education Program to be funded through the National Ocean 
        Partners Program or other appropriate mechanism; and
            ``(D) $3,000,000 in increased funding for enhanced outreach 
        and communications activities of sea grant programs.

                        TITLE IV--AUTHORIZATIONS

SEC. 401. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.

    (a) Partners Program Projects and Administration.--Of the amounts 
authorized to be appropriated annually to the Department of the Navy, 
the National Science Foundation, the National Oceanic and Atmospheric 
Administration, and the National Aeronautics and Space Administration 
for fiscal year 2005 through fiscal year 2010--
            (1) up to $25,000,000 from each agency may be made 
        available for National Ocean Partners Program projects under 
        section 202; and
            (2) at least $600,000 or 3 percent of the amount 
        appropriated for the National Oceanographic Partners Program, 
        whichever is greater, shall be available for operations of the 
        partners program office established under section 202(d).
    (b) National Ocean and Coastal Education Program.--Of the amounts 
authorized annually to the Department of the Navy, the National Science 
Foundation, the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, and 
the National Aeronautics and Space Administration for fiscal year 2005 
through fiscal year 2010, up to $25,000,000 from each agency may be 
made available for the National Ocean and Coastal Education Program 
under section 203.
    (c) Scholarship Program.--Of the amounts authorized annually to the 
Department of the Navy, the National Science Foundation, the National 
Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, and the National Aeronautics 
and Space Administration for fiscal year 2005 through fiscal year 2010, 
up to $15,000,000 may be made available for National Ocean Science and 
Technology Scholarships under section 204.
    (d) National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration.--
            (1) Marine ecosystem research.--For development and 
        implementation of the research program under section 302, there 
        are authorized to be appropriated to the National Oceanic and 
        Atmospheric Administration $50,000,000 for each of fiscal years 
        2005 through 2010.
            (2) Ocean education.--In addition to the amounts authorized 
        under subsection (a), (b), and (c) and under the National Sea 
        Grant College Program Act, there are authorized to be 
        appropriated to the Administrator of the National Oceanic and 
        Atmospheric Administration.--
                            (A) $25,000,000 for each of fiscal years 
                        2005 through 2010 for education activities 
                        under section 303(a); and
                            (B) $20,000,000 for each of fiscal years 
                        2005 through 2010 for education activities 
                        under section 303(c).
    (e) Availability.--Sums appropriated pursuant to this section shall 
remain available until expended.
                                 &lt;all&gt;
</pre></body></html>
