<html><body><pre>
[Congressional Bills 117th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[S. 3375 Introduced in Senate (IS)]

&lt;DOC&gt;






117th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                S. 3375

  To promote travel and tourism in the United States, to improve the 
health safety and security of international flights entering the United 
                    States, and for other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                   IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

                            December 9, 2021

 Mr. Wicker (for himself, Ms. Rosen, Ms. Cortez Masto, Ms. Klobuchar, 
Mr. King, Mr. Blunt, Mr. Sullivan, and Mr. Scott of Florida) introduced 
the following bill; which was read twice and referred to the Committee 
                on Commerce, Science, and Transportation

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
  To promote travel and tourism in the United States, to improve the 
health safety and security of international flights entering the United 
                    States, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE; TABLE OF CONTENTS.

    (a) Short Title.--This Act may be cited as the ``Omnibus Tourism 
Act of 2021''.
    (b) Table of Contents.--The table of contents for this Act is as 
follows:

Sec. 1. Short title; table of contents.
Sec. 2. Defined term.
                       TITLE I--TRAVEL PROMOTION

Sec. 101. Short title.
Sec. 102. Purposes.
Sec. 103. Sense of Congress.
Sec. 104. Assistant Secretary for Travel and Tourism.
Sec. 105. Responsibilities of the Assistant Secretary of Commerce for 
                            Travel and Tourism.
Sec. 106. Travel and tourism strategy.
Sec. 107. United States Travel and Tourism Advisory Board.
                        TITLE II--TRAVEL SAFETY

                       Subtitle A--Health Safety

Sec. 201. Study and report on effects of COVID-19 pandemic on travel 
                            and tourism industry in United States.
Sec. 202. Ensuring Health Safety in the Skies.
Sec. 203. Feasibility study on the use of canine units to detect COVID-
                            19 at airports.
                     Subtitle B--One-Stop Security

Sec. 211. Short title.
Sec. 212. Definitions.
Sec. 213. Pilot Program for One-Stop Security.

SEC. 2. DEFINED TERM.

    In this Act, the term ``COVID-19 public health emergency''--
            (1) means the public health emergency first declared on 
        January 31, 2020, by the Secretary of Health and Human Services 
        under section 319 of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 
        247d) with respect to COVID-19; and
            (2) includes any renewal of such declaration pursuant to 
        such section 319.

                       TITLE I--TRAVEL PROMOTION

SEC. 101. SHORT TITLE.

    This title may be cited as the ``Visit America Act''.

SEC. 102. PURPOSES.

    The purposes of this title are--
            (1) to support the travel and tourism industry, which 
        produces economic impacts that are vital to our national 
        economy;
            (2) to address the recent decline in the number of 
        international travelers who visit the United States; and
            (3) to establish national goals for international visitors 
        to the United States, including--
                    (A) recommendations for achieving such goals and 
                timelines for implementing such recommendations;
                    (B) coordination between Federal and State 
                agencies;
                    (C) the resources needed by each Government agency 
                to achieve such goals; and
                    (D) the number of international visitors and the 
                value of national travel exports.

SEC. 103. SENSE OF CONGRESS.

    It is the sense of Congress that--
            (1) setting a national goal for the number of international 
        visitors is vital for aligning Federal tourism policy to 
        support American jobs and economic growth;
            (2) setting a national goal for travel exports is vital for 
        aligning Federal tourism policy to support American jobs, 
        increase travel exports, and improve our Nation's balance of 
        trade;
            (3) the travel industry is an essential part of the United 
        States services exports with respect to business, education, 
        medical, and leisure travel;
            (4) the promotion of travel and visitation by the 
        Corporation for Travel Promotion (doing business as ``Brand 
        USA'') is vital to increasing visitation and articulating the 
        visitation laws of the United States; and
            (5) there is an urgent need for a coordinated travel and 
        tourism industry response and strategy to respond to the 
        current state of such industry and future unforeseen 
        circumstances that may impact the travel and tourism industry.

SEC. 104. ASSISTANT SECRETARY FOR TRAVEL AND TOURISM.

    Section 2(d) of the Reorganization Plan Numbered 3 of 1979 (93 
Stat. 1382; 5 U.S.C. App.) is amended--
            (1) by striking ``There shall be in the Department two 
        additional Assistant Secretaries'' and inserting ``(1) There 
        shall be in the Department 3 additional Assistant Secretaries, 
        including the Assistant Secretary of Commerce for Travel and 
        Tourism,''; and
            (2) by adding at the end the following:
    ``(2) The Assistant Secretary of Commerce for Travel and Tourism 
shall--
            ``(A) be appointed by the President, subject to the advice 
        and consent of the Senate; and
            ``(B) report directly to the Under Secretary for 
        International Trade.''.

SEC. 105. RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE ASSISTANT SECRETARY OF COMMERCE FOR 
              TRAVEL AND TOURISM.

    (a) Visitation Goals.--The Assistant Secretary of Commerce for 
Travel and Tourism (referred to in this section as the ``Assistant 
Secretary''), appointed pursuant to section 2(d) of the Reorganization 
Plan Numbered 3 of 1979, as amended by section 104, shall--
            (1) establish an annual goal, consistent with the goals of 
        the travel and tourism strategy developed pursuant to section 
        106(1), for--
                    (A) the number of international visitors to the 
                United States; and
                    (B) the value of travel exports;
            (2) develop recommendations for achieving the annual goals 
        established pursuant to paragraph (1);
            (3) ensure that travel and tourism policy is developed in 
        consultation with--
                    (A) the Tourism Policy Council;
                    (B) the Secretary of Homeland Security;
                    (C) the National Travel and Tourism Office;
                    (D) Brand USA;
                    (E) the United States Travel and Tourism Advisory 
                Board; and
                    (F) travel industry partners, including public and 
                private destination marketing organizations, travel and 
                tourism suppliers, and labor representatives from these 
                industries;
            (4) establish short, medium, and long-term timelines for 
        implementing the recommendations developed pursuant to 
        paragraph (2);
            (5) conduct Federal agency needs assessments to identify 
        the resources, statutory or regulatory changes, and private 
        sector engagement needed to achieve the annual visitation 
        goals; and
            (6) provide assessments and recommendations to--
                    (A) the Committee on Commerce, Science, and 
                Transportation of the Senate;
                    (B) the Committee on Energy and Commerce of the 
                House of Representatives; and
                    (C) the public through a publicly accessible 
                website.
    (b) Visa Adjudication.--The Assistant Secretary, in consultation 
with the Secretary of State and the Secretary of Homeland Security, 
shall--
            (1) explore strategies for improving visitor visa 
        processing with respect to--
                    (A) the maximum time for processing visas, by 
                visitation type;
                    (B) regulatory and policy changes needed to meet 
                the visa processing goals referred to in subparagraph 
                (A), including changes regarding technology, processing 
                centers, and training; and
                    (C) streamlining visa applications and 
                adjudications, including application design and data 
                collection procedures; and
            (2) explore opportunities to establish pilot programs to 
        integrate technology into the visitor visa adjudication 
        process, including video conferencing and biometrics.
    (c) Domestic Travel.--The Assistant Secretary shall--
            (1) evaluate, on an ongoing basis, domestic policy options 
        for supporting competitiveness with respect to the strengths, 
        weaknesses, and growth of the domestic travel industry;
            (2) develop recommendations and goals to support and 
        enhance domestic tourism, separated by business and leisure; 
        and
            (3) engage public and private stakeholders to support 
        domestic tourism.
    (d) Workforce.--The Assistant Secretary shall--
            (1) consult with the Secretary of Labor to develop 
        strategies and best practices for improving the timeliness and 
        reliability of travel and tourism workforce data;
            (2) work with the Secretary of Labor and the Bureau of 
        Economic Analysis to improve travel and tourism industry data; 
        and
            (3) provide recommendations for policy enhancements and 
        streamlining.
    (e) Travel Export Promotion.--The Assistant Secretary, in 
coordination with the Assistant Secretary of Commerce for Global 
Markets and the Director General of the United States and Foreign 
Commercial Service, shall work to promote and facilitate travel exports 
abroad and ensure competitiveness by--
            (1) promoting meetings, incentives, conferences, and 
        exhibitions;
            (2) emphasizing rural and other destinations rich in 
        cultural heritage or ecological tourism, among other uniquely 
        American destinations; and
            (3) promoting sports and recreation events and activities, 
        which shall be hosted in the United States.
    (f) Travel Security.--The Assistant Secretary shall investigate and 
provide recommendations to the Committee on Commerce, Science, and 
Transportation of the Senate, the Committee on the Judiciary of the 
Senate, the Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs of 
the Senate, the Committee on Energy and Commerce of the House of 
Representatives, the Committee on Homeland Security of the House of 
Representatives, and the Committee on the Judiciary of the House of 
Representatives regarding initiating, utilizing, or expanding existing 
security programs to better meet the needs of the United States travel 
and tourism industry, including--
            (1) the Visa Waiver Program authorized under section 217 of 
        the Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1187);
            (2) preclearance operations;
            (3) the Trusted Traveler Program;
            (4) the biometric entry-exit control system required under 
        section 110 of the Illegal Immigration Reform and Immigrant 
        Responsibility Act of 1996 (division C of Public Law 104-208; 8 
        U.S.C. 1221 note); and
            (5) the establishment of a system to provide increased 
        resilience to travel during pandemics.
    (g) Recovery Strategy.--
            (1) Initial recovery strategy.--Not later than 1 year after 
        amounts are appropriated to accomplish the purposes of this 
        section, the Assistant Secretary, in consultation with the 
        United States Travel and Tourism Advisory Board and other 
        representatives of the travel industry, shall develop and 
        implement a COVID-19 public health emergency recovery strategy 
        to assist the United States travel and tourism industry to 
        quickly recover from the pandemic.
            (2) Future recovery strategies.--After assisting in the 
        implementation of the strategy developed pursuant to paragraph 
        (1), the Assistant Secretary, in consultation with the entities 
        referred to in such paragraph, shall develop additional 
        recovery strategies for the travel and tourism industry in 
        anticipation of other unforeseen catastrophic events that would 
        significantly affect the travel and tourism industry, such as 
        hurricanes, floods, tsunamis, tornadoes, terrorist attacks, and 
        pandemics.
    (h) Reporting Requirements.--
            (1) Assistant secretary.--The Assistant Secretary shall 
        produce an annual forecasting report on the travel and tourism 
        industry, which shall include current and anticipated--
                    (A) domestic employment needs;
                    (B) international inbound volume and spending, 
                taking into account the lasting effects of the COVID-19 
                public health emergency and the impact of the recovery 
                strategy implemented pursuant to subsection (g)(1); and
                    (C) domestic volume and spending, including Federal 
                and State public land travel and tourism data.
            (2) Bureau of economic analysis.--The Director of the 
        Bureau of Economic Analysis should annually update the Travel 
        and Tourism Satellite Accounts, including--
                    (A) State level travel and tourism spending data;
                    (B) travel and tourism workforce data for full-time 
                and part-time employment; and
                    (C) Federal and State public lands spending data.
            (3) National travel and tourism office.--The Director of 
        the National Travel and Tourism Office--
                    (A) in partnership with the Bureau of Economic 
                Analysis, shall report international arrival and 
                spending data on a regular monthly schedule, which 
                shall be made available to the Travel and Tourism 
                Advisory Board and to the public through a publicly 
                available website; and
                    (B) shall include questions in the Survey of 
                International Air Travelers regarding wait-times, 
                visits to public lands, and State data, to the extent 
                applicable.

SEC. 106. TRAVEL AND TOURISM STRATEGY.

    Not less frequently than once every 10 years, the Secretary of 
Commerce, in consultation with the United States Travel and Tourism 
Advisory Board, the Tourism Policy Council, and the Secretary of 
Homeland Security, shall develop and submit to Congress a 10-year 
travel and tourism strategy, which shall include--
            (1) the establishment of goals with respect to the number 
        of annual international visitors to the United States and the 
        annual amount of travel exports during such 10-year period;
            (2) the resources needed to achieve the goals established 
        pursuant to paragraph (1); and
            (3) recommendations for statutory or regulatory changes 
        that would be necessary to achieve such goals.

SEC. 107. UNITED STATES TRAVEL AND TOURISM ADVISORY BOARD.

    Section 3 of the Act entitled ``An Act to encourage travel in the 
United States, and for other purposes'' (15 U.S.C. 1546) is amended--
            (1) by amending the section heading to read as follows: 
        ``united states travel and tourism advisory board; advisory 
        committee''; and
            (2) by striking ``The Secretary of Commerce is authorized'' 
        and inserting the following:
    ``(a) United States Travel and Tourism Advisory Board.--
            ``(1) In general.--There is established the United States 
        Travel and Tourism Advisory Board (referred to in this 
        subsection as the `Board'), the members of which shall be 
        appointed by the Secretary of Commerce for 2-year terms from 
        among companies and organizations in the travel and tourism 
        industry.
            ``(2) Executive director.--The Assistant Secretary for 
        Travel and Tourism shall serve as the Executive Director of the 
        Board.
            ``(3) Executive secretariat.--The Director of the National 
        Travel and Tourism Office of the International Trade 
        Administration shall serve as the Executive Secretariat for the 
        Board.
            ``(4) Functions.--The Board's Charter shall specify that 
        the Board will--
                    ``(A) serve as the advisory body to the Secretary 
                of Commerce on matters relating to the travel and 
                tourism industry in the United States;
                    ``(B) advise the Secretary of Commerce on 
                government policies and programs that affect the United 
                States travel and tourism industry;
                    ``(C) offer counsel on current and emerging issues;
                    ``(D) provide a forum for discussing and proposing 
                solutions to problems related to the travel and tourism 
                industry; and
                    ``(E) provide advice regarding the domestic travel 
                and tourism industry as an economic engine.
            ``(5) Recovery strategy.--The Board shall assist the 
        Assistant Secretary in the development and implementation of 
        the COVID-19 public health emergency recovery strategy required 
        under section 105(g)(1) of the Visit America Act.
    ``(b) Advisory Committee for Promotion of Tourist Travel.--The 
Secretary of Commerce is authorized''.

                        TITLE II--TRAVEL SAFETY

                       Subtitle A--Health Safety

SEC. 201. STUDY AND REPORT ON EFFECTS OF COVID-19 PANDEMIC ON TRAVEL 
              AND TOURISM INDUSTRY IN UNITED STATES.

    (a) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Pandemic period.--The term ``pandemic period'' has the 
        meaning given the term ``emergency period'' in section 
        1135(g)(1)(B) of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1320b-
        5(g)(1)(B)), excluding any portion of such period after the 
        date that is 1 year after the date of the enactment of this 
        Act.
            (2) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary 
        of Commerce.
            (3) Travel and tourism industry.--The term ``travel and 
        tourism industry'' means the travel and tourism industry in the 
        United States.
    (b) Interim Study and Report.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 3 months after the date of 
        the enactment of this Act, the Secretary, after consultation 
        with relevant stakeholders, including the United States Travel 
        and Tourism Advisory Board, shall--
                    (A) complete an interim study, which shall be based 
                on data available at the time the study is conducted 
                and provide a framework for the study required under 
                subsection (c), regarding the effects of the COVID-19 
                pandemic on the travel and tourism industry, including 
                various segments of the travel and tourism industry, 
                such as domestic, international, leisure, business, 
                conventions, meetings, and events; and
                    (B) submit a report containing the results of such 
                interim study to--
                            (i) the Committee on Commerce, Science, and 
                        Transportation of the Senate; and
                            (ii) the Committee on Energy and Commerce 
                        of the House of Representatives.
            (2) Availability.--The Secretary shall make the report 
        described in paragraph (1) publicly available on the website of 
        the Department of Commerce.
    (c) In General.--Not later than 1 year after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary, in consultation with the United 
States Travel and Tourism Advisory Board and the head of any other 
Federal agency the Secretary considers appropriate, shall complete a 
study on the effects of the COVID-19 pandemic on the travel and tourism 
industry, including various segments of the travel and tourism 
industry, such as domestic, international, leisure, business, 
conventions, meetings, and events.
    (d) Matters for Consideration.--In conducting the interim study 
required under subsection (b) and the study required under subsection 
(c), the Secretary shall consider--
            (1) changes in employment rates in the travel and tourism 
        industry during the pandemic period;
            (2) changes in revenues of businesses in the travel and 
        tourism industry during the pandemic period;
            (3) changes in employment and sales in industries related 
        to the travel and tourism industry, and changes in 
        contributions of the travel and tourism industry to such 
        related industries, during the pandemic period;
            (4) the effects attributable to the changes described in 
        paragraphs (1) through (3) in the travel and tourism industry 
        and such related industries on the overall economy of the 
        United States, including--
                    (A) an analysis of regional economies (on a per 
                capita basis) during the pandemic period; and
                    (B) the projected effects of such changes on the 
                regional and overall economy of the United States 
                following the pandemic period;
            (5) the effects attributable to the changes described in 
        paragraphs (1) through (3) in the travel and tourism industry 
        and such related industries on minority communities, including 
        Native Americans, Native Hawaiians, and Alaska Natives;
            (6) reports on the economic impact of COVID-19 issued by 
        other Federal agencies; and
            (7) any additional matters that the Secretary considers 
        appropriate.
    (e) Consultation and Public Comment.--In conducting the study 
required under subsection (c), the Secretary shall--
            (1) consult with representatives of--
                    (A) the small business sector;
                    (B) the restaurant or food service sector;
                    (C) the hotel and alternative accommodations 
                sector;
                    (D) the attractions or recreation sector;
                    (E) the outdoor recreation sector
                    (F) travel distribution services sector;
                    (G) destination marketing organizations;
                    (H) State tourism offices;
                    (I) the passenger air, railroad, and rental car 
                sectors; and
                    (J) labor representatives for--
                            (i) the sectors referred to in subparagraph 
                        (I); and
                            (ii) security screening personnel 
                        designated by the Administrator of the 
                        Transportation Security Administration; and
            (2) provide an opportunity for public comment and advice 
        relevant to conducting the study.
    (f) Report to Congress.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 6 months after the date on 
        which the study required under subsection (b) is completed, the 
        Secretary, in consultation with the United States Travel and 
        Tourism Advisory Board and the head of any other Federal agency 
        that the Secretary considers appropriate, shall submit a report 
        to the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of 
        the Senate and the Committee on Energy and Commerce of the 
        House of Representatives that contains--
                    (A) the results of such study;
                    (B) policy recommendations for promoting and 
                assisting the travel and tourism industry, including in 
                Native American, Native Hawaiian, and Alaska Native 
                communities, by fully implementing the Native American 
                Tourism and Improving Visitor Experience Act (Public 
                Law 114-221); and
                    (C) a description of the actions that should be 
                taken by the Federal Government to accelerate the 
                implementation of travel and tourism policies and 
                programs authorized by law.
            (2) Availability.--The Secretary shall make the report 
        described in paragraph (1) publicly available on the website of 
        the Department of Commerce.

SEC. 202. ENSURING HEALTH SAFETY IN THE SKIES.

    (a) Short Title.--This section may be cited as the ``Ensuring 
Health Safety in the Skies Act of 2021''.
    (b) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Advisory committee.--The term ``Advisory Committee'' 
        means the Joint Federal Advisory Committee established under 
        subsection (d).
            (2) Air travel.--The term ``air travel'' includes 
        international air travel.
            (3) Joint task force.--The term ``Joint Task Force'' means 
        the Joint Task Force on Air Travel During and After the COVID-
        19 Public Health Emergency established under subsection (c)(1).
    (c) Joint Task Force on Air Travel During and After the COVID-19 
Public Health Emergency.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 30 days after the date of 
        the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Transportation, the 
        Secretary of Homeland Security, and the Secretary of Health and 
        Human Services shall establish the Joint Task Force on Air 
        Travel During and After the COVID-19 Public Health Emergency.
            (2) Duties.--
                    (A) In general.--The Joint Task Force shall develop 
                recommended requirements, plans, and guidelines to 
                address the health, safety, security, and logistical 
                issues relating to--
                            (i) the continuation of air travel during 
                        the COVID-19 public health emergency; and
                            (ii) the resumption of full operations at 
                        airports and increased passenger air travel 
                        after the COVID-19 public health emergency.
                    (B) Recommendations.--The recommendations developed 
                under subparagraph (A), with respect to the applicable 
                periods described in subparagraph (C), shall include--
                            (i) modifying airport, air carrier, 
                        security (including passenger security 
                        screening), and other operations related to 
                        passenger air travel, including passenger 
                        queuing, boarding, deplaning, and baggage 
                        handling procedures, as a result of--
                                    (I) current and anticipated changes 
                                to passenger air travel during and 
                                after the COVID-19 public health 
                                emergency; and
                                    (II) anticipated changes to 
                                passenger air travel resulting from any 
                                seasonal recurrence of the coronavirus;
                            (ii) mitigating the public health and 
                        economic impacts of the COVID-19 public health 
                        emergency and any seasonal recurrence of the 
                        coronavirus on airports and passenger air 
                        travel (including through the use of personal 
                        protective equipment, the implementation of 
                        strategies to promote overall passenger and 
                        employee safety, and the accommodation of 
                        social distancing as feasible and necessary);
                            (iii) addressing privacy and civil liberty 
                        issues that may arise from passenger health 
                        screenings, contact-tracing, or other processes 
                        used to monitor the health of individuals 
                        engaged in air travel; and
                            (iv) operating procedures to manage future 
                        public health crises that can be anticipated, 
                        to the extent such public health crises may 
                        impact air travel.
                    (C) Applicable periods.--The applicable periods 
                described in this subparagraph are--
                            (i) the period beginning on the date of the 
                        first meeting of the Joint Task Force and 
                        ending on the last day of the COVID-19 public 
                        health emergency; and
                            (ii) the 1-year period beginning on the day 
                        after the end of the period described in clause 
                        (i).
            (3) Activities of the joint task force.--
                    (A) In general.--In developing the recommended 
                requirements, plans, and guidelines under paragraph 
                (2), and before including such recommendations in the 
                final report required under subsection (e)(2), the 
                Joint Task Force shall--
                            (i) conduct cost-benefit evaluations 
                        regarding such recommendations, including costs 
                        impacting air operations and impacts on air 
                        travel;
                            (ii) consider funding constraints;
                            (iii) use risk-based decision making; and
                            (iv) consult with the Advisory Committee 
                        established under subsection (d)(1) and 
                        consider any consensus policy recommendations 
                        of the Advisory Committee submitted under 
                        subsection (d)(2).
                    (B) International consultation.--The Joint Task 
                Force shall consult, as practicable, with relevant 
                international entities and operators, including the 
                International Civil Aviation Organization, to harmonize 
                (to the extent possible) recommended requirements, 
                plans, and guidelines for air travel during and after 
                the COVID-19 public health emergency.
            (4) Membership.--
                    (A) Chair.--The Secretary of Transportation (or the 
                Secretary's designee) shall serve as Chair of the Joint 
                Task Force.
                    (B) Vice-chair.--The Secretary of Health and Human 
                Services (or the Secretary's designee) shall serve as 
                Vice Chair of the Joint Task Force.
                    (C) Other members.--In addition to the Chair and 
                Vice Chair, the members of the Joint Task Force shall 
                include representatives of--
                            (i) the Department of Transportation;
                            (ii) the Department of Homeland Security;
                            (iii) the Department of Health and Human 
                        Services;
                            (iv) the Federal Aviation Administration;
                            (v) the Transportation Security 
                        Administration;
                            (vi) U.S. Customs and Border Protection;
                            (vii) the Centers for Disease Control and 
                        Prevention;
                            (viii) the Occupational Safety and Health 
                        Administration;
                            (ix) the National Institute for 
                        Occupational Safety and Health;
                            (x) the Pipeline and Hazardous Materials 
                        Safety Administration;
                            (xi) the Department of State; and
                            (xii) the Environmental Protection Agency.
    (d) Joint Federal Advisory Committee.--
            (1) Establishment.--Not later than 15 days after the date 
        on which the Joint Task Force is established pursuant to 
        subsection (c)(1), the Secretary of Transportation, in 
        consultation with the Secretary of Homeland Security and the 
        Secretary of Health and Human Services, shall establish a Joint 
        Federal Advisory Committee to advise the Joint Task Force.
            (2) Duties of the advisory committee.--The Advisory 
        Committee shall develop and submit consensus policy 
        recommendations to the Joint Task Force for the Joint Task 
        Force to consider when developing recommendations under 
        subsection (c)(2).
            (3) Membership.--The members of the Advisory Committee 
        shall include representatives of--
                    (A) airport operators designated by the Secretary 
                of Transportation in consultation with the Secretary of 
                Homeland Security;
                    (B) air carriers designated by the Secretary of 
                Transportation;
                    (C) aircraft and aviation manufacturers designated 
                by the Secretary of Transportation;
                    (D) labor organizations representing--
                            (i) aviation industry workers (including 
                        pilots, flight attendants, engineers, 
                        maintenance, mechanics, air traffic 
                        controllers, safety inspectors, and workers 
                        performing airport services such as security, 
                        terminal and cabin cleaning, passenger 
                        assistance, and aircraft loading) designated by 
                        the Secretary of Transportation; and
                            (ii) security screening personnel 
                        designated by the Secretary of Homeland 
                        Security;
                    (E) public health experts designated by the 
                Secretary of Health and Human Services;
                    (F) organizations designated by the Secretary of 
                Transportation that represent airline passengers;
                    (G) privacy and civil liberty organizations 
                designated by the Secretary of Homeland Security;
                    (H) manufacturers and integrators of passenger 
                screening and identity verification technologies 
                designated by the Secretary of Homeland Security;
                    (I) trade associations representing air carriers 
                (including major passenger air carriers, low-cost 
                passenger air carriers, regional passenger air 
                carriers, cargo air carriers, and foreign passenger air 
                carriers) designated by the Secretary of 
                Transportation, in consultation with the Secretary of 
                Homeland Security;
                    (J) trade associations representing airport 
                operators (including large hub, medium hub, small hub, 
                nonhub primary, and nonprimary commercial service 
                airports) designated by the Secretary of 
                Transportation, in consultation with the Secretary of 
                Homeland Security; and
                    (K) aviation contractors designated by the 
                Secretary of Transportation.
            (4) Vacancies.--Any vacancy in the membership of the 
        Advisory Committee shall not affect its responsibilities, but 
        shall be filled in the same manner as the original appointment 
        and in accordance with the Federal Advisory Committee Act (5 
        U.S.C. App).
            (5) Prohibition on compensation.--The members of the 
        Advisory Committee shall not receive any compensation from the 
        Federal Government by reason of their service on the Advisory 
        Committee.
            (6) Publication.--Not later than 14 days after the date on 
        which the Advisory Committee submits policy recommendations to 
        the Joint Task Force pursuant to paragraph (2), the Secretary 
        of Transportation shall publish such policy recommendations on 
        a publicly accessible website.
    (e) Briefings and Reports.--
            (1) Preliminary briefings.--As soon as practicable, but not 
        later than 6 months after the date on which the Joint Task 
        Force is established pursuant to subsection (c)(1), the Joint 
        Task Force shall begin providing preliminary briefings to 
        Congress regarding the status of the development of the 
        recommended requirements, plan, and guidelines under subsection 
        (c)(2). The preliminary briefings shall include interim 
        versions, if any, of the recommendations of the Joint Task 
        Force.
            (2) Final report.--
                    (A) Deadline.--As soon as practicable, but not 
                later than 18 months after the date of enactment of 
                this Act, the Joint Task Force shall submit a final 
                report to Congress.
                    (B) Content.--The final report shall include--
                            (i)(I) all of the recommended requirements, 
                        plans, and guidelines developed by the Joint 
                        Task Force pursuant to subsection (c)(2); and
                            (II) a description of any action taken by 
                        the Federal Government as a result of the 
                        recommendations referred to in subclause (I); 
                        and
                            (ii)(I) consensus policy recommendations 
                        submitted by the Advisory Committee pursuant to 
                        subsection (d)(2); and
                            (II) an explanation (including data and 
                        risk analysis) of any action by the Joint Task 
                        Force in response to the recommendations 
                        referred to in subclause (I).
    (f) Termination.--The Joint Task Force and the Advisory Committee 
shall terminate on the date that is 30 days after the date on which the 
Joint Task Force submits the final report required under subsection 
(e)(2).

SEC. 203. FEASIBILITY STUDY ON THE USE OF CANINE UNITS TO DETECT COVID-
              19 AT AIRPORTS.

    (a) In General.--The Administrator of the Transportation Security 
Administration, in consultation with the Secretary of Transportation, 
the Secretary of Homeland Security, the Director of the Centers for 
Disease Control and Prevention, and the Secretary of Defense, shall 
conduct a study to assess--
            (1) the feasibility of using canines to detect the presence 
        of SARS-CoV-2, the virus that causes the coronavirus disease 
        2019 (commonly known as ``COVID-19''), in individuals infected 
        with the virus;
            (2) if using canines to detect the presence of SARS-CoV-2 
        is feasible, whether canine units could be used at airports to 
        screen passengers, individuals accompanying passengers, crew 
        members, and other individuals who pass through airports and 
        airport security screening locations for SARS-CoV-2 infection; 
        and
            (3) if using canine units to conduct screening described in 
        paragraph (2) is feasible, how such screening would be 
        implemented and what metrics would be used to monitor the 
        efficacy of the screening.
    (b) Assessment of Efficacy.--
            (1) In general.--In conducting the study required under 
        subsection (a), the Administrator shall conduct a comprehensive 
        review and analysis of SARS-CoV-2 detection solutions to 
        determine the efficacy of canines to detect SARS-CoV-2 in 
        individuals.
            (2) Use of review.--The Administrator shall use the results 
        of the review and analysis required under paragraph (1)--
                    (A) to determine the biological detection 
                capabilities of canines; and
                    (B) to inform the operational factors and 
                considerations necessary for the deployment of canine 
                units at airports to detect SARS-CoV-2.
    (c) Additional Elements.--In conducting the assessments required 
under subsections (a) and (b), the Administrator shall--
            (1) assess the probability of canines responding to the 
        presence of SARS-CoV-2;
            (2) determine the specificity of response by canines to 
        SARS-CoV-2 compared to their response to a pool of similar 
        viruses and controls;
            (3) assess how close canine units must be to individuals to 
        detect SARS-CoV-2 at a high sensitivity and specificity;
            (4) assess the effectiveness of canine units in detecting 
        SARS-CoV-2 in symptomatic carriers compared to asymptomatic 
        carriers;
            (5) assess other valid measures to determine the efficacy 
        of using canine units to screen for SARS-CoV-2 at airports, 
        such as the accuracy of detection and the risks of false 
        positives and false negatives;
            (6) identify training and policy gaps that must be 
        addressed before implementing a program to use canine units at 
        airports to screen passengers, individuals accompanying 
        passengers, crew members, and other individuals who pass 
        through airports and airport security screening locations, for 
        infection with SARS-CoV-2; and
            (7) assess--
                    (A) the number of canine units the Administrator 
                would require in order to effectively implement a 
                program to use canine units at airports to screen 
                passengers, individuals accompanying passengers, crew 
                members, and other individuals who pass through 
                airports and airport security screening locations for 
                infection with SARS-CoV-2; and
                    (B) the effect that such screenings would have on 
                the Transportation Security Administration's existing 
                pool of canine units.
    (d) Considerations.--In conducting the study required under 
subsection (a), the Administrator shall consider--
            (1) opportunities to leverage established, preexisting 
        scientific information regarding detection of SARS-CoV-2 by 
        canines;
            (2) established programs in foreign countries related to 
        detection of SARS-CoV-2 by canine units;
            (3) detection approaches and solutions related to the 
        optimization of detection of SARS-CoV-2 by canines; and
            (4) private industry approaches aimed to facilitate 
        detection of SARS-CoV-2 using canine units.
    (e) Third-Party Validation and Verification.--The Administrator 
shall ensure that any screening solutions developed pursuant to the 
study required under subsection (a) undergo validation and verification 
analysis by a third party with appropriate expertise to ensure accuracy 
of data obtained from the study.
    (f) Report Required.--Not later than 1 year after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Administrator shall submit a report to the 
Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate, the 
Committee on Armed Services of the Senate, the Committee on Health, 
Education, Labor, and Pensions of the Senate, the Committee on Homeland 
Security of the House of Representatives, the Committee on Armed 
Services of the House of Representatives, and the Committee on Energy 
and Commerce of the House of Representatives that--
            (1) describes the results of the study required under 
        subsection (a), including the assessments required under 
        subsections (b) and (c); and
            (2) makes a recommendation with respect to whether canine 
        units at airports could be trained effectively and efficiently 
        to screen passengers, individuals accompanying passengers, crew 
        members, and other individuals who pass through airports and 
        airport security screening locations, for infection with SARS-
        CoV-2.

                     Subtitle B--One-Stop Security

SEC. 211. SHORT TITLE.

    This subtitle may be cited as the ``One-Stop Pilot Program Act of 
2021''.

SEC. 212. DEFINITIONS.

    In this subtitle:
            (1) Administrator.--The term ``Administrator'' means the 
        Administrator of the Transportation Security Administration.
            (2) Appropriate congressional committees.--The term 
        ``appropriate congressional committees'' means--
                    (A) the Committee on Commerce, Science, and 
                Transportation of the Senate;
                    (B) the Committee on Homeland Security and 
                Governmental Affairs of the Senate; and
                    (C) the Committee on Homeland Security of the House 
                of Representatives.
            (3) TSA.--The term ``TSA'' means the Transportation 
        Security Administration of the Department of Homeland Security.

SEC. 213. PILOT PROGRAM FOR ONE-STOP SECURITY.

    (a) In General.--Notwithstanding 44901(a) of title 49, United 
States Code, the Administrator, in coordination with the Commissioner 
of U.S. Customs and Border Protection, may establish a pilot program at 
not more than 6 foreign last point of departure airports to permit 
passengers and their accessible property arriving on direct flights or 
flight segments originating at such participating foreign airports to 
continue on additional flights or flight segments originating in the 
United States without additional security re-screening if--
            (1) the initial screening was conducted in accordance with 
        an aviation security screening agreement described in 
        subsection (d);
            (2) passengers arriving from participating foreign airports 
        are unable to access their checked baggage until the arrival at 
        their final destination; and
            (3) upon arrival in the United States, passengers arriving 
        from participating foreign airports do not come into contact 
        with other arriving international passengers, those passengers' 
        property, or other persons who have not been screened or 
        subjected to other appropriate security controls required for 
        entry into the airport's sterile area.
    (b) Requirements for Pilot Program.--In carrying out this section, 
the Administrator shall ensure that there is no reduction in the level 
of security or specific TSA aviation security standards or requirements 
for screening passengers and their property prior to boarding an 
international flight bound for the United States, including specific 
aviation security standards and requirements regarding--
            (1) high-risk passengers and their property;
            (2) weapons, explosives, and incendiaries;
            (3) screening passengers and property transferring at a 
        foreign last point of departure airport from another airport 
        and bound for the United States, and addressing any co-mingling 
        of such passengers and property with passengers and property 
        screened under the pilot program described in subsection (a); 
        and
            (4) insider risk at foreign last point of departure 
        airports.
    (c) Re-Screening of Checked Baggage.--Subject to subsection (e), 
the Administrator may determine whether checked baggage arriving from 
participating foreign airports referenced in subsection (a) that screen 
using an explosives detection system must be rescreened in the United 
States by an explosives detection system before such baggage continues 
on any additional flight or flight segment.
    (d) Aviation Security Screening Agreement.--An aviation security 
screening agreement described in this subsection is a treaty, executive 
agreement, or other international arrangement that--
            (1) is signed by the Administrator, without delegating such 
        authority; and
            (2) is entered into with a foreign country that delineates 
        and implements security standards and protocols utilized at a 
        foreign last point of departure airport that are determined by 
        the Administrator--
                    (A) to be comparable to those of the United States; 
                and
                    (B) sufficiently effective to enable passengers and 
                their accessible property to deplane into sterile areas 
                of airports in the United States without the need for 
                re-screening.
    (e) Re-Screening Requirement.--
            (1) In general.--If the Administrator determines that a 
        foreign country participating in the aviation security 
        screening agreement has not maintained and implemented security 
        standards and protocols comparable to those of the United 
        States at foreign last point of departure airports at which a 
        pilot program has been established in accordance with this 
        section, the Administrator shall ensure that passengers and 
        their property arriving from such airports are re-screened in 
        the United States, including by using explosives detection 
        systems in accordance with section 44901(d)(1) of title 49, 
        United States Code, and implementing regulations, before such 
        passengers and their property are permitted into sterile areas 
        of airports in the United States.
            (2) Consultation.--If the Administrator has reasonable 
        grounds to believe that the other party to an aviation security 
        screening agreement has not complied with such agreement, the 
        Administrator shall request immediate consultation with such 
        party.
            (3) Suspension or termination of agreement.--If a 
        satisfactory agreement between TSA and a foreign country is not 
        reached within 45 days after a consultation request under 
        paragraph (2) or in the case of the foreign country's continued 
        or egregious failure to maintain the security standards and 
        protocols described in paragraph (1), the Administrator shall--
                    (A) suspend or terminate the aviation security 
                screening agreement with such country, as determined 
                appropriate by the Administrator; and
                    (B) notify the appropriate congressional committees 
                of such consultation, suspension, or termination, as 
                the case may be, not later than 7 days after such 
                consultation, suspension, or termination.
    (f) Briefings to Congress.--Not later than 45 days before an 
aviation security screening agreement described in subsection (d) 
enters into force, the Administrator shall submit to the appropriate 
congressional committees--
            (1) an aviation security threat assessment for the country 
        in which such foreign last point of departure airport is 
        located;
            (2) information regarding any corresponding mitigation 
        efforts to address any security issues identified in such 
        threat assessment, including any plans for joint covert 
        testing;
            (3) information on potential security vulnerabilities 
        associated with commencing such agreements and mitigation plans 
        to address such potential security vulnerabilities;
            (4) an assessment of the impacts that such agreement will 
        have on aviation security;
            (5) an assessment by TSA of the screening performed at 
        foreign last point of departure airports, including the 
        feasibility of TSA personnel monitoring screening, security 
        protocols, and standards;
            (6) information regarding identifying the entity or 
        entities responsible for screening passengers and property at 
        the foreign last point of departure airport;
            (7) the name of the entity or local authority and any 
        contractor or subcontractor party to the agreement;
            (8) information regarding the screening requirements under 
        subsection (e);
            (9) details regarding information sharing mechanisms 
        between the Department of Homeland Security and the foreign 
        last point of departure airport, screening authority, or entity 
        responsible for screening, as required by law, regulation, or 
        an aviation screening agreement described in subsection (d); 
        and
            (10) a copy of the aviation security screening agreement, 
        which shall identify the foreign last point of departure 
        airport or airports at which a pilot program under this section 
        is to be established.
    (g) Certifications Relating to the Pilot Program for One-Stop 
Security.--For each aviation security screening agreement described in 
subsection (d), the Administrator shall submit to the appropriate 
congressional committees--
            (1)(A) a certification that such agreement satisfies all of 
        the requirements specified in subsection (b); or
            (B) in the event that 1 or more of such requirements are 
        not so satisfied, a description of the unsatisfied requirement 
        and information on what actions the Administrator will take to 
        ensure that such remaining requirements are satisfied before 
        such agreement enters into force;
            (2) a certification that TSA and U.S. Customs and Border 
        Protection have ensured that any necessary physical 
        modifications or appropriate mitigations exist in the domestic 
        one-stop security pilot program airport prior to receiving 
        international passengers from a last point of departure airport 
        under the aviation security screening agreement;
            (3) a certification that a foreign last point of departure 
        airport covered by an aviation security screening agreement has 
        an operation to screen all checked bags as required by law, 
        regulation, or international agreement, including the full 
        utilization of Explosives Detection Systems to the extent 
        practicable; and
            (4) a certification that the Administrator consulted with 
        stakeholders, including air carriers, aviation nonprofit labor 
        organizations, airport operators, relevant interagency 
        partners, and other stakeholders that the Administrator 
        determines appropriate.
    (h) Report to Congress.--Not later than 5 years after the date of 
the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Homeland Security, in 
coordination with the Administrator, shall submit a report to the 
appropriate congressional committees regarding the implementation of 
the pilot program authorized under this section, including information 
relating to--
            (1) the impact of such program on homeland security and 
        international aviation security, including any benefits and 
        challenges of such program;
            (2) the impact of such program on passengers, airports, and 
        air carriers, including any benefits and challenges of such 
        program; and
            (3) the impact and feasibility of continuing such program 
        or expanding it into a more permanent program, including any 
        benefits and challenges of such continuation or expansion.
    (i) Rule of Construction.--Nothing in this section may be construed 
as limiting the authority of U.S. Customs and Border Protection to 
inspect persons and baggage arriving in the United States in accordance 
with applicable law.
    (j) Sunset.--The pilot program authorized under this section shall 
terminate on the date that is 6 years after the date of the enactment 
of this Act.
                                 &lt;all&gt;
</pre></body></html>
