<html><body><pre>
[116th Congress Public Law 9]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]



[[Page 579]]

    JOHN D. DINGELL, JR. CONSERVATION, MANAGEMENT, AND RECREATION ACT

[[Page 133 STAT. 580]]

Public Law 116-9
116th Congress

                                 An Act


 
  To provide for the management of the natural resources of the United 
   States, and for other purposes. &lt;&lt;NOTE: Mar. 12, 2019 -  [S. 47]&gt;&gt; 

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled, &lt;&lt;NOTE: John D. Dingell, 
Jr. Conservation, Management, and Recreation Act. 16 USC 1 note.&gt;&gt; 
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE; TABLE OF CONTENTS.

    (a) Short Title.--This Act may be cited as the ``John D. Dingell, 
Jr. Conservation, Management, and Recreation Act''.
    (b) Table of Contents.--The table of contents for this Act is as 
follows:

Sec. 1. Short title; table of contents.
Sec. 2. Definition of Secretary.

                    TITLE I--PUBLIC LAND AND FORESTS

               Subtitle A--Land Exchanges and Conveyances

Sec. 1001. Crags land exchange, Colorado.
Sec. 1002. Arapaho National Forest boundary adjustment.
Sec. 1003. Santa Ana River Wash Plan land exchange.
Sec. 1004. Udall Park land exchange.
Sec. 1005. Confirmation of State land grants.
Sec. 1006. Custer County Airport conveyance.
Sec. 1007. Pascua Yaqui Tribe land conveyance.
Sec. 1008. La Paz County land conveyance.
Sec. 1009. Lake Bistineau land title stability.
Sec. 1010. Lake Fannin land conveyance.
Sec. 1011. Land conveyance and utility right-of-way, Henry's Lake 
           Wilderness Study Area, Idaho.
Sec. 1012. Conveyance to Ukpeagvik Inupiat Corporation.
Sec. 1013. Public purpose conveyance to City of Hyde Park, Utah.
Sec. 1014. Juab County conveyance.
Sec. 1015. Black Mountain Range and Bullhead City land exchange.
Sec. 1016. Cottonwood land exchange.
Sec. 1017. Embry-Riddle Tri-City land exchange.

      Subtitle B--Public Land and National Forest System Management

Sec. 1101. Bolts Ditch access.
Sec. 1102. Clarification relating to a certain land description under 
           the Northern Arizona Land Exchange and Verde River Basin 
           Partnership Act of 2005.
Sec. 1103. Frank and Jeanne Moore Wild Steelhead Special Management 
           Area.
Sec. 1104. Maintenance or replacement of facilities and structures at 
           Smith Gulch.
Sec. 1105. Repeal of provision limiting the export of timber harvested 
           from certain Kake Tribal Corporation land.
Sec. 1106. Designation of Fowler and Boskoff Peaks.
Sec. 1107. Coronado National Forest land conveyance.
Sec. 1108. Deschutes Canyon-Steelhead Falls Wilderness Study Area 
           boundary adjustment, Oregon.
Sec. 1109. Maintenance of Federal mineral leases based on extraction of 
           helium.
Sec. 1110. Small miner waivers to claim maintenance fees.
Sec. 1111. Saint Francis Dam Disaster National Memorial and National 
           Monument.

[[Page 133 STAT. 581]]

Sec. 1112. Owyhee Wilderness Areas boundary modifications.
Sec. 1113. Chugach Region land study.
Sec. 1114. Wildfire technology modernization.
Sec. 1115. McCoy Flats Trail System.
Sec. 1116. Technical corrections to certain laws relating to Federal 
           land in the State of Nevada.
Sec. 1117. Ashley Karst National Recreation and Geologic Area.
Sec. 1118. John Wesley Powell National Conservation Area.
Sec. 1119. Alaska Native Vietnam era veterans land allotment.
Sec. 1120. Red River gradient boundary survey.
Sec. 1121. San Juan County settlement implementation.
Sec. 1122. Rio Puerco Watershed management program.
Sec. 1123. Ashley Springs land conveyance.

           Subtitle C--Wilderness Designations and Withdrawals

                       PART I--General Provisions

Sec. 1201. Organ Mountains-Desert Peaks conservation.
Sec. 1202. Cerro del Yuta and Rio San Antonio Wilderness Areas.
Sec. 1203. Methow Valley, Washington, Federal land withdrawal.
Sec. 1204. Emigrant Crevice withdrawal.
Sec. 1205. Oregon Wildlands.

              PART II--Emery County Public Land Management

Sec. 1211. Definitions.
Sec. 1212. Administration.
Sec. 1213. Effect on water rights.
Sec. 1214. Savings clause.

               subpart a--san rafael swell recreation area

Sec. 1221. Establishment of Recreation Area.
Sec. 1222. Management of Recreation Area.
Sec. 1223. San Rafael Swell Recreation Area Advisory Council.

                       subpart b--wilderness areas

Sec. 1231. Additions to the National Wilderness Preservation System.
Sec. 1232. Administration.
Sec. 1233. Fish and wildlife management.
Sec. 1234. Release.

              subpart c--wild and scenic river designation

Sec. 1241. Green River wild and scenic river designation.

               subpart d--land management and conveyances

Sec. 1251. Goblin Valley State Park.
Sec. 1252. Jurassic National Monument.
Sec. 1253. Public land disposal and acquisition.
Sec. 1254. Public purpose conveyances.
Sec. 1255. Exchange of BLM and School and Institutional Trust Lands 
           Administration land.

                   Subtitle D--Wild and Scenic Rivers

Sec. 1301. Lower Farmington River and Salmon Brook wild and scenic 
           river.
Sec. 1302. Wood-Pawcatuck watershed wild and scenic river segments.
Sec. 1303. Nashua wild and scenic rivers, Massachusetts and New 
           Hampshire.

         Subtitle E--California Desert Protection and Recreation

Sec. 1401. Definitions.

PART I--Designation of Wilderness in the California Desert Conservation 
                                  Area

Sec. 1411. California desert conservation and recreation.

             PART II--Designation of Special Management Area

Sec. 1421. Vinagre Wash Special Management Area.

                PART III--National Park System Additions

Sec. 1431. Death Valley National Park boundary revision.
Sec. 1432. Mojave National Preserve.

[[Page 133 STAT. 582]]

Sec. 1433. Joshua Tree National Park.

              PART IV--Off-highway Vehicle Recreation Areas

Sec. 1441. Off-highway vehicle recreation areas.

                          PART V--Miscellaneous

Sec. 1451. Transfer of land to Anza-Borrego Desert State Park.
Sec. 1452. Wildlife corridors.
Sec. 1453. Prohibited uses of acquired, donated, and conservation land.
Sec. 1454. Tribal uses and interests.
Sec. 1455. Release of Federal reversionary land interests.
Sec. 1456. California State school land.
Sec. 1457. Designation of wild and scenic rivers.
Sec. 1458. Conforming amendments.
Sec. 1459. Juniper Flats.
Sec. 1460. Conforming amendments to California Military Lands Withdrawal 
           and Overflights Act of 1994.
Sec. 1461. Desert tortoise conservation center.

                        TITLE II--NATIONAL PARKS

                  Subtitle A--Special Resource Studies

Sec. 2001. Special resource study of James K. Polk presidential home.
Sec. 2002. Special resource study of Thurgood Marshall school.
Sec. 2003. Special resource study of President Street Station.
Sec. 2004. Amache special resource study.
Sec. 2005. Special resource study of George W. Bush Childhood Home.

   Subtitle B--National Park System Boundary Adjustments and Related 
                                 Matters

Sec. 2101. Shiloh National Military Park boundary adjustment.
Sec. 2102. Ocmulgee Mounds National Historical Park boundary.
Sec. 2103. Kennesaw Mountain National Battlefield Park boundary.
Sec. 2104. Fort Frederica National Monument, Georgia.
Sec. 2105. Fort Scott National Historic Site boundary.
Sec. 2106. Florissant Fossil Beds National Monument boundary.
Sec. 2107. Voyageurs National Park boundary adjustment.
Sec. 2108. Acadia National Park boundary.
Sec. 2109. Authority of Secretary of the Interior to accept certain 
           properties, Missouri.
Sec. 2110. Home of Franklin D. Roosevelt National Historic Site.

             Subtitle C--National Park System Redesignations

Sec. 2201. Designation of Saint-Gaudens National Historical Park.
Sec. 2202. Redesignation of Robert Emmet Park.
Sec. 2203. Fort Sumter and Fort Moultrie National Historical Park.
Sec. 2204. Reconstruction Era National Historical Park and 
           Reconstruction Era National Historic Network.
Sec. 2205. Golden Spike National Historical Park.
Sec. 2206. World War II Pacific sites.

            Subtitle D--New Units of the National Park System

Sec. 2301. Medgar and Myrlie Evers Home National Monument.
Sec. 2302. Mill Springs Battlefield National Monument.
Sec. 2303. Camp Nelson Heritage National Monument.

               Subtitle E--National Park System Management

Sec. 2401. Denali National Park and Preserve natural gas pipeline.
Sec. 2402. Historically Black Colleges and Universities Historic 
           Preservation program reauthorized.
Sec. 2402A. John H. Chafee Coastal Barrier Resources System.
Sec. 2403. Authorizing cooperative management agreements between the 
           District of Columbia and the Secretary of the Interior.
Sec. 2404. Fees for Medical Services.
Sec. 2405. Authority to grant easements and rights-of-way over Federal 
           lands within Gateway National Recreation Area.
Sec. 2406. Adams Memorial Commission.
Sec. 2407. Technical corrections to references to the African American 
           Civil Rights Network.
Sec. 2408. Transfer of the James J. Howard Marine Sciences Laboratory.
Sec. 2409. Bows in parks.

[[Page 133 STAT. 583]]

Sec. 2410. Wildlife management in parks.
Sec. 2411. Pottawattamie County reversionary interest.
Sec. 2412. Designation of Dean Stone Bridge.

             Subtitle F--National Trails and Related Matters

Sec. 2501. North Country Scenic Trail Route adjustment.
Sec. 2502. Extension of Lewis and Clark National Historic Trail.
Sec. 2503. American Discovery Trail signage.
Sec. 2504. Pike National Historic Trail study.

                 TITLE III--CONSERVATION AUTHORIZATIONS

Sec. 3001. Reauthorization of Land and Water Conservation Fund.
Sec. 3002. Conservation incentives landowner education program.

            TITLE IV--SPORTSMEN'S ACCESS AND RELATED MATTERS

                       Subtitle A--National Policy

Sec. 4001. Congressional declaration of national policy.

             Subtitle B--Sportsmen's Access to Federal Land

Sec. 4101. Definitions.
Sec. 4102. Federal land open to hunting, fishing, and recreational 
           shooting.
Sec. 4103. Closure of Federal land to hunting, fishing, and recreational 
           shooting.
Sec. 4104. Shooting ranges.
Sec. 4105. Identifying opportunities for recreation, hunting, and 
           fishing on Federal land.

            Subtitle C--Open Book on Equal Access to Justice

Sec. 4201. Federal action transparency.

   Subtitle D--Migratory Bird Framework and Hunting Opportunities for 
                                Veterans

Sec. 4301. Federal closing date for hunting of ducks, mergansers, and 
           coots.

                        Subtitle E--Miscellaneous

Sec. 4401. Respect for treaties and rights.
Sec. 4402. No priority.
Sec. 4403. State authority for fish and wildlife.

                      TITLE V--HAZARDS AND MAPPING

Sec. 5001. National Volcano Early Warning and Monitoring System.
Sec. 5002. Reauthorization of National Geologic Mapping Act of 1992.

                    TITLE VI--NATIONAL HERITAGE AREAS

Sec. 6001. National Heritage Area designations.
Sec. 6002. Adjustment of boundaries of Lincoln National Heritage Area.
Sec. 6003. Finger Lakes National Heritage Area study.
Sec. 6004. National Heritage Area amendments.

              TITLE VII--WILDLIFE HABITAT AND CONSERVATION

Sec. 7001. Wildlife habitat and conservation.
Sec. 7002. Reauthorization of Neotropical Migratory Bird Conservation 
           Act.
Sec. 7003. John H. Chafee Coastal Barrier Resources System.

                       TITLE VIII--WATER AND POWER

                 Subtitle A--Reclamation Title Transfer

Sec. 8001. Purpose.
Sec. 8002. Definitions.
Sec. 8003. Authorization of transfers of title to eligible facilities.
Sec. 8004. Eligibility criteria.
Sec. 8005. Liability.
Sec. 8006. Benefits.
Sec. 8007. Compliance with other laws.

              Subtitle B--Endangered Fish Recovery Programs

Sec. 8101. Extension of authorization for annual base funding of fish 
           recovery programs; removal of certain reporting requirement.
Sec. 8102. Report on recovery implementation programs.

        Subtitle C--Yakima River Basin Water Enhancement Project

Sec. 8201. Authorization of phase III.

[[Page 133 STAT. 584]]

Sec. 8202. Modification of purposes and definitions.
Sec. 8203. Yakima River Basin Water Conservation Program.
Sec. 8204. Yakima Basin water projects, operations, and authorizations.

         Subtitle D--Bureau of Reclamation Facility Conveyances

Sec. 8301. Conveyance of Maintenance Complex and District Office of the 
           Arbuckle Project, Oklahoma.
Sec. 8302. Contra Costa Canal transfer.

                   Subtitle E--Project Authorizations

Sec. 8401. Extension of Equus Beds Division of the Wichita Project.

             Subtitle F--Modifications of Existing Programs

Sec. 8501. Watersmart.

             Subtitle G--Bureau of Reclamation Transparency

Sec. 8601. Definitions.
Sec. 8602. Asset Management Report enhancements for reserved works.
Sec. 8603. Asset Management Report enhancements for transferred works.

                         TITLE IX--MISCELLANEOUS

Sec. 9001. Every Kid Outdoors Act.
Sec. 9002. Good Samaritan Search and Recovery Act.
Sec. 9003. John S. McCain III 21st Century Conservation Service Corps 
           Act.
Sec. 9004. National Nordic Museum Act.
Sec. 9005. Designation of National George C. Marshall Museum and 
           Library.
Sec. 9006. 21st Century Respect Act.
Sec. 9007. American World War II Heritage Cities.
Sec. 9008. Quindaro Townsite National Commemorative Site.
Sec. 9009. Designation of National Comedy Center in Jamestown, New York.
Sec. 9010. John H. Chafee Coastal Barrier Resources System.

SEC. 2. &lt;&lt;NOTE: 16 USC 1 note.&gt;&gt;  DEFINITION OF SECRETARY.

    In this Act, the term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary of the 
Interior.

                    TITLE I--PUBLIC LAND AND FORESTS

               Subtitle A--Land Exchanges and Conveyances

SEC. 1001. CRAGS LAND EXCHANGE, COLORADO.

    (a) Purposes.--The purposes of this section are--
            (1) to authorize, direct, expedite and facilitate the land 
        exchange set forth herein; and
            (2) to promote enhanced public outdoor recreational and 
        natural resource conservation opportunities in the Pike National 
        Forest near Pikes Peak, Colorado, via acquisition of the non-
        Federal land and trail easement.

    (b) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) BHI.--The term ``BHI'' means Broadmoor Hotel, Inc., a 
        Colorado corporation.
            (2) Federal land.--The term ``Federal land'' means all 
        right, title, and interest of the United States in and to 
        approximately 83 acres of land within the Pike National Forest, 
        El Paso County, Colorado, together with a nonexclusive perpetual 
        access easement to BHI to and from such land on Forest Service 
        Road 371, as generally depicted on the map entitled ``Proposed 
        Crags Land Exchange-Federal Parcel-Emerald Valley Ranch'' and 
        dated March 2015.

[[Page 133 STAT. 585]]

            (3) Non-federal land.--The term ``non-Federal land'' means 
        the land and trail easement to be conveyed to the Secretary by 
        BHI in the exchange and is--
                    (A) approximately 320 acres of land within the Pike 
                National Forest, Teller County, Colorado, as generally 
                depicted on the map entitled ``Proposed Crags Land 
                Exchange-Non-Federal Parcel-Crags Property'' and dated 
                March 2015; and
                    (B) a permanent trail easement for the Barr Trail in 
                El Paso County, Colorado, as generally depicted on the 
                map entitled ``Proposed Crags Land Exchange-Barr Trail 
                Easement to United States'' and dated March 2015, and 
                which shall be considered as a voluntary donation to the 
                United States by BHI for all purposes of law.
            (4) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary 
        of Agriculture, unless otherwise specified.

    (c) Land Exchange.--
            (1) In general.--If BHI offers to convey to the Secretary 
        all right, title, and interest of BHI in and to the non-Federal 
        land, the Secretary shall accept the offer and simultaneously 
        convey to BHI the Federal land.
            (2) Land title.--Title to the non-Federal land conveyed and 
        donated to the Secretary under this section shall be acceptable 
        to the Secretary and shall conform to the title approval 
        standards of the Attorney General of the United States 
        applicable to land acquisitions by the Federal Government.
            (3) Perpetual access easement to bhi.--The nonexclusive 
        perpetual access easement to be granted to BHI as shown on the 
        map referred to in subsection (b)(2) shall allow--
                    (A) BHI to fully maintain, at BHI's expense, and use 
                Forest Service Road 371 from its junction with Forest 
                Service Road 368 in accordance with historic use and 
                maintenance patterns by BHI; and
                    (B) full and continued public and administrative 
                access and use of Forest Service Road 371 in accordance 
                with the existing Forest Service travel management plan, 
                or as such plan may be revised by the Secretary.
            (4) Route and condition of road.--BHI and the Secretary may 
        mutually agree to improve, relocate, reconstruct, or otherwise 
        alter the route and condition of all or portions of such road as 
        the Secretary, in close consultation with BHI, may determine 
        advisable.
            (5) Exchange costs.--BHI shall pay for all land survey, 
        appraisal, and other costs to the Secretary as may be necessary 
        to process and consummate the exchange directed by this section, 
        including reimbursement to the Secretary, if the Secretary so 
        requests, for staff time spent in such processing and 
        consummation.

    (d) Equal Value Exchange and Appraisals.--
            (1) Appraisals.--The values of the lands to be exchanged 
        under this section shall be determined by the Secretary through 
        appraisals performed--
                    (A) in accordance with--
                          (i) the Uniform Appraisal Standards for 
                      Federal Land Acquisitions;
                          (ii) the Uniform Standards of Professional 
                      Appraisal Practice; and

[[Page 133 STAT. 586]]

                          (iii) appraisal instructions issued by the 
                      Secretary; and
                    (B) by an appraiser mutually agreed to by the 
                Secretary and BHI.
            (2) Equal value exchange.--The values of the Federal land 
        and non-Federal land parcels exchanged shall be equal, or if 
        they are not equal, shall be equalized as follows:
                    (A) Surplus of federal land value.--If the final 
                appraised value of the Federal land exceeds the final 
                appraised value of the non-Federal land parcel 
                identified in subsection (b)(3)(A), BHI shall make a 
                cash equalization payment to the United States as 
                necessary to achieve equal value, including, if 
                necessary, an amount in excess of that authorized 
                pursuant to section 206(b) of the Federal Land Policy 
                and Management Act of l976 (43 U.S.C. 1716(b)).
                    (B) Use of funds.--Any cash equalization moneys 
                received by the Secretary under subparagraph (A) shall 
                be--
                          (i) deposited in the fund established under 
                      Public Law 90-171 (commonly known as the ``Sisk 
                      Act''; 16 U.S.C. 484a); and
                          (ii) made available to the Secretary for the 
                      acquisition of land or interests in land in Region 
                      2 of the Forest Service.
                    (C) Surplus of non-federal land value.--If the final 
                appraised value of the non-Federal land parcel 
                identified in subsection (b)(3)(A) exceeds the final 
                appraised value of the Federal land, the United States 
                shall not make a cash equalization payment to BHI, and 
                surplus value of the non-Federal land shall be 
                considered a donation by BHI to the United States for 
                all purposes of law.
            (3) Appraisal exclusions.--
                    (A) Special use permit.--The appraised value of the 
                Federal land parcel shall not reflect any increase or 
                diminution in value due to the special use permit 
                existing on the date of enactment of this Act to BHI on 
                the parcel and improvements thereunder.
                    (B) Barr trail easement.--The Barr Trail easement 
                donation identified in subsection (b)(3)(B) shall not be 
                appraised for purposes of this section.

    (e) Miscellaneous Provisions.--
            (1) Withdrawal provisions.--
                    (A) Withdrawal.--Lands acquired by the Secretary 
                under this section shall, without further action by the 
                Secretary, be permanently withdrawn from all forms of 
                appropriation and disposal under the public land laws 
                (including the mining and mineral leasing laws) and the 
                Geothermal Steam Act of 1930 (30 U.S.C. 1001 et seq.).
                    (B) Withdrawal revocation.--Any public land order 
                that withdraws the Federal land from appropriation or 
                disposal under a public land law shall be revoked to the 
                extent necessary to permit disposal of the Federal land 
                parcel to BHI.
                    (C) Withdrawal of federal land.--All Federal land 
                authorized to be exchanged under this section, if not 
                already withdrawn or segregated from appropriation or 
                disposal under the public lands laws upon enactment of

[[Page 133 STAT. 587]]

                this Act, is hereby so withdrawn, subject to valid 
                existing rights, until the date of conveyance of the 
                Federal land to BHI.
            (2) Postexchange land management.--Land acquired by the 
        Secretary under this section shall become part of the Pike-San 
        Isabel National Forest and be managed in accordance with the 
        laws, rules, and regulations applicable to the National Forest 
        System.
            (3) Exchange timetable.--It is the intent of Congress that 
        the land exchange directed by this section be consummated no 
        later than 1 year after the date of enactment of this Act.
            (4) Maps, estimates, and descriptions.--
                    (A) Minor errors.--The Secretary and BHI may by 
                mutual agreement make minor boundary adjustments to the 
                Federal and non-Federal lands involved in the exchange, 
                and may correct any minor errors in any map, acreage 
                estimate, or description of any land to be exchanged.
                    (B) Conflict.--If there is a conflict between a map, 
                an acreage estimate, or a description of land under this 
                section, the map shall control unless the Secretary and 
                BHI mutually agree otherwise.
                    (C) Availability.--Upon enactment of this Act, the 
                Secretary shall file and make available for public 
                inspection in the headquarters of the Pike-San Isabel 
                National Forest a copy of all maps referred to in this 
                section.
SEC. 1002. &lt;&lt;NOTE: 16 USC 539j note.&gt;&gt;  ARAPAHO NATIONAL FOREST 
                          BOUNDARY ADJUSTMENT.

    (a) In General.--The boundary of the Arapaho National Forest in the 
State of Colorado is adjusted to incorporate the approximately 92.95 
acres of land generally depicted as ``The Wedge'' on the map entitled 
``Arapaho National Forest Boundary Adjustment'' and dated November 6, 
2013, and described as lots three, four, eight, and nine of section 13, 
Township 4 North, Range 76 West, Sixth Principal Meridian, Colorado. A 
lot described in this subsection may be included in the boundary 
adjustment only after the Secretary of Agriculture obtains written 
permission for such action from the lot owner or owners.
    (b) Bowen Gulch Protection Area.--The Secretary of Agriculture shall 
include all Federal land within the boundary described in subsection (a) 
in the Bowen Gulch Protection Area established under section 6 of the 
Colorado Wilderness Act of 1993 (16 U.S.C. 539j).
    (c) Land and Water Conservation Fund.--For purposes of section 
200306(a)(2)(B)(i) of title 54, United States Code, the boundaries of 
the Arapaho National Forest, as modified under subsection (a), shall be 
considered to be the boundaries of the Arapaho National Forest as in 
existence on January 1, 1965.
    (d) Public Motorized Use.--Nothing in this section opens privately 
owned lands within the boundary described in subsection (a) to public 
motorized use.
    (e) Access to Non-Federal Lands.--Notwithstanding the provisions of 
section 6(f) of the Colorado Wilderness Act of 1993 (16 U.S.C. 539j(f)) 
regarding motorized travel, the owners of any non-Federal lands within 
the boundary described in subsection (a) who historically have accessed 
their lands through lands now or hereafter owned by the United States 
within the boundary

[[Page 133 STAT. 588]]

described in subsection (a) shall have the continued right of motorized 
access to their lands across the existing roadway.
SEC. 1003. SANTA ANA RIVER WASH PLAN LAND EXCHANGE.

    (a) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Conservation district.--The term ``Conservation 
        District'' means the San Bernardino Valley Water Conservation 
        District, a political subdivision of the State of California.
            (2) Federal exchange parcel.--The term ``Federal exchange 
        parcel'' means the approximately 90 acres of Federal land 
        administered by the Bureau of Land Management generally depicted 
        as ``BLM Equalization Land to SBVWCD'' on the Map and is to be 
        conveyed to the Conservation District if necessary to equalize 
        the fair market values of the lands otherwise to be exchanged.
            (3) Federal land.--The term ``Federal land'' means the 
        approximately 327 acres of Federal land administered by the 
        Bureau of Land Management generally depicted as ``BLM Land to 
        SBVWCD'' on the Map.
            (4) Map.--The term ``Map'' means the map entitled ``Santa 
        Ana River Wash Land Exchange'' and dated September 3, 2015.
            (5) Non-federal exchange parcel.--The term ``non-Federal 
        exchange parcel'' means the approximately 59 acres of land owned 
        by the Conservation District generally depicted as ``SBVWCD 
        Equalization Land'' on the Map and is to be conveyed to the 
        United States if necessary to equalize the fair market values of 
        the lands otherwise to be exchanged.
            (6) Non-federal land.--The term ``non-Federal Land'' means 
        the approximately 310 acres of land owned by the Conservation 
        District generally depicted as ``SBVWCD to BLM'' on the Map.

    (b) Exchange of Land; Equalization of Value.--
            (1) Exchange authorized.--Notwithstanding the land use 
        planning requirements of sections 202, 210, and 211 of the 
        Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1712, 
        1720, 1721), subject to valid existing rights, and conditioned 
        upon any equalization payment necessary under section 206(b) of 
        the Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 
        1716(b)), and paragraph (2), as soon as practicable, but not 
        later than 2 years after the date of enactment of this Act, if 
        the Conservation District offers to convey the exchange land to 
        the United States, the Secretary shall--
                    (A) convey to the Conservation District all right, 
                title, and interest of the United States in and to the 
                Federal land, and any such portion of the Federal 
                exchange parcel as may be required to equalize the 
                values of the lands exchanged; and
                    (B) accept from the Conservation District a 
                conveyance of all right, title, and interest of the 
                Conservation District in and to the non-Federal land, 
                and any such portion of the non-Federal exchange parcel 
                as may be required to equalize the values of the lands 
                exchanged.
            (2) Equalization payment.--To the extent an equalization 
        payment is necessary under section 206(b) of the Federal Land 
        Policy and Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1716(b)), the 
        amount of such equalization payment shall first be made by way 
        of in-kind transfer of such portion of the Federal exchange

[[Page 133 STAT. 589]]

        parcel to the Conservation District, or transfer of such portion 
        of the non-Federal exchange parcel to the United States, as the 
        case may be, as may be necessary to equalize the fair market 
        values of the exchanged properties. The fair market value of the 
        Federal exchange parcel or non-Federal exchange parcel, as the 
        case may be, shall be credited against any required equalization 
        payment. To the extent such credit is not sufficient to offset 
        the entire amount of equalization payment so indicated, any 
        remaining amount of equalization payment shall be treated as 
        follows:
                    (A) If the equalization payment is to equalize 
                values by which the Federal land exceeds the non-Federal 
                land and the credited value of the non-Federal exchange 
                parcel, Conservation District may make the equalization 
                payment to the United States, notwithstanding any 
                limitation regarding the amount of the equalization 
                payment under section 206(b) of the Federal Land Policy 
                and Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1716(b)). In the 
                event Conservation District opts not to make the 
                indicated equalization payment, the exchange shall not 
                proceed.
                    (B) If the equalization payment is to equalize 
                values by which the non-Federal land exceeds the Federal 
                land and the credited value of the Federal exchange 
                parcel, the Secretary shall order the exchange without 
                requirement of any additional equalization payment by 
                the United States to the Conservation District.
            (3) Appraisals.--
                    (A) The value of the land to be exchanged under this 
                section shall be determined by appraisals conducted by 
                one or more independent and qualified appraisers.
                    (B) The appraisals shall be conducted in accordance 
                with nationally recognized appraisal standards, 
                including, as appropriate, the Uniform Appraisal 
                Standards for Federal Land Acquisitions and the Uniform 
                Standards of Professional Appraisal Practice.
            (4) Title approval.--Title to the land to be exchanged under 
        this section shall be in a format acceptable to the Secretary 
        and the Conservation District.
            (5) Map and legal descriptions.--As soon as practicable 
        after the date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall 
        finalize a map and legal descriptions of all land to be conveyed 
        under this section. The Secretary may correct any minor errors 
        in the map or in the legal descriptions. The map and legal 
        descriptions shall be on file and available for public 
        inspection in appropriate offices of the Bureau of Land 
        Management.
            (6) Costs of conveyance.--As a condition of conveyance, any 
        costs related to the conveyance under this section shall be paid 
        by the Conservation District.

    (c) Applicable Law.--
            (1) Act of february 20, 1909.--
                    (A) The Act of February 20, 1909 (35 Stat. 641), 
                shall not apply to the Federal land and any public 
                exchange land transferred under this section.
                    (B) The exchange of lands under this section shall 
                be subject to continuing rights of the Conservation 
                District under the Act of February 20, 1909 (35 Stat. 
                641), on the non-Federal land and any exchanged portion 
                of the

[[Page 133 STAT. 590]]

                non-Federal exchange parcel for the continued use, 
                maintenance, operation, construction, or relocation of, 
                or expansion of, groundwater recharge facilities on the 
                non-Federal land, to accommodate groundwater recharge of 
                the Bunker Hill Basin to the extent that such activities 
                are not in conflict with any Habitat Conservation Plan 
                or Habitat Management Plan under which such non-Federal 
                land or non-Federal exchange parcel may be held or 
                managed.
            (2) FLPMA.--Except as otherwise provided in this section, 
        the Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 
        1701 et seq.), shall apply to the exchange of land under this 
        section.

    (d) Cancellation of Secretarial Order 241.--Secretarial Order 241, 
dated November 11, 1929 (withdrawing a portion of the Federal land for 
an unconstructed transmission line), is terminated and the withdrawal 
thereby effected is revoked.
SEC. 1004. UDALL PARK LAND EXCHANGE.

    (a) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) City.--The term ``City'' means the city of Tucson, 
        Arizona.
            (2) Non-federal land.--The term ``non-Federal land'' means 
        the approximately 172.8-acre parcel of City land identified in 
        the patent numbered 02-90-0001 and dated October 4, 1989, and 
        more particularly described as lots 3 and 4, S\1/2\NW\1/4\, sec. 
        5, T.14 S., R.15 E., Gila and Salt River Meridian, Arizona.

    (b) Conveyance of Federal Reversionary Interest in Land Located in 
Tucson, Arizona.--
            (1) In general.--Notwithstanding any other provision of law, 
        the Secretary shall convey to the City, without consideration, 
        the reversionary interests of the United States in and to the 
        non-Federal land for the purpose of unencumbering the title to 
        the non-Federal land to enable economic development of the non-
        Federal land.
            (2) Legal descriptions.--As soon as practicable after the 
        date of enactment of this Act, the exact legal descriptions of 
        the non-Federal land shall be determined in a manner 
        satisfactory to the Secretary.
            (3) Additional terms and conditions.--The Secretary may 
        require such additional terms and conditions to the conveyance 
        under paragraph (1), consistent with that paragraph, as the 
        Secretary considers appropriate to protect the interests of the 
        United States.
            (4) Costs.--The City shall pay all costs associated with the 
        conveyance under paragraph (1), consistent with that paragraph, 
        including the costs of any surveys, recording costs, and other 
        reasonable costs.
SEC. 1005. CONFIRMATION OF STATE LAND GRANTS.

    (a) In General.--Subject to valid existing rights, the State of Utah 
may select any lands in T. 6 S. and T. 7 S., R. 1 W., Salt Lake Base and 
Meridian, that are owned by the United States, under the administrative 
jurisdiction of the Bureau of Land Management, and identified as 
available for disposal by land exchange in the Record of Decision for 
the Pony Express Resource Management Plan and Rangeland Program Summary 
for Utah County (January 1990), as amended by the Pony Express Plan

[[Page 133 STAT. 591]]

Amendment (November 1997), in fulfillment of the land grants made in 
sections 6, 8, and 12 of the Act of July 16, 1894 (28 Stat. 107) as 
generally depicted on the map entitled ``Proposed Utah County Quantity 
Grants'' and dated June 27, 2017, to further the purposes of the State 
of Utah School and Institutional Trust Lands Administration, without 
further land use planning action by the Bureau of Land Management.
    (b) Application.--The criteria listed in Decision 3 of the Lands 
Program of the resource management plan described in subsection (a) 
shall not apply to any land selected under that subsection.
    (c) Effect on Limitation.--Nothing in this section affects the 
limitation established under section 2815(d) of the National Defense 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2000 (Public Law 106-65).
SEC. 1006. CUSTER COUNTY AIRPORT CONVEYANCE.

    (a) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) County.--The term ``County'' means Custer County, South 
        Dakota.
            (2) Federal land.--The term ``Federal land'' means all 
        right, title, and interest of the United States in and to 
        approximately 65.7 acres of National Forest System land, as 
        generally depicted on the map.
            (3) Map.--The term ``map'' means the map entitled ``Custer 
        County Airport Conveyance'' and dated October 19, 2017.
            (4) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary 
        of Agriculture, acting through the Chief of the Forest Service.

    (b) Land Conveyance.--
            (1) In general.--Subject to the terms and conditions 
        described in paragraph (2), if the County submits to the 
        Secretary an offer to acquire the Federal land for the market 
        value, as determined by the appraisal under paragraph (3), the 
        Secretary shall convey the Federal land to the County.
            (2) Terms and conditions.--The conveyance under paragraph 
        (1) shall be--
                    (A) subject to valid existing rights;
                    (B) made by quitclaim deed; and
                    (C) subject to any other terms and conditions as the 
                Secretary considers appropriate to protect the interests 
                of the United States.
            (3) Appraisal.--
                    (A) In general.--Not later than 60 days after the 
                date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall 
                complete an appraisal to determine the market value of 
                the Federal land.
                    (B) Standards.--The appraisal under subparagraph (A) 
                shall be conducted in accordance with--
                          (i) the Uniform Appraisal Standards for 
                      Federal Land Acquisitions; and
                          (ii) the Uniform Standards of Professional 
                      Appraisal Practice.
            (4) Map.--
                    (A) Availability of map.--The map shall be kept on 
                file and available for public inspection in the 
                appropriate office of the Forest Service.
                    (B) Correction of errors.--The Secretary may correct 
                any errors in the map.

[[Page 133 STAT. 592]]

            (5) Consideration.--As consideration for the conveyance 
        under paragraph (1), the County shall pay to the Secretary an 
        amount equal to the market value of the Federal land, as 
        determined by the appraisal under paragraph (3).
            (6) Survey.--The exact acreage and legal description of the 
        Federal land to be conveyed under paragraph (1) shall be 
        determined by a survey satisfactory to the Secretary.
            (7) Costs of conveyance.--As a condition on the conveyance 
        under paragraph (1), the County shall pay to the Secretary all 
        costs associated with the conveyance, including the cost of--
                    (A) the appraisal under paragraph (3); and
                    (B) the survey under paragraph (6).
            (8) Proceeds from the sale of land.--Any proceeds received 
        by the Secretary from the conveyance under paragraph (1) shall 
        be--
                    (A) deposited in the fund established under Public 
                Law 90-171 (commonly known as the ``Sisk Act'') (16 
                U.S.C. 484a); and
                    (B) available to the Secretary until expended, 
                without further appropriation, for the acquisition of 
                inholdings in units of the National Forest System in the 
                State of South Dakota.
SEC. 1007. PASCUA YAQUI TRIBE LAND CONVEYANCE.

    (a) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) District.--The term ``District'' means the Tucson 
        Unified School District No. 1, a school district recognized as 
        such under the laws of the State of Arizona.
            (2) Map.--The term ``Map'' means the map entitled `` `Pascua 
        Yaqui Tribe Land Conveyance Act'', dated March 14, 2016, and on 
        file and available for public inspection in the local office of 
        the Bureau of Land Management.
            (3) Recreation and public purposes act.--The term 
        ``Recreation and Public Purposes Act'' means the Act of June 14, 
        1926 (43 U.S.C. 869 et seq.).
            (4) Tribe.--The term ``Tribe'' means the Pascua Yaqui Tribe 
        of Arizona, a federally recognized Indian Tribe.

    (b) Land to Be Held in Trust.--
            (1) Parcel a.--Subject to paragraph (2) and to valid 
        existing rights, all right, title, and interest of the United 
        States in and to the approximately 39.65 acres of Federal lands 
        generally depicted on the map as ``Parcel A'' are declared to be 
        held in trust by the United States for the benefit of the Tribe.
            (2) Effective date.--Paragraph (1) shall take effect on the 
        day after the date on which the District relinquishes all right, 
        title, and interest of the District in and to the approximately 
        39.65 acres of land described in paragraph (1).

    (c) Lands to Be Conveyed to the District.--
            (1) Parcel b.--
                    (A) In general.--Subject to valid existing rights 
                and payment to the United States of the fair market 
                value, the United States shall convey to the District 
                all right, title, and interest of the United States in 
                and to the approximately 13.24 acres of Federal lands 
                generally depicted on the map as ``Parcel B''.

[[Page 133 STAT. 593]]

                    (B) Determination of fair market value.--The fair 
                market value of the property to be conveyed under 
                subparagraph (A) shall be determined by the Secretary in 
                accordance with the Uniform Appraisal Standards for 
                Federal Land Acquisitions and the Uniform Standards of 
                Professional Appraisal Practice.
                    (C) Costs of conveyance.--As a condition of the 
                conveyance under this paragraph, all costs associated 
                with the conveyance shall be paid by the District.
            (2) Parcel c.--
                    (A) In general.--If, not later than 1 year after the 
                completion of the appraisal required by subparagraph 
                (C), the District submits to the Secretary an offer to 
                acquire the Federal reversionary interest in all of the 
                approximately 27.5 acres of land conveyed to the 
                District under Recreation and Public Purposes Act and 
                generally depicted on the map as ``Parcel C'', the 
                Secretary shall convey to the District such reversionary 
                interest in the lands covered by the offer. The 
                Secretary shall complete the conveyance not later than 
                30 days after the date of the offer.
                    (B) Survey.--Not later than 90 days after the date 
                of enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall complete a 
                survey of the lands described in this paragraph to 
                determine the precise boundaries and acreage of the 
                lands subject to the Federal reversionary interest.
                    (C) Appraisal.--Not later than 180 days after the 
                date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall 
                complete an appraisal of the Federal reversionary 
                interest in the lands identified by the survey required 
                by subparagraph (B). The appraisal shall be completed in 
                accordance with the Uniform Appraisal Standards for 
                Federal Land Acquisitions and the Uniform Standards of 
                Professional Appraisal Practice.
                    (D) Consideration.--As consideration for the 
                conveyance of the Federal reversionary interest under 
                this paragraph, the District shall pay to the Secretary 
                an amount equal to the appraised value of the Federal 
                interest, as determined under subparagraph (C). The 
                consideration shall be paid not later than 30 days after 
                the date of the conveyance.
                    (E) Costs of conveyance.--As a condition of the 
                conveyance under this paragraph, all costs associated 
                with the conveyance, including the cost of the survey 
                required by subparagraph (B) and the appraisal required 
                by subparagraph (C), shall be paid by the District.

    (d) Gaming Prohibition.--The Tribe may not conduct gaming activities 
on lands taken into trust pursuant to this section, either as a matter 
of claimed inherent authority, under the authority of any Federal law, 
including the Indian Gaming Regulatory Act (25 U.S.C. 2701 et seq.), or 
under regulations promulgated by the Secretary or the National Indian 
Gaming Commission.
    (e) Water Rights.--
            (1) In general.--There shall be no Federal reserved right to 
        surface water or groundwater for any land taken into trust by 
        the United States for the benefit of the Tribe under this 
        section.

[[Page 133 STAT. 594]]

            (2) State water rights.--The Tribe retains any right or 
        claim to water under State law for any land taken into trust by 
        the United States for the benefit of the Tribe under this 
        section.
            (3) Forfeiture or abandonment.--Any water rights that are 
        appurtenant to land taken into trust by the United States for 
        the benefit of the Tribe under this section may not be forfeited 
        or abandoned.
            (4) Administration.--Nothing in this section affects or 
        modifies any right of the Tribe or any obligation of the United 
        States under Public Law 95-375.
SEC. 1008. LA PAZ COUNTY LAND CONVEYANCE.

    (a) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) County.--The term ``County'' means La Paz County, 
        Arizona.
            (2) Federal land.--The term ``Federal land'' means the 
        approximately 5,935 acres of land managed by the Bureau of Land 
        Management and designated as ``Federal land to be conveyed'' on 
        the map.
            (3) Map.--The term ``map'' means the map prepared by the 
        Bureau of Land Management entitled ``Proposed La Paz County Land 
        Conveyance'' and dated October 1, 2018.

    (b) Conveyance to La Paz County, Arizona.--
            (1) In general.--Notwithstanding the planning requirement of 
        sections 202 and 203 of the Federal Land Policy and Management 
        Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1712, 1713) and in accordance with this 
        section and other applicable law, as soon as practicable after 
        receiving a request from the County to convey the Federal land, 
        the Secretary shall convey the Federal land to the County.
            (2) Restrictions on conveyance.--
                    (A) In general.--The conveyance under paragraph (1) 
                shall be subject to--
                          (i) valid existing rights; and
                          (ii) such terms and conditions as the 
                      Secretary determines to be necessary.
                    (B) Exclusion.--The Secretary shall exclude from the 
                conveyance under paragraph (1) any Federal land that 
                contains significant cultural, environmental, wildlife, 
                or recreational resources.
            (3) Payment of fair market value.--The conveyance under 
        paragraph (1) shall be for the fair market value of the Federal 
        land to be conveyed, as determined--
                    (A) in accordance with the Federal Land Policy and 
                Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.); and
                    (B) based on an appraisal that is conducted in 
                accordance with--
                          (i) the Uniform Appraisal Standards for 
                      Federal Land Acquisitions; and
                          (ii) the Uniform Standards of Professional 
                      Appraisal Practice.
            (4) Protection of tribal cultural artifacts.--As a condition 
        of the conveyance under paragraph (1), the County shall, and as 
        a condition of any subsequent conveyance, any subsequent owner 
        shall--

[[Page 133 STAT. 595]]

                    (A) make good faith efforts to avoid disturbing 
                Tribal artifacts;
                    (B) minimize impacts on Tribal artifacts if they are 
                disturbed;
                    (C) coordinate with the Colorado River Indian Tribes 
                Tribal Historic Preservation Office to identify 
                artifacts of cultural and historic significance; and
                    (D) allow Tribal representatives to rebury unearthed 
                artifacts at or near where they were discovered.
            (5) Availability of map.--
                    (A) In general.--The map shall be on file and 
                available for public inspection in the appropriate 
                offices of the Bureau of Land Management.
                    (B) Corrections.--The Secretary and the County may, 
                by mutual agreement--
                          (i) make minor boundary adjustments to the 
                      Federal land to be conveyed under paragraph (1); 
                      and
                          (ii) correct any minor errors in the map, an 
                      acreage estimate, or the description of the 
                      Federal land.
            (6) Withdrawal.--The Federal land is withdrawn from the 
        operation of the mining and mineral leasing laws of the United 
        States.
            (7) Costs.--As a condition of the conveyance of the Federal 
        land under paragraph (1), the County shall pay--
                    (A) an amount equal to the appraised value 
                determined in accordance with paragraph (3)(B); and
                    (B) all costs related to the conveyance, including 
                all surveys, appraisals, and other administrative costs 
                associated with the conveyance of the Federal land to 
                the County under paragraph (1).
            (8) Proceeds from the sale of land.--The proceeds from the 
        sale of land under this subsection shall be--
                    (A) deposited in the Federal Land Disposal Account 
                established by section 206(a) of the Federal Land 
                Transaction Facilitation Act (43 U.S.C. 2305(a)); and
                    (B) used in accordance with that Act (43 U.S.C. 2301 
                et seq.).
SEC. 1009. LAKE BISTINEAU LAND TITLE STABILITY.

    (a) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Claimant.--The term ``claimant'' means any individual, 
        group, or corporation authorized to hold title to land or 
        mineral interests in land in the State of Louisiana with a valid 
        claim to the omitted land, including any mineral interests.
            (2) Map.--The term ``Map'' means the map entitled ``Lands as 
        Delineated by Original Survey December 18, 1842 showing the 1969 
        Meander Line at the 148.6 Elevation Line'' and dated January 30, 
        2018.
            (3) Omitted land.--
                    (A) In general.--The term ``omitted land'' means the 
                land in lots 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, and 13 of sec. 30, 
                T. 16 N., R. 10 W., Louisiana Meridian, comprising a 
                total of approximately 229.72 acres, as depicted on the 
                Map, that--
                          (i) was in place during the Original Survey; 
                      but
                          (ii) was not included in the Original Survey.
                    (B) Inclusion.--The term ``omitted land'' includes--

[[Page 133 STAT. 596]]

                          (i) Peggy's Island in lot 1 of sec. 17, T. 16 
                      N., R. 10 W., Louisiana Meridian; and
                          (ii) Hog Island in lot 1 of sec. 29, T. 16 N., 
                      R. 10 W., Louisiana Meridian.
            (4) Original survey.--The term ``Original Survey'' means the 
        survey of land surrounding Lake Bistineau, Louisiana, conducted 
        by the General Land Office in 1838 and approved by the Surveyor 
        General on December 8, 1842.

    (b) Conveyances.--
            (1) In general.--Consistent with the first section of the 
        Act of December 22, 1928 (commonly known as the ``Color of Title 
        Act'') (45 Stat. 1069, chapter 47; 43 U.S.C. 1068), except as 
        provided by this section, the Secretary shall convey to the 
        claimant the omitted land, including any mineral interests, that 
        has been held in good faith and in peaceful, adverse possession 
        by a claimant or an ancestor or grantor of the claimant, under 
        claim or color of title, based on the Original Survey.
            (2) Confirmation of title.--The conveyance or patent of 
        omitted land to a claimant under paragraph (1) shall have the 
        effect of confirming title to the surface and minerals in the 
        claimant and shall not serve as any admission by a claimant.

    (c) Payment of Costs.--
            (1) In general.--Except as provided in paragraph (2), the 
        conveyance required under subsection (b) shall be without 
        consideration.
            (2) Condition.--As a condition of the conveyance of the 
        omitted land under subsection (b), before making the conveyance, 
        the Secretary shall recover from the State of Louisiana any 
        costs incurred by the Secretary relating to any survey, 
        platting, legal description, or associated activities required 
        to prepare and issue a patent under that subsection.

    (d) Map and Legal Description.--As soon as practicable after the 
date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall file, and make 
available for public inspection in the appropriate offices of the Bureau 
of Land and Management, the Map and legal descriptions of the omitted 
land to be conveyed under subsection (b).
SEC. 1010. LAKE FANNIN LAND CONVEYANCE.

    (a) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) County.--The term ``County'' means Fannin County, Texas.
            (2) Map.--The term ``map'' means the map entitled ``Lake 
        Fannin Conveyance'' and dated November 21, 2013.
            (3) National forest system land.--The term ``National Forest 
        System land'' means the approximately 2,025 acres of National 
        Forest System land generally depicted on the map.
            (4) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary 
        of Agriculture, acting through the Chief of the Forest Service.

    (b) Land Conveyance.--
            (1) In general.--Subject to the terms and conditions 
        described in paragraph (2), if the County submits to the 
        Secretary an offer to acquire the National Forest System land 
        for the fair market value, as determined by the appraisal under 
        paragraph (3), the Secretary shall convey the National Forest 
        System land to the County.

[[Page 133 STAT. 597]]

            (2) Terms and conditions.--The conveyance under paragraph 
        (1) shall be--
                    (A) subject to valid existing rights;
                    (B) made by quitclaim deed; and
                    (C) subject to any other terms and conditions as the 
                Secretary considers appropriate to protect the interests 
                of the United States.
            (3) Appraisal.--
                    (A) In general.--Not later than 180 days after the 
                date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall 
                complete an appraisal to determine the fair market value 
                of the National Forest System land.
                    (B) Standards.--The appraisal under subparagraph (A) 
                shall be conducted in accordance with--
                          (i) the Uniform Appraisal Standards for 
                      Federal Land Acquisitions; and
                          (ii) the Uniform Standards of Professional 
                      Appraisal Practice.
            (4) Map.--
                    (A) Availability of map.--The map shall be kept on 
                file and available for public inspection in the 
                appropriate office of the Forest Service.
                    (B) Correction of errors.--The Secretary may correct 
                minor errors in the map.
            (5) Consideration.--As consideration for the conveyance 
        under paragraph (1), the County shall pay to the Secretary an 
        amount equal to the fair market value of the National Forest 
        System land, as determined by the appraisal under paragraph (3).
            (6) Survey.--The exact acreage and legal description of the 
        National Forest System land to be conveyed under paragraph (1) 
        shall be determined by a survey satisfactory to the Secretary 
        and the County.
            (7) Use.--As a condition of the conveyance under paragraph 
        (1), the County shall agree to manage the land conveyed under 
        that subsection for public recreational purposes.
            (8) Costs of conveyance.--As a condition on the conveyance 
        under paragraph (1), the County shall pay to the Secretary all 
        costs associated with the conveyance, including the cost of--
                    (A) the appraisal under paragraph (3); and
                    (B) the survey under paragraph (6).
SEC. 1011. LAND CONVEYANCE AND UTILITY RIGHT-OF-WAY, HENRY'S LAKE 
                          WILDERNESS STUDY AREA, IDAHO.

    (a) Conveyance and Right-of-Way Authorized.--Notwithstanding section 
603(c) of the Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 
1782(c)), the Secretary may--
            (1) convey to the owner of a private residence located at 
        3787 Valhalla Road in Island Park, Idaho (in this section 
        referred to as the ``owner''), all right, title, and interest of 
        the United States in and to the approximately 0.5 acres of 
        Federal land in the Henry's Lake Wilderness Study Area described 
        as lot 14, section 33, Township 16 North, Range 43 East, Boise 
        Meridian, Fremont County, Idaho; and

[[Page 133 STAT. 598]]

            (2) grant Fall River Electric in Ashton, Idaho, the right to 
        operate, maintain, and rehabilitate a right-of-way encumbering 
        approximately 0.4 acres of Federal land in the Henry's Lake 
        Wilderness Study Area described as lot 15, section 33, Township 
        16 North, Range 43 East, Boise Meridian, Fremont County, Idaho, 
        which includes an electric distribution line and access road, 
        850' in length, 20' in width.

    (b) Consideration; Conditions.--
            (1) Land disposal.--The Secretary shall convey the land 
        under subsection (a)(1) in accordance with section 203 of the 
        Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1713) 
        and part 2711.3-3 of title 43, Code of Federal Regulations. As 
        consideration for the conveyance the owner shall pay to the 
        Secretary an amount equal to the fair market value as valued by 
        a qualified land appraisal and approved by the Appraisal and 
        Valuation Services Office.
            (2) Right-of-way.--The Secretary shall grant the right-of-
        way granted under subsection (a)(2) in accordance with section 
        205 of the Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 1976 (43 
        U.S.C. 1715), and part 2800 of title 43, Code of Federal 
        Regulations.

    (c) Additional Terms and Conditions.--The Secretary may require such 
additional terms and conditions in connection with the conveyance of the 
land and the grant of the right-of-way under this section as the 
Secretary considers appropriate to protect the interests of the United 
States.
SEC. 1012. CONVEYANCE TO UKPEAGVIK INUPIAT CORPORATION.

    (a) In General.--Not later than 1 year after the date of enactment 
of this Act, subject to valid existing rights, the Secretary shall 
convey to the Ukpeagvik Inupiat Corporation all right, title, and 
interest held by the United States in and to sand and gravel deposits 
underlying the surface estate owned by the Ukpeagvik Inupiat Corporation 
within and contiguous to the Barrow gas fields, and more particularly 
described as follows:
            (1) T. 21 N. R. 16 W., secs. 7, 17-18, 19-21, and 28-29, of 
        the Umiat Meridian.
            (2) T. 21 N. R. 17 W., secs. 1-2 and 11-14, of the Umiat 
        Meridian.
            (3) T. 22 N. R. 18 W., secs. 4, 9, and 29-32, of the Umiat 
        Meridian.
            (4) T. 22 N. R. 19 W., secs. 25 and 36, of the Umiat 
        Meridian.

    (b) Entitlement Fulfilled.--The conveyance under this section shall 
fulfill the entitlement granted to the Ukpeagvik Inupiat Corporation 
under section 12(a) of the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act (43 
U.S.C. 1611(a)).
    (c) Compliance With Endangered Species Act of 1973.--Nothing in this 
section affects any requirement, prohibition, or exception under the 
Endangered Species Act of 1973 (16 U.S.C. 1531 et seq.).
SEC. 1013. PUBLIC PURPOSE CONVEYANCE TO CITY OF HYDE PARK, UTAH.

    (a) In General.--Notwithstanding the land use planning requirement 
of sections 202 and 203 of the Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 
1976 (43 U.S.C. 1712, 1713), on written request by the City of Hyde 
Park, Utah (referred to in this section

[[Page 133 STAT. 599]]

as the ``City''), the Secretary shall convey, without consideration, to 
the City the parcel of public land described in subsection (b)(1) for 
public recreation or other public purposes consistent with uses allowed 
under the Act of June 14, 1926 (commonly known as the ``Recreation and 
Public Purposes Act'') (43 U.S.C. 869 et seq.).
    (b) Description of Land.--
            (1) In general.--The parcel of public land referred to in 
        subsection (a) is the approximately 80-acre parcel identified on 
        the map entitled ``Hyde Park Land Conveyance Act'' and dated 
        October 23, 2017.
            (2) Availability of map.--The map referred to in paragraph 
        (1) shall be on file and available for public inspection in 
        appropriate offices of the Bureau of Land Management.

    (c) Survey.--The exact acreage and legal description of the land to 
be conveyed under this section shall be determined by a survey 
satisfactory to the Secretary.
    (d) Conveyance Costs.--As a condition for the conveyance under this 
section, all costs associated with the conveyance shall be paid by the 
City.
SEC. 1014. JUAB COUNTY CONVEYANCE.

    (a) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) County.--The term ``County'' means Juab County, Utah.
            (2) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary 
        of Agriculture, acting through the Chief of the Forest Service.
            (3) Nephi work center conveyance parcel.--The term ``Nephi 
        Work Center conveyance parcel'' means the parcel of 
        approximately 2.17 acres of National Forest System land in the 
        County, located at 740 South Main Street, Nephi, Utah, as 
        depicted as Tax Lot Numbers #XA00-0545-1111 and #XA00-0545-2 on 
        the map entitled ``Nephi Plat B'' and dated May 6, 1981.

    (b) Conveyance of Nephi Work Center Conveyance Parcel, Juab County, 
Utah.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 1 year after the date on 
        which the Secretary receives a request from the County and 
        subject to valid existing rights and such terms and conditions 
        as are mutually satisfactory to the Secretary and the County, 
        including such additional terms as the Secretary determines to 
        be necessary, the Secretary shall convey to the County without 
        consideration all right, title, and interest of the United 
        States in and to the Nephi Work Center conveyance parcel.
            (2) Costs.--Any costs relating to the conveyance under 
        paragraph (1), including processing and transaction costs, shall 
        be paid by the County.
            (3) Use of land.--The land conveyed to the County under 
        paragraph (1) shall be used by the County--
                    (A) to house fire suppression and fuels mitigation 
                personnel;
                    (B) to facilitate fire suppression and fuels 
                mitigation activities; and
                    (C) for infrastructure and equipment necessary to 
                carry out subparagraphs (A) and (B).
SEC. 1015. BLACK MOUNTAIN RANGE AND BULLHEAD CITY LAND EXCHANGE.

    (a) Definitions.--In this section:

[[Page 133 STAT. 600]]

            (1) City.--The term ``City'' means Bullhead City, Arizona.
            (2) Non-federal land.--The term ``non-Federal Land'' means 
        the approximately 1,100 acres of land owned by Bullhead City in 
        the Black Mountain Range generally depicted as ``Bullhead City 
        Land to be Exchanged to BLM'' on the Map.
            (3) Map.--The term ``Map'' means the map entitled ``Bullhead 
        City Land Exchange'' and dated August 24, 2018.
            (4) Federal land.--The term ``Federal land'' means the 
        approximately 345.2 acres of land in Bullhead City, Arizona, 
        generally depicted as ``Federal Land to be exchanged to Bullhead 
        City'' on the Map.

    (b) Land Exchange.--
            (1) In general.--If after December 15, 2020, the City offers 
        to convey to the Secretary all right, title, and interest of the 
        City in and to the non-Federal land, the Secretary shall accept 
        the offer and simultaneously convey to the City all right, 
        title, and interest of the United States in and to the Federal 
        land.
            (2) Land title.--Title to the non-Federal land conveyed to 
        the Secretary under this section shall be in a form acceptable 
        to the Secretary and shall conform to the title approval 
        standards of the Attorney General of the United States 
        applicable to land acquisitions by the Federal Government.
            (3) Exchange costs.--The City shall pay for all land survey, 
        appraisal, and other costs to the Secretary as may be necessary 
        to process and consummate the exchange under this section.

    (c) Equal Value Exchange and Appraisals.--
            (1) Appraisals.--The values of the lands to be exchanged 
        under this section shall be determined by the Secretary through 
        appraisals performed--
                    (A) in accordance with--
                          (i) the Uniform Appraisal Standards for 
                      Federal Land Acquisitions;
                          (ii) the Uniform Standards of Professional 
                      Appraisal Practice; and
                          (iii) appraisal instructions issued by the 
                      Secretary; and
                    (B) by an appraiser mutually agreed to by the 
                Secretary and the City.
            (2) Equal value exchange.--The values of the Federal and 
        non-Federal land parcels exchanged shall be equal, or if they 
        are not equal, shall be equalized as follows:
                    (A) Surplus of federal land value.--If the final 
                appraised value of the Federal land exceeds the final 
                appraised value of the non-Federal land, the City shall 
                reduce the amount of land it is requesting from the 
                Federal Government in order to create an equal value in 
                accordance with section 206(b) of the Federal Land 
                Policy and Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1716(b)). 
                Land that is not exchanged because of equalization under 
                this subparagraph shall remain subject to lease under 
                the Act of June 14, 1926 (commonly known as the 
                ``Recreation and Public Purposes Act'') (44 Stat. 741, 
                chapter 578; 43 U.S.C. 869 et seq.).

[[Page 133 STAT. 601]]

                    (B) Use of funds.--Any cash equalization moneys 
                received by the Secretary under subparagraph (A) shall 
                be--
                          (i) deposited in the Federal Land Disposal 
                      Account established by section 206(a) of the 
                      Federal Land Transaction Facilitation Act (43 
                      U.S.C. 2305(a)); and
                          (ii) used in accordance with that Act (43 
                      U.S.C. 2301 et seq.).
                    (C) Surplus of non-federal land value.--If the final 
                appraised value of the non-Federal land exceeds the 
                final appraised value of the Federal land, the United 
                States shall not make a cash equalization payment to the 
                City, and surplus value of the non-Federal land shall be 
                considered a donation by the City to the United States 
                for all purposes of law.

    (d) Withdrawal Provisions.--Lands acquired by the Secretary under 
this section are, upon such acquisition, automatically and permanently 
withdrawn from all forms of appropriation and disposal under the public 
land laws (including the mining and mineral leasing laws) and the 
Geothermal Steam Act of 1930 (30 U.S.C. 1001 et seq.).
    (e) Maps, Estimates, and Descriptions.--
            (1) Minor errors.--The Secretary and the City may, by mutual 
        agreement--
                    (A) make minor boundary adjustments to the Federal 
                and non-Federal lands involved in the exchange; and
                    (B) correct any minor errors in any map, acreage 
                estimate, or description of any land to be exchanged.
            (2) Conflict.--If there is a conflict between a map, an 
        acreage estimate, or a description of land under this section, 
        the map shall control unless the Secretary and the City mutually 
        agree otherwise.
            (3) Availability.--The Secretary shall file and make 
        available for public inspection in the Arizona headquarters of 
        the Bureau of Land Management a copy of all maps referred to in 
        this section.
SEC. 1016. COTTONWOOD LAND EXCHANGE.

    (a) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) County.--The term ``County'' means Yavapai County, 
        Arizona.
            (2) Federal land.--The term ``Federal land'' means all 
        right, title, and interest of the United States in and to 
        approximately 80 acres of land within the Coconino National 
        Forest, in Yavapai County, Arizona, generally depicted as 
        ``Coconino National Forest Parcels `Federal Land' '' on the map.
            (3) Map.--The term ``map'' means the map entitled 
        ``Cottonwood Land Exchange'', with the revision date July 5, 
        2018\Version 1.
            (4) Non-federal land.--The term ``non-Federal land'' means 
        the approximately 369 acres of land in Yavapai County, Arizona, 
        generally depicted as ``Yavapai County Parcels `Non-Federal 
        Land' '' on the map.
            (5) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary 
        of Agriculture, unless otherwise specified.

    (b) Land Exchange.--

[[Page 133 STAT. 602]]

            (1) In general.--If the County offers to convey to the 
        Secretary all right, title, and interest of the County in and to 
        the non-Federal land, the Secretary shall accept the offer and 
        simultaneously convey to the County all right, title, and 
        interest of the United States to the Federal land.
            (2) Land title.--Title to the non-Federal land conveyed to 
        the Secretary under this section shall be acceptable to the 
        Secretary and shall conform to the title approval standards of 
        the Attorney General of the United States applicable to land 
        acquisitions by the Federal Government.
            (3) Exchange costs.--The County shall pay for all land 
        survey, appraisal, and other costs to the Secretary as may be 
        necessary to process and consummate the exchange under this 
        section, including reimbursement to the Secretary, if the 
        Secretary so requests, for staff time spent in such processing 
        and consummation.

    (c) Equal Value Exchange and Appraisals.--
            (1) Appraisals.--The values of the lands to be exchanged 
        under this section shall be determined by the Secretary through 
        appraisals performed--
                    (A) in accordance with--
                          (i) the Uniform Appraisal Standards for 
                      Federal Land Acquisitions;
                          (ii) the Uniform Standards of Professional 
                      Appraisal Practice; and
                          (iii) appraisal instructions issued by the 
                      Secretary; and
                    (B) by an appraiser mutually agreed to by the 
                Secretary and the County.
            (2) Equal value exchange.--The values of the Federal and 
        non-Federal land parcels exchanged shall be equal, or if they 
        are not equal, shall be equalized as follows:
                    (A) Surplus of federal land value.--If the final 
                appraised value of the Federal land exceeds the final 
                appraised value of the non-Federal land, the County 
                shall make a cash equalization payment to the United 
                States as necessary to achieve equal value, including, 
                if necessary, an amount in excess of that authorized 
                pursuant to section 206(b) of the Federal Land Policy 
                and Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1716(b)).
                    (B) Use of funds.--Any cash equalization moneys 
                received by the Secretary under subparagraph (A) shall 
                be--
                          (i) deposited in the fund established under 
                      Public Law 90-171 (commonly known as the ``Sisk 
                      Act''; 16 U.S.C. 484a); and
                          (ii) made available to the Secretary for the 
                      acquisition of land or interests in land in Region 
                      3 of the Forest Service.
                    (C) Surplus of non-federal land value.--If the final 
                appraised value of the non-Federal land exceeds the 
                final appraised value of the Federal land, the United 
                States shall not make a cash equalization payment to the 
                County, and surplus value of the non-Federal land shall 
                be considered a donation by the County to the United 
                States for all purposes of law.

[[Page 133 STAT. 603]]

    (d) Withdrawal Provisions.--Lands acquired by the Secretary under 
this section are, upon such acquisition, automatically and permanently 
withdrawn from all forms of appropriation and disposal under the public 
land laws (including the mining and mineral leasing laws) and the 
Geothermal Steam Act of 1930 (30 U.S.C. 1001 et seq.).
    (e) Management of Land.--Land acquired by the Secretary under this 
section shall become part of the Coconino National Forest and be managed 
in accordance with the laws, rules, and regulations applicable to the 
National Forest System.
    (f) Maps, Estimates, and Descriptions.--
            (1) Minor errors.--The Secretary and the County may, by 
        mutual agreement--
                    (A) make minor boundary adjustments to the Federal 
                and non-Federal lands involved in the exchange; and
                    (B) correct any minor errors in any map, acreage 
                estimate, or description of any land to be exchanged.
            (2) Conflict.--If there is a conflict between a map, an 
        acreage estimate, or a description of land under this section, 
        the map shall control unless the Secretary and the County 
        mutually agree otherwise.
            (3) Availability.--The Secretary shall file and make 
        available for public inspection in the headquarters of the 
        Coconino National Forest a copy of all maps referred to in this 
        section.
SEC. 1017. EMBRY-RIDDLE TRI-CITY LAND EXCHANGE.

    (a) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Non-federal land.--The term ``non-Federal land'' means 
        the approximately 16-acre parcel of University land identified 
        in section 3(a) of Public Law 105-363 (112 Stat. 3297).
            (2) University.--The term ``University'' means Embry-Riddle 
        Aeronautical University, Florida.

    (b) Conveyance of Federal Reversionary Interest in Land Located in 
the County of Yavapai, Arizona.--
            (1) In general.--Notwithstanding any other provision of law, 
        if after the completion of the appraisal required under 
        subsection (c), the University submits to the Secretary an offer 
        to acquire the reversionary interests of the United States in 
        and to the non-Federal land, the Secretary shall convey to the 
        University the reversionary interests of the United States in 
        and to the non-Federal land for the purpose of unencumbering the 
        title to the non-Federal land to enable economic development of 
        the non-Federal land.
            (2) Legal descriptions.--As soon as practicable after the 
        date of enactment of this Act, the exact legal description of 
        the non-Federal land shall be determined in a manner 
        satisfactory to the Secretary.
            (3) Additional terms and conditions.--The Secretary may 
        require such additional terms and conditions to the conveyance 
        under paragraph (1), consistent with this section, as the 
        Secretary considers appropriate to protect the interests of the 
        United States.
            (4) Costs.--The University shall pay all costs associated 
        with the conveyance under paragraph (1), including the costs of 
        the appraisal required under subsection (c), the costs of any 
        surveys, recording costs, and other reasonable costs.

[[Page 133 STAT. 604]]

    (c) Appraisal.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 180 days after the date of 
        enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall complete an appraisal 
        of the reversionary interests of the United States in and to the 
        non-Federal land.
            (2) Applicable law.--The appraisal shall be completed in 
        accordance with--
                    (A) the Uniform Appraisal Standards for Federal Land 
                Acquisitions; and
                    (B) the Uniform Standards of Professional Appraisal 
                Practice.

    (d) Consideration.--
            (1) In general.--As consideration for the conveyance of the 
        reversionary interests of the United States in and to the non-
        Federal land under this section, the University shall pay to the 
        Secretary an amount equal to the appraised value of the 
        interests of the United States, as determined under subsection 
        (c).
            (2) Deposit; use.--Amounts received under paragraph (1) 
        shall be--
                    (A) deposited in the Federal Land Disposal Account 
                established by section 206(a) of the Federal Land 
                Transaction Facilitation Act (43 U.S.C. 2305(a)); and
                    (B) used in accordance with that Act (43 U.S.C. 2301 
                et seq.).

      Subtitle B--Public Land and National Forest System Management

SEC. 1101. BOLTS DITCH ACCESS.

    (a) Access Granted.--The Secretary of Agriculture shall permit by 
special use authorization nonmotorized access and use, in accordance 
with section 293.6 of title 36, Code of Federal Regulations, of the 
Bolts Ditch Headgate and the Bolts Ditch within the Holy Cross 
Wilderness, Colorado, as designated by Public Law 96-560 (94 Stat. 
3265), for the purposes of the diversion of water and use, maintenance, 
and repair of such ditch and headgate by the Town of Minturn, Colorado, 
a Colorado Home Rule Municipality.
    (b) Location of Facilities.--The Bolts Ditch headgate and ditch 
segment referenced in subsection (a) are as generally depicted on the 
map entitled ``Bolts Ditch headgate and Ditch Segment'' and dated 
November 2015.
SEC. 1102. CLARIFICATION RELATING TO A CERTAIN LAND DESCRIPTION 
                          UNDER THE NORTHERN ARIZONA LAND EXCHANGE 
                          AND VERDE RIVER BASIN PARTNERSHIP ACT OF 
                          2005.

    Section 104(a)(5) of the Northern Arizona Land Exchange and Verde 
River Basin Partnership Act of 2005 (Public Law 109-110; 119 Stat. 2356) 
is amended by inserting before the period at the end ``, which, 
notwithstanding section 102(a)(4)(B), includes the N\1/2\ NE\1/4\ SW\1/
4\ SW\1/4\, the N\1/2\ N\1/2\ SE\1/4\ SW\1/4\, and the N\1/2\ N\1/2\ 
SW\1/4\ SE\1/4\, sec. 34, Township 22 North, Range 2 East, Gila and Salt 
River Meridian, Coconino County, Arizona, comprising approximately 25 
acres''.

[[Page 133 STAT. 605]]

SEC. 1103. &lt;&lt;NOTE: 16 USC 539s.&gt;&gt;  FRANK AND JEANNE MOORE WILD 
                          STEELHEAD SPECIAL MANAGEMENT AREA.

    (a) Findings.--Congress finds that--
            (1) Frank Moore has committed his life to family, friends, 
        his country, and fly fishing;
            (2) Frank Moore is a World War II veteran who stormed the 
        beaches of Normandy along with 150,000 troops during the D-Day 
        Allied invasion and was awarded the Chevalier of the French 
        Legion of Honor for his bravery;
            (3) Frank Moore returned home after the war, started a 
        family, and pursued his passion of fishing on the winding rivers 
        in Oregon;
            (4) as the proprietor of the Steamboat Inn along the North 
        Umpqua River in Oregon for nearly 20 years, Frank Moore, along 
        with his wife Jeanne, shared his love of fishing, the flowing 
        river, and the great outdoors, with visitors from all over the 
        United States and the world;
            (5) Frank Moore has spent most of his life fishing the vast 
        rivers of Oregon, during which time he has contributed 
        significantly to efforts to conserve fish habitats and protect 
        river health, including serving on the State of Oregon Fish and 
        Wildlife Commission;
            (6) Frank Moore has been recognized for his conservation 
        work with the National Wildlife Federation Conservationist of 
        the Year award, the Wild Steelhead Coalition Conservation Award, 
        and his 2010 induction into the Fresh Water Fishing Hall of 
        Fame; and
            (7) in honor of the many accomplishments of Frank Moore, 
        both on and off the river, approximately 99,653 acres of Forest 
        Service land in the State of Oregon should be designated as the 
        ``Frank and Jeanne Moore Wild Steelhead Special Management 
        Area''.

    (b) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Map.--The term ``Map'' means the map entitled ``Frank 
        Moore Wild Steelhead Special Management Area Designation Act'' 
        and dated June 23, 2016.
            (2) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary 
        of Agriculture, acting through the Chief of the Forest Service.
            (3) Special management area.--The term ``Special Management 
        Area'' means the Frank and Jeanne Moore Wild Steelhead Special 
        Management Area designated by subsection (c)(1).
            (4) State.--The term ``State'' means the State of Oregon.

    (c) Frank and Jeanne Moore Wild Steelhead Special Management Area, 
Oregon.--
            (1) Designation.--The approximately 99,653 acres of Forest 
        Service land in the State, as generally depicted on the Map, is 
        designated as the ``Frank and Jeanne Moore Wild Steelhead 
        Special Management Area''.
            (2) Map; legal description.--
                    (A) In general.--As soon as practicable after the 
                date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall 
                prepare a map and legal description of the Special 
                Management Area.
                    (B) Force of law.--The map and legal description 
                prepared under subparagraph (A) shall have the same 
                force and effect as if included in this section, except 
                that the

[[Page 133 STAT. 606]]

                Secretary may correct clerical and typographical errors 
                in the map and legal description.
                    (C) Availability.--The map and legal description 
                prepared under subparagraph (A) shall be on file and 
                available for public inspection in the appropriate 
                offices of the Forest Service.
            (3) Administration.--Subject to valid existing rights, the 
        Special Management Area shall be administered by the Secretary--
                    (A) in accordance with all laws (including 
                regulations) applicable to the National Forest System; 
                and
                    (B) in a manner that--
                          (i) conserves and enhances the natural 
                      character, scientific use, and the botanical, 
                      recreational, ecological, fish and wildlife, 
                      scenic, drinking water, and cultural values of the 
                      Special Management Area;
                          (ii) maintains and seeks to enhance the wild 
                      salmonid habitat of the Special Management Area;
                          (iii) maintains or enhances the watershed as a 
                      thermal refuge for wild salmonids; and
                          (iv) preserves opportunities for recreation, 
                      including primitive recreation.
            (4) Fish and wildlife.--Nothing in this section affects the 
        jurisdiction or responsibilities of the State with respect to 
        fish and wildlife in the State.
            (5) Adjacent management.--Nothing in this section--
                    (A) creates any protective perimeter or buffer zone 
                around the Special Management Area; or
                    (B) modifies the applicable travel management plan 
                for the Special Management Area.
            (6) Wildfire management.--Nothing in this section prohibits 
        the Secretary, in cooperation with other Federal, State, and 
        local agencies, as appropriate, from conducting wildland fire 
        operations in the Special Management Area, consistent with the 
        purposes of this section, including the use of aircraft, 
        machinery, mechanized equipment, fire breaks, backfires, and 
        retardant.
            (7) Vegetation management.--Nothing in this section 
        prohibits the Secretary from conducting vegetation management 
        projects within the Special Management Area in a manner 
        consistent with--
                    (A) the purposes described in paragraph (3); and
                    (B) the applicable forest plan.
            (8) Protection of tribal rights.--Nothing in this section 
        diminishes any treaty rights of an Indian Tribe.
            (9) Withdrawal.--Subject to valid existing rights, the 
        Federal land within the boundaries of the Special Management 
        Area river segments designated by paragraph (1) is withdrawn 
        from all forms of--
                    (A) entry, appropriation, or disposal under the 
                public land laws;
                    (B) location, entry, and patent under the mining 
                laws; and
                    (C) disposition under all laws relating to mineral 
                and geothermal leasing or mineral materials.

[[Page 133 STAT. 607]]

SEC. 1104. &lt;&lt;NOTE: 16 USC 1274 note.&gt;&gt;  MAINTENANCE OR REPLACEMENT 
                          OF FACILITIES AND STRUCTURES AT SMITH 
                          GULCH.

    The authorization of the Secretary of Agriculture to maintain or 
replace facilities or structures for commercial recreation services at 
Smith Gulch under section 3(a)(24)(D) of the Wild and Scenic Rivers Act 
(16 U.S.C. 1274(a)(24)(D))--
            (1) may include improvements or replacements that the 
        Secretary of Agriculture determines--
                    (A) are consistent with section 9(b) of the Central 
                Idaho Wilderness Act of 1980 (16 U.S.C. 1281 note; 
                Public Law 96-312); and
                    (B) would reduce the impact of the commercial 
                recreation facilities or services on wilderness or wild 
                and scenic river resources and values; and
            (2) authorizes the Secretary of Agriculture to consider 
        including, as appropriate--
                    (A) hydroelectric generators and associated 
                electrical transmission facilities;
                    (B) water pumps for fire suppression;
                    (C) transitions from propane to electrical lighting;
                    (D) solar energy systems;
                    (E) 6-volt or 12-volt battery banks for power 
                storage; and
                    (F) other improvements or replacements which are 
                consistent with this section that the Secretary of 
                Agriculture determines appropriate.
SEC. 1105. REPEAL OF PROVISION LIMITING THE EXPORT OF TIMBER 
                          HARVESTED FROM CERTAIN KAKE TRIBAL 
                          CORPORATION LAND.

    Section 42 of the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act (43 U.S.C. 
1629h) is amended--
            (1) by striking subsection (h);
            (2) by redesignating subsection (i) as subsection (h); and
            (3) in subsection (h) (as so redesignated), in the first 
        sentence, by striking ``and to provide'' and all that follows 
        through ``subsection (h)''.
SEC. 1106. &lt;&lt;NOTE: 16 USC 1132 note.&gt;&gt;  DESIGNATION OF FOWLER AND 
                          BOSKOFF PEAKS.

    (a) Designation of Fowler Peak.--
            (1) In general.--The 13,498-foot mountain peak, located at 
        37.8569 N, by -108.0117 W, in the Uncompahgre National Forest 
        in the State of Colorado, shall be known and designated as 
        ``Fowler Peak''.
            (2) References.--Any reference in a law, map, regulation, 
        document, paper, or other record of the United States to the 
        peak described in paragraph (1) shall be deemed to be a 
        reference to ``Fowler Peak''.

    (b) Designation of Boskoff Peak.--
            (1) In general.--The 13,123-foot mountain peak, located at 
        37.85549 N, by -108.03112 W, in the Uncompahgre National 
        Forest in the State of Colorado, shall be known and designated 
        as ``Boskoff Peak''.
            (2) References.--Any reference in a law, map, regulation, 
        document, paper, or other record of the United States to the 
        peak described in paragraph (1) shall be deemed to be a 
        reference to ``Boskoff Peak''.

[[Page 133 STAT. 608]]

SEC. 1107. CORONADO NATIONAL FOREST LAND CONVEYANCE.

    (a) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Permittee.--
                    (A) In general.--The term ``permittee'' means a 
                person who, on the date of enactment of this Act, holds 
                a valid permit for use of a property.
                    (B) Inclusions.--The term ``permittee'' includes any 
                heirs, executors, and assigns of the permittee or 
                interest of the permittee.
            (2) Property.--The term ``property'' means--
                    (A) the approximately 1.1 acres of National Forest 
                System land in sec. 8, T. 10 S., R. 16 E., Gila and Salt 
                River Meridian, as generally depicted on the map 
                entitled ``Coronado National Forest Land Conveyance Act 
                of 2017'', special use permit numbered SAN5005-03, and 
                dated October 2017;
                    (B) the approximately 4.5 acres of National Forest 
                System land in sec. 8, T. 10 S., R. 16 E., Gila and Salt 
                River Meridian, as generally depicted on the map 
                entitled ``Coronado National Forest Land Conveyance Act 
                of 2017'', special use permit numbered SAN5116-03, and 
                dated October 2017; and
                    (C) the approximately 3.9 acres of National Forest 
                System land in NW\1/4\, sec. 1, T. 10 S., R. 15 E., Gila 
                and Salt River Meridian, as generally depicted on the 
                map entitled ``Coronado National Forest Land Conveyance 
                Act of 2017'', special use permit numbered SAN5039-02, 
                and dated October 2017.
            (3) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary 
        of Agriculture.

    (b) Sale.--
            (1) In general.--Subject to valid existing rights, during 
        the period described in paragraph (2), not later than 90 days 
        after the date on which a permittee submits a request to the 
        Secretary, the Secretary shall--
                    (A) accept tender of consideration from that 
                permittee; and
                    (B) sell and quitclaim to that permittee all right, 
                title, and interest of the United States in and to the 
                property for which the permittee holds a permit.
            (2) Period described.--The period referred to in paragraph 
        (1) is the period beginning on the date of enactment of this Act 
        and ending on the date of expiration of the applicable permit.

    (c) Terms and Conditions.--The Secretary may establish such terms 
and conditions on the sales of the properties under this section as the 
Secretary determines to be in the public interest.
    (d) Consideration.--A sale of a property under this section shall be 
for cash consideration equal to the market value of the property, as 
determined by the appraisal described in subsection (e).
    (e) Appraisal.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary shall complete an appraisal 
        of each property, which shall--
                    (A) include the value of any appurtenant easements; 
                and

[[Page 133 STAT. 609]]

                    (B) exclude the value of any private improvements 
                made by a permittee of the property before the date of 
                appraisal.
            (2) Standards.--An appraisal under paragraph (1) shall be 
        conducted in accordance with--
                    (A) the Uniform Appraisal Standards for Federal Land 
                Acquisitions, established in accordance with the Uniform 
                Relocation Assistance and Real Property Acquisition 
                Policies Act of 1970 (42 U.S.C. 4601 et seq.); and
                    (B) the Uniform Standards of Professional Appraisal 
                Practice.

    (f) Costs.--The Secretary shall pay--
            (1) the cost of a conveyance of a property under this 
        section; and
            (2) the cost of an appraisal under subsection (e).

    (g) Proceeds From the Sale of Land.--Any payment received by the 
Secretary from the sale of property under this section shall be 
deposited in the fund established under Public Law 90-171 (commonly 
known as the ``Sisk Act'') (16 U.S.C. 484a) and shall be available to 
the Secretary until expended for the acquisition of inholdings in 
national forests in the State of Arizona.
    (h) Maps and Legal Descriptions.--
            (1) In general.--As soon as practicable after the date of 
        enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall file maps and legal 
        descriptions of each property.
            (2) Force of law.--The maps and legal descriptions filed 
        under paragraph (1) shall have the same force and effect as if 
        included in this section, except that the Secretary may correct 
        typographical errors in the maps and legal descriptions.
            (3) Public availability.--The maps and legal descriptions 
        filed under paragraph (1) shall be on file and available for 
        public inspection in the office of the Supervisor of the 
        Coronado National Forest.
SEC. 1108. DESCHUTES CANYON-STEELHEAD FALLS WILDERNESS STUDY AREA 
                          BOUNDARY ADJUSTMENT, OREGON.

    (a) Boundary Adjustment.--The boundary of the Deschutes Canyon-
Steelhead Falls Wilderness Study Area is modified to exclude 
approximately 688 acres of public land, as depicted on the map entitled 
``Deschutes Canyon-Steelhead Falls Wilderness Study Area (WSA) Proposed 
Boundary Adjustment'' and dated September 26, 2018.
    (b) Effect of Exclusion.--
            (1) In general.--The public land excluded from the Deschutes 
        Canyon-Steelhead Falls Wilderness Study Area under subsection 
        (a)--
                    (A) is no longer subject to section 603(c) of the 
                Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 1976 (43 
                U.S.C. 1782(c)); and
                    (B) shall be managed in accordance with--
                          (i) this section;
                          (ii) the Federal Land Policy and Management 
                      Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.); and
                          (iii) any applicable resource management plan.
            (2) Management.--The Secretary shall manage the land 
        excluded from the Deschutes Canyon-Steelhead Falls Wilderness 
        Study Area under subsection (a) to improve fire resiliency

[[Page 133 STAT. 610]]

        and forest health, including the conduct of wildfire prevention 
        and response activities, as appropriate.
            (3) Off-road recreational motorized use.--The Secretary 
        shall not permit off-road recreational motorized use on the 
        public land excluded from the Deschutes Canyon-Steelhead Falls 
        Wilderness Study Area under subsection (a).
SEC. 1109. MAINTENANCE OF FEDERAL MINERAL LEASES BASED ON 
                          EXTRACTION OF HELIUM.

    The first section of the Mineral Leasing Act (30 U.S.C. 181) is 
amended in the fifth paragraph by inserting after ``purchaser thereof'' 
the following: ``, and that extraction of helium from gas produced from 
such lands shall maintain the lease as if the extracted helium were oil 
and gas''.
SEC. 1110. SMALL MINER WAIVERS TO CLAIM MAINTENANCE FEES.

    (a) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Covered claimholder.--The term ``covered claimholder'' 
        means--
                    (A) the claimholder of the claims in the State 
                numbered AA023149, AA023163, AA047913, AA047914, 
                AA047915, AA047916, AA047917, AA047918, and AA047919 (as 
                of December 29, 2004);
                    (B) the claimholder of the claim in the State 
                numbered FF-059315 (as of December 29, 2004);
                    (C) the claimholder of the claims in the State 
                numbered FF-58607, FF-58608, FF-58609, FF-58610, FF-
                58611, FF-58613, FF-58615, FF-58616, FF-58617, and FF-
                58618 (as of December 31, 2003); and
                    (D) the claimholder of the claims in the State 
                numbered FF-53988, FF-53989, and FF-53990 (as of 
                December 31, 1987).
            (2) Defect.--The term ``defect'' includes a failure--
                    (A) to timely file--
                          (i) a small miner maintenance fee waiver 
                      application;
                          (ii) an affidavit of annual labor associated 
                      with a small miner maintenance fee waiver 
                      application; or
                          (iii) an instrument required under section 
                      314(a) of the Federal Land Policy and Management 
                      Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1744(a)); and
                    (B) to pay the required application fee for a small 
                maintenance fee waiver application.
            (3) State.--The term ``State'' means the State of Alaska.

    (b) Treatment of Covered Claimholders.--Notwithstanding section 
10101(d) of the Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1993 (30 U.S.C. 
28f(d)) and section 314(c) of the Federal Land Policy and Management Act 
of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1744(c)), each covered claimholder shall, during the 
60-day period beginning on the date on which the covered claimholder 
receives written notification from the Bureau of Land Management by 
registered mail of the opportunity, have the opportunity--
            (1)(A) to cure any defect in a small miner maintenance fee 
        waiver application (including the failure to timely file a small 
        miner maintenance fee waiver application) for any prior period 
        during which the defect existed; or
            (B) to pay any claim maintenance fees due for any prior 
        period during which the defect existed; and

[[Page 133 STAT. 611]]

            (2) to cure any defect in the filing of any instrument 
        required under section 314(a) of the Federal Land Policy and 
        Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1744(a)) (including the 
        failure to timely file any required instrument) for any prior 
        period during which the defect existed.

    (c) Reinstatement of Claims Deemed Forfeited.--The Secretary shall 
reinstate any claim of a covered claimholder as of the date declared 
forfeited and void--
            (1) under section 10104 of the Omnibus Budget Reconciliation 
        Act of 1993 (30 U.S.C. 28i) for failure to pay the claim 
        maintenance fee or obtain a valid waiver under section 10101 of 
        the Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1993 (30 U.S.C. 28f); 
        or
            (2) under section 314(c) of the Federal Land Policy and 
        Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1744(c)) for failure to file 
        any instrument required under section 314(a) of that Act (43 
        U.S.C. 1744(a)) for any prior period during which the defect 
        existed if the covered claimholder--
                    (A) cures the defect; or
                    (B) pays the claim maintenance fee under subsection 
                (b)(1)(B).
SEC. 1111. &lt;&lt;NOTE: 54 USC 320301 notes.&gt;&gt;  SAINT FRANCIS DAM 
                          DISASTER NATIONAL MEMORIAL AND NATIONAL 
                          MONUMENT.

    (a) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Memorial.--The term ``Memorial'' means the Saint Francis 
        Dam Disaster National Memorial authorized under subsection 
        (b)(1).
            (2) Monument.--The term ``Monument'' means the Saint Francis 
        Dam Disaster National Monument established by subsection (d)(1).
            (3) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary 
        of Agriculture.
            (4) State.--The term ``State'' means the State of 
        California.

    (b) Saint Francis Dam Disaster National Memorial.--
            (1) Establishment.--The Secretary may establish a memorial 
        at the Saint Francis Dam site in the county of Los Angeles, 
        California, for the purpose of honoring the victims of the Saint 
        Francis Dam disaster of March 12, 1928.
            (2) Requirements.--The Memorial shall be--
                    (A) known as the ``Saint Francis Dam Disaster 
                National Memorial''; and
                    (B) managed by the Forest Service.
            (3) Donations.--The Secretary may accept, hold, administer, 
        invest, and spend any gift, devise, or bequest of real or 
        personal property made to the Secretary for purposes of 
        developing, designing, constructing, and managing the Memorial.

    (c) Recommendations for Memorial.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 3 years after the date of 
        enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall submit to Congress 
        recommendations regarding--
                    (A) the planning, design, construction, and long-
                term management of the Memorial;
                    (B) the proposed boundaries of the Memorial;
                    (C) a visitor center and educational facilities at 
                the Memorial; and

[[Page 133 STAT. 612]]

                    (D) ensuring public access to the Memorial.
            (2) Consultation.--In preparing the recommendations required 
        under paragraph (1), the Secretary shall consult with--
                    (A) appropriate Federal agencies;
                    (B) State, Tribal, and local governments, including 
                the Santa Clarita City Council; and
                    (C) the public.

    (d) Establishment of Saint Francis Dam Disaster National Monument.--
            (1) Establishment.--There is established as a national 
        monument in the State certain National Forest System land 
        administered by the Secretary in the county of Los Angeles, 
        California, comprising approximately 353 acres, as generally 
        depicted on the map entitled ``Proposed Saint Francis Dam 
        Disaster National Monument'' and dated September 12, 2018, to be 
        known as the ``Saint Francis Dam Disaster National Monument''.
            (2) Purpose.--The purpose of the Monument is to conserve and 
        enhance for the benefit and enjoyment of the public the 
        cultural, archaeological, historical, watershed, educational, 
        and recreational resources and values of the Monument.

    (e) Duties of the Secretary With Respect to Monument.--
            (1) Management plan.--
                    (A) In general.--Not later than 4 years after the 
                date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall 
                develop a management plan for the Monument.
                    (B) Consultation.--The management plan shall be 
                developed in consultation with--
                          (i) appropriate Federal agencies;
                          (ii) State, Tribal, and local governments; and
                          (iii) the public.
                    (C) Considerations.--In developing and implementing 
                the management plan, the Secretary shall, with respect 
                to methods of protecting and providing access to the 
                Monument, consider the recommendations of the Saint 
                Francis Disaster National Memorial Foundation, the Santa 
                Clarita Valley Historical Society, and the Community 
                Hiking Club of Santa Clarita.
            (2) Management.--The Secretary shall manage the Monument--
                    (A) in a manner that conserves and enhances the 
                cultural and historic resources of the Monument; and
                    (B) in accordance with--
                          (i) the Forest and Rangeland Renewable 
                      Resources Planning Act of 1974 (16 U.S.C. 1600 et 
                      seq.);
                          (ii) the laws generally applicable to the 
                      National Forest System;
                          (iii) this section; and
                          (iv) any other applicable laws.
            (3) Uses.--
                    (A) Use of motorized vehicles.--The use of motorized 
                vehicles within the Monument may be permitted only--
                          (i) on roads designated for use by motorized 
                      vehicles in the management plan required under 
                      paragraph (1);

[[Page 133 STAT. 613]]

                          (ii) for administrative purposes; or
                          (iii) for emergency responses.
                    (B) Grazing.--The Secretary shall permit grazing 
                within the Monument, where established before the date 
                of enactment of this Act--
                          (i) subject to all applicable laws (including 
                      regulations and Executive orders); and
                          (ii) consistent with the purpose described in 
                      subsection (d)(2).
            (4) No buffer zones.--
                    (A) In general.--Nothing in this section creates a 
                protective perimeter or buffer zone around the Monument.
                    (B) Activities outside national monument.--The fact 
                that an activity or use on land outside the Monument can 
                be seen or heard within the Monument shall not preclude 
                the activity or use outside the boundary of the 
                Monument.

    (f) Clarification on Funding.--
            (1) Use of existing funds.--This section shall be carried 
        out using amounts otherwise made available to the Secretary.
            (2) No additional funds.--No additional funds are authorized 
        to be appropriated to carry out this section.

    (g) Effect.--Nothing in this section affects the operation, 
maintenance, replacement, or modification of existing water resource, 
flood control, utility, pipeline, or telecommunications facilities that 
are located outside the boundary of the Monument, subject to the special 
use authorities of the Secretary of Agriculture and other applicable 
laws.
SEC. 1112. OWYHEE WILDERNESS AREAS BOUNDARY MODIFICATIONS.

    (a) Boundary Modifications.--
            (1) &lt;&lt;NOTE: 16 USC 1132 note.&gt;&gt;  North fork owyhee 
        wilderness.--The boundary of the North Fork Owyhee Wilderness 
        established by section 1503(a)(1)(D) of the Omnibus Public Land 
        Management Act of 2009 (Public Law 111-11; 123 Stat. 1033) is 
        modified to exclude certain land, as depicted on--
                    (A) the Bureau of Land Management map entitled 
                ``North Fork Owyhee and Pole Creek Wilderness Aerial'' 
                and dated July 19, 2016; and
                    (B) the Bureau of Land Management map entitled 
                ``North Fork Owyhee River Wilderness Big Springs Camp 
                Zoom Aerial'' and dated July 19, 2016.
            (2) &lt;&lt;NOTE: 16 USC 1132 note.&gt;&gt;  Owyhee river wilderness.--
        The boundary of the Owyhee River Wilderness established by 
        section 1503(a)(1)(E) of the Omnibus Public Land Management Act 
        of 2009 (Public Law 111-11; 123 Stat. 1033) is modified to 
        exclude certain land, as depicted on--
                    (A) the Bureau of Land Management map entitled 
                ``North Fork Owyhee, Pole Creek, and Owyhee River 
                Wilderness Aerial'' and dated July 19, 2016;
                    (B) the Bureau of Land Management map entitled 
                ``Owyhee River Wilderness Kincaid Reservoir Zoom 
                Aerial'' and dated July 19, 2016; and
                    (C) the Bureau of Land Management map entitled 
                ``Owyhee River Wilderness Dickshooter Road Zoom Aerial'' 
                and dated July 19, 2016.

[[Page 133 STAT. 614]]

            (3) &lt;&lt;NOTE: 16 USC 1132 note.&gt;&gt;  Pole creek wilderness.--The 
        boundary of the Pole Creek Wilderness established by section 
        1503(a)(1)(F) of the Omnibus Public Land Management Act of 2009 
        (Public Law 111-11; 123 Stat. 1033) is modified to exclude 
        certain land, as depicted on--
                    (A) the Bureau of Land Management map entitled 
                ``North Fork Owyhee, Pole Creek, and Owyhee River 
                Wilderness Aerial'' and dated July 19, 2016; and
                    (B) the Bureau of Land Management map entitled 
                ``Pole Creek Wilderness Pullout Zoom Aerial'' and dated 
                July 19, 2016.

    (b) Maps.--
            (1) Effect.--The maps referred to in subsection (a) shall 
        have the same force and effect as if included in this Act, 
        except that the Secretary may correct minor errors in the maps.
            (2) Availability.--The maps referred to in subsection (a) 
        shall be available in the appropriate offices of the Bureau of 
        Land Management.
SEC. 1113. CHUGACH REGION LAND STUDY.

    (a) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) CAC.--The term ``CAC'' means the Chugach Alaska 
        Corporation.
            (2) CAC land.--The term ``CAC land'' means land conveyed to 
        CAC pursuant to the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act (43 
        U.S.C. 1601 et seq.) under which--
                    (A) both the surface estate and the subsurface 
                estate were conveyed to CAC; or
                    (B)(i) the subsurface estate was conveyed to CAC; 
                and
                    (ii) the surface estate or a conservation easement 
                in the surface estate was acquired by the State or by 
                the United States as part of the program.
            (3) Program.--The term ``program'' means the Habitat 
        Protection and Acquisition Program of the Exxon Valdez Oil Spill 
        Trustee Council.
            (4) Region.--The term ``Region'' means the Chugach Region, 
        Alaska.
            (5) Study.--The term ``study'' means the study conducted 
        under subsection (b)(1).

    (b) Chugach Region Land Exchange Study.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 1 year after the date of 
        enactment of this Act, the Secretary, in coordination with the 
        Secretary of Agriculture and in consultation with CAC, shall 
        conduct a study of land ownership and use patterns in the 
        Region.
            (2) Study requirements.--The study shall--
                    (A) assess the social and economic impacts of the 
                program, including impacts caused by split estate 
                ownership patterns created by Federal acquisitions under 
                the program, on--
                          (i) the Region; and
                          (ii) CAC and CAC land;
                    (B) identify sufficient acres of accessible and 
                economically viable Federal land that can be offered in 
                exchange for CAC land identified by CAC as available for 
                exchange; and

[[Page 133 STAT. 615]]

                    (C) provide recommendations for land exchange 
                options with CAC that would--
                          (i) consolidate ownership of the surface and 
                      mineral estate of Federal land under the program; 
                      and
                          (ii) convey to CAC Federal land identified 
                      under subparagraph (B).

    (c) Report.--Not later than 18 months after the date of enactment of 
this Act, the Secretary shall submit to the Committee on Energy and 
Natural Resources of the Senate and the Committee on Natural Resources 
of the House of Representatives a report describing the results of the 
study, including--
            (1) a recommendation on options for 1 or more land 
        exchanges; and
            (2) detailed information on--
                    (A) the acres of Federal land identified for 
                exchange; and
                    (B) any other recommendations provided by the 
                Secretary.
SEC. 1114. &lt;&lt;NOTE: 43 USC 1748b-1.&gt;&gt;  WILDFIRE TECHNOLOGY 
                          MODERNIZATION.

    (a) Purpose.--The purpose of this section is to promote the use of 
the best available technology to enhance the effective and cost-
efficient response to wildfires--
            (1) to meet applicable protection objectives; and
            (2) to increase the safety of--
                    (A) firefighters; and
                    (B) the public.

    (b) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Secretaries.--The term ``Secretaries'' means--
                    (A) the Secretary of Agriculture; and
                    (B) the Secretary.
            (2) Secretary concerned.--The term ``Secretary concerned'' 
        means--
                    (A) the Secretary of Agriculture, with respect to 
                activities under the Department of Agriculture; and
                    (B) the Secretary, with respect to activities under 
                the Department of the Interior.

    (c) Unmanned Aircraft Systems.--
            (1) Definitions.--In this subsection, the terms ``unmanned 
        aircraft'' and ``unmanned aircraft system'' have the meanings 
        given those terms in section 44801 of title 49, United States 
        Code.
            (2) Establishment of program.--Not later than 180 days after 
        the date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary, in 
        consultation with the Secretary of Agriculture, shall establish 
        a research, development, and testing program, or expand an 
        applicable existing program, to assess unmanned aircraft system 
        technologies, including optionally piloted aircraft, across the 
        full range of wildland fire management operations in order to 
        accelerate the deployment and integration of those technologies 
        into the operations of the Secretaries.
            (3) Expanding use of unmanned aircraft systems on 
        wildfires.--In carrying out the program established under 
        paragraph (2), the Secretaries, in coordination with the Federal 
        Aviation Administration, State wildland firefighting agencies, 
        and other relevant Federal agencies, shall enter into an 
        agreement under which the Secretaries shall develop consistent

[[Page 133 STAT. 616]]

        protocols and plans for the use on wildland fires of unmanned 
        aircraft system technologies, including for the development of 
        real-time maps of the location of wildland fires.

    (d) Location Systems for Wildland Firefighters.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 2 years after the date of 
        enactment of this Act, subject to the availability of 
        appropriations, the Secretaries, in coordination with State 
        wildland firefighting agencies, shall jointly develop and 
        operate a tracking system (referred to in this subsection as the 
        ``system'') to remotely locate the positions of fire resources 
        for use by wildland firefighters, including, at a minimum, any 
        fire resources assigned to Federal type 1 wildland fire incident 
        management teams.
            (2) Requirements.--The system shall--
                    (A) use the most practical and effective technology 
                available to the Secretaries to remotely track the 
                location of an active resource, such as a Global 
                Positioning System;
                    (B) depict the location of each fire resource on the 
                applicable maps developed under subsection (c)(3);
                    (C) operate continuously during the period for which 
                any firefighting personnel are assigned to the 
                applicable Federal wildland fire; and
                    (D) be subject to such terms and conditions as the 
                Secretary concerned determines necessary for the 
                effective implementation of the system.
            (3) Operation.--The Secretary concerned shall--
                    (A) before commencing operation of the system--
                          (i) conduct not fewer than 2 pilot projects 
                      relating to the operation, management, and 
                      effectiveness of the system; and
                          (ii) review the results of those pilot 
                      projects;
                    (B) conduct training, and maintain a culture, such 
                that an employee, officer, or contractor shall not rely 
                on the system for safety; and
                    (C) establish procedures for the collection, 
                storage, and transfer of data collected under this 
                subsection to ensure--
                          (i) data security; and
                          (ii) the privacy of wildland fire personnel.

    (e) Wildland Fire Decision Support.--
            (1) Protocol.--To the maximum extent practicable, the 
        Secretaries shall ensure that wildland fire management 
        activities conducted by the Secretaries, or conducted jointly by 
        the Secretaries and State wildland firefighting agencies, 
        achieve compliance with applicable incident management 
        objectives in a manner that--
                    (A) minimizes firefighter exposure to the lowest 
                level necessary; and
                    (B) reduces overall costs of wildfire incidents.
            (2) Wildfire decision support system.--
                    (A) In general.--The Secretaries, in coordination 
                with State wildland firefighting agencies, shall 
                establish a system or expand an existing system to track 
                and monitor decisions made by the Secretaries or State 
                wildland firefighting agencies in managing wildfires.
                    (B) Components.--The system established or expanded 
                under subparagraph (A) shall be able to alert the 
                Secretaries if--

[[Page 133 STAT. 617]]

                          (i) unusual costs are incurred;
                          (ii) an action to be carried out would 
                      likely--
                                    (I) endanger the safety of a 
                                firefighter; or
                                    (II) be ineffective in meeting an 
                                applicable suppression or protection 
                                goal; or
                          (iii) a decision regarding the management of a 
                      wildfire deviates from--
                                    (I) an applicable protocol 
                                established by the Secretaries, 
                                including the requirement under 
                                paragraph (1); or
                                    (II) an applicable spatial fire 
                                management plan or fire management plan 
                                of the Secretary concerned.

    (f) Smoke Projections From Active Wildland Fires.--The Secretaries 
shall establish a program, to be known as the ``Interagency Wildland 
Fire Air Quality Response Program'', under which the Secretary 
concerned--
            (1) to the maximum extent practicable, shall assign 1 or 
        more air resource advisors to a type 1 incident management team 
        managing a Federal wildland fire; and
            (2) may assign 1 or more air resource advisors to a type 2 
        incident management team managing a wildland fire.

    (g) Firefighter Injuries Database.--
            (1) In general.--Section 9(a) of the Federal Fire Prevention 
        and Control Act of 1974 (15 U.S.C. 2208(a)) is amended--
                    (A) in paragraph (2), by inserting ``, categorized 
                by the type of fire'' after ``such injuries and 
                deaths''; and
                    (B) in paragraph (3), by striking ``activities;'' 
                and inserting the following: ``activities, including--
                    ``(A) all injuries sustained by a firefighter and 
                treated by a doctor, categorized by the type of 
                firefighter;
                    ``(B) all deaths sustained while undergoing a pack 
                test or preparing for a work capacity;
                    ``(C) all injuries or deaths resulting from vehicle 
                accidents; and
                    ``(D) all injuries or deaths resulting from aircraft 
                crashes;''.
            (2) Use of existing data gathering and analysis 
        organizations.--Section 9(b)(3) of the Federal Fire Prevention 
        and Control Act of 1974 (15 U.S.C. 2208(b)(3)) is amended by 
        inserting ``, including the Center for Firefighter Injury 
        Research and Safety Trends'' after ``public and private''.
            (3) Medical privacy of firefighters.--Section 9 of the 
        Federal Fire Prevention and Control Act of 1974 (15 U.S.C. 2208) 
        is amended by adding at the end the following:

    ``(e) Medical Privacy of Firefighters.--The collection, storage, and 
transfer of any medical data collected under this section shall be 
conducted in accordance with--
            ``(1) the privacy regulations promulgated under section 
        264(c) of the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability 
        Act of 1996 (42 U.S.C. 1320d-2 note; Public Law 104-191); and
            ``(2) other applicable regulations, including parts 160, 
        162, and 164 of title 45, Code of Federal Regulations (as in 
        effect on the date of enactment of this subsection).''.

    (h) Rapid Response Erosion Database.--

[[Page 133 STAT. 618]]

            (1) In general.--The Secretaries, in consultation with the 
        Administrator of the National Aeronautics and Space 
        Administration and the Secretary of Commerce, shall establish 
        and maintain a database, to be known as the ``Rapid Response 
        Erosion Database'' (referred to in this subsection as the 
        ``Database'').
            (2) Open-source database.--
                    (A) Availability.--The Secretaries shall make the 
                Database (including the original source code)--
                          (i) web-based; and
                          (ii) available without charge.
                    (B) Components.--To the maximum extent practicable, 
                the Database shall provide for--
                          (i) the automatic incorporation of spatial 
                      data relating to vegetation, soils, and elevation 
                      into an applicable map created by the Secretary 
                      concerned that depicts the changes in land-cover 
                      and soil properties caused by a wildland fire; and
                          (ii) the generation of a composite map that 
                      can be used by the Secretary concerned to model 
                      the effectiveness of treatments in the burned area 
                      to prevent flooding, erosion, and landslides under 
                      a range of weather scenarios.
            (3) Use.--The Secretary concerned shall use the Database, as 
        applicable, in developing recommendations for emergency 
        stabilization treatments or modifications to drainage structures 
        to protect values-at-risk following a wildland fire.
            (4) Coordination.--The Secretaries may share the Database, 
        and any results generated in using the Database, with any State 
        or unit of local government.

    (i) Predicting Where Wildfires Will Start.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretaries, in consultation with the 
        Administrator of the National Aeronautics and Space 
        Administration, the Secretary of Energy, and the Secretary of 
        Commerce, through the capabilities and assets located at the 
        National Laboratories, shall establish and maintain a system to 
        predict the locations of future wildfires for fire-prone areas 
        of the United States.
            (2) Cooperation; components.--The system established under 
        paragraph (1) shall be based on, and seek to enhance, similar 
        systems in existence on the date of enactment of this Act, 
        including the Fire Danger Assessment System.
            (3) Use in forecasts.--Not later than 1 year after the date 
        of enactment of this Act, the Secretaries shall use the system 
        established under paragraph (1), to the maximum extent 
        practicable, for purposes of developing any wildland fire 
        potential forecasts.
            (4) Coordination.--The Secretaries may share the system 
        established under paragraph (1), and any results generated in 
        using the system, with any State or unit of local government.

    (j) Termination of Authority.--The authority provided by this 
section terminates on the date that is 10 years after the date of 
enactment of this Act.
    (k) Savings Clause.--Nothing in this section--
            (1) requires the Secretary concerned to establish a new 
        program, system, or database to replace an existing program,

[[Page 133 STAT. 619]]

        system, or database that meets the objectives of this section; 
        or
            (2) precludes the Secretary concerned from using existing or 
        future technology that--
                    (A) is more efficient, safer, or better meets the 
                needs of firefighters, other personnel, or the public; 
                and
                    (B) meets the objectives of this section.
SEC. 1115. MCCOY FLATS TRAIL SYSTEM.

    (a) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) County.--The term ``County'' means Uintah County, Utah.
            (2) Decision record.--The term ``Decision Record'' means the 
        Decision Record prepared by the Bureau of Land Management for 
        the Environmental Assessment for the McCoy Flats Trail System 
        numbered DOI-BLM-G010-2012-0057 and dated October 2012.
            (3) State.--The term ``State'' means the State of Utah.
            (4) Trail system.--The term ``Trail System'' means the McCoy 
        Flats Trail System established by subsection (b)(1).

    (b) Establishment.--
            (1) In general.--Subject to valid existing rights, there is 
        established the McCoy Flats Trail System in the State.
            (2) Area included.--The Trail System shall include public 
        land administered by the Bureau of Land Management in the 
        County, as described in the Decision Record.

    (c) Map and Legal Description.--
            (1) In general.--As soon as practicable after the date of 
        enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall prepare a map and 
        legal description of the Trail System.
            (2) Availability; transmittal to congress.--The map and 
        legal description prepared under paragraph (1) shall be--
                    (A) available in appropriate offices of the Bureau 
                of Land Management; and
                    (B) transmitted by the Secretary to--
                          (i) the Committee on Natural Resources of the 
                      House of Representatives; and
                          (ii) the Committee on Energy and Natural 
                      Resources of the Senate.
            (3) Force and effect.--The map and legal description 
        prepared under paragraph (1) shall have the same force and 
        effect as if included in this section, except that the Secretary 
        may correct any clerical or typographical errors in the map and 
        legal description.

    (d) Administration.--The Secretary shall administer the Trail System 
in accordance with--
            (1) the Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 1976 (43 
        U.S.C. 1701 et seq.);
            (2) this section; and
            (3) other applicable law.

    (e) Management Plan.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 2 years after the date of 
        enactment of this Act, the Secretary, in consultation and 
        coordination with the County and affected Indian Tribes, shall 
        prepare a management plan for the Trail System.
            (2) Public comment.--The management plan shall be developed 
        with opportunities for public comment.

[[Page 133 STAT. 620]]

            (3) Interim management.--Until the completion of the 
        management plan, the Trail System shall be administered in 
        accordance with the Decision Record.
            (4) Recreational opportunities.--In developing the 
        management plan, the Secretary shall seek to provide for new 
        mountain bike route and trail construction to increase 
        recreational opportunities within the Trail System, consistent 
        with this section.

    (f) Uses.--The Trail System shall be used for nonmotorized mountain 
bike recreation, as described in the Decision Record.
    (g) Acquisition.--
            (1) In general.--On the request of the State, the Secretary 
        shall seek to acquire State land, or interests in State land, 
        located within the Trail System by purchase from a willing 
        seller or exchange.
            (2) Administration of acquired land.--Any land acquired 
        under this subsection shall be administered as part of the Trail 
        System.

    (h) Fees.--No fees shall be charged for access to, or use of, the 
Trail System and associated parking areas.
SEC. 1116. TECHNICAL CORRECTIONS TO CERTAIN LAWS RELATING TO 
                          FEDERAL LAND IN THE STATE OF NEVADA.

    (a) Amendment to Conveyance of Federal Land in Storey County, 
Nevada.--Section 3009(d) of the Carl Levin and Howard P. ``Buck'' McKeon 
National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2015 (Public Law 113-
291; 128 Stat. 3751) is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (1)--
                    (A) by striking subparagraphs (B) through (D) and 
                redesignating subparagraph (E) as subparagraph (D); and
                    (B) by inserting after subparagraph (A) the 
                following:
                    ``(B) Federal land.--The term `Federal land' means 
                the land generally depicted as `Federal land' on the 
                map.
                    ``(C) Map.--The term `map' means the map entitled 
                `Storey County Land Conveyance' and dated June 6, 
                2018.''.
            (2) in paragraph (3)--
                    (A) in subparagraph (A)(i), by striking ``after 
                completing the mining claim validity review under 
                paragraph (2)(B), if requested by the County,''; and
                    (B) in subparagraph (B)--
                          (i) in clause (i)--
                                    (I) in the matter preceding 
                                subclause (I), by striking ``each parcel 
                                of land located in a mining townsite'' 
                                and inserting ``any Federal land'';
                                    (II) in subclause (I), by striking 
                                ``mining townsite'' and inserting 
                                ``Federal land''; and
                                    (III) in subclause (II), by striking 
                                ``mining townsite (including 
                                improvements to the mining townsite), as 
                                identified for conveyance on the map'' 
                                and inserting ``Federal land (including 
                                improvements)'';
                          (ii) by striking clause (ii);
                          (iii) by striking the subparagraph designation 
                      and heading and all that follows through ``With 
                      respect'' in the matter preceding subclause (I) of 
                      clause (i) and inserting the following:
                    ``(B) Valid mining claims.--With respect''; and

[[Page 133 STAT. 621]]

                          (iv) by redesignating subclauses (I) and (II) 
                      as clauses (i) and (ii), respectively, and 
                      indenting appropriately;
            (3) in paragraph (4)(A), by striking ``a mining townsite 
        conveyed under paragraph (3)(B)(i)(II)'' and inserting ``Federal 
        land conveyed under paragraph (2)(B)(ii)'';
            (4) in paragraph (5), by striking ``a mining townsite under 
        paragraph (3)'' and inserting ``Federal land under paragraph 
        (2)'';
            (5) in paragraph (6), in the matter preceding subparagraph 
        (A), by striking ``mining townsite'' and inserting ``Federal 
        land'';
            (6) in paragraph (7), by striking ``A mining townsite to be 
        conveyed by the United States under paragraph (3)'' and 
        inserting ``The exterior boundary of the Federal land to be 
        conveyed by the United States under paragraph (2)'';
            (7) in paragraph (9)--
                    (A) by striking ``a mining townsite under paragraph 
                (3)'' and inserting ``the Federal land under paragraph 
                (2)''; and
                    (B) by striking ``the mining townsite'' and 
                inserting ``the Federal land'';
            (8) in paragraph (10), by striking ``the examination'' and 
        all that follows through the period at the end and inserting 
        ``the conveyance under paragraph (2) should be completed by not 
        later than 18 months after the date of enactment of the John D. 
        Dingell, Jr. Conservation, Management, and Recreation Act.'';
            (9) by striking paragraphs (2) and (8);
            (10) by redesignating paragraphs (3) through (7) and (9) and 
        (10) as paragraphs (2) through (6) and (7) and (8) respectively; 
        and
            (11) by adding at the end the following:
            ``(9) Availability of map.--The map shall be on file and 
        available for public inspection in the appropriate offices of 
        the Bureau of Land Management.''.

    (b) Modification of Utility Corridor.--The Secretary shall realign 
the utility corridor established by section 301(a) of the Lincoln County 
Conservation, Recreation, and Development Act of 2004 (Public Law 108-
424; 118 Stat. 2412) to be aligned as generally depicted on the map 
entitled ``Proposed LCCRDA Utility Corridor Realignment'' and dated 
March 14, 2017, by modifying the map entitled ``Lincoln County 
Conservation, Recreation, and Development Act'' (referred to in this 
subsection as the ``Map'') and dated October 1, 2004, by--
            (1) removing the utility corridor from sections 5, 6, 7, 8, 
        9, 10, 11, 14, and 15, T. 7 N., R. 68 E., of the Map; and
            (2) redesignating the utility corridor so as to appear on 
        the Map in--
                    (A) sections 31, 32, and 33, T. 8 N., R. 68 E.;
                    (B) sections 4, 5, 6, and 7, T. 7 N., R. 68 E.; and
                    (C) sections 1 and 12, T. 7 N., 67 E.

    (c) Final Corrective Patent in Clark County, Nevada.--
            (1) Validation of patent.--Patent number 27-2005-0081, 
        issued by the Bureau of Land Management on February 18, 2005, is 
        affirmed and validated as having been issued pursuant to, and in 
        compliance with, the Nevada-Florida Land Exchange

[[Page 133 STAT. 622]]

        Authorization Act of 1988 (Public Law 100-275; 102 Stat. 52), 
        the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 (42 U.S.C. 4321 et 
        seq.), and the Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 1976 
        (43 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.) for the benefit of the desert tortoise, 
        other species, and the habitat of the desert tortoise and other 
        species to increase the likelihood of the recovery of the desert 
        tortoise and other species.
            (2) Ratification of reconfiguration.--The process used by 
        the United States Fish and Wildlife Service and the Bureau of 
        Land Management in reconfiguring the land described in paragraph 
        (1), as depicted on Exhibit 1-4 of the Final Environmental 
        Impact Statement for the Planned Development Project MSHCP, 
        Lincoln County, NV (FWS-R8-ES-2008-N0136), and the 
        reconfiguration provided for in special condition 10 of the 
        Corps of Engineers Permit No. 000005042, are ratified.

    (d) Issuance of Corrective Patent in Lincoln County, Nevada.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary, acting through the Director 
        of the Bureau of Land Management, may issue a corrective patent 
        for the 7,548 acres of land in Lincoln County, Nevada, depicted 
        on the map prepared by the Bureau of Land Management entitled 
        ``Proposed Lincoln County Land Reconfiguration'' and dated 
        January 28, 2016.
            (2) Applicable law.--A corrective patent issued under 
        paragraph (1) shall be treated as issued pursuant to, and in 
        compliance with, the Nevada-Florida Land Exchange Authorization 
        Act of 1988 (Public Law 100-275; 102 Stat. 52).

    (e) Conveyance to Lincoln County, Nevada, to Support a Landfill.--
            (1) In general.--As soon as practicable after the date of 
        enactment of this Act, and subject to valid existing rights, at 
        the request of Lincoln County, Nevada, the Secretary shall 
        convey without consideration under the Act of June 14, 1926 
        (commonly known as the ``Recreation and Public Purposes Act'') 
        (44 Stat. 741, chapter 578; 43 U.S.C. 869 et seq.), to Lincoln 
        County all right, title and interest of the United States in and 
        to approximately 400 acres of land in Lincoln County, Nevada, 
        more particularly described as follows: T. 11 S., R. 62, E., 
        Section 25 E \1/2\ of W \1/2\; and W \1/2\ of E \1/2\; and E \1/
        2\ of SE \1/4\.
            (2) Reservation.--The Secretary shall reserve to the United 
        States the mineral estate in any land conveyed under paragraph 
        (1).
            (3) Use of conveyed land.--The land conveyed under paragraph 
        (1) shall be used by Lincoln County, Nevada, to provide a 
        suitable location for the establishment of a centralized 
        landfill and to provide a designated area and authorized 
        facilities to discourage unauthorized dumping and trash disposal 
        on environmentally-sensitive public land. Lincoln County may not 
        dispose of the land conveyed under paragraph (1).
            (4) Reversion.--If Lincoln County, Nevada, ceases to use any 
        parcel of land conveyed under paragraph (1) for the purposes 
        described in paragraph (3)--
                    (A) title to the parcel shall revert to the 
                Secretary, at the option of the Secretary; and

[[Page 133 STAT. 623]]

                    (B) Lincoln County shall be responsible for any 
                reclamation necessary to restore the parcel to a 
                condition acceptable to the Secretary.

    (f) Mt. Moriah Wilderness, High Schells Wilderness, and Arc Dome 
Wilderness Boundary Adjustments.--
            (1) Amendments to the pam white wilderness act of 2006.--
        Section 323 of the Pam White Wilderness Act of 2006 (16 U.S.C. 
        1132 note; 120 Stat. 3031) is amended by striking subsection (e) 
        and inserting the following:

    ``(e) Mt. Moriah Wilderness Adjustment.--The boundary of the Mt. 
Moriah Wilderness established under section 2(13) of the Nevada 
Wilderness Protection Act of 1989 (16 U.S.C. 1132 note) is adjusted to 
include--
            ``(1) the land identified as the `Mount Moriah Wilderness 
        Area' and `Mount Moriah Additions' on the map entitled `Eastern 
        White Pine County' and dated November 29, 2006; and
            ``(2) the land identified as `NFS Lands' on the map entitled 
        `Proposed Wilderness Boundary Adjustment Mt. Moriah Wilderness 
        Area' and dated January 19, 2017.

    ``(f) High Schells Wilderness Adjustment.--The boundary of the High 
Schells Wilderness established under subsection (a)(11) is adjusted--
            ``(1) to include the land identified as `Include as 
        Wilderness' on the map entitled `McCoy Creek Adjustment' and 
        dated November 3, 2014; and
            ``(2) to exclude the land identified as `NFS Lands' on the 
        map entitled `Proposed Wilderness Boundary Adjustment High 
        Schells Wilderness Area' and dated January 19, 2017.''.
            (2) Amendments to the nevada wilderness protection act of 
        1989.--The Nevada Wilderness Protection Act of 1989 (Public Law 
        101-195; 16 U.S.C. 1132 note) is amended by adding at the end 
        the following:
``SEC. 12. &lt;&lt;NOTE: 16 USC 1132 note.&gt;&gt;  ARC DOME BOUNDARY 
                      ADJUSTMENT.

    ``The boundary of the Arc Dome Wilderness established under section 
2(2) is adjusted to exclude the land identified as `Exclude from 
Wilderness' on the map entitled `Arc Dome Adjustment' and dated November 
3, 2014.''.
SEC. 1117. &lt;&lt;NOTE: 16 USC 460bbbb.&gt;&gt;  ASHLEY KARST NATIONAL 
                          RECREATION AND GEOLOGIC AREA.

    (a) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Management plan.--The term ``Management Plan'' means the 
        management plan for the Recreation Area prepared under 
        subsection (e)(2)(A).
            (2) Map.--The term ``Map'' means the map entitled ``Northern 
        Utah Lands Management Act-Overview'' and dated February 4, 2019.
            (3) Recreation area.--The term ``Recreation Area'' means the 
        Ashley Karst National Recreation and Geologic Area established 
        by subsection (b)(1).
            (4) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary 
        of Agriculture.
            (5) State.--The term ``State'' means the State of Utah.

    (b) Establishment.--

[[Page 133 STAT. 624]]

            (1) In general.--Subject to valid existing rights, there is 
        established the Ashley Karst National Recreation and Geologic 
        Area in the State.
            (2) Area included.--The Recreation Area shall consist of 
        approximately 173,475 acres of land in the Ashley National 
        Forest, as generally depicted on the Map.

    (c) Purposes.--The purposes of the Recreation Area are to conserve 
and protect the watershed, geological, recreational, wildlife, scenic, 
natural, cultural, and historic resources of the Recreation Area.
    (d) Map and Legal Description.--
            (1) In general.--As soon as practicable after the date of 
        enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall prepare and submit to 
        the Committee on Natural Resources and the Committee on 
        Agriculture of the House of Representatives and the Committee on 
        Energy and Natural Resources of the Senate a map and legal 
        description of the Recreation Area.
            (2) Effect.--The map and legal description prepared under 
        paragraph (1) shall have the same force and effect as if 
        included in this section, except that the Secretary may correct 
        minor errors in the map or legal description.
            (3) Availability.--A copy of the map and legal description 
        prepared under paragraph (1) shall be on file and available for 
        public inspection in the appropriate offices of the Forest 
        Service.

    (e) Administration.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary shall administer the 
        Recreation Area in accordance with--
                    (A) the laws generally applicable to the National 
                Forest System, including the Forest and Rangeland 
                Renewable Resources Planning Act of 1974 (16 U.S.C. 1600 
                et seq.);
                    (B) this section; and
                    (C) any other applicable law.
            (2) Management plan.--
                    (A) In general.--Not later than 2 years after the 
                date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall 
                prepare a management plan for the Recreation Area.
                    (B) Consultation.--The Secretary shall--
                          (i) prepare the management plan in 
                      consultation and coordination with Uintah County, 
                      Utah, and affected Indian Tribes; and
                          (ii) provide for public input in the 
                      preparation of the management plan.

    (f) Uses.--The Secretary shall only allow such uses of the 
Recreation Area that would--
            (1) further the purposes for which the Recreation Area is 
        established; and
            (2) promote the long-term protection and management of the 
        watershed and underground karst system of the Recreation Area.

    (g) Motorized Vehicles.--
            (1) In general.--Except as needed for emergency response or 
        administrative purposes, the use of motorized vehicles in the 
        Recreation Area shall be permitted only on roads and motorized 
        routes designated in the Management Plan for the use of 
        motorized vehicles.

[[Page 133 STAT. 625]]

            (2) New roads.--No new permanent or temporary roads or other 
        motorized vehicle routes shall be constructed within the 
        Recreation Area after the date of enactment of this Act.
            (3) Existing roads.--
                    (A) In general.--Necessary maintenance or repairs to 
                existing roads designated in the Management Plan for the 
                use of motorized vehicles, including necessary repairs 
                to keep existing roads free of debris or other safety 
                hazards, shall be permitted after the date of enactment 
                of this Act, consistent with the requirements of this 
                section.
                    (B) Rerouting.--Nothing in this subsection prevents 
                the Secretary from rerouting an existing road or trail 
                to protect Recreation Area resources from degradation, 
                or to protect public safety, as determined to be 
                appropriate by the Secretary.
            (4) Over snow vehicles.--
                    (A) In general.--Nothing in this section prohibits 
                the use of snowmobiles and other over snow vehicles 
                within the Recreation Area.
                    (B) Winter recreation use plan.--Not later than 2 
                years after the date of enactment of this Act, the 
                Secretary shall undertake a winter recreation use 
                planning process, which shall include opportunities for 
                use by snowmobiles or other over snow vehicles in 
                appropriate areas of the Recreation Area.
            (5) Applicable law.--Activities authorized under this 
        subsection shall be consistent with the applicable forest plan 
        and travel management plan for, and any law (including 
        regulations) applicable to, the Ashley National Forest.

    (h) Water Infrastructure.--
            (1) Existing access.--The designation of the Recreation Area 
        shall not affect the ability of authorized users to access, 
        operate, and maintain water infrastructure facilities within the 
        Recreation Area in accordance with applicable authorizations and 
        permits.
            (2) Cooperative agreements.--
                    (A) In general.--The Secretary shall offer to enter 
                into a cooperative agreement with authorized users and 
                local governmental entities to provide, in accordance 
                with any applicable law (including regulations)--
                          (i) access, including motorized access, for 
                      repair and maintenance to water infrastructure 
                      facilities within the Recreation Area, including 
                      Whiterocks Reservoir, subject to such terms and 
                      conditions as the Secretary determines to be 
                      necessary; and
                          (ii) access and maintenance by authorized 
                      users and local governmental entities for the 
                      continued delivery of water to the Ashley Valley 
                      if water flows cease or become diminished due to 
                      impairment of the karst system, subject to such 
                      terms and conditions as the Secretary determines 
                      to be necessary.

    (i) Grazing.--The grazing of livestock in the Recreation Area, where 
established before the date of enactment of this Act, shall be allowed 
to continue, subject to such reasonable regulations, policies, and 
practices as the Secretary considers to be necessary in accordance 
with--
            (1) applicable law (including regulations);

[[Page 133 STAT. 626]]

            (2) the purposes of the Recreation Area; and
            (3) the guidelines set forth in the report of the Committee 
        on Interior and Insular Affairs of the House of Representatives 
        accompanying H.R. 5487 of the 96th Congress (H. Rept. 96-617).

    (j) Fish and Wildlife.--Nothing in this section affects the 
jurisdiction of the State with respect to the management of fish and 
wildlife on Federal land in the State.
    (k) Wildlife Water Projects.--The Secretary, in consultation with 
the State, may authorize wildlife water projects (including guzzlers) 
within the Recreation Area.
    (l) Water Rights.--Nothing in this section--
            (1) constitutes an express or implied reservation by the 
        United States of any water rights with respect to the Recreation 
        Area;
            (2) affects any water rights in the State;
            (3) affects the use or allocation, in existence on the date 
        of enactment of this Act, of any water, water right, or interest 
        in water;
            (4) affects any vested absolute or decreed conditional water 
        right in existence on the date of enactment of this Act, 
        including any water right held by the United States;
            (5) affects any interstate water compact in existence on the 
        date of enactment of this Act; or
            (6) shall be considered to be a relinquishment or reduction 
        of any water rights reserved or appropriated by the United 
        States in the State on or before the date of enactment of this 
        Act.

    (m) Withdrawal.--Subject to valid existing rights, all Federal land 
in the Recreation Area is withdrawn from--
            (1) all forms of entry, appropriation, and disposal under 
        the public land laws;
            (2) location, entry, and patent under the mining laws; and
            (3) operation of the mineral leasing, mineral materials, and 
        geothermal leasing laws.

    (n) Vegetation Management.--Nothing in this section prevents the 
Secretary from conducting vegetation management projects, including 
fuels reduction activities, within the Recreation Area for the purposes 
of improving water quality and reducing risks from wildfire.
    (o) Wildland Fire Operations.--Nothing in this section prohibits the 
Secretary, in consultation with other Federal, State, local, and Tribal 
agencies, as appropriate, from conducting wildland fire treatment 
operations or restoration operations in the Recreation Area, consistent 
with the purposes of this section.
    (p) Recreation Fees.--Except for fees for improved campgrounds, the 
Secretary is prohibited from collecting recreation entrance or 
recreation use fees within the Recreation Area.
    (q) Communication Infrastructure.--Nothing in this section affects 
the continued use of, and access to, communication infrastructure 
(including necessary upgrades) within the Recreation Area, in accordance 
with applicable authorizations and permits.
    (r) Non-federal Land.--
            (1) In general.--Nothing in this section affects non-Federal 
        land or interests in non-Federal land within the Recreation 
        Area.

[[Page 133 STAT. 627]]

            (2) Access.--The Secretary shall provide reasonable access 
        to non-Federal land or interests in non-Federal land within the 
        Recreation Area.

    (s) Outfitting and Guide Activities.--Outfitting and guide services 
within the Recreation Area, including commercial outfitting and guide 
services, are authorized in accordance with this section and other 
applicable law (including regulations).
SEC. 1118. &lt;&lt;NOTE: 16 USC 460cccc.&gt;&gt;  JOHN WESLEY POWELL NATIONAL 
                          CONSERVATION AREA.

    (a) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Map.--The term ``Map'' means the Bureau of Land 
        Management map entitled ``Proposed John Wesley Powell National 
        Conservation Area'' and dated December 10, 2018.
            (2) National conservation area.--The term ``National 
        Conservation Area'' means the John Wesley Powell National 
        Conservation Area established by subsection (b)(1).

    (b) Establishment.--
            (1) In general.--Subject to valid existing rights, there is 
        established the John Wesley Powell National Conservation Area in 
        the State of Utah.
            (2) Area included.--The National Conservation Area shall 
        consist of approximately 29,868 acres of public land 
        administered by the Bureau of Land Management as generally 
        depicted on the Map.

    (c) Purposes.--The purposes of the National Conservation Area are to 
conserve, protect, and enhance for the benefit of present and future 
generations the nationally significant historic, cultural, natural, 
scientific, scenic, recreational, archaeological, educational, and 
wildlife resources of the National Conservation Area.
    (d) Map and Legal Description.--
            (1) In general.--As soon as practicable after the date of 
        enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall prepare and file a 
        map and legal description of the National Conservation Area with 
        the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources of the Senate and 
        the Committee on Natural Resources of the House of 
        Representatives.
            (2) Effect.--The map and legal description prepared under 
        paragraph (1) shall have the same force and effect as if 
        included in this section, except that the Secretary may correct 
        minor errors in the map or legal description.
            (3) Availability.--A copy of the map and legal description 
        shall be on file and available for public inspection in the 
        appropriate offices of the Bureau of Land Management.

    (e) Management.--The Secretary shall manage the National 
Conservation Area--
            (1) in a manner that conserves, protects, and enhances the 
        resources of the National Conservation Area;
            (2) in accordance with--
                    (A) the Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 
                1976 (43 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.);
                    (B) this section; and
                    (C) any other applicable law; and
            (3) as a component of the National Landscape Conservation 
        System.
            (4) Management plan.--

[[Page 133 STAT. 628]]

                    (A) In general.--Not later than 2 years after the 
                date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall 
                develop a management plan for the National Conservation 
                Area.
                    (B) Consultation.--The Secretary shall prepare the 
                management plan--
                          (i) in consultation and coordination with the 
                      State of Utah, Uintah County, and affected Indian 
                      Tribes; and
                          (ii) after providing for public input.

    (f) Uses.--The Secretary shall only allow such uses of the National 
Conservation Area as the Secretary determines would further the purposes 
for which the National Conservation is established.
    (g) Acquisition.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary may acquire land or interests 
        in land within the boundaries of the National Conservation Area 
        by purchase from a willing seller, donation, or exchange.
            (2) Incorporation in national conservation area.--Any land 
        or interest in land located inside the boundary of the National 
        Conservation Area that is acquired by the United States after 
        the date of enactment of this Act shall be added to and 
        administered as part of the National Conservation Area.
            (3) State land.--On request of the Utah School and 
        Institutional Trust Lands Administration and, if practicable, 
        not later than 5 years after the date of enactment of this Act, 
        the Secretary shall seek to acquire all State-owned land within 
        the boundaries of the National Conservation Area by exchange or 
        purchase, subject to the appropriation of necessary funds.

    (h) Motorized Vehicles.--
            (1) In general.--Subject to paragraph (2), except in cases 
        in which motorized vehicles are needed for administrative 
        purposes or to respond to an emergency, the use of motorized 
        vehicles in the National Conservation Area shall be permitted 
        only on roads designated in the management plan.
            (2) Use of motorized vehicles prior to completion of 
        management plan.--Prior to completion of the management plan, 
        the use of motorized vehicles within the National Conservation 
        Area shall be permitted in accordance with the applicable Bureau 
        of Land Management resource management plan.

    (i) Grazing.--The grazing of livestock in the National Conservation 
Area, where established before the date of enactment of this Act, shall 
be allowed to continue, subject to such reasonable regulations, 
policies, and practices as the Secretary considers to be necessary in 
accordance with--
            (1) applicable law (including regulations);
            (2) the purposes of the National Conservation Area; and
            (3) the guidelines set forth in Appendix A of the report of 
        the Committee on Interior and Insular Affairs of the House of 
        Representatives accompanying H.R. 2570 of the 101st Congress 
        (House Report 101-405).

    (j) Fish and Wildlife.--Nothing in this section affects the 
jurisdiction of the State of Utah with respect to the management of fish 
and wildlife on Federal land in the State.

[[Page 133 STAT. 629]]

    (k) Wildlife Water Projects.--The Secretary, in consultation with 
the State of Utah, may authorize wildlife water projects (including 
guzzlers) within the National Conservation Area.
    (l) Greater Sage-grouse Conservation Projects.--Nothing in this 
section affects the authority of the Secretary to undertake Greater 
sage-grouse (Centrocercus urophasianus) conservation projects to 
maintain and improve Greater sage-grouse habitat, including the 
management of vegetation through mechanical means, to further the 
purposes of the National Conservation Area.
    (m) Water Rights.--Nothing in this section--
            (1) constitutes an express or implied reservation by the 
        United States of any water rights with respect to the National 
        Conservation Area;
            (2) affects any water rights in the State;
            (3) affects the use or allocation, in existence on the date 
        of enactment of this Act, of any water, water right, or interest 
        in water;
            (4) affects any vested absolute or decreed conditional water 
        right in existence on the date of enactment of this Act, 
        including any water right held by the United States;
            (5) affects any interstate water compact in existence on the 
        date of enactment of this Act; or
            (6) shall be considered to be a relinquishment or reduction 
        of any water rights reserved or appropriated by the United 
        States in the State on or before the date of enactment of this 
        Act.

    (n) No Buffer Zones.--
            (1) In general.--Nothing in this section creates a 
        protective perimeter or buffer zone around the National 
        Conservation Area.
            (2) Activities outside national conservation area.--The fact 
        that an authorized activity or use on land outside the National 
        Conservation Area can be seen or heard within the National 
        Conservation Area shall not preclude the activity or use outside 
        the boundary of the Area.

    (o) Withdrawal.--
            (1) In general.--Subject to valid existing rights, all 
        Federal land in the National Conservation Area (including any 
        land acquired after the date of enactment of this Act) is 
        withdrawn from--
                    (A) all forms of entry, appropriation, and disposal 
                under the public land laws;
                    (B) location, entry, and patent under the mining 
                laws; and
                    (C) operation of the mineral leasing, mineral 
                materials, and geothermal leasing laws.

    (p) Vegetation Management.--Nothing in this section prevents the 
Secretary from conducting vegetation management projects, including 
fuels reduction activities, within the National Conservation Area that 
are consistent with this section and that further the purposes of the 
National Conservation Area.
    (q) Wildland Fire Operations.--Nothing in this section prohibits the 
Secretary, in consultation with other Federal, State, local, and Tribal 
agencies, as appropriate, from conducting wildland fire prevention and 
restoration operations in the National Conservation Area, consistent 
with the purposes of this section.

[[Page 133 STAT. 630]]

    (r) Recreation Fees.--Except for improved campgrounds, the Secretary 
is prohibited from collecting recreation entrance or use fees within the 
National Conservation Area.
    (s) Outfitting and Guide Activities.--Outfitting and guide services 
within the National Conservation Area, including commercial outfitting 
and guide services, are authorized in accordance with this section and 
other applicable law (including regulations).
    (t) Non-federal Land.--
            (1) In general.--Nothing in this section affects non-Federal 
        land or interests in non-Federal land within the National 
        Conservation Area.
            (2) Reasonable access.--The Secretary shall provide 
        reasonable access to non-Federal land or interests in non-
        Federal land within the National Conservation Area.

    (u) Research and Interpretive Management.--The Secretary may 
establish programs and projects for the conduct of scientific, 
historical, cultural, archeological, and natural studies through the use 
of public and private partnerships that further the purposes of the 
National Conservation Area.
SEC. 1119. &lt;&lt;NOTE: 43 USC 1629g-1.&gt;&gt;  ALASKA NATIVE VIETNAM ERA 
                          VETERANS LAND ALLOTMENT.

    (a) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Available federal land.--
                    (A) In general.--The term ``available Federal land'' 
                means Federal land in the State that--
                          (i) is vacant, unappropriated, and unreserved 
                      and is identified as available for selection under 
                      subsection (b)(5); or
                          (ii) has been selected by, but not yet 
                      conveyed to--
                                    (I) the State, if the State agrees 
                                to voluntarily relinquish the selection 
                                of the Federal land for selection by an 
                                eligible individual; or
                                    (II) a Regional Corporation or a 
                                Village Corporation, if the Regional 
                                Corporation or Village Corporation 
                                agrees to voluntarily relinquish the 
                                selection of the Federal land for 
                                selection by an eligible individual.
                    (B) Exclusions.--The term ``available Federal land'' 
                does not include any Federal land in the State that is--
                          (i)(I) a right-of-way of the TransAlaska 
                      Pipeline; or
                          (II) an inner or outer corridor of such a 
                      right-of-way;
                          (ii) withdrawn or acquired for purposes of the 
                      Armed Forces;
                          (iii) under review for a pending right-of-way 
                      for a natural gas corridor;
                          (iv) within the Arctic National Wildlife 
                      Refuge;
                          (v) within a unit of the National Forest 
                      System;
                          (vi) designated as wilderness by Congress;
                          (vii) within a unit of the National Park 
                      System, a National Preserve, or a National 
                      Monument;
                          (viii) within a component of the National 
                      Trails System;

[[Page 133 STAT. 631]]

                          (ix) within a component of the National Wild 
                      and Scenic Rivers System; or
                          (x) within the National Petroleum Reserve-
                      Alaska.
            (2) Eligible individual.--The term ``eligible individual'' 
        means an individual who, as determined by the Secretary in 
        accordance with subsection (c)(1), is--
                    (A) a Native veteran--
                          (i) who served in the Armed Forces during the 
                      period between August 5, 1964, and December 31, 
                      1971; and
                          (ii) has not received an allotment made 
                      pursuant to--
                                    (I) the Act of May 17, 1906 (34 
                                Stat. 197, chapter 2469) (as in effect 
                                on December 17, 1971);
                                    (II) section 14(h)(5) of the Alaska 
                                Native Claims Settlement Act (43 U.S.C. 
                                1613(h)(5)); or
                                    (III) section 41 of the Alaska 
                                Native Claims Settlement Act (43 U.S.C. 
                                1629g); or
                    (B) is the personal representative of the estate of 
                a deceased eligible individual described in subparagraph 
                (A), who has been duly appointed in the appropriate 
                Alaska State court or a registrar has qualified, acting 
                for the benefit of the heirs of the estate of a deceased 
                eligible individual described in subparagraph (A).
            (3) Native; regional corporation; village corporation.--The 
        terms ``Native'', ``Regional Corporation'', and ``Village 
        Corporation'' have the meanings given those terms in section 3 
        of the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act (43 U.S.C. 1602).
            (4) State.--The term ``State'' means the State of Alaska.
            (5) Veteran.--The term ``veteran'' has the meaning given the 
        term in section 101 of title 38, United States Code.

    (b) Allotments for Eligible Individuals.--
            (1) Information to determine eligibility.--
                    (A) In general.--Not later than 180 days after the 
                date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense, 
                in coordination with the Secretary of Veterans Affairs, 
                shall provide to the Secretary a list of all members of 
                the Armed Forces who served during the period between 
                August 5, 1964, and December 31, 1971.
                    (B) Use.--The Secretary shall use the information 
                provided under subparagraph (A) to determine whether an 
                individual meets the military service requirements under 
                subsection (a)(2)(A)(i).
                    (C) Outreach and assistance.--The Secretary, in 
                coordination with the Secretary of Veterans Affairs, 
                shall conduct outreach, and provide assistance in 
                applying for allotments, to eligible individuals.
            (2) Regulations.--Not later than 18 months after the date of 
        enactment of this section, the Secretary shall promulgate 
        regulations to carry out this subsection.
            (3) Selection by eligible individuals.--
                    (A) In general.--An eligible individual--
                          (i) may select 1 parcel of not less than 2.5 
                      acres and not more than 160 acres of available 
                      Federal land; and

[[Page 133 STAT. 632]]

                          (ii) on making a selection pursuant to clause 
                      (i), shall submit to the Secretary an allotment 
                      selection application for the applicable parcel of 
                      available Federal land.
                    (B) Selection period.--An eligible individual may 
                apply for an allotment during the 5-year period 
                beginning on the effective date of the final regulations 
                issued under paragraph (2).
            (4) Conflicting selections.--If 2 or more eligible 
        individuals submit to the Secretary an allotment selection 
        application under paragraph (3)(A)(ii) for the same parcel of 
        available Federal land, the Secretary shall--
                    (A) give preference to the selection application 
                received on the earliest date; and
                    (B) provide to each eligible individual the 
                selection application of whom is rejected under 
                subparagraph (A) an opportunity to select a substitute 
                parcel of available Federal land.
            (5) Identification of available federal land administered by 
        the bureau of land management.--
                    (A) In general.--Not later than 1 year after the 
                date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary, in 
                consultation with the State, Regional Corporations, and 
                Village Corporations, shall identify Federal land 
                administered by the Bureau of Land Management as 
                available Federal land for allotment selection in the 
                State by eligible individuals.
                    (B) Certification; survey.--The Secretary shall--
                          (i) certify that the available Federal land 
                      identified under subparagraph (A) is free of known 
                      contamination; and
                          (ii) survey the available Federal land 
                      identified under subparagraph (A) into aliquot 
                      parts and lots, segregating all navigable and 
                      meanderable waters and land not available for 
                      allotment selection.
                    (C) Maps.--As soon as practicable after the date on 
                which available Federal land is identified under 
                subparagraph (A), the Secretary shall submit to 
                Congress, and publish in the Federal Register, 1 or more 
                maps depicting the identified available Federal land.
                    (D) Conveyances.--Any available Federal land 
                conveyed to an eligible individual under this paragraph 
                shall be subject to--
                          (i) valid existing rights; and
                          (ii) the reservation of minerals to the United 
                      States.
                    (E) Intent of congress.--It is the intent of 
                Congress that not later than 1 year after the date on 
                which an eligible individual submits an allotment 
                selection application for available Federal land that 
                meets the requirements of this section, as determined by 
                the Secretary, the Secretary shall issue to the eligible 
                individual a certificate of allotment with respect to 
                the available Federal land covered by the allotment 
                selection application, subject to the requirements of 
                subparagraph (D).

    (c) Identification of Available Federal Land in Units of the 
National Wildlife Refuge System.--

[[Page 133 STAT. 633]]

            (1) Report.--Not later than 1 year after the date of 
        enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall--
                    (A) conduct a study to determine whether any 
                additional Federal lands within units of the National 
                Wildlife Refuge System in the State should be made 
                available for allotment selection; and
                    (B) report the findings and conclusions of the study 
                to Congress.
            (2) Content of the report.--The Secretary shall include in 
        the report required under paragraph (1)--
                    (A) the Secretary's determination whether Federal 
                lands within units of the National Wildlife Refuge 
                System in the State should be made available for 
                allotment selection by eligible individuals; and
                    (B) identification of the specific areas (including 
                maps) within units of the National Wildlife Refuge 
                System in the State that the Secretary determines should 
                be made available, consistent with the mission of the 
                National Wildlife Refuge System and the specific 
                purposes for which the unit was established, and this 
                subsection.
            (3) Factors to be considered.--In determining whether 
        Federal lands within units of the National Wildlife Refuge 
        System in the State should be made available under paragraph 
        (1)(A), the Secretary shall take into account--
                    (A) the proximity of the Federal land made available 
                for allotment selection under subsection (b)(5) to 
                eligible individuals;
                    (B) the proximity of the units of the National 
                Wildlife Refuge System in the State to eligible 
                individuals; and
                    (C) the amount of additional Federal land within 
                units of the National Wildlife Refuge System in the 
                State that the Secretary estimates would be necessary to 
                make allotments available for selection by eligible 
                individuals.
            (4) Identifying federal land in units of the national 
        wildlife refuge system.--In identifying whether Federal lands 
        within units of the National Wildlife Refuge System in the State 
        should be made available for allotment under paragraph (2)(B), 
        the Secretary shall not identify any Federal land in a unit of 
        the National Wildlife Refuge System--
                    (A) the conveyance of which, independently or as 
                part of a group of allotments--
                          (i) could significantly interfere with 
                      biological, physical, cultural, scenic, 
                      recreational, natural quiet, or subsistence values 
                      of the unit of the National Wildlife Refuge 
                      System;
                          (ii) could obstruct access by the public or 
                      the Fish and Wildlife Service to the resource 
                      values of the unit;
                          (iii) could trigger development or future uses 
                      in an area that would adversely affect resource 
                      values of the surrounding National Wildlife Refuge 
                      System land;
                          (iv) could open an area of a unit to new 
                      access and uses that adversely affect resources 
                      values of the unit; or
                          (v) could interfere with the management plan 
                      of the unit;

[[Page 133 STAT. 634]]

                    (B) that is located within 300 feet from the shore 
                of a navigable water body;
                    (C) that is not consistent with the purposes for 
                which the unit of the National Wildlife Refuge System 
                was established;
                    (D) that is designated as wilderness by Congress; or
                    (E) that is within the Arctic National Wildlife 
                Refuge.

    (d) Limitation.--No Federal land may be identified for selection or 
made available for allotment within a unit of the National Wildlife 
Refuge System unless it has been authorized by an Act of Congress 
subsequent to the date of enactment of this Act. Further, any proposed 
conveyance of land within a unit of the National Wildlife Refuge System 
must have been identified by the Secretary in accordance with subsection 
(c)(4) in the report to Congress required by subsection (c) and include 
patent provisions that the land remains subject to the laws and 
regulations governing the use and development of the Refuge.
SEC. 1120. RED RIVER GRADIENT BOUNDARY SURVEY.

    (a) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Affected area.--
                    (A) In general.--The term ``affected area'' means 
                land along the approximately 116-mile stretch of the Red 
                River, from its confluence with the north fork of the 
                Red River on the west to the 98th meridian on the east.
                    (B) Exclusions.--The term ``affected area'' does not 
                include the portion of the Red River within the boundary 
                depicted on the survey prepared by the Bureau of Land 
                Management entitled ``Township 5 South, Range 14 West, 
                of the Indian Meridian, Oklahoma, Dependent Resurvey and 
                Survey'' and dated February 28, 2006.
            (2) Gradient boundary survey method.--The term ``gradient 
        boundary survey method'' means the measurement technique used to 
        locate the South Bank boundary line in accordance with the 
        methodology established in Oklahoma v. Texas, 261 U.S. 340 
        (1923) (recognizing that the boundary line along the Red River 
        is subject to change due to erosion and accretion).
            (3) Landowner.--The term ``landowner'' means any individual, 
        group, association, corporation, federally recognized Indian 
        tribe or member of such an Indian tribe, or other private or 
        governmental legal entity that owns an interest in land in the 
        affected area.
            (4) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary, 
        acting through the Director of the Bureau of Land Management.
            (5) South bank.--The term ``South Bank'' means the water-
        washed and relatively permanent elevation or acclivity (commonly 
        known as a ``cut bank'') along the southerly or right side of 
        the Red River that--
                    (A) separates the bed of that river from the 
                adjacent upland, whether valley or hill; and
                    (B) usually serves, as specified in the fifth 
                paragraph of Oklahoma v. Texas, 261 U.S. 340 (1923)--
                          (i) to confine the waters within the bed; and
                          (ii) to preserve the course of the river.
            (6) South bank boundary line.--The term ``South Bank 
        boundary line'' means the boundary, with respect to title and

[[Page 133 STAT. 635]]

        ownership, between the States of Oklahoma and Texas identified 
        through the gradient boundary survey method that does not impact 
        or alter the permanent political boundary line between the 
        States along the Red River, as outlined under article II, 
        section B of the Red River Boundary Compact enacted by the 
        States and consented to by Congress pursuant to Public Law 106-
        288 (114 Stat. 919).

    (b) Survey of South Bank Boundary Line.--
            (1) Survey required.--
                    (A) In general.--The Secretary shall commission a 
                survey to identify the South Bank boundary line in the 
                affected area.
                    (B) Requirements.--The survey shall--
                          (i) adhere to the gradient boundary survey 
                      method;
                          (ii) span the length of the affected area;
                          (iii) be conducted by 1 or more independent 
                      third-party surveyors that are--
                                    (I) licensed and qualified to 
                                conduct official gradient boundary 
                                surveys; and
                                    (II) selected by the Secretary, in 
                                consultation with--
                                            (aa) the Texas General Land 
                                        Office;
                                            (bb) the Oklahoma 
                                        Commissioners of the Land 
                                        Office, in consultation with the 
                                        attorney general of the State of 
                                        Oklahoma; and
                                            (cc) each affected federally 
                                        recognized Indian Tribe; and
                          (iv) subject to the availability of 
                      appropriations, be completed not later than 2 
                      years after the date of enactment of this Act.
            (2) Approval of the boundary survey.--
                    (A) In general.--Not later than 60 days after the 
                date on which the survey or a portion of the survey 
                under paragraph (1)(A) is completed, the Secretary shall 
                submit the survey for approval to--
                          (i) the Texas General Land Office;
                          (ii) the Oklahoma Commissioners of the Land 
                      Office, in consultation with the attorney general 
                      of the State of Oklahoma; and
                          (iii) each affected federally recognized 
                      Indian Tribe.
                    (B) Timing of approval.--Not later than 60 days 
                after the date on which each of the Texas General Land 
                Office, the Oklahoma Commissioners of the Land Office, 
                in consultation with the attorney general of the State 
                of Oklahoma, and each affected federally recognized 
                Indian Tribe notify the Secretary of the approval of the 
                boundary survey or a portion of the survey by the 
                applicable office or federally recognized Indian Tribe, 
                the Secretary shall determine whether to approve the 
                survey or portion of the survey, subject to subparagraph 
                (D).
                    (C) Submission of portions of survey for approval.--
                As portions of the survey are completed, the Secretary 
                may submit the completed portions of the survey for 
                approval under subparagraph (A).

[[Page 133 STAT. 636]]

                    (D) Written approval.--The Secretary shall only 
                approve the survey, or a portion of the survey, that has 
                the written approval of each of--
                          (i) the Texas General Land Office;
                          (ii) the Oklahoma Commissioners of the Land 
                      Office, in consultation with the attorney general 
                      of the State of Oklahoma; and
                          (iii) each affected federally recognized 
                      Indian Tribe.

    (c) Survey of Individual Parcels.--Surveys of individual parcels in 
the affected area shall be conducted in accordance with the boundary 
survey approved under subsection (b)(2).
    (d) Notice and Availability of Survey.--Not later than 60 days after 
the date on which the boundary survey is approved under subsection 
(b)(2), the Secretary shall--
            (1) publish notice of the approval of the survey in--
                    (A) the Federal Register; and
                    (B) 1 or more local newspapers; and
            (2) on request, furnish to any landowner a copy of--
                    (A) the survey; and
                    (B) any field notes relating to--
                          (i) the individual parcel of the landowner; or
                          (ii) any individual parcel adjacent to the 
                      individual parcel of the landowner.

    (e) Effect of Section.--Nothing in this section--
            (1) modifies any interest of the State of Oklahoma or Texas, 
        or the sovereignty, property, or trust rights of any federally 
        recognized Indian Tribe, relating to land located north of the 
        South Bank boundary line, as established by the survey;
            (2) modifies any land patented under the Act of December 22, 
        1928 (45 Stat. 1069, chapter 47; 43 U.S.C. 1068) (commonly known 
        as the ``Color of Title Act''), before the date of enactment of 
        this Act;
            (3) modifies or supersedes the Red River Boundary Compact 
        enacted by the States of Oklahoma and Texas and consented to by 
        Congress pursuant to Public Law 106-288 (114 Stat. 919);
            (4) creates or reinstates any Indian reservation or any 
        portion of such a reservation;
            (5) modifies any interest or any property or trust rights of 
        any individual Indian allottee; or
            (6) alters any valid right of the State of Oklahoma or the 
        Kiowa, Comanche, or Apache Indian tribes to the mineral interest 
        trust fund established under the Act of June 12, 1926 (44 Stat. 
        740, chapter 572).

    (f) Authorization of Appropriations.--There is authorized to be 
appropriated to the Secretary to carry out this section $1,000,000.
SEC. 1121. &lt;&lt;NOTE: 30 USC 201 note.&gt;&gt;  SAN JUAN COUNTY SETTLEMENT 
                          IMPLEMENTATION.

    (a) Exchange of Coal Preference Right Lease Applications.--
            (1) Definition of bidding right.--In this subsection, the 
        term ``bidding right'' means an appropriate legal instrument or 
        other written documentation, including an entry in an account 
        managed by the Secretary, issued or created under

[[Page 133 STAT. 637]]

        subpart 3435 of title 43, Code of Federal Regulations, that may 
        be used--
                    (A) in lieu of a monetary payment for 50 percent of 
                a bonus bid for a coal lease sale under the Mineral 
                Leasing Act (30 U.S.C. 181 et seq.); or
                    (B) as a monetary credit against 50 percent of any 
                rental or royalty payments due under any Federal coal 
                lease.
            (2) Use of bidding right.--
                    (A) In general.--If the Secretary retires a coal 
                preference right lease application under the Mineral 
                Leasing Act (30 U.S.C. 181 et seq.) by issuing a bidding 
                right in exchange for the relinquishment of the coal 
                preference right lease application, the bidding right 
                subsequently may be used in lieu of 50 percent of the 
                amount owed for any monetary payment of--
                          (i) a bonus in a coal lease sale; or
                          (ii) rental or royalty under a Federal coal 
                      lease.
                    (B) Payment calculation.--
                          (i) In general.--The Secretary shall calculate 
                      a payment of amounts owed to a relevant State 
                      under section 35(a) of the Mineral Leasing Act (30 
                      U.S.C. 191(a)) based on the combined value of the 
                      bidding rights and amounts received.
                          (ii) Amounts received.--Except as provided in 
                      this paragraph, for purposes of calculating the 
                      payment of amounts owed to a relevant State under 
                      clause (i) only, a bidding right shall be 
                      considered amounts received.
                    (C) Requirement.--The total number of bidding rights 
                issued by the Secretary under subparagraph (A) before 
                October 1, 2029, shall not exceed the number of bidding 
                rights that reflect a value equivalent to $67,000,000.
            (3) Source of payments.--The Secretary shall make payments 
        to the relevant State under paragraph (2) from monetary payments 
        received by the Secretary when bidding rights are exercised 
        under this section.
            (4) Treatment of payments.--A payment to a State under this 
        subsection shall be treated as a payment under section 35(a) of 
        the Mineral Leasing Act (30 U.S.C. 191(a)).
            (5) Transferability; limitation.--
                    (A) Transferability.--A bidding right issued for a 
                coal preference right lease application under the 
                Mineral Leasing Act (30 U.S.C. 181 et seq.) shall be 
                fully transferable to any other person.
                    (B) Notification of secretary.--A person who 
                transfers a bidding right shall notify the Secretary of 
                the transfer by any method determined to be appropriate 
                by the Secretary.
                    (C) Effective period.--
                          (i) In general.--A bidding right issued under 
                      the Mineral Leasing Act (30 U.S.C. 181 et seq.) 
                      shall terminate on the expiration of the 7-year 
                      period beginning on the date the bidding right is 
                      issued.
                          (ii) Tolling of period.--The 7-year period 
                      described in clause (i) shall be tolled during any 
                      period in which exercise of the bidding right is 
                      precluded

[[Page 133 STAT. 638]]

                      by temporary injunctive relief granted under, or 
                      administrative, legislative, or judicial 
                      suspension of, the Federal coal leasing program.
            (6) Deadline.--
                    (A) In general.--If an existing settlement of a coal 
                preference right lease application has not been 
                implemented as of the date of enactment of this Act, not 
                later than 180 days after that date of enactment, the 
                Secretary shall complete the bidding rights valuation 
                process in accordance with the terms of the settlement.
                    (B) Date of valuation.--For purposes of the 
                valuation process under subparagraph (A), the market 
                price of coal shall be determined as of the date of the 
                settlement.

    (b) Certain Land Selections of the Navajo Nation.--
            (1) Cancellation of certain selections.--The land selections 
        made by the Navajo Nation pursuant to Public Law 93-531 
        (commonly known as the ``Navajo-Hopi Land Settlement Act of 
        1974'') (88 Stat. 1712) that are depicted on the map entitled 
        ``Navajo-Hopi Land Settlement Act Selected Lands'' and dated 
        April 2, 2015, are cancelled.
            (2) Authorization for new selection.--
                    (A) In general.--Subject to subparagraphs (B), (C), 
                and (D) and paragraph (3), the Navajo Nation may make 
                new land selections in accordance with the Act referred 
                to in paragraph (1) to replace the land selections 
                cancelled under that paragraph.
                    (B) Acreage cap.--The total acreage of land selected 
                under subparagraph (A) shall not exceed 15,000 acres of 
                land.
                    (C) Exclusions.--The following land shall not be 
                eligible for selection under subparagraph (A):
                          (i) Land within a unit of the National 
                      Landscape Conservation System.
                          (ii) Land within--
                                    (I) the Glade Run Recreation Area;
                                    (II) the Fossil Forest Research 
                                Natural Area; or
                                    (III) a special management area or 
                                area of critical environmental concern 
                                identified in a land use plan developed 
                                under section 202 of the Federal Land 
                                Policy and Management Act of 1976 (43 
                                U.S.C. 1712) that is in effect on the 
                                date of enactment of this Act.
                          (iii) Any land subject to a lease or contract 
                      under the Mineral Leasing Act (30 U.S.C. 181 et 
                      seq.) or the Act of July 31, 1947 (commonly known 
                      as the ``Materials Act of 1947'') (30 U.S.C. 601 
                      et seq.) as of the date of the selection.
                          (iv) Land not under the jurisdiction of the 
                      Bureau of Land Management.
                          (v) Land identified as ``Parcels Excluded from 
                      Selection'' on the map entitled ``Parcels excluded 
                      for selection under the San Juan County Settlement 
                      Implementation Act'' and dated December 14, 2018.
                    (D) Deadline.--Not later than 7 years after the date 
                of enactment of this Act, the Navajo Nation shall make 
                all selections under subparagraph (A).

[[Page 133 STAT. 639]]

                    (E) Withdrawal.--Any land selected by the Navajo 
                Nation under subparagraph (A) shall be withdrawn from 
                disposal, leasing, and development until the date on 
                which the selected land is placed into trust for the 
                Navajo Nation.
            (3) Equal value.--
                    (A) In general.--Notwithstanding the acreage 
                limitation in the second proviso of section 11(c) of 
                Public Law 93-531 (commonly known as the ``Navajo-Hopi 
                Land Settlement Act of 1974'') (25 U.S.C. 640d-10(c)) 
                and subject to paragraph (2)(B), the value of the land 
                selected under paragraph (2)(A) and the land subject to 
                selections cancellation under paragraph (1) shall be 
                equal, based on appraisals conducted under subparagraph 
                (B).
                    (B) Appraisals.--
                          (i) In general.--The value of the land 
                      selected under paragraph (2)(A) and the land 
                      subject to selections cancelled under paragraph 
                      (1) shall be determined by appraisals conducted in 
                      accordance with--
                                    (I) the Uniform Appraisal Standards 
                                for Federal Land Acquisitions; and
                                    (II) the Uniform Standards of 
                                Professional Appraisal Practice.
                          (ii) Timing.--
                                    (I) Land subject to selections 
                                cancelled.--Not later than 18 months 
                                after the date of enactment of this Act, 
                                the appraisal under clause (i) of the 
                                land subject to selections cancelled 
                                under paragraph (1) shall be completed.
                                    (II) New selections.--The appraisals 
                                under clause (i) of the land selected 
                                under paragraph (2)(A) shall be 
                                completed as the Navajo Nation finalizes 
                                those land selections.
            (4) Boundary.--For purposes of this subsection and the Act 
        referred to in paragraph (1), the present boundary of the Navajo 
        Reservation is depicted on the map entitled ``Navajo Nation 
        Boundary'' and dated November 16, 2015.

    (c) Designation of Ah-shi-sle-pah Wilderness.--
            (1) &lt;&lt;NOTE: 16 USC 1132 note.&gt;&gt;  In general.--In accordance 
        with the Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1131 et seq.), the 
        approximately 7,242 acres of land as generally depicted on the 
        map entitled ``San Juan County Wilderness Designations'' and 
        dated April 2, 2015, is designated as wilderness and as a 
        component of the National Wilderness Preservation System, which 
        shall be known as the ``Ah-shi-sle-pah Wilderness'' (referred to 
        in this subsection as the ``Wilderness'').
            (2) Management.--
                    (A) In general.--Subject to valid existing rights, 
                the Wilderness shall be administered by the Director of 
                the Bureau of Land Management in accordance with this 
                subsection and the Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1131 et 
                seq.), except that any reference in that Act to the 
                effective date of that Act shall be considered to be a 
                reference to the date of enactment of this Act.
                    (B) Adjacent management.--
                          (i) In general.--Congress does not intend for 
                      the designation of the Wilderness to create a 
                      protective perimeter or buffer zone around the 
                      Wilderness.

[[Page 133 STAT. 640]]

                          (ii) Nonwilderness activities.--The fact that 
                      nonwilderness activities or uses can be seen or 
                      heard from areas within the Wilderness shall not 
                      preclude the conduct of the activities or uses 
                      outside the boundary of the Wilderness.
                    (C) Incorporation of acquired land and interests in 
                land.--Any land or interest in land that is within the 
                boundary of the Wilderness that is acquired by the 
                United States shall--
                          (i) become part of the Wilderness; and
                          (ii) be managed in accordance with--
                                    (I) the Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 
                                1131 et seq.);
                                    (II) this subsection; and
                                    (III) any other applicable laws.
                    (D) Grazing.--Grazing of livestock in the 
                Wilderness, where established before the date of 
                enactment of this Act, shall be allowed to continue in 
                accordance with--
                          (i) section 4(d)(4) of the Wilderness Act (16 
                      U.S.C. 1133(d)(4)); and
                          (ii) the guidelines set forth in the report of 
                      the Committee on Interior and Insular Affairs of 
                      the House of Representatives accompanying H.R. 
                      5487 of the 96th Congress (H. Rept. 96-617).
            (3) Release of wilderness study areas.--Congress finds that, 
        for the purposes of section 603(c) of the Federal Land Policy 
        and Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1782(c)), the land within 
        the Ah-shi-sle-pah Wilderness Study Area not designated as 
        wilderness by this subsection has been adequately studied for 
        wilderness designation and is no longer subject to section 
        603(c) of the Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 1976 (43 
        U.S.C. 1782(c)).

    (d) Expansion of Bisti/De-Na-Zin Wilderness.--
            (1) &lt;&lt;NOTE: 16 USC 1132 note.&gt;&gt;  In general.--There is 
        designated as wilderness and as a component of the National 
        Wilderness Preservation System certain Federal land comprising 
        approximately 2,250 acres, as generally depicted on the map 
        entitled ``San Juan County Wilderness Designations'' and dated 
        April 2, 2015, which is incorporated in and shall be considered 
        to be a part of the Bisti/De-Na-Zin Wilderness.
            (2) Administration.--Subject to valid existing rights, the 
        land designated as wilderness by paragraph (1) shall be 
        administered by the Director of the Bureau of Land Management 
        (referred to in this subsection as the ``Director''), in 
        accordance with--
                    (A) the Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1131 et seq.), 
                except that any reference in that Act to the effective 
                date of that Act shall be considered to be a reference 
                to the date of enactment of this Act; and
                    (B) the San Juan Basin Wilderness Protection Act of 
                1984 (Public Law 98-603; 98 Stat. 3155; 110 Stat. 4211).
            (3) Adjacent management.--
                    (A) In general.--Congress does not intend for the 
                designation of the land as wilderness by paragraph (1) 
                to create a protective perimeter or buffer zone around 
                that land.
                    (B) Nonwilderness activities.--The fact that 
                nonwilderness activities or uses can be seen or heard 
                from

[[Page 133 STAT. 641]]

                areas within the land designated as wilderness by 
                paragraph (1) shall not preclude the conduct of the 
                activities or uses outside the boundary of that land.
            (4) Incorporation of acquired land and interests in land.--
        Any land or interest in land that is within the boundary of the 
        land designated as wilderness by paragraph (1) that is acquired 
        by the United States shall--
                    (A) become part of the Bisti/De-Na-Zin Wilderness; 
                and
                    (B) be managed in accordance with--
                          (i) the Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1131 et 
                      seq.);
                          (ii) the San Juan Basin Wilderness Protection 
                      Act of 1984 (Public Law 98-603; 98 Stat. 3155; 110 
                      Stat. 4211);
                          (iii) this subsection; and
                          (iv) any other applicable laws.
            (5) Grazing.--Grazing of livestock in the land designated as 
        wilderness by paragraph (1), where established before the date 
        of enactment of this Act, shall be allowed to continue in 
        accordance with--
                    (A) section 4(d)(4) of the Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 
                1133(d)(4)); and
                    (B) the guidelines set forth in the report of the 
                Committee on Interior and Insular Affairs of the House 
                of Representatives accompanying H.R. 5487 of the 96th 
                Congress (H. Rept. 96-617).

    (e) Road Maintenance.--
            (1) In general.--Subject to paragraph (2), the Secretary, 
        acting through the Director of the Bureau of Indian Affairs, 
        shall ensure that L-54 between I-40 and Alamo, New Mexico, is 
        maintained in a condition that is safe for motorized use.
            (2) Use of funds.--In carrying out paragraph (1), the 
        Secretary and the Director of the Bureau of Indian Affairs may 
        not require any Indian Tribe to use any funds--
                    (A) owned by the Indian Tribe; or
                    (B) provided to the Indian Tribe pursuant to a 
                contract under the Indian Self-Determination and 
                Education Assistance Act (25 U.S.C. 5304 et seq.).
            (3) Road upgrade.--
                    (A) In general.--Nothing in this subsection requires 
                the Secretary or any Indian Tribe to upgrade the 
                condition of L-54 as of the date of enactment of this 
                Act.
                    (B) Written agreement.--An upgrade to L-54 may not 
                be made without the written agreement of the Pueblo of 
                Laguna.
            (4) Inventory.--Nothing in this subsection requires L-54 to 
        be placed on the National Tribal Transportation Facility 
        Inventory.
SEC. 1122. RIO PUERCO WATERSHED MANAGEMENT PROGRAM.

    (a) Reauthorization of the Rio Puerco Management Committee.--Section 
401(b)(4) of division I of the Omnibus Parks and Public Lands Management 
Act of 1996 (Public Law 104-333; 110 Stat. 4147; 123 Stat. 1108) is 
amended by striking ``Omnibus Public Land Management Act of 2009'' and 
inserting ``John D. Dingell, Jr. Conservation, Management, and 
Recreation Act''.

[[Page 133 STAT. 642]]

    (b) Reauthorization of the Rio Puerco Watershed Management 
Program.--Section 401(e) of division I of the Omnibus Parks and Public 
Lands Management Act of 1996 (Public Law 104-333; 110 Stat. 4148; 123 
Stat. 1108) is amended by striking ``Omnibus Public Land Management Act 
of 2009'' and inserting ``John D. Dingell, Jr. Conservation, Management, 
and Recreation Act''.
SEC. 1123. ASHLEY SPRINGS LAND CONVEYANCE.

    (a) Conveyance.--Subject to valid existing rights, at the request of 
Uintah County, Utah (referred to in this section as the ``County''), the 
Secretary shall convey to the County, without consideration, the 
approximately 791 acres of public land administered by the Bureau of 
Land Management, as generally depicted on the map entitled ``Ashley 
Springs Property'' and dated February 4, 2019, subject to the following 
restrictions:
            (1) The conveyed land shall be managed as open space to 
        protect the watershed and underground karst system and aquifer.
            (2) Mining or any form of mineral development on the 
        conveyed land is prohibited.
            (3) The County shall allow for non-motorized public 
        recreation access on the conveyed land.
            (4) No new roads may be constructed on the conveyed land.

    (b) Reversion.--A conveyance under subsection (a) shall include a 
reversionary clause to ensure that management of the land described in 
that subsection shall revert to the Secretary if the land is no longer 
being managed in accordance with that subsection.

           Subtitle C--Wilderness Designations and Withdrawals

                       PART I--GENERAL PROVISIONS

SEC. 1201. ORGAN MOUNTAINS-DESERT PEAKS CONSERVATION.

    (a) &lt;&lt;NOTE: 54 USC 320301 note.&gt;&gt;  Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Monument.--The term ``Monument'' means the Organ 
        Mountains-Desert Peaks National Monument established by 
        Presidential Proclamation 9131 (79 Fed. Reg. 30431).
            (2) State.--The term ``State'' means the State of New 
        Mexico.
            (3) Wilderness area.--The term ``wilderness area'' means a 
        wilderness area designated by subsection (b)(1).

    (b) Designation of Wilderness Areas.--
            (1) In general.--In accordance with the Wilderness Act (16 
        U.S.C. 1131 et seq.), the following areas in the State are 
        designated as wilderness and as components of the National 
        Wilderness Preservation System:
                    (A) &lt;&lt;NOTE: 16 USC 1132 note.&gt;&gt;  Aden lava flow 
                wilderness.--Certain land administered by the Bureau of 
                Land Management in Dona Ana County comprising 
                approximately 27,673 acres, as generally depicted on the 
                map entitled ``Potrillo Mountains Complex'' and dated 
                September 27, 2018, which shall be known as the ``Aden 
                Lava Flow Wilderness''.

[[Page 133 STAT. 643]]

                    (B) &lt;&lt;NOTE: 16 USC 1132 note.&gt;&gt;  Broad canyon 
                wilderness.--Certain land administered by the Bureau of 
                Land Management in Dona Ana County comprising 
                approximately 13,902 acres, as generally depicted on the 
                map entitled ``Desert Peaks Complex'' and dated October 
                1, 2018, which shall be known as the ``Broad Canyon 
                Wilderness''.
                    (C) &lt;&lt;NOTE: 16 USC 1132 note.&gt;&gt;  Cinder cone 
                wilderness.--Certain land administered by the Bureau of 
                Land Management in Dona Ana County comprising 
                approximately 16,935 acres, as generally depicted on the 
                map entitled ``Potrillo Mountains Complex'' and dated 
                September 27, 2018, which shall be known as the ``Cinder 
                Cone Wilderness''.
                    (D) &lt;&lt;NOTE: 16 USC 1132 note.&gt;&gt;  East potrillo 
                mountains wilderness.--Certain land administered by the 
                Bureau of Land Management in Dona Ana and Luna counties 
                comprising approximately 12,155 acres, as generally 
                depicted on the map entitled ``Potrillo Mountains 
                Complex'' and dated September 27, 2018, which shall be 
                known as the ``East Potrillo Mountains Wilderness''.
                    (E) &lt;&lt;NOTE: 16 USC 1132 note.&gt;&gt;  Mount riley 
                wilderness.--Certain land administered by the Bureau of 
                Land Management in Dona Ana and Luna counties comprising 
                approximately 8,382 acres, as generally depicted on the 
                map entitled ``Potrillo Mountains Complex'' and dated 
                September 27, 2018, which shall be known as the ``Mount 
                Riley Wilderness''.
                    (F) &lt;&lt;NOTE: 16 USC 1132 note.&gt;&gt;  Organ mountains 
                wilderness.--Certain land administered by the Bureau of 
                Land Management in Dona Ana County comprising 
                approximately 19,916 acres, as generally depicted on the 
                map entitled ``Organ Mountains Area'' and dated 
                September 21, 2016, which shall be known as the ``Organ 
                Mountains Wilderness'', the boundary of which shall be 
                offset 400 feet from the centerline of Dripping Springs 
                Road in T. 23 S., R. 04 E., sec. 7, New Mexico Principal 
                Meridian.
                    (G) &lt;&lt;NOTE: 16 USC 1132 note.&gt;&gt;  Potrillo mountains 
                wilderness.--Certain land administered by the Bureau of 
                Land Management in Dona Ana and Luna counties comprising 
                approximately 105,085 acres, as generally depicted on 
                the map entitled ``Potrillo Mountains Complex'' and 
                dated September 27, 2018, which shall be known as the 
                ``Potrillo Mountains Wilderness''.
                    (H) &lt;&lt;NOTE: 16 USC 1132 note.&gt;&gt;  Robledo mountains 
                wilderness.--Certain land administered by the Bureau of 
                Land Management in Dona Ana County comprising 
                approximately 16,776 acres, as generally depicted on the 
                map entitled ``Desert Peaks Complex'' and dated October 
                1, 2018, which shall be known as the ``Robledo Mountains 
                Wilderness''.
                    (I) &lt;&lt;NOTE: 16 USC 1132 note.&gt;&gt;  Sierra de las uvas 
                wilderness.--Certain land administered by the Bureau of 
                Land Management in Dona Ana County comprising 
                approximately 11,114 acres, as generally depicted on the 
                map entitled ``Desert Peaks Complex'' and dated October 
                1, 2018, which shall be known as the ``Sierra de las 
                Uvas Wilderness''.
                    (J) &lt;&lt;NOTE: 16 USC 1132 note.&gt;&gt;  Whitethorn 
                wilderness.--Certain land administered by the Bureau of 
                Land Management in Dona Ana and Luna counties comprising 
                approximately 9,616 acres,

[[Page 133 STAT. 644]]

                as generally depicted on the map entitled ``Potrillo 
                Mountains Complex'' and dated September 27, 2018, which 
                shall be known as the ``Whitethorn Wilderness''.
            (2) Maps and legal descriptions.--
                    (A) In general.--As soon as practicable after the 
                date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall file 
                maps and legal descriptions of the wilderness areas 
                with--
                          (i) the Committee on Energy and Natural 
                      Resources of the Senate; and
                          (ii) the Committee on Natural Resources of the 
                      House of Representatives.
                    (B) Force of law.--The maps and legal descriptions 
                filed under subparagraph (A) shall have the same force 
                and effect as if included in this section, except that 
                the Secretary may correct errors in the maps and legal 
                descriptions.
                    (C) Public availability.--The maps and legal 
                descriptions filed under subparagraph (A) shall be on 
                file and available for public inspection in the 
                appropriate offices of the Bureau of Land Management.
            (3) Management.--Subject to valid existing rights, the 
        wilderness areas shall be administered by the Secretary--
                    (A) as components of the National Landscape 
                Conservation System; and
                    (B) in accordance with--
                          (i) this section; and
                          (ii) the Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1131 et 
                      seq.), except that--
                                    (I) any reference in the Wilderness 
                                Act to the effective date of that Act 
                                shall be considered to be a reference to 
                                the date of enactment of this Act; and
                                    (II) any reference in the Wilderness 
                                Act to the Secretary of Agriculture 
                                shall be considered to be a reference to 
                                the Secretary.
            (4) Incorporation of acquired land and interests in land.--
        Any land or interest in land that is within the boundary of a 
        wilderness area that is acquired by the United States shall--
                    (A) become part of the wilderness area within the 
                boundaries of which the land is located; and
                    (B) be managed in accordance with--
                          (i) the Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1131 et 
                      seq.);
                          (ii) this section; and
                          (iii) any other applicable laws.
            (5) Grazing.--Grazing of livestock in the wilderness areas, 
        where established before the date of enactment of this Act, 
        shall be administered in accordance with--
                    (A) section 4(d)(4) of the Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 
                1133(d)(4)); and
                    (B) the guidelines set forth in Appendix A of the 
                Report of the Committee on Interior and Insular Affairs 
                to accompany H.R. 2570 of the 101st Congress (H. Rept. 
                101-405).
            (6) Military overflights.--Nothing in this subsection 
        restricts or precludes--

[[Page 133 STAT. 645]]

                    (A) low-level overflights of military aircraft over 
                the wilderness areas, including military overflights 
                that can be seen or heard within the wilderness areas;
                    (B) the designation of new units of special airspace 
                over the wilderness areas; or
                    (C) the use or establishment of military flight 
                training routes over the wilderness areas.
            (7) Buffer zones.--
                    (A) In general.--Nothing in this subsection creates 
                a protective perimeter or buffer zone around any 
                wilderness area.
                    (B) Activities outside wilderness areas.--The fact 
                that an activity or use on land outside any wilderness 
                area can be seen or heard within the wilderness area 
                shall not preclude the activity or use outside the 
                boundary of the wilderness area.
            (8) Paragliding.--The use of paragliding within areas of the 
        East Potrillo Mountains Wilderness designated by paragraph 
        (1)(D) in which the use has been established before the date of 
        enactment of this Act, shall be allowed to continue in 
        accordance with section 4(d)(1) of the Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 
        1133(d)(1)), subject to any terms and conditions that the 
        Secretary determines to be necessary.
            (9) Climatologic data collection.--Subject to such terms and 
        conditions as the Secretary may prescribe, nothing in this 
        section precludes the installation and maintenance of 
        hydrologic, meteorologic, or climatologic collection devices in 
        wilderness areas if the facilities and access to the facilities 
        are essential to flood warning, flood control, or water 
        reservoir operation activities.
            (10) Fish and wildlife.--Nothing in this section affects the 
        jurisdiction of the State with respect to fish and wildlife 
        located on public land in the State, except that the Secretary, 
        after consultation with the New Mexico Department of Game and 
        Fish, may designate zones where, and establish periods during 
        which, no hunting or fishing shall be permitted for reasons of 
        public safety, administration, or compliance with applicable 
        law.
            (11) Withdrawals.--
                    (A) In general.--Subject to valid existing rights, 
                the Federal land within the wilderness areas and any 
                land or interest in land that is acquired by the United 
                States in the wilderness areas after the date of 
                enactment of this Act is withdrawn from--
                          (i) entry, appropriation, or disposal under 
                      the public land laws;
                          (ii) location, entry, and patent under the 
                      mining laws; and
                          (iii) operation of the mineral leasing, 
                      mineral materials, and geothermal leasing laws.
                    (B) Parcel b.--The approximately 6,498 acres of land 
                generally depicted as ``Parcel B'' on the map entitled 
                ``Organ Mountains Area'' and dated September 21, 2016, 
                is withdrawn in accordance with subparagraph (A), except 
                that the land is not withdrawn for purposes of the 
                issuance of oil and gas pipeline or road rights-of-way.

[[Page 133 STAT. 646]]

                    (C) Parcel c.--The approximately 1,297 acres of land 
                generally depicted as ``Parcel C'' on the map entitled 
                ``Organ Mountains Area'' and dated September 21, 2016, 
                is withdrawn in accordance with subparagraph (A), except 
                that the land is not withdrawn from disposal under the 
                Act of June 14, 1926 (commonly known as the ``Recreation 
                and Public Purposes Act'') (43 U.S.C. 869 et seq.).
                    (D) Parcel d.--
                          (i) In general.--The Secretary of the Army 
                      shall allow for the conduct of certain 
                      recreational activities on the approximately 2,035 
                      acres of land generally depicted as ``Parcel D'' 
                      on the map entitled ``Organ Mountains Area'' and 
                      dated September 21, 2016 (referred to in this 
                      paragraph as the ``parcel''), which is a portion 
                      of the public land withdrawn and reserved for 
                      military purposes by Public Land Order 833 dated 
                      May 21, 1952 (17 Fed. Reg. 4822).
                          (ii) Outdoor recreation plan.--
                                    (I) In general.--The Secretary of 
                                the Army shall develop a plan for public 
                                outdoor recreation on the parcel that is 
                                consistent with the primary military 
                                mission of the parcel.
                                    (II) Requirement.--In developing the 
                                plan under subclause (I), the Secretary 
                                of the Army shall ensure, to the maximum 
                                extent practicable, that outdoor 
                                recreation activities may be conducted 
                                on the parcel, including hunting, 
                                hiking, wildlife viewing, and camping.
                          (iii) Closures.--The Secretary of the Army may 
                      close the parcel or any portion of the parcel to 
                      the public as the Secretary of the Army determines 
                      to be necessary to protect--
                                    (I) public safety; or
                                    (II) the safety of the military 
                                members training on the parcel.
                          (iv) Transfer of administrative jurisdiction; 
                      withdrawal.--
                                    (I) In general.--On a determination 
                                by the Secretary of the Army that 
                                military training capabilities, 
                                personnel safety, and installation 
                                security would not be hindered as a 
                                result of the transfer to the Secretary 
                                of administrative jurisdiction over the 
                                parcel, the Secretary of the Army shall 
                                transfer to the Secretary administrative 
                                jurisdiction over the parcel.
                                    (II) Withdrawal.--On transfer of the 
                                parcel under subclause (I), the parcel 
                                shall be--
                                            (aa) under the jurisdiction 
                                        of the Director of the Bureau of 
                                        Land Management; and
                                            (bb) withdrawn from--
                                                (AA) entry, 
                                            appropriation, or disposal 
                                            under the public land laws;
                                                (BB) location, entry, 
                                            and patent under the mining 
                                            laws; and
                                                (CC) operation of the 
                                            mineral leasing, mineral 
                                            materials, and geothermal 
                                            leasing laws.

[[Page 133 STAT. 647]]

                                    (III) Reservation.--On transfer 
                                under subclause (I), the parcel shall be 
                                reserved for management of the resources 
                                of, and military training conducted on, 
                                the parcel in accordance with a 
                                memorandum of understanding entered into 
                                under clause (v).
                          (v) Memorandum of understanding relating to 
                      military training.--
                                    (I) In general.--If, after the 
                                transfer of the parcel under clause 
                                (iv)(I), the Secretary of the Army 
                                requests that the Secretary enter into a 
                                memorandum of understanding, the 
                                Secretary shall enter into a memorandum 
                                of understanding with the Secretary of 
                                the Army providing for the conduct of 
                                military training on the parcel.
                                    (II) Requirements.--The memorandum 
                                of understanding entered into under 
                                subclause (I) shall--
                                            (aa) address the location, 
                                        frequency, and type of training 
                                        activities to be conducted on 
                                        the parcel;
                                            (bb) provide to the 
                                        Secretary of the Army access to 
                                        the parcel for the conduct of 
                                        military training;
                                            (cc) authorize the Secretary 
                                        or the Secretary of the Army to 
                                        close the parcel or a portion of 
                                        the parcel to the public as the 
                                        Secretary or the Secretary of 
                                        the Army determines to be 
                                        necessary to protect--
                                                (AA) public safety; or
                                                (BB) the safety of the 
                                            military members training; 
                                            and
                                            (dd) to the maximum extent 
                                        practicable, provide for the 
                                        protection of natural, historic, 
                                        and cultural resources in the 
                                        area of the parcel.
                          (vi) Military overflights.--Nothing in this 
                      subparagraph restricts or precludes--
                                    (I) low-level overflights of 
                                military aircraft over the parcel, 
                                including military overflights that can 
                                be seen or heard within the parcel;
                                    (II) the designation of new units of 
                                special airspace over the parcel; or
                                    (III) the use or establishment of 
                                military flight training routes over the 
                                parcel.
            (12) Robledo mountains.--
                    (A) In general.--The Secretary shall manage the 
                Federal land described in subparagraph (B) in a manner 
                that preserves the character of the land for the future 
                inclusion of the land in the National Wilderness 
                Preservation System.
                    (B) Land description.--The land referred to in 
                subparagraph (A) is certain land administered by the 
                Bureau of Land Management, comprising approximately 100 
                acres as generally depicted as ``Lookout Peak 
                Communication Site'' on the map entitled ``Desert Peaks 
                Complex'' and dated October 1, 2018.

[[Page 133 STAT. 648]]

                    (C) Uses.--The Secretary shall permit only such uses 
                on the land described in subparagraph (B) as were 
                permitted on the date of enactment of this Act.
            (13) Release of wilderness study areas.--Congress finds 
        that, for purposes of section 603(c) of the Federal Land Policy 
        and Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1782(c)), the public land 
        in Dona Ana County administered by the Bureau of Land Management 
        not designated as wilderness by paragraph (1) or described in 
        paragraph (12)--
                    (A) has been adequately studied for wilderness 
                designation;
                    (B) is no longer subject to section 603(c) of the 
                Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 1976 (43 
                U.S.C. 1782(c)); and
                    (C) shall be managed in accordance with--
                          (i) the Federal Land Policy and Management Act 
                      of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.);
                          (ii) this section; and
                          (iii) any other applicable laws.
            (14) Private land.--In accordance with section 5 of the 
        Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1134), the Secretary shall ensure 
        adequate access to non-Federal land located within the boundary 
        of a wilderness area.

    (c) Border Security.--
            (1) In general.--Nothing in this section--
                    (A) prevents the Secretary of Homeland Security from 
                undertaking law enforcement and border security 
                activities, in accordance with section 4(c) of the 
                Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1133(c)), within the 
                wilderness areas, including the ability to use motorized 
                access within a wilderness area while in pursuit of a 
                suspect;
                    (B) affects the 2006 Memorandum of Understanding 
                among the Department of Homeland Security, the 
                Department of the Interior, and the Department of 
                Agriculture regarding cooperative national security and 
                counterterrorism efforts on Federal land along the 
                borders of the United States; or
                    (C) prevents the Secretary of Homeland Security from 
                conducting any low-level overflights over the wilderness 
                areas that may be necessary for law enforcement and 
                border security purposes.
            (2) Withdrawal and administration of certain area.--
                    (A) Withdrawal.--The area identified as ``Parcel A'' 
                on the map entitled ``Potrillo Mountains Complex'' and 
                dated September 27, 2018, is withdrawn in accordance 
                with subsection (b)(11)(A).
                    (B) Administration.--Except as provided in 
                subparagraphs (C) and (D), the Secretary shall 
                administer the area described in subparagraph (A) in a 
                manner that, to the maximum extent practicable, protects 
                the wilderness character of the area.
                    (C) Use of motor vehicles.--The use of motor 
                vehicles, motorized equipment, and mechanical transport 
                shall be prohibited in the area described in 
                subparagraph (A) except as necessary for--

[[Page 133 STAT. 649]]

                          (i) the administration of the area (including 
                      the conduct of law enforcement and border security 
                      activities in the area); or
                          (ii) grazing uses by authorized permittees.
                    (D) Effect of subsection.--Nothing in this paragraph 
                precludes the Secretary from allowing within the area 
                described in subparagraph (A) the installation and 
                maintenance of communication or surveillance 
                infrastructure necessary for law enforcement or border 
                security activities.
            (3) Restricted route.--The route excluded from the Potrillo 
        Mountains Wilderness identified as ``Restricted--Administrative 
        Access'' on the map entitled ``Potrillo Mountains Complex'' and 
        dated September 27, 2018, shall be--
                    (A) closed to public access; but
                    (B) available for administrative and law enforcement 
                uses, including border security activities.

    (d) &lt;&lt;NOTE: 54 USC 320301 note.&gt;&gt;  Organ Mountains-desert Peaks 
National Monument.--
            (1) Management plan.--In preparing and implementing the 
        management plan for the Monument, the Secretary shall include a 
        watershed health assessment to identify opportunities for 
        watershed restoration.
            (2) Incorporation of acquired state trust land and interests 
        in state trust land.--
                    (A) In general.--Any land or interest in land that 
                is within the State trust land described in subparagraph 
                (B) that is acquired by the United States shall--
                          (i) become part of the Monument; and
                          (ii) be managed in accordance with--
                                    (I) Presidential Proclamation 9131 
                                (79 Fed. Reg. 30431);
                                    (II) this section; and
                                    (III) any other applicable laws.
                    (B) Description of state trust land.--The State 
                trust land referred to in subparagraph (A) is the State 
                trust land in T. 22 S., R 01 W., New Mexico Principal 
                Meridian and T. 22 S., R. 02 W., New Mexico Principal 
                Meridian.
            (3) Land exchanges.--
                    (A) In general.--Subject to subparagraphs (C) 
                through (F), the Secretary shall attempt to enter into 
                an agreement to initiate an exchange under section 
                2201.1 of title 43, Code of Federal Regulations (or 
                successor regulations), with the Commissioner of Public 
                Lands of New Mexico, by the date that is 18 months after 
                the date of enactment of this Act, to provide for a 
                conveyance to the State of all right, title, and 
                interest of the United States in and to Bureau of Land 
                Management land in the State identified under 
                subparagraph (B) in exchange for the conveyance by the 
                State to the Secretary of all right, title, and interest 
                of the State in and to parcels of State trust land 
                within the boundary of the Monument identified under 
                that subparagraph or described in paragraph (2)(B).
                    (B) Identification of land for exchange.--The 
                Secretary and the Commissioner of Public Lands of New 
                Mexico shall jointly identify the Bureau of Land 
                Management land and State trust land eligible for 
                exchange under

[[Page 133 STAT. 650]]

                this paragraph, the exact acreage and legal description 
                of which shall be determined by surveys approved by the 
                Secretary and the New Mexico State Land Office.
                    (C) Applicable law.--A land exchange under 
                subparagraph (A) shall be carried out in accordance with 
                section 206 of the Federal Land Policy and Management 
                Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1716).
                    (D) Conditions.--A land exchange under subparagraph 
                (A) shall be subject to--
                          (i) valid existing rights; and
                          (ii) such terms as the Secretary and the State 
                      shall establish.
                    (E) Valuation, appraisals, and equalization.--
                          (i) In general.--The value of the Bureau of 
                      Land Management land and the State trust land to 
                      be conveyed in a land exchange under this 
                      paragraph--
                                    (I) shall be equal, as determined by 
                                appraisals conducted in accordance with 
                                clause (ii); or
                                    (II) if not equal, shall be 
                                equalized in accordance with clause 
                                (iii).
                          (ii) Appraisals.--
                                    (I) In general.--The Bureau of Land 
                                Management land and State trust land to 
                                be exchanged under this paragraph shall 
                                be appraised by an independent, 
                                qualified appraiser that is agreed to by 
                                the Secretary and the State.
                                    (II) Requirements.--An appraisal 
                                under subclause (I) shall be conducted 
                                in accordance with--
                                            (aa) the Uniform Appraisal 
                                        Standards for Federal Land 
                                        Acquisitions; and
                                            (bb) the Uniform Standards 
                                        of Professional Appraisal 
                                        Practice.
                          (iii) Equalization.--
                                    (I) In general.--If the value of the 
                                Bureau of Land Management land and the 
                                State trust land to be conveyed in a 
                                land exchange under this paragraph is 
                                not equal, the value may be equalized 
                                by--
                                            (aa) making a cash 
                                        equalization payment to the 
                                        Secretary or to the State, as 
                                        appropriate, in accordance with 
                                        section 206(b) of the Federal 
                                        Land Policy and Management Act 
                                        of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1716(b)); or
                                            (bb) reducing the acreage of 
                                        the Bureau of Land Management 
                                        land or State trust land to be 
                                        exchanged, as appropriate.
                                    (II) Cash equalization payments.--
                                Any cash equalization payments received 
                                by the Secretary under subclause (I)(aa) 
                                shall be--
                                            (aa) deposited in the 
                                        Federal Land Disposal Account 
                                        established by section 206(a) of 
                                        the Federal Land Transaction 
                                        Facilitation Act (43 U.S.C. 
                                        2305(a)); and
                                            (bb) used in accordance with 
                                        that Act.
                    (F) Limitation.--No exchange of land shall be 
                conducted under this paragraph unless mutually agreed to 
                by the Secretary and the State.

[[Page 133 STAT. 651]]

SEC. 1202. CERRO DEL YUTA AND RIO SAN ANTONIO WILDERNESS AREAS.

    (a) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Map.--The term ``map'' means the map entitled ``Rio 
        Grande del Norte National Monument Proposed Wilderness Areas'' 
        and dated July 28, 2015.
            (2) Wilderness area.--The term ``wilderness area'' means a 
        wilderness area designated by subsection (b)(1).

    (b) Designation of Cerro Del Yuta and Rio San Antonio Wilderness 
Areas.--
            (1) In general.--In accordance with the Wilderness Act (16 
        U.S.C. 1131 et seq.), the following areas in the Rio Grande del 
        Norte National Monument are designated as wilderness and as 
        components of the National Wilderness Preservation System:
                    (A) &lt;&lt;NOTE: 16 USC 1132 note.&gt;&gt;  Cerro del yuta 
                wilderness.--Certain land administered by the Bureau of 
                Land Management in Taos County, New Mexico, comprising 
                approximately 13,420 acres as generally depicted on the 
                map, which shall be known as the ``Cerro del Yuta 
                Wilderness''.
                    (B) &lt;&lt;NOTE: 16 USC 1132 note.&gt;&gt;  Rio san antonio 
                wilderness.--Certain land administered by the Bureau of 
                Land Management in Rio Arriba County, New Mexico, 
                comprising approximately 8,120 acres, as generally 
                depicted on the map, which shall be known as the ``Rio 
                San Antonio Wilderness''.
            (2) Management of wilderness areas.--Subject to valid 
        existing rights, the wilderness areas shall be administered in 
        accordance with the Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1131 et seq.) and 
        this section, except that with respect to the wilderness areas 
        designated by this section--
                    (A) any reference to the effective date of the 
                Wilderness Act shall be considered to be a reference to 
                the date of enactment of this Act; and
                    (B) any reference in the Wilderness Act to the 
                Secretary of Agriculture shall be considered to be a 
                reference to the Secretary.
            (3) Incorporation of acquired land and interests in land.--
        Any land or interest in land within the boundary of the 
        wilderness areas that is acquired by the United States shall--
                    (A) become part of the wilderness area in which the 
                land is located; and
                    (B) be managed in accordance with--
                          (i) the Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1131 et 
                      seq.);
                          (ii) this section; and
                          (iii) any other applicable laws.
            (4) Grazing.--Grazing of livestock in the wilderness areas, 
        where established before the date of enactment of this Act, 
        shall be administered in accordance with--
                    (A) section 4(d)(4) of the Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 
                1133(d)(4)); and
                    (B) the guidelines set forth in appendix A of the 
                Report of the Committee on Interior and Insular Affairs 
                to accompany H.R. 2570 of the 101st Congress (H. Rept. 
                101-405).
            (5) Buffer zones.--

[[Page 133 STAT. 652]]

                    (A) In general.--Nothing in this section creates a 
                protective perimeter or buffer zone around the 
                wilderness areas.
                    (B) Activities outside wilderness areas.--The fact 
                that an activity or use on land outside a wilderness 
                area can be seen or heard within the wilderness area 
                shall not preclude the activity or use outside the 
                boundary of the wilderness area.
            (6) Release of wilderness study areas.--Congress finds that, 
        for purposes of section 603(c) of the Federal Land Policy and 
        Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1782(c)), the public land 
        within the San Antonio Wilderness Study Area not designated as 
        wilderness by this section--
                    (A) has been adequately studied for wilderness 
                designation;
                    (B) is no longer subject to section 603(c) of the 
                Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 1976 (43 
                U.S.C. 1782(c)); and
                    (C) shall be managed in accordance with this 
                section.
            (7) Maps and legal descriptions.--
                    (A) In general.--As soon as practicable after the 
                date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall file 
                the map and legal descriptions of the wilderness areas 
                with--
                          (i) the Committee on Energy and Natural 
                      Resources of the Senate; and
                          (ii) the Committee on Natural Resources of the 
                      House of Representatives.
                    (B) Force of law.--The map and legal descriptions 
                filed under subparagraph (A) shall have the same force 
                and effect as if included in this section, except that 
                the Secretary may correct errors in the legal 
                description and map.
                    (C) Public availability.--The map and legal 
                descriptions filed under subparagraph (A) shall be on 
                file and available for public inspection in the 
                appropriate offices of the Bureau of Land Management.
            (8) National landscape conservation system.--The wilderness 
        areas shall be administered as components of the National 
        Landscape Conservation System.
            (9) Fish and wildlife.--Nothing in this section affects the 
        jurisdiction of the State of New Mexico with respect to fish and 
        wildlife located on public land in the State.
            (10) Withdrawals.--Subject to valid existing rights, any 
        Federal land within the wilderness areas designated by paragraph 
        (1), including any land or interest in land that is acquired by 
        the United States after the date of enactment of this Act, is 
        withdrawn from--
                    (A) entry, appropriation, or disposal under the 
                public land laws;
                    (B) location, entry, and patent under the mining 
                laws; and
                    (C) operation of the mineral leasing, mineral 
                materials, and geothermal leasing laws.
            (11) Treaty rights.--Nothing in this section enlarges, 
        diminishes, or otherwise modifies any treaty rights.

[[Page 133 STAT. 653]]

SEC. 1203. METHOW VALLEY, WASHINGTON, FEDERAL LAND WITHDRAWAL.

    (a) Definition of Map.--In this section, the term ``Map'' means the 
Forest Service map entitled ``Methow Headwaters Withdrawal Proposal 
Legislative Map'' and dated May 24, 2016.
    (b) Withdrawal.--Subject to valid existing rights, the approximately 
340,079 acres of Federal land and interests in the land located in the 
Okanogan-Wenatchee National Forest within the area depicted on the Map 
as ``Proposed Withdrawal'' is withdrawn from all forms of--
            (1) entry, appropriation, or disposal under the public land 
        laws;
            (2) location, entry, and patent under the mining laws; and
            (3) disposition under the mineral leasing and geothermal 
        leasing laws.

    (c) Acquired Land.--Any land or interest in land within the area 
depicted on the Map as ``Proposed Withdrawal'' that is acquired by the 
United States after the date of enactment of this Act shall, on 
acquisition, be immediately withdrawn in accordance with this section.
    (d) Availability of Map.--The Map shall be kept on file and made 
available for public inspection in the appropriate offices of the Forest 
Service and the Bureau of Land Management.
SEC. 1204. EMIGRANT CREVICE WITHDRAWAL.

    (a) Definition of Map.--In this section, the term ``map'' means the 
map entitled ``Emigrant Crevice Proposed Withdrawal Area'' and dated 
November 10, 2016.
    (b) Withdrawal.--Subject to valid existing rights in existence on 
the date of enactment of this Act, the National Forest System land and 
interests in the National Forest System land, as depicted on the map, is 
withdrawn from--
            (1) location, entry, and patent under the mining laws; and
            (2) disposition under all laws pertaining to mineral and 
        geothermal leasing.

    (c) Acquired Land.--Any land or interest in land within the area 
depicted on the map that is acquired by the United States after the date 
of enactment of this Act shall, on acquisition, be immediately withdrawn 
in accordance with this section.
    (d) Map.--
            (1) Submission of map.--As soon as practicable after the 
        date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Agriculture 
        shall file the map with--
                    (A) the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources of 
                the Senate; and
                    (B) the Committee on Natural Resources of the House 
                of Representatives.
            (2) Force of law.--The map filed under paragraph (1) shall 
        have the same force and effect as if included in this section, 
        except that the Secretary of Agriculture may correct clerical 
        and typographical errors in the map.
            (3) Public availability.--The map filed under paragraph (1) 
        shall be on file and available for public inspection in the 
        appropriate offices of the Forest Service and the Bureau of Land 
        Management.

[[Page 133 STAT. 654]]

    (e) Effect.--Nothing in this section affects any recreational use, 
including hunting or fishing, that is authorized on land within the area 
depicted on the map under applicable law as of the date of enactment of 
this Act.
SEC. 1205. OREGON WILDLANDS.

    (a) Wild and Scenic River Additions, Designations and Technical 
Corrections.--
            (1) Additions to rogue wild and scenic river.--
                    (A) In general.--Section 3(a) of the Wild and Scenic 
                Rivers Act (16 U.S.C. 1274(a)) is amended by striking 
                paragraph (5) and inserting the following:
            ``(5) Rogue, oregon.--
                    ``(A) In general.--The segment of the river 
                extending from the mouth of the Applegate River 
                downstream to the Lobster Creek Bridge, to be 
                administered by the Secretary of the Interior or the 
                Secretary of Agriculture, as agreed to by the 
                Secretaries of the Interior and Agriculture or as 
                directed by the President.
                    ``(B) Additions.--In addition to the segment 
                described in subparagraph (A), there are designated the 
                following segments in the Rogue River:
                          ``(i) Kelsey creek.--The approximately 6.8-
                      mile segment of Kelsey Creek from the Wild Rogue 
                      Wilderness boundary in T. 32 S., R. 9 W., sec. 25, 
                      Willamette Meridian, to the confluence with the 
                      Rogue River, as a wild river.
                          ``(ii) East fork kelsey creek.--
                                    ``(I) Scenic river.--The 
                                approximately 0.2-mile segment of East 
                                Fork Kelsey Creek from headwaters 
                                downstream to the Wild Rogue Wilderness 
                                boundary in T. 33 S., R. 8 W., sec. 5, 
                                Willamette Meridian, as a scenic river.
                                    ``(II) Wild river.--The 
                                approximately 4.6-mile segment of East 
                                Fork Kelsey Creek from the Wild Rogue 
                                Wilderness boundary in T. 33 S., R. 8 
                                W., sec. 5, Willamette Meridian, to the 
                                confluence with Kelsey Creek, as a wild 
                                river.
                          ``(iii) Whisky creek.--
                                    ``(I) Recreational river.--The 
                                approximately 1.6-mile segment of Whisky 
                                Creek from the confluence of the East 
                                Fork and West Fork to the south boundary 
                                of the non-Federal land in T. 33 S., R. 
                                8 W., sec. 17, Willamette Meridian, as a 
                                recreational river.
                                    ``(II) Wild river.--The 
                                approximately 1.2-mile segment of Whisky 
                                Creek from road 33-8-23 to the 
                                confluence with the Rogue River, as a 
                                wild river.
                          ``(iv) East fork whisky creek.--
                                    ``(I) Scenic river.--The 
                                approximately 0.9-mile segment of East 
                                Fork Whisky Creek from its headwaters to 
                                Wild Rogue Wilderness boundary in T. 33 
                                S., R. 8 W., sec. 11, Willamette 
                                Meridian, as a scenic river.
                                    ``(II) Wild river.--The 
                                approximately 2.6-mile segment of East 
                                Fork Whisky Creek from the Wild

[[Page 133 STAT. 655]]

                                Rogue Wilderness boundary in T. 33 S., 
                                R. 8 W., sec. 11, Willamette Meridian, 
                                downstream to road 33-8-26 crossing, as 
                                a wild river.
                                    ``(III) Recreational river.--The 
                                approximately 0.3-mile segment of East 
                                Fork Whisky Creek from road 33-8-26 to 
                                the confluence with Whisky Creek, as a 
                                recreational river.
                          ``(v) West fork whisky creek.--The 
                      approximately 4.8-mile segment of West Fork Whisky 
                      Creek from its headwaters to the confluence with 
                      the East Fork Whisky Creek, as a wild river.
                          ``(vi) Big windy creek.--
                                    ``(I) Scenic river.--The 
                                approximately 1.5-mile segment of Big 
                                Windy Creek from its headwaters to road 
                                34-9-17.1, as a scenic river.
                                    ``(II) Wild river.--The 
                                approximately 5.8-mile segment of Big 
                                Windy Creek from road 34-9-17.1 to the 
                                confluence with the Rogue River, as a 
                                wild river.
                          ``(vii) East fork big windy creek.--
                                    ``(I) Scenic river.--The 
                                approximately 0.2-mile segment of East 
                                Fork Big Windy Creek from its headwaters 
                                to road 34-8-36, as a scenic river.
                                    ``(II) Wild river.--The 
                                approximately 3.7-mile segment of East 
                                Fork Big Windy Creek from road 34-8-36 
                                to the confluence with Big Windy Creek, 
                                as a wild river.
                          ``(viii) Little windy creek.--
                                    ``(I) Scenic river.--The 
                                approximately 1.2-mile segment of Little 
                                Windy Creek from its headwaters to the 
                                Wild Rogue Wilderness boundary in T. 33 
                                S., R. 9 W., sec. 33, Willamette 
                                Meridian, as a scenic river.
                                    ``(II) Wild river.--The 
                                approximately 1.9-mile segment of Little 
                                Windy Creek from the Wild Rogue 
                                Wilderness boundary in T. 33 S., R. 9 
                                W., sec. 34, Willamette Meridian, to the 
                                confluence with the Rogue River, as a 
                                wild river.
                          ``(ix) Howard creek.--
                                    ``(I) Scenic river.--The 
                                approximately 3.5-mile segment of Howard 
                                Creek from its headwaters to road 34-9-
                                34, as a scenic river.
                                    ``(II) Wild river.--The 
                                approximately 6.9-mile segment of Howard 
                                Creek from 0.1 miles downstream of road 
                                34-9-34 to the confluence with the Rogue 
                                River, as a wild river.
                                    ``(III) Wild river.--The 
                                approximately 3.5-mile segment of Anna 
                                Creek from its headwaters to the 
                                confluence with Howard Creek, as a wild 
                                river.
                          ``(x) Mule creek.--
                                    ``(I) Scenic river.--The 
                                approximately 3.5-mile segment of Mule 
                                Creek from its headwaters downstream to 
                                the Wild Rogue Wilderness boundary as a 
                                scenic river.
                                    ``(II) Wild river.--The 
                                approximately 7.8-mile segment of Mule 
                                Creek from the Wild Rogue

[[Page 133 STAT. 656]]

                                Wilderness boundary in T. 32 S., R. 9 
                                W., sec. 29, Willamette Meridian, to the 
                                confluence with the Rogue River, as a 
                                wild river.
                          ``(xi) Missouri creek.--
                                    ``(I) Scenic river.--The 
                                approximately 3.1-mile segment of 
                                Missouri Creek from its headwaters 
                                downstream to the Wild Rogue Wilderness 
                                boundary in T. 33 S., R. 10 W., sec. 24, 
                                Willamette Meridian, as a scenic river.
                                    ``(II) Wild river.--The 
                                approximately 1.6-mile segment of 
                                Missouri Creek from the Wild Rogue 
                                Wilderness boundary in T. 33 S., R. 10 
                                W., sec. 24, Willamette Meridian, to the 
                                confluence with the Rogue River, as a 
                                wild river.
                          ``(xii) Jenny creek.--
                                    ``(I) Scenic river.--The 
                                approximately 3.1-mile segment of Jenny 
                                Creek from its headwaters downstream to 
                                the Wild Rogue Wilderness boundary in T. 
                                33 S., R. 9 W., sec. 28, Willamette 
                                Meridian, as a scenic river.
                                    ``(II) Wild river.--The 
                                approximately 1.8-mile segment of Jenny 
                                Creek from the Wild Rogue Wilderness 
                                boundary in T. 33 S., R. 9 W., sec. 28, 
                                Willamette Meridian, to the confluence 
                                with the Rogue River, as a wild river.
                          ``(xiii) Rum creek.--
                                    ``(I) Scenic river.--The 
                                approximately 2.2-mile segment of Rum 
                                Creek from its headwaters to the Wild 
                                Rogue Wilderness boundary in T. 34 S., 
                                R. 8 W., sec. 9, Willamette Meridian, as 
                                a scenic river.
                                    ``(II) Wild river.--The 
                                approximately 2.2-mile segment of Rum 
                                Creek from the Wild Rogue Wilderness 
                                boundary in T. 34 S., R. 8 W., sec. 9, 
                                Willamette Meridian, to the confluence 
                                with the Rogue River, as a wild river.
                          ``(xiv) East fork rum creek.--
                                    ``(I) Scenic river.--The 
                                approximately 0.8-mile segment of East 
                                Fork Rum Creek from its headwaters to 
                                the Wild Rogue Wilderness boundary in T. 
                                34 S., R. 8 W., sec. 10, Willamette 
                                Meridian, as a scenic river.
                                    ``(II) Wild river.--The 
                                approximately 1.3-mile segment of East 
                                Fork Rum Creek from the Wild Rogue 
                                Wilderness boundary in T. 34 S., R. 8 
                                W., sec. 10, Willamette Meridian, to the 
                                confluence with Rum Creek, as a wild 
                                river.
                          ``(xv) Wildcat creek.--The approximately 1.7-
                      mile segment of Wildcat Creek from its headwaters 
                      downstream to the confluence with the Rogue River, 
                      as a wild river.
                          ``(xvi) Montgomery creek.--The approximately 
                      1.8-mile segment of Montgomery Creek from its 
                      headwaters downstream to the confluence with the 
                      Rogue River, as a wild river.
                          ``(xvii) Hewitt creek.--

[[Page 133 STAT. 657]]

                                    ``(I) Scenic river.--The 
                                approximately 1.4-mile segment of Hewitt 
                                Creek from its headwaters to the Wild 
                                Rogue Wilderness boundary in T. 33 S., 
                                R. 9 W., sec. 19, Willamette Meridian, 
                                as a scenic river.
                                    ``(II) Wild river.--The 
                                approximately 1.2-mile segment of Hewitt 
                                Creek from the Wild Rogue Wilderness 
                                boundary in T. 33 S., R. 9 W., sec. 19, 
                                Willamette Meridian, to the confluence 
                                with the Rogue River, as a wild river.
                          ``(xviii) Bunker creek.--The approximately 
                      6.6-mile segment of Bunker Creek from its 
                      headwaters to the confluence with the Rogue River, 
                      as a wild river.
                          ``(xix) Dulog creek.--
                                    ``(I) Scenic river.--The 
                                approximately 0.8-mile segment of Dulog 
                                Creek from its headwaters to 0.1 miles 
                                downstream of road 34-8-36, as a scenic 
                                river.
                                    ``(II) Wild river.--The 
                                approximately 1.0-mile segment of Dulog 
                                Creek from road 34-8-36 to the 
                                confluence with the Rogue River, as a 
                                wild river.
                          ``(xx) Quail creek.--The approximately 1.7-
                      mile segment of Quail Creek from the Wild Rogue 
                      Wilderness boundary in T. 33 S., R. 10 W., sec. 1, 
                      Willamette Meridian, to the confluence with the 
                      Rogue River, as a wild river.
                          ``(xxi) Meadow creek.--The approximately 4.1-
                      mile segment of Meadow Creek from its headwaters 
                      to the confluence with the Rogue River, as a wild 
                      river.
                          ``(xxii) Russian creek.--The approximately 
                      2.5-mile segment of Russian Creek from the Wild 
                      Rogue Wilderness boundary in T. 33 S., R. 8 W., 
                      sec. 20, Willamette Meridian, to the confluence 
                      with the Rogue River, as a wild river.
                          ``(xxiii) Alder creek.--The approximately 1.2-
                      mile segment of Alder Creek from its headwaters to 
                      the confluence with the Rogue River, as a wild 
                      river.
                          ``(xxiv) Booze creek.--The approximately 1.5-
                      mile segment of Booze Creek from its headwaters to 
                      the confluence with the Rogue River, as a wild 
                      river.
                          ``(xxv) Bronco creek.--The approximately 1.8-
                      mile segment of Bronco Creek from its headwaters 
                      to the confluence with the Rogue River, as a wild 
                      river.
                          ``(xxvi) Copsey creek.--The approximately 1.5-
                      mile segment of Copsey Creek from its headwaters 
                      to the confluence with the Rogue River, as a wild 
                      river.
                          ``(xxvii) Corral creek.--The approximately 
                      0.5-mile segment of Corral Creek from its 
                      headwaters to the confluence with the Rogue River, 
                      as a wild river.
                          ``(xxviii) Cowley creek.--The approximately 
                      0.9-mile segment of Cowley Creek from its 
                      headwaters

[[Page 133 STAT. 658]]

                      to the confluence with the Rogue River, as a wild 
                      river.
                          ``(xxix) Ditch creek.--The approximately 1.8-
                      mile segment of Ditch Creek from the Wild Rogue 
                      Wilderness boundary in T. 33 S., R. 9 W., sec. 5, 
                      Willamette Meridian, to its confluence with the 
                      Rogue River, as a wild river.
                          ``(xxx) Francis creek.--The approximately 0.9-
                      mile segment of Francis Creek from its headwaters 
                      to the confluence with the Rogue River, as a wild 
                      river.
                          ``(xxxi) Long gulch.--
                                    ``(I) Scenic river.--The 
                                approximately 1.4-mile segment of Long 
                                Gulch from its headwaters to the Wild 
                                Rogue Wilderness boundary in T. 33 S., 
                                R. 10 W., sec. 23, Willamette Meridian, 
                                as a scenic river.
                                    ``(II) Wild river.--The 
                                approximately 1.1-mile segment of Long 
                                Gulch from the Wild Rogue Wilderness 
                                boundary in T. 33 S., R. 10 W., sec. 23, 
                                Willamette Meridian, to the confluence 
                                with the Rogue River, as a wild river.
                          ``(xxxii) Bailey creek.--
                                    ``(I) Scenic river.--The 
                                approximately 1.4-mile segment of Bailey 
                                Creek from its headwaters to the Wild 
                                Rogue Wilderness boundary on the west 
                                section line of T. 34 S., R. 8 W., sec. 
                                14, Willamette Meridian, as a scenic 
                                river.
                                    ``(II) Wild river.--The 
                                approximately 1.7-mile segment of Bailey 
                                Creek from the west section line of T. 
                                34 S., R.8 W., sec. 14, Willamette 
                                Meridian, to the confluence of the Rogue 
                                River, as a wild river.
                          ``(xxxiii) Shady creek.--The approximately 
                      0.7-mile segment of Shady Creek from its 
                      headwaters to the confluence with the Rogue River, 
                      as a wild river.
                          ``(xxxiv) Slide creek.--
                                    ``(I) Scenic river.--The 
                                approximately 0.5-mile segment of Slide 
                                Creek from its headwaters to road 33-9-
                                6, as a scenic river.
                                    ``(II) Wild river.--The 
                                approximately 0.7-mile section of Slide 
                                Creek from road 33-9-6 to the confluence 
                                with the Rogue River, as a wild 
                                river.''.
                    (B) Management.--Each river segment designated by 
                subparagraph (B) of section 3(a)(5) of the Wild and 
                Scenic Rivers Act (16 U.S.C. 1274(a)(5)) (as added by 
                subparagraph (A)) shall be managed as part of the Rogue 
                Wild and Scenic River.
                    (C) Withdrawal.--Subject to valid existing rights, 
                the Federal land within the boundaries of the river 
                segments designated by subparagraph (B) of section 
                3(a)(5) of the Wild and Scenic Rivers Act (16 U.S.C. 
                1274(a)(5)) (as added by subparagraph (A)) is withdrawn 
                from all forms of--
                          (i) entry, appropriation, or disposal under 
                      the public land laws;
                          (ii) location, entry, and patent under the 
                      mining laws; and

[[Page 133 STAT. 659]]

                          (iii) disposition under all laws pertaining to 
                      mineral and geothermal leasing or mineral 
                      materials.
                    (D) Additional protections for rogue river 
                tributaries.--
                          (i) Licensing by commission.--The Federal 
                      Energy Regulatory Commission shall not license the 
                      construction of any dam, water conduit, reservoir, 
                      powerhouse, transmission line, or other project 
                      works on or directly affecting any stream 
                      described in clause (iv).
                          (ii) Other agencies.--
                                    (I) In general.--No department or 
                                agency of the United States shall assist 
                                by loan, grant, license, or otherwise in 
                                the construction of any water resources 
                                project on or directly affecting any 
                                stream segment that is described in 
                                clause (iv), except to maintain or 
                                repair water resources projects in 
                                existence on the date of enactment of 
                                this Act.
                                    (II) Effect.--Nothing in this clause 
                                prohibits any department or agency of 
                                the United States in assisting by loan, 
                                grant, license, or otherwise, a water 
                                resources project--
                                            (aa) the primary purpose of 
                                        which is ecological or aquatic 
                                        restoration;
                                            (bb) that provides a net 
                                        benefit to water quality and 
                                        aquatic resources; and
                                            (cc) that is consistent with 
                                        protecting and enhancing the 
                                        values for which the river was 
                                        designated.
                          (iii) Withdrawal.--Subject to valid existing 
                      rights, the Federal land located within \1/4\ mile 
                      on either side of the stream segments described in 
                      clause (iv) is withdrawn from all forms of--
                                    (I) entry, appropriation, or 
                                disposal under the public land laws;
                                    (II) location, entry, and patent 
                                under the mining laws; and
                                    (III) disposition under all laws 
                                pertaining to mineral and geothermal 
                                leasing or mineral materials.
                          (iv) Description of stream segments.--The 
                      following are the stream segments referred to in 
                      clause (i):
                                    (I) Kelsey creek.--The approximately 
                                2.5-mile segment of Kelsey Creek from 
                                its headwaters to the Wild Rogue 
                                Wilderness boundary in T. 32 S., R. 9 
                                W., sec. 25, Willamette Meridian.
                                    (II) Grave creek.--The approximately 
                                10.2-mile segment of Grave Creek from 
                                the east boundary of T. 34 S., R. 7 W., 
                                sec. 1, Willamette Meridian, downstream 
                                to the confluence with the Rogue River.
                                    (III) Centennial gulch.--The 
                                approximately 2.2-mile segment of 
                                Centennial Gulch from its headwaters to 
                                its confluence with the Rogue River in 
                                T. 34 S., R. 7, W., sec. 18, Willamette 
                                Meridian.

[[Page 133 STAT. 660]]

                                    (IV) Quail creek.--The approximately 
                                0.8-mile segment of Quail Creek from its 
                                headwaters to the Wild Rogue Wilderness 
                                boundary in T. 33 S., R. 10 W., sec. 1, 
                                Willamette Meridian.
                                    (V) Ditch creek.--The approximately 
                                0.7-mile segment of Ditch Creek from its 
                                headwaters to the Wild Rogue Wilderness 
                                boundary in T. 33 S., R. 9 W., sec. 5, 
                                Willamette Meridian.
                                    (VI) Galice creek.--The 
                                approximately 2.2-mile segment of Galice 
                                Creek from the confluence with the North 
                                Fork Galice Creek downstream to the 
                                confluence with the Rogue River in T. 34 
                                S., R. 8 W., sec. 36, Willamette 
                                Meridian.
                                    (VII) Quartz creek.--The 
                                approximately 3.3-mile segment of Quartz 
                                Creek from its headwaters to its 
                                confluence with the North Fork Galice 
                                Creek in T. 35 S., R. 8 W., sec. 4, 
                                Willamette Meridian.
                                    (VIII) North fork galice creek.--The 
                                approximately 5.7-mile segment of the 
                                North Fork Galice Creek from its 
                                headwaters to its confluence with the 
                                South Fork Galice Creek in T. 35 S., R. 
                                8 W., sec. 3, Willamette Meridian.
            (2) Technical corrections to the wild and scenic rivers 
        act.--
                    (A) Chetco, oregon.--Section 3(a)(69) of the Wild 
                and Scenic Rivers Act (16 U.S.C. 1274(a)(69)) is 
                amended--
                          (i) by redesignating subparagraphs (A), (B), 
                      and (C) as clauses (i), (ii), and (iii), 
                      respectively, and indenting appropriately;
                          (ii) in the matter preceding clause (i) (as so 
                      redesignated), by striking ``The 44.5-mile'' and 
                      inserting the following:
                    ``(A) Designations.--The 44.5-mile'';
                          (iii) in clause (i) (as so redesignated)--
                                    (I) by striking ``25.5-mile'' and 
                                inserting ``27.5-mile''; and
                                    (II) by striking ``Boulder Creek at 
                                the Kalmiopsis Wilderness boundary'' and 
                                inserting ``Mislatnah Creek'';
                          (iv) in clause (ii) (as so redesignated)--
                                    (I) by striking ``8-mile'' and 
                                inserting ``7.5-mile''; and
                                    (II) by striking ``Boulder Creek to 
                                Steel Bridge'' and inserting ``Mislatnah 
                                Creek to Eagle Creek'';
                          (v) in clause (iii) (as so redesignated)--
                                    (I) by striking ``11-mile'' and 
                                inserting ``9.5-mile''; and
                                    (II) by striking ``Steel Bridge'' 
                                and inserting ``Eagle Creek''; and
                          (vi) by adding at the end the following:
                    ``(B) Withdrawal.--Subject to valid rights, the 
                Federal land within the boundaries of the river segments 
                designated by subparagraph (A) is withdrawn from all 
                forms of--
                          ``(i) entry, appropriation, or disposal under 
                      the public land laws;

[[Page 133 STAT. 661]]

                          ``(ii) location, entry, and patent under the 
                      mining laws; and
                          ``(iii) disposition under all laws pertaining 
                      to mineral and geothermal leasing or mineral 
                      materials.''.
                    (B) Whychus creek, oregon.--Section 3(a)(102) of the 
                Wild and Scenic Rivers Act (16 U.S.C. 1274(a)(102)) is 
                amended--
                          (i) in the paragraph heading, by striking 
                      ``Squaw creek'' and inserting ``Whychus creek'';
                          (ii) by redesignating subparagraphs (A) and 
                      (B) as clauses (i) and (ii), respectively, and 
                      indenting appropriately;
                          (iii) in the matter preceding clause (i) (as 
                      so redesignated)--
                                    (I) by striking ``The 15.4-mile'' 
                                and inserting the following:
                    ``(A) Designations.--The 15.4-mile''; and
                                    (II) by striking ``McAllister Ditch, 
                                including the Soap Fork Squaw Creek, the 
                                North Fork, the South Fork, the East and 
                                West Forks of Park Creek, and Park Creek 
                                Fork'' and inserting ``Plainview Ditch, 
                                including the Soap Creek, the North and 
                                South Forks of Whychus Creek, the East 
                                and West Forks of Park Creek, and Park 
                                Creek'';
                          (iv) in clause (ii) (as so redesignated), by 
                      striking ``McAllister Ditch'' and inserting 
                      ``Plainview Ditch''; and
                          (v) by adding at the end the following:
                    ``(B) Withdrawal.--Subject to valid existing rights, 
                the Federal land within the boundaries of the river 
                segments designated by subparagraph (A) is withdrawn 
                from all forms of--
                          ``(i) entry, appropriation, or disposal under 
                      the public land laws;
                          ``(ii) location, entry, and patent under the 
                      mining laws; and
                          ``(iii) disposition under all laws relating to 
                      mineral and geothermal leasing or mineral 
                      materials.''.
            (3) Wild and scenic river designations, wasson creek and 
        franklin creek, oregon.--Section 3(a) of the Wild and Scenic 
        Rivers Act (16 U.S.C. 1274(a)) is amended by adding at the end 
        the following:
            ``(214) Franklin creek, oregon.--The 4.5-mile segment from 
        its headwaters to the private land boundary in sec. 8, to be 
        administered by the Secretary of Agriculture as a wild river.
            ``(215) Wasson creek, oregon.--The 10.1-mile segment in the 
        following classes:
                    ``(A) The 4.2-mile segment from the eastern boundary 
                of T. 21 S., R. 9 W., sec. 17, downstream to the western 
                boundary of T. 21 S., R. 10 W., sec. 12, to be 
                administered by the Secretary of the Interior as a wild 
                river.
                    ``(B) The 5.9-mile segment from the western boundary 
                of T. 21 S., R. 10 W., sec. 12, downstream to the 
                eastern boundary of the northwest quarter of T. 21 S., 
                R. 10 W., sec. 22, to be administered by the Secretary 
                of Agriculture as a wild river.''.

[[Page 133 STAT. 662]]

            (4) Wild and scenic river designations, molalla river, 
        oregon.--Section 3(a) of the Wild and Scenic Rivers Act (16 
        U.S.C. 1274(a)) (as amended by paragraph (3)) is amended by 
        adding at the end the following:
            ``(216) Molalla river, oregon.--
                    ``(A) In general.--The following segments in the 
                State of Oregon, to be administered by the Secretary of 
                the Interior as a recreational river:
                          ``(i) Molalla river.--The approximately 15.1-
                      mile segment from the southern boundary line of T. 
                      7 S., R. 4 E., sec. 19, downstream to the edge of 
                      the Bureau of Land Management boundary in T. 6 S., 
                      R. 3 E., sec. 7.
                          ``(ii) Table rock fork molalla river.--The 
                      approximately 6.2-mile segment from the 
                      easternmost Bureau of Land Management boundary 
                      line in the NE\1/4\ sec. 4, T. 7 S., R. 4 E., 
                      downstream to the confluence with the Molalla 
                      River.
                    ``(B) Withdrawal.--Subject to valid existing rights, 
                the Federal land within the boundaries of the river 
                segments designated by subparagraph (A) is withdrawn 
                from all forms of--
                          ``(i) entry, appropriation, or disposal under 
                      the public land laws;
                          ``(ii) location, entry, and patent under the 
                      mining laws; and
                          ``(iii) disposition under all laws relating to 
                      mineral and geothermal leasing or mineral 
                      materials.''.
            (5) Designation of additional wild and scenic rivers.--
                    (A) Elk river, oregon.--
                          (i) In general.--Section 3(a) of the Wild and 
                      Scenic Rivers Act (16 U.S.C. 1274(a)) is amended 
                      by striking paragraph (76) and inserting the 
                      following:
            ``(76) Elk, oregon.--The 69.2-mile segment to be 
        administered by the Secretary of Agriculture in the following 
        classes:
                    ``(A) Mainstem.--The 17-mile segment from the 
                confluence of the North and South Forks of the Elk to 
                Anvil Creek as a recreational river.
                    ``(B) North fork.--
                          ``(i) Scenic river.--The approximately 0.6-
                      mile segment of the North Fork Elk from its source 
                      in T. 33 S., R. 12 W., sec. 21, Willamette 
                      Meridian, downstream to 0.01 miles below Forest 
                      Service Road 3353, as a scenic river.
                          ``(ii) Wild river.--The approximately 5.5-mile 
                      segment of the North Fork Elk from 0.01 miles 
                      below Forest Service Road 3353 to its confluence 
                      with the South Fork Elk, as a wild river.
                    ``(C) South fork.--
                          ``(i) Scenic river.--The approximately 0.9-
                      mile segment of the South Fork Elk from its source 
                      in the southeast quarter of T. 33 S., R. 12 W., 
                      sec. 32, Willamette Meridian, Forest Service Road 
                      3353, as a scenic river.
                          ``(ii) Wild river.--The approximately 4.2-mile 
                      segment of the South Fork Elk from 0.01 miles 
                      below

[[Page 133 STAT. 663]]

                      Forest Service Road 3353 to its confluence with 
                      the North Fork Elk, as a wild river.
                    ``(D) Other tributaries.--
                          ``(i) Rock creek.--The approximately 1.7-mile 
                      segment of Rock Creek from its headwaters to the 
                      west boundary of T. 32 S., R. 14 W., sec. 30, 
                      Willamette Meridian, as a wild river.
                          ``(ii) Bald mountain creek.--The approximately 
                      8-mile segment of Bald Mountain Creek from its 
                      headwaters, including Salal Spring to its 
                      confluence with Elk River, as a recreational 
                      river.
                          ``(iii) South fork bald mountain creek.--The 
                      approximately 3.5-mile segment of South Fork Bald 
                      Mountain Creek from its headwaters to its 
                      confluence with Bald Mountain Creek, as a scenic 
                      river.
                          ``(iv) Platinum creek.--The approximately 1-
                      mile segment of Platinum Creek from--
                                    ``(I) its headwaters to Forest 
                                Service Road 5325, as a wild river; and
                                    ``(II) Forest Service Road 5325 to 
                                its confluence with Elk River, as a 
                                scenic river.
                          ``(v) Panther creek.--The approximately 5.0-
                      mile segment of Panther Creek from--
                                    ``(I) its headwaters, including 
                                Mountain Well, to Forest Service Road 
                                5325, as a wild river; and
                                    ``(II) Forest Service Road 5325 to 
                                its confluence with Elk River, as a 
                                scenic river.
                          ``(vi) East fork panther creek.--The 
                      approximately 3.0-mile segment of East Fork 
                      Panther Creek from it headwaters, to the 
                      confluence with Panther Creek, as a wild river.
                          ``(vii) West fork panther creek.--The 
                      approximately 3.0-mile segment of West Fork 
                      Panther Creek from its headwaters to the 
                      confluence with Panther Creek as a wild river.
                          ``(viii) Lost creek.--The approximately 1.0-
                      mile segment of Lost Creek from--
                                    ``(I) its headwaters to Forest 
                                Service Road 5325, as a wild river; and
                                    ``(II) Forest Service Road 5325 to 
                                its confluence with the Elk River, as a 
                                scenic river.
                          ``(ix) Milbury creek.--The approximately 1.5-
                      mile segment of Milbury Creek from--
                                    ``(I) its headwaters to Forest 
                                Service Road 5325, as a wild river; and
                                    ``(II) Forest Service Road 5325 to 
                                its confluence with the Elk River, as a 
                                scenic river.
                          ``(x) Blackberry creek.--The approximately 
                      5.0-mile segment of Blackberry Creek from--
                                    ``(I) its headwaters to Forest 
                                Service Road 5325, as a wild river; and
                                    ``(II) Forest Service Road 5325 to 
                                its confluence with the Elk River, as a 
                                scenic river.
                          ``(xi) East fork blackberry creek.--The 
                      approximately 2.0-mile segment of the unnamed 
                      tributary locally known as `East Fork Blackberry 
                      Creek' from its headwaters in T. 33 S., R. 13 W., 
                      sec. 26, Willamette

[[Page 133 STAT. 664]]

                      Meridian, to its confluence with Blackberry Creek, 
                      as a wild river.
                          ``(xii) Mccurdy creek.--The approximately 1.0-
                      mile segment of McCurdy Creek from--
                                    ``(I) its headwaters to Forest 
                                Service Road 5325, as a wild river; and
                                    ``(II) Forest Service Road 5325 to 
                                its confluence with the Elk River, as a 
                                scenic river.
                          ``(xiii) Bear creek.--The approximately 1.5-
                      mile segment of Bear Creek from headwaters to the 
                      confluence with Bald Mountain Creek, as a 
                      recreational river.
                          ``(xiv) Butler creek.--The approximately 4-
                      mile segment of Butler Creek from--
                                    ``(I) its headwaters to the south 
                                boundary of T. 33 S., R. 13 W., sec. 8, 
                                Willamette Meridian, as a wild river; 
                                and
                                    ``(II) from the south boundary of T. 
                                33 S., R. 13 W., sec. 8, Willamette 
                                Meridian, to its confluence with Elk 
                                River, as a scenic river.
                          ``(xv) East fork butler creek.--The 
                      approximately 2.8-mile segment locally known as 
                      the `East Fork of Butler Creek' from its 
                      headwaters on Mount Butler in T. 32 S., R. 13 W., 
                      sec. 29, Willamette Meridian, to its confluence 
                      with Butler Creek, as a scenic river.
                          ``(xvi) Purple mountain creek.--The 
                      approximately 2.0-mile segment locally known as 
                      `Purple Mountain Creek' from--
                                    ``(I) its headwaters in secs. 35 and 
                                36, T. 33 S., R. 14 W., Willamette 
                                Meridian, to 0.01 miles above Forest 
                                Service Road 5325, as a wild river; and
                                    ``(II) 0.01 miles above Forest 
                                Service Road 5325 to its confluence with 
                                the Elk River, as a scenic river.''.
                          (ii) &lt;&lt;NOTE: 16 USC 1274 note.&gt;&gt;  
                      Withdrawal.--Subject to valid existing rights, the 
                      Federal land within the boundaries of the river 
                      segments designated by paragraph (76) of section 
                      3(a) of the Wild and Scenic Rivers Act (16 U.S.C. 
                      1274(a)) (as amended by clause (i)) is withdrawn 
                      from all forms of--
                                    (I) entry, appropriation, or 
                                disposal under the public land laws;
                                    (II) location, entry, and patent 
                                under the mining laws; and
                                    (III) disposition under all laws 
                                relating to mineral and geothermal 
                                leasing or mineral materials.
                    (B) Designation of wild and scenic river segments.--
                          (i) In general.--Section 3(a) of the Wild and 
                      Scenic Rivers Act (16 U.S.C. 1274(a)) (as amended 
                      by paragraph (4)) is amended by adding at the end 
                      the following:
            ``(217) Nestucca river, oregon.--The approximately 15.5-mile 
        segment from its confluence with Ginger Creek downstream until 
        it crosses the western edge of T. 4 S., R. 7 W.,

[[Page 133 STAT. 665]]

        sec. 7, Willamette Meridian, to be administered by the Secretary 
        of the Interior as a recreational river.
            ``(218) Walker creek, oregon.--The approximately 2.9-mile 
        segment from the headwaters in T. 3 S., R. 6 W., sec. 20 
        downstream to the confluence with the Nestucca River in T. 3 S., 
        R. 6 W., sec. 15, Willamette Meridian, to be administered by the 
        Secretary of the Interior as a recreational river.
            ``(219) North fork silver creek, oregon.--The approximately 
        6-mile segment from the headwaters in T. 35 S., R. 9 W., sec. 1 
        downstream to the western edge of the Bureau of Land Management 
        boundary in T. 35 S., R. 9 W., sec. 17, Willamette Meridian, to 
        be administered by the Secretary of the Interior as a 
        recreational river.
            ``(220) Jenny creek, oregon.--The approximately 17.6-mile 
        segment from the Bureau of Land Management boundary located at 
        the north boundary of the southwest quarter of the southeast 
        quarter of T. 38 S., R. 4 E., sec. 34, Willamette Meridian, 
        downstream to the Oregon State border, to be administered by the 
        Secretary of the Interior as a scenic river.
            ``(221) Spring creek, oregon.--The approximately 1.1-mile 
        segment from its source at Shoat Springs in T. 40 S., R. 4 E., 
        sec. 34, Willamette Meridian, downstream to the confluence with 
        Jenny Creek in T. 41 S., R. 4 E., sec. 3, Willamette Meridian, 
        to be administered by the Secretary of the Interior as a scenic 
        river.
            ``(222) Lobster creek, oregon.--The approximately 5-mile 
        segment from T. 15 S., R. 8 W., sec. 35, Willamette Meridian, 
        downstream to the northern edge of the Bureau of Land Management 
        boundary in T. 15 S., R. 8 W., sec. 15, Willamette Meridian, to 
        be administered by the Secretary of the Interior as a 
        recreational river.
            ``(223) Elk creek, oregon.--The approximately 7.3-mile 
        segment from its confluence with Flat Creek near river mile 9, 
        to the southern edge of the Army Corps of Engineers boundary in 
        T. 33 S., R. 1 E., sec. 30, Willamette Meridian, near river mile 
        1.7, to be administered by the Secretary of the Interior as a 
        scenic river.''.
                          (ii) &lt;&lt;NOTE: 16 USC 1274 note.&gt;&gt;  
                      Administration of elk creek.--
                                    (I) Lateral boundaries of elk 
                                creek.--The lateral boundaries of the 
                                river segment designated by paragraph 
                                (223) of section 3(a) of the Wild and 
                                Scenic Rivers Act (16 U.S.C. 1274(a)) 
                                (as added by clause (i)) shall include 
                                an average of not more than 640 acres 
                                per mile measured from the ordinary high 
                                water mark on both sides of the river 
                                segment.
                                    (II) Deauthorization.--The Elk Creek 
                                Project authorized under the Flood 
                                Control Act of 1962 (Public Law 87-874; 
                                76 Stat. 1192) is deauthorized.
                          (iii) &lt;&lt;NOTE: 16 USC 1274 note.&gt;&gt;  
                      Withdrawal.--Subject to valid existing rights, the 
                      Federal land within the boundaries of the river 
                      segments designated by paragraphs (217) through 
                      (223) of section 3(a) of the Wild and Scenic 
                      Rivers Act (16 U.S.C. 1274(a)) (as added by clause 
                      (i)) is withdrawn from all forms of--
                                    (I) entry, appropriation, or 
                                disposal under the public land laws;

[[Page 133 STAT. 666]]

                                    (II) location, entry, and patent 
                                under the mining laws; and
                                    (III) disposition under all laws 
                                relating to mineral and geothermal 
                                leasing or mineral materials.

    (b) Devil's Staircase Wilderness.--
            (1) Definitions.--In this subsection:
                    (A) Map.--The term ``map'' means the map entitled 
                ``Devil's Staircase Wilderness Proposal'' and dated July 
                26, 2018.
                    (B) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means--
                          (i) the Secretary, with respect to public land 
                      administered by the Secretary; or
                          (ii) the Secretary of Agriculture, with 
                      respect to National Forest System land.
                    (C) State.--The term ``State'' means the State of 
                Oregon.
                    (D) Wilderness.--The term ``Wilderness'' means the 
                Devil's Staircase Wilderness designated by paragraph 
                (2).
            (2) &lt;&lt;NOTE: 16 USC 1132 note.&gt;&gt;  Designation.--In accordance 
        with the Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1131 et seq.), the 
        approximately 30,621 acres of Forest Service land and Bureau of 
        Land Management land in the State, as generally depicted on the 
        map, is designated as wilderness and as a component of the 
        National Wilderness Preservation System, to be known as the 
        ``Devil's Staircase Wilderness''.
            (3) Map; legal description.--
                    (A) In general.--As soon as practicable after the 
                date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall 
                prepare a map and legal description of the Wilderness.
                    (B) Force of law.--The map and legal description 
                prepared under subparagraph (A) shall have the same 
                force and effect as if included in this subsection, 
                except that the Secretary may correct clerical and 
                typographical errors in the map and legal description.
                    (C) Availability.--The map and legal description 
                prepared under subparagraph (A) shall be on file and 
                available for public inspection in the appropriate 
                offices of the Forest Service and Bureau of Land 
                Management.
            (4) Administration.--Subject to valid existing rights, the 
        area designated as wilderness by this subsection shall be 
        administered by the Secretary in accordance with the Wilderness 
        Act (16 U.S.C. 1131 et seq.), except that--
                    (A) any reference in that Act to the effective date 
                shall be considered to be a reference to the date of 
                enactment of this Act; and
                    (B) any reference in that Act to the Secretary of 
                Agriculture shall be considered to be a reference to the 
                Secretary that has jurisdiction over the land within the 
                Wilderness.
            (5) Fish and wildlife.--Nothing in this subsection affects 
        the jurisdiction or responsibilities of the State with respect 
        to fish and wildlife in the State.
            (6) Adjacent management.--
                    (A) In general.--Nothing in this subsection creates 
                any protective perimeter or buffer zone around the 
                Wilderness.

[[Page 133 STAT. 667]]

                    (B) Activities outside wilderness.--The fact that a 
                nonwilderness activity or use on land outside the 
                Wilderness can be seen or heard within the Wilderness 
                shall not preclude the activity or use outside the 
                boundary of the Wilderness.
            (7) Protection of tribal rights.--Nothing in this subsection 
        diminishes any treaty rights of an Indian Tribe.
            (8) Transfer of administrative jurisdiction.--
                    (A) In general.--Administrative jurisdiction over 
                the approximately 49 acres of Bureau of Land Management 
                land north of the Umpqua River in T. 21 S., R. 11 W., 
                sec. 32, is transferred from the Bureau of Land 
                Management to the Forest Service.
                    (B) Administration.--The Secretary shall administer 
                the land transferred by subparagraph (A) in accordance 
                with--
                          (i) the Act of March 1, 1911 (commonly known 
                      as the ``Weeks Law'') (16 U.S.C. 480 et seq.); and
                          (ii) any laws (including regulations) 
                      applicable to the National Forest System.

              PART II--EMERY COUNTY PUBLIC LAND MANAGEMENT

SEC. 1211. &lt;&lt;NOTE: 16 USC 460dddd note.&gt;&gt;  DEFINITIONS.

    In this part:
            (1) Council.--The term ``Council'' means the San Rafael 
        Swell Recreation Area Advisory Council established under section 
        1223(a).
            (2) County.--The term ``County'' means Emery County in the 
        State.
            (3) Management plan.--The term ``Management Plan'' means the 
        management plan for the Recreation Area developed under section 
        1222(c).
            (4) Map.--The term ``Map'' means the map entitled ``Emery 
        County Public Land Management Act of 2018 Overview Map'' and 
        dated February 5, 2019.
            (5) Recreation area.--The term ``Recreation Area'' means the 
        San Rafael Swell Recreation Area established by section 
        1221(a)(1).
            (6) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means--
                    (A) the Secretary, with respect to public land 
                administered by the Bureau of Land Management; and
                    (B) the Secretary of Agriculture, with respect to 
                National Forest System land.
            (7) State.--The term ``State'' means the State of Utah.
            (8) Wilderness area.--The term ``wilderness area'' means a 
        wilderness area designated by section 1231(a).
SEC. 1212. &lt;&lt;NOTE: 16 USC 460dddd note.&gt;&gt;  ADMINISTRATION.

    Nothing in this part affects or modifies--
            (1) any right of any federally recognized Indian Tribe; or
            (2) any obligation of the United States to any federally 
        recognized Indian Tribe.

[[Page 133 STAT. 668]]

SEC. 1213. &lt;&lt;NOTE: 16 USC 460dddd note.&gt;&gt;  EFFECT ON WATER RIGHTS.

    Nothing in this part--
            (1) affects the use or allocation, in existence on the date 
        of enactment of this Act, of any water, water right, or interest 
        in water;
            (2) affects any water right (as defined by applicable State 
        law) in existence on the date of enactment of this Act, 
        including any water right held by the United States;
            (3) affects any interstate water compact in existence on the 
        date of enactment of this Act;
            (4) shall be considered to be a relinquishment or reduction 
        of any water rights reserved or appropriated by the United 
        States in the State on or before the date of enactment of this 
        Act; or
            (5) affects the management and operation of Flaming Gorge 
        Dam and Reservoir, including the storage, management, and 
        release of water.
SEC. 1214. &lt;&lt;NOTE: 16 USC 460dddd note.&gt;&gt;  SAVINGS CLAUSE.

    Nothing in this part diminishes the authority of the Secretary under 
Public Law 92-195 (commonly known as the ``Wild Free-Roaming Horses and 
Burros Act'') (16 U.S.C. 1331 et seq.).

               Subpart A--San Rafael Swell Recreation Area

SEC. 1221. &lt;&lt;NOTE: 16 USC 460dddd.&gt;&gt;  ESTABLISHMENT OF RECREATION 
                          AREA.

    (a) Establishment.--
            (1) In general.--Subject to valid existing rights, there is 
        established the San Rafael Swell Recreation Area in the State.
            (2) Area included.--The Recreation Area shall consist of 
        approximately 216,995 acres of Federal land managed by the 
        Bureau of Land Management, as generally depicted on the Map.

    (b) Purposes.--The purposes of the Recreation Area are to provide 
for the protection, conservation, and enhancement of the recreational, 
cultural, natural, scenic, wildlife, ecological, historical, and 
educational resources of the Recreation Area.
    (c) Map and Legal Description.--
            (1) In general.--As soon as practicable after the date of 
        enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall file a map and legal 
        description of the Recreation Area with the Committee on Natural 
        Resources of the House of Representatives and the Committee on 
        Energy and Natural Resources of the Senate.
            (2) Effect.--The map and legal description filed under 
        paragraph (1) shall have the same force and effect as if 
        included in this subpart, except that the Secretary may correct 
        clerical and typographical errors in the map and legal 
        description.
            (3) Public availability.--A copy of the map and legal 
        description filed under paragraph (1) shall be on file and 
        available for public inspection in the appropriate offices of 
        the Bureau of Land Management.
SEC. 1222. &lt;&lt;NOTE: 16 USC 460dddd-1.&gt;&gt;  MANAGEMENT OF RECREATION 
                          AREA.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary shall administer the Recreation 
Area--

[[Page 133 STAT. 669]]

            (1) in a manner that conserves, protects, and enhances the 
        purposes for which the Recreation Area is established; and
            (2) in accordance with--
                    (A) this section;
                    (B) the Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 
                1976 (43 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.); and
                    (C) other applicable laws.

    (b) Uses.--The Secretary shall allow only uses of the Recreation 
Area that are consistent with the purposes for which the Recreation Area 
is established.
    (c) Management Plan.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 5 years after the date of 
        enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall develop a 
        comprehensive management plan for the long-term protection and 
        management of the Recreation Area.
            (2) Requirements.--The Management Plan shall--
                    (A) describe the appropriate uses and management of 
                the Recreation Area;
                    (B) be developed with extensive public input;
                    (C) take into consideration any information 
                developed in studies of the land within the Recreation 
                Area; and
                    (D) be developed fully consistent with the 
                settlement agreement entered into on January 13, 2017, 
                in the case in the United States District Court for the 
                District of Utah styled ``Southern Utah Wilderness 
                Alliance, et al. v. U.S. Department of the Interior, et 
                al.'' and numbered 2:12-cv-257 DAK.

    (d) Motorized Vehicles; New Roads.--
            (1) Motorized vehicles.--Except as needed for emergency 
        response or administrative purposes, the use of motorized 
        vehicles in the Recreation Area shall be permitted only on roads 
        and motorized routes designated in the Management Plan for the 
        use of motorized vehicles.
            (2) New roads.--No new permanent or temporary roads or other 
        motorized vehicle routes shall be constructed within the 
        Recreation Area after the date of enactment of this Act.
            (3) Existing roads.--
                    (A) In general.--Necessary maintenance or repairs to 
                existing roads designated in the Management Plan for the 
                use of motorized vehicles, including necessary repairs 
                to keep existing roads free of debris or other safety 
                hazards, shall be permitted after the date of enactment 
                of this Act, consistent with the requirements of this 
                section.
                    (B) Effect.--Nothing in this subsection prevents the 
                Secretary from rerouting an existing road or trail to 
                protect Recreation Area resources from degradation or to 
                protect public safety, as determined to be appropriate 
                by the Secretary.

    (e) Grazing.--
            (1) In general.--The grazing of livestock in the Recreation 
        Area, if established before the date of enactment of this Act, 
        shall be allowed to continue, subject to such reasonable 
        regulations, policies, and practices as the Secretary considers 
        to be necessary in accordance with--
                    (A) applicable law (including regulations); and
                    (B) the purposes of the Recreation Area.

[[Page 133 STAT. 670]]

            (2) Inventory.--Not later than 5 years after the date of 
        enactment of this Act, the Secretary, in collaboration with any 
        affected grazing permittee, shall carry out an inventory of 
        facilities and improvements associated with grazing activities 
        in the Recreation Area.

    (f) Cold War Sites.--The Secretary shall manage the Recreation Area 
in a manner that educates the public about Cold War and historic uranium 
mine sites in the Recreation Area, subject to such terms and conditions 
as the Secretary considers necessary to protect public health and 
safety.
    (g) Incorporation of Acquired Land and Interests.--Any land or 
interest in land located within the boundary of the Recreation Area that 
is acquired by the United States after the date of enactment of this Act 
shall--
            (1) become part of the Recreation Area; and
            (2) be managed in accordance with applicable laws, including 
        as provided in this section.

    (h) Withdrawal.--Subject to valid existing rights, all Federal land 
within the Recreation Area, including any land or interest in land that 
is acquired by the United States within the Recreation Area after the 
date of enactment of this Act, is withdrawn from--
            (1) entry, appropriation, or disposal under the public land 
        laws;
            (2) location, entry, and patent under the mining laws; and
            (3) operation of the mineral leasing, mineral materials, and 
        geothermal leasing laws.

    (i) Study of Nonmotorized Recreation Opportunities.--Not later than 
2 years after the date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary, in 
consultation with interested parties, shall conduct a study of 
nonmotorized recreation trail opportunities, including bicycle trails, 
within the Recreation Area, consistent with the purposes of the 
Recreation Area.
    (j) Cooperative Agreement.--The Secretary may enter into a 
cooperative agreement with the State in accordance with section 307(b) 
of the Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 
1737(b)) and other applicable laws to provide for the protection, 
management, and maintenance of the Recreation Area.
SEC. 1223. &lt;&lt;NOTE: 16 USC 460dddd-2.&gt;&gt;  SAN RAFAEL SWELL 
                          RECREATION AREA ADVISORY COUNCIL.

    (a) Establishment.--Not later than 180 days after the date of 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall establish an advisory 
council, to be known as the ``San Rafael Swell Recreation Area Advisory 
Council''.
    (b) Duties.--The Council shall advise the Secretary with respect to 
the preparation and implementation of the Management Plan for the 
Recreation Area.
    (c) Applicable Law.--The Council shall be subject to--
            (1) the Federal Advisory Committee Act (5 U.S.C. App.); and
            (2) section 309 of the Federal Land Policy and Management 
        Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1739).

    (d) Members.--The Council shall include 7 members, to be appointed 
by the Secretary, of whom, to the maximum extent practicable--

[[Page 133 STAT. 671]]

            (1) 1 member shall represent the Emery County Commission;
            (2) 1 member shall represent motorized recreational users;
            (3) 1 member shall represent nonmotorized recreational 
        users;
            (4) 1 member shall represent permittees holding grazing 
        allotments within the Recreation Area or wilderness areas 
        designated in this part;
            (5) 1 member shall represent conservation organizations;
            (6) 1 member shall have expertise in the historical uses of 
        the Recreation Area; and
            (7) 1 member shall be appointed from the elected leadership 
        of a Federally recognized Indian Tribe that has significant 
        cultural or historical connections to, and expertise in, the 
        landscape, archeological sites, or cultural sites within the 
        County.

                       Subpart B--Wilderness Areas

SEC. 1231. ADDITIONS TO THE NATIONAL WILDERNESS PRESERVATION 
                          SYSTEM.

    (a) Additions.--In accordance with the Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 
1131 et seq.), the following land in the State is designated as 
wilderness and as components of the National Wilderness Preservation 
System:
            (1) &lt;&lt;NOTE: 16 USC 1132 note.&gt;&gt;  Big wild horse mesa.--
        Certain Federal land managed by the Bureau of Land Management, 
        comprising approximately 18,192 acres, generally depicted on the 
        Map as ``Proposed Big Wild Horse Mesa Wilderness'', which shall 
        be known as the ``Big Wild Horse Mesa Wilderness''.
            (2) &lt;&lt;NOTE: 16 USC 1132 note.&gt;&gt;  Cold wash.--Certain Federal 
        land managed by the Bureau of Land Management, comprising 
        approximately 11,001 acres, generally depicted on the Map as 
        ``Proposed Cold Wash Wilderness'', which shall be known as the 
        ``Cold Wash Wilderness''.
            (3) &lt;&lt;NOTE: 16 USC 1132 note.&gt;&gt;  Desolation canyon.--Certain 
        Federal land managed by the Bureau of Land Management, 
        comprising approximately 142,996 acres, generally depicted on 
        the Map as ``Proposed Desolation Canyon Wilderness'', which 
        shall be known as the ``Desolation Canyon Wilderness''.
            (4) &lt;&lt;NOTE: 16 USC 1132 note.&gt;&gt;  Devil's canyon.--Certain 
        Federal land managed by the Bureau of Land Management, 
        comprising approximately 8,675 acres, generally depicted on the 
        Map as ``Proposed Devil's Canyon Wilderness'', which shall be 
        known as the ``Devil's Canyon Wilderness''.
            (5) &lt;&lt;NOTE: 16 USC 1132 note.&gt;&gt;  Eagle canyon.--Certain 
        Federal land managed by the Bureau of Land Management, 
        comprising approximately 13,832 acres, generally depicted on the 
        Map as ``Proposed Eagle Canyon Wilderness'', which shall be 
        known as the ``Eagle Canyon Wilderness''.
            (6) &lt;&lt;NOTE: 16 USC 1132 note.&gt;&gt;  Horse valley.--Certain 
        Federal land managed by the Bureau of Land Management, 
        comprising approximately 12,201 acres, generally depicted on the 
        Map as ``Proposed Horse Valley Wilderness'', which shall be 
        known as the ``Horse Valley Wilderness''.
            (7) &lt;&lt;NOTE: 16 USC 1132 note.&gt;&gt;  Labyrinth canyon.--Certain 
        Federal land managed by the Bureau of Land Management, 
        comprising approximately

[[Page 133 STAT. 672]]

        54,643 acres, generally depicted on the Map as ``Proposed 
        Labyrinth Canyon Wilderness'', which shall be known as the 
        ``Labyrinth Canyon Wilderness''.
            (8) &lt;&lt;NOTE: 16 USC 1132 note.&gt;&gt;  Little ocean draw.--Certain 
        Federal land managed by the Bureau of Land Management, 
        comprising approximately 20,660 acres, generally depicted on the 
        Map as ``Proposed Little Ocean Draw Wilderness'', which shall be 
        known as the ``Little Ocean Draw Wilderness''.
            (9) &lt;&lt;NOTE: 16 USC 1132 note.&gt;&gt;  Little wild horse canyon.--
        Certain Federal land managed by the Bureau of Land Management, 
        comprising approximately 5,479 acres, generally depicted on the 
        Map as ``Proposed Little Wild Horse Canyon Wilderness'', which 
        shall be known as the ``Little Wild Horse Canyon Wilderness''.
            (10) &lt;&lt;NOTE: 16 USC 1132 note.&gt;&gt;  Lower last chance.--
        Certain Federal land managed by the Bureau of Land Management, 
        comprising approximately 19,338 acres, generally depicted on the 
        Map as ``Proposed Lower Last Chance Wilderness'', which shall be 
        known as the ``Lower Last Chance Wilderness''.
            (11) &lt;&lt;NOTE: 16 USC 1132 note.&gt;&gt;  Mexican mountain.--Certain 
        Federal land managed by the Bureau of Land Management, 
        comprising approximately 76,413 acres, generally depicted on the 
        Map as ``Proposed Mexican Mountain Wilderness'', which shall be 
        known as the ``Mexican Mountain Wilderness''.
            (12) &lt;&lt;NOTE: 16 USC 1132 note.&gt;&gt;  Middle wild horse mesa.--
        Certain Federal land managed by the Bureau of Land Management, 
        comprising approximately 16,343 acres, generally depicted on the 
        Map as ``Proposed Middle Wild Horse Mesa Wilderness'', which 
        shall be known as the ``Middle Wild Horse Mesa Wilderness''.
            (13) &lt;&lt;NOTE: 16 USC 1132 note.&gt;&gt;  Muddy creek.--Certain 
        Federal land managed by the Bureau of Land Management, 
        comprising approximately 98,023 acres, generally depicted on the 
        Map as ``Proposed Muddy Creek Wilderness'', which shall be known 
        as the ``Muddy Creek Wilderness''.
            (14) &lt;&lt;NOTE: 16 USC 1132 note.&gt;&gt;  Nelson mountain.--
                    (A) In general.--Certain Federal land managed by the 
                Forest Service, comprising approximately 7,176 acres, 
                and certain Federal land managed by the Bureau of Land 
                Management, comprising approximately 257 acres, 
                generally depicted on the Map as ``Proposed Nelson 
                Mountain Wilderness'', which shall be known as the 
                ``Nelson Mountain Wilderness''.
                    (B) Transfer of administrative jurisdiction.--
                Administrative jurisdiction over the 257-acre portion of 
                the Nelson Mountain Wilderness designated by 
                subparagraph (A) is transferred from the Bureau of Land 
                Management to the Forest Service.
            (15) &lt;&lt;NOTE: 16 USC 1132 note.&gt;&gt;  Red's canyon.--Certain 
        Federal land managed by the Bureau of Land Management, 
        comprising approximately 17,325 acres, generally depicted on the 
        Map as ``Proposed Red's Canyon Wilderness'', which shall be 
        known as the ``Red's Canyon Wilderness''.
            (16) &lt;&lt;NOTE: 16 USC 1132 note.&gt;&gt;  San rafael reef.--Certain 
        Federal land managed by the Bureau of Land Management, 
        comprising approximately 60,442 acres, generally depicted on the 
        Map as ``Proposed San Rafael Reef Wilderness'', which shall be 
        known as the ``San Rafael Reef Wilderness''.

[[Page 133 STAT. 673]]

            (17) &lt;&lt;NOTE: 16 USC 1132 note.&gt;&gt;  Sid's mountain.--Certain 
        Federal land managed by the Bureau of Land Management, 
        comprising approximately 49,130 acres, generally depicted on the 
        Map as ``Proposed Sid's Mountain Wilderness'', which shall be 
        known as the ``Sid's Mountain Wilderness''.
            (18) &lt;&lt;NOTE: 16 USC 1132 note.&gt;&gt;  Turtle canyon.--Certain 
        Federal land managed by the Bureau of Land Management, 
        comprising approximately 29,029 acres, generally depicted on the 
        Map as ``Proposed Turtle Canyon Wilderness'', which shall be 
        known as the ``Turtle Canyon Wilderness''.

    (b) Map and Legal Description.--
            (1) In general.--As soon as practicable after the date of 
        enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall file a map and legal 
        description of each wilderness area with--
                    (A) the Committee on Natural Resources of the House 
                of Representatives; and
                    (B) the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources of 
                the Senate.
            (2) Effect.--Each map and legal description filed under 
        paragraph (1) shall have the same force and effect as if 
        included in this part, except that the Secretary may correct 
        clerical and typographical errors in the maps and legal 
        descriptions.
            (3) Availability.--Each map and legal description filed 
        under paragraph (1) shall be on file and available for public 
        inspection in the appropriate office of the Secretary.
SEC. 1232. ADMINISTRATION.

    (a) Management.--Subject to valid existing rights, the wilderness 
areas shall be administered by the Secretary in accordance with the 
Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1131 et seq.), except that--
            (1) any reference in that Act to the effective date shall be 
        considered to be a reference to the date of enactment of this 
        Act; and
            (2) any reference in that Act to the Secretary of 
        Agriculture shall be considered to be a reference to the 
        Secretary.

    (b) Recreational Climbing.--Nothing in this part prohibits 
recreational rock climbing activities in the wilderness areas, such as 
the placement, use, and maintenance of fixed anchors, including any 
fixed anchor established before the date of the enactment of this Act--
            (1) in accordance with the Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1131 et 
        seq.); and
            (2) subject to any terms and conditions determined to be 
        necessary by the Secretary.

    (c) Trail Plan.--After providing opportunities for public comment, 
the Secretary shall establish a trail plan that addresses hiking and 
equestrian trails on the wilderness areas in a manner consistent with 
the Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1131 et seq.).
    (d) Livestock.--
            (1) In general.--The grazing of livestock in the wilderness 
        areas, if established before the date of enactment of this Act, 
        shall be allowed to continue, subject to such reasonable 
        regulations, policies, and practices as the Secretary considers 
        to be necessary in accordance with--
                    (A) section 4(d)(4) of the Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 
                1133(d)(4)); and

[[Page 133 STAT. 674]]

                    (B) the guidelines set forth in Appendix A of the 
                report of the Committee on Interior and Insular Affairs 
                of the House of Representatives accompanying H.R. 2570 
                of the 101st Congress (House Report 101-405).
            (2) Inventory.--With respect to each wilderness area in 
        which grazing of livestock is allowed to continue under 
        paragraph (1), not later than 2 years after the date of 
        enactment of this Act, the Secretary, in collaboration with any 
        affected grazing permittee, shall carry out an inventory of 
        facilities and improvements associated with grazing activities 
        in the wilderness area.

    (e) Adjacent Management.--
            (1) In general.--Congress does not intend for the 
        designation of the wilderness areas to create protective 
        perimeters or buffer zones around the wilderness areas.
            (2) Nonwilderness activities.--The fact that nonwilderness 
        activities or uses can be seen or heard from areas within a 
        wilderness area shall not preclude the conduct of those 
        activities or uses outside the boundary of the wilderness area.

    (f) Military Overflights.--Nothing in this subpart restricts or 
precludes--
            (1) low-level overflights of military aircraft over the 
        wilderness areas, including military overflights that can be 
        seen or heard within the wilderness areas;
            (2) flight testing and evaluation; or
            (3) the designation or creation of new units of special use 
        airspace, or the establishment of military flight training 
        routes, over the wilderness areas.

    (g) Commercial Services.--Commercial services (including authorized 
outfitting and guide activities) within the wilderness areas may be 
authorized to the extent necessary for activities that are appropriate 
for realizing the recreational or other wilderness purposes of the 
wilderness areas, in accordance with section 4(d)(5) of the Wilderness 
Act (16 U.S.C. 1133(d)(5)).
    (h) Land Acquisition and Incorporation of Acquired Land and 
Interests.--
            (1) Acquisition authority.--The Secretary may acquire land 
        and interests in land within the boundaries of a wilderness area 
        by donation, purchase from a willing seller, or exchange.
            (2) Incorporation.--Any land or interest in land within the 
        boundary of a wilderness area that is acquired by the United 
        States after the date of enactment of this Act shall be added to 
        and administered as part of the wilderness area.

    (i) Water Rights.--
            (1) Statutory construction.--Nothing in this subpart--
                    (A) shall constitute or be construed to constitute 
                either an express or implied reservation by the United 
                States of any water or water rights with respect to the 
                land designated as wilderness by section 1231;
                    (B) shall affect any water rights in the State 
                existing on the date of enactment of this Act, including 
                any water rights held by the United States;
                    (C) shall be construed as establishing a precedent 
                with regard to any future wilderness designations;
                    (D) shall affect the interpretation of, or any 
                designation made pursuant to, any other Act; or

[[Page 133 STAT. 675]]

                    (E) shall be construed as limiting, altering, 
                modifying, or amending any of the interstate compacts or 
                equitable apportionment decrees that apportions water 
                among and between the State and other States.
            (2) State water law.--The Secretary shall follow the 
        procedural and substantive requirements of the State in order to 
        obtain and hold any water rights not in existence on the date of 
        enactment of this Act with respect to the wilderness areas.

    (j) Memorandum of Understanding.--The Secretary shall offer to enter 
into a memorandum of understanding with the County, in accordance with 
the Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1131 et seq.), to clarify the approval 
processes for the use of motorized equipment and mechanical transport 
for search and rescue activities in the Muddy Creek Wilderness 
established by section 1231(a)(13).
SEC. 1233. FISH AND WILDLIFE MANAGEMENT.

    Nothing in this subpart affects the jurisdiction of the State with 
respect to fish and wildlife on public land located in the State.
SEC. 1234. RELEASE.

    (a) Finding.--Congress finds that, for the purposes of section 
603(c) of the Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 
1782(c)), the approximately 17,420 acres of public land administered by 
the Bureau of Land Management in the County that has not been designated 
as wilderness by section 1231(a) has been adequately studied for 
wilderness designation.
    (b) Release.--The public land described in subsection (a)--
            (1) is no longer subject to section 603(c) of the Federal 
        Land Policy and Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1782(c)); and
            (2) shall be managed in accordance with--
                    (A) applicable law; and
                    (B) any applicable land management plan adopted 
                under section 202 of the Federal Land Policy and 
                Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1712).

              Subpart C--Wild and Scenic River Designation

SEC. 1241. GREEN RIVER WILD AND SCENIC RIVER DESIGNATION.

    (a) In General.--Section 3(a) of the Wild and Scenic Rivers Act (16 
U.S.C. 1274(a)) (as amended by section 1205(a)(5)(B)(i)) is amended by 
adding at the end the following:
            ``(224) Green river.--The approximately 63-mile segment, as 
        generally depicted on the map entitled `Emery County Public Land 
        Management Act of 2018 Overview Map' and dated December 11, 
        2018, to be administered by the Secretary of the Interior, in 
        the following classifications:
                    ``(A) Wild river segment.--The 5.3-mile segment from 
                the boundary of the Uintah and Ouray Reservation, south 
                to the Nefertiti boat ramp, as a wild river.
                    ``(B) Recreational river segment.--The 8.5-mile 
                segment from the Nefertiti boat ramp, south to the 
                Swasey's boat ramp, as a recreational river.
                    ``(C) Scenic river segment.--The 49.2-mile segment 
                from Bull Bottom, south to the county line between Emery 
                and Wayne Counties, as a scenic river.''.

[[Page 133 STAT. 676]]

    (b) &lt;&lt;NOTE: 16 USC 1274 note.&gt;&gt;  Incorporation of Acquired Non-
federal Land.--If the United States acquires any non-Federal land within 
or adjacent to a river segment of the Green River designated by 
paragraph (224) of section 3(a) of the Wild and Scenic Rivers Act (16 
U.S.C. 1274(a)) (as added by subsection (a)), the acquired land shall be 
incorporated in, and be administered as part of, the applicable wild, 
scenic, or recreational river.

               Subpart D--Land Management and Conveyances

SEC. 1251. GOBLIN VALLEY STATE PARK.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary shall offer to convey to the Utah 
Division of Parks and Recreation of the Utah Department of Natural 
Resources (referred to in this section as the ``State''), approximately 
6,261 acres of land identified on the Map as the ``Proposed Goblin 
Valley State Park Expansion'', without consideration, for the management 
by the State as a State park, consistent with uses allowed under the Act 
of June 14, 1926 (commonly known as the ``Recreation and Public Purposes 
Act'') (44 Stat. 741, chapter 578; 43 U.S.C. 869 et seq.).
    (b) Reversionary Clause Required.--A conveyance under subsection (a) 
shall include a reversionary clause to ensure that management of the 
land described in that subsection shall revert to the Secretary if the 
land is no longer being managed as a State park in accordance with 
subsection (a).
SEC. 1252. &lt;&lt;NOTE: 54 USC 320301 note.&gt;&gt;  JURASSIC NATIONAL 
                          MONUMENT.

    (a) Establishment Purposes.--To conserve, interpret, and enhance for 
the benefit of present and future generations the paleontological, 
scientific, educational, and recreational resources of the area and 
subject to valid existing rights, there is established in the State the 
Jurassic National Monument (referred to in this section as the 
``Monument''), consisting of approximately 850 acres of Federal land 
administered by the Bureau of Land Management in the County and 
generally depicted as ``Proposed Jurassic National Monument'' on the 
Map.
    (b) Map and Legal Description.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 2 years after the date of 
        enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall file with the 
        Committee on Energy and Natural Resources of the Senate and the 
        Committee on Natural Resources of the House of Representatives a 
        map and legal description of the Monument.
            (2) Effect.--The map and legal description filed under 
        paragraph (1) shall have the same force and effect as if 
        included in this section, except that the Secretary may correct 
        clerical and typographical errors in the map and legal 
        description, subject to the requirement that, before making the 
        proposed corrections, the Secretary shall submit to the State 
        and any affected county the proposed corrections.
            (3) Public availability.--A copy of the map and legal 
        description filed under paragraph (1) shall be on file and 
        available for public inspection in the appropriate offices of 
        the Bureau of Land Management.

    (c) Withdrawal.--Subject to valid existing rights, any Federal land 
within the boundaries of the Monument and any land or interest in land 
that is acquired by the United States for inclusion

[[Page 133 STAT. 677]]

in the Monument after the date of enactment of this Act is withdrawn 
from--
            (1) entry, appropriation, or disposal under the public land 
        laws;
            (2) location, entry, and patent under the mining laws; and
            (3) operation of the mineral leasing laws, geothermal 
        leasing laws, and minerals materials laws.

    (d) Management.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary shall manage the Monument--
                    (A) in a manner that conserves, protects, and 
                enhances the resources and values of the Monument, 
                including the resources and values described in 
                subsection (a); and
                    (B) in accordance with--
                          (i) this section;
                          (ii) the Federal Land Policy and Management 
                      Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.); and
                          (iii) any other applicable Federal law.
            (2) National landscape conservation system.--The Monument 
        shall be managed as a component of the National Landscape 
        Conservation System.

    (e) Management Plan.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 2 years after the date of 
        enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall develop a 
        comprehensive management plan for the long-term protection and 
        management of the Monument.
            (2) Components.--The management plan developed under 
        paragraph (1) shall--
                    (A) describe the appropriate uses and management of 
                the Monument, consistent with the provisions of this 
                section; and
                    (B) allow for continued scientific research at the 
                Monument during the development of the management plan 
                for the Monument, subject to any terms and conditions 
                that the Secretary determines necessary to protect 
                Monument resources.

    (f) Authorized Uses.--The Secretary shall only allow uses of the 
Monument that the Secretary determines would further the purposes for 
which the Monument has been established.
    (g) Interpretation, Education, and Scientific Research.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary shall provide for public 
        interpretation of, and education and scientific research on, the 
        paleontological resources of the Monument.
            (2) Cooperative agreements.--The Secretary may enter into 
        cooperative agreements with appropriate public entities to carry 
        out paragraph (1).

    (h) Special Management Areas.--
            (1) In general.--The establishment of the Monument shall not 
        modify the management status of any area within the boundary of 
        the Monument that is managed as an area of critical 
        environmental concern.
            (2) Conflict of laws.--If there is a conflict between the 
        laws applicable to an area described in paragraph (1) and this 
        section, the more restrictive provision shall control.

    (i) Motorized Vehicles.--Except as needed for administrative 
purposes or to respond to an emergency, the use of motorized

[[Page 133 STAT. 678]]

vehicles in the Monument shall be allowed only on roads and trails 
designated for use by motorized vehicles under the management plan for 
the Monument developed under subsection (e).
    (j) Water Rights.--Nothing in this section constitutes an express or 
implied reservation by the United States of any water or water rights 
with respect to the Monument.
    (k) Grazing.--The grazing of livestock in the Monument, if 
established before the date of enactment of this Act, shall be allowed 
to continue, subject to such reasonable regulations, policies, and 
practices as the Secretary considers to be necessary in accordance 
with--
            (1) applicable law (including regulations);
            (2) the guidelines set forth in Appendix A of the report of 
        the Committee on Interior and Insular Affairs of the House of 
        Representatives accompanying H.R. 2570 of the 101st Congress 
        (House Report 101-405); and
            (3) the purposes of the Monument.
SEC. 1253. PUBLIC LAND DISPOSAL AND ACQUISITION.

    (a) In General.--In accordance with applicable law, the Secretary 
may sell public land located in the County that has been identified as 
suitable for disposal based on specific criteria as listed in the 
Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1713) in the 
applicable resource management plan in existence on the date of 
enactment of this Act.
    (b) Use of Proceeds.--
            (1) In general.--Notwithstanding any other provision of law 
        (other than a law that specifically provides for a portion of 
        the proceeds of a land sale to be distributed to any trust fund 
        of the State), proceeds from the sale of public land under 
        subsection (a) shall be deposited in a separate account in the 
        Treasury, to be known as the ``Emery County, Utah, Land 
        Acquisition Account'' (referred to in this section as the 
        ``Account'').
            (2) Availability.--
                    (A) In general.--Amounts in the Account shall be 
                available to the Secretary, without further 
                appropriation, to purchase from willing sellers land or 
                interests in land within a wilderness area or the 
                Recreation Area.
                    (B) Applicability.--Any purchase of land or interest 
                in land under subparagraph (A) shall be in accordance 
                with applicable law.
                    (C) Protection of cultural resources.--To the extent 
                that there are amounts in the Account in excess of the 
                amounts needed to carry out subparagraph (A), the 
                Secretary may use the excess amounts for the protection 
                of cultural resources on Federal land within the County.
SEC. 1254. PUBLIC PURPOSE CONVEYANCES.

    (a) In General.--Notwithstanding the land use planning requirement 
of sections 202 and 203 of the Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 
1976 (43 U.S.C. 1712, 1713), on request by the applicable local 
governmental entity, the Secretary shall convey without consideration 
the following parcels of public land to be used for public purposes:
            (1) Emery city recreation area.--The approximately 640-acre 
        parcel as generally depicted on the Map, to the City

[[Page 133 STAT. 679]]

        of Emery, Utah, for the creation or enhancement of public 
        recreation opportunities consistent with uses allowed under the 
        Act of June 14, 1926 (commonly known as the ``Recreation and 
        Public Purposes Act'') (44 Stat. 741, chapter 578; 43 U.S.C. 869 
        et seq.).
            (2) Huntington airport.--The approximately 320-acre parcel 
        as generally depicted on the Map, to Emery County, Utah, for 
        expansion of Huntington Airport consistent with uses allowed 
        under the Act of June 14, 1926 (commonly known as the 
        ``Recreation and Public Purposes Act'') (44 Stat. 741, chapter 
        578; 43 U.S.C. 869 et seq.).
            (3) Emery county sheriff's office.--The approximately 5-acre 
        parcel as generally depicted on the Map, to Emery County, Utah, 
        for the Emery County Sheriff's Office substation consistent with 
        uses allowed under the Act of June 14, 1926 (commonly known as 
        the ``Recreation and Public Purposes Act'') (44 Stat. 741, 
        chapter 578; 43 U.S.C. 869 et seq.).
            (4) Buckhorn information center.--The approximately 5-acre 
        parcel as generally depicted on the Map, to Emery County, Utah, 
        for the Buckhorn Information Center consistent with uses allowed 
        under the Act of June 14, 1926 (commonly known as the 
        ``Recreation and Public Purposes Act'') (44 Stat. 741, chapter 
        578; 43 U.S.C. 869 et seq.).

    (b) Map and Legal Description.--
            (1) In general.--As soon as practicable after the date of 
        enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall file a map and legal 
        description of each parcel of land to be conveyed under 
        subsection (a) with--
                    (A) the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources of 
                the Senate; and
                    (B) the Committee on Natural Resources of the House 
                of Representatives.
            (2) Effect.--Each map and legal description filed under 
        paragraph (1) shall have the same force and effect as if 
        included in this part, except that the Secretary may correct 
        clerical or typographical errors in the map and legal 
        description.
            (3) Public availability.--Each map and legal description 
        filed under paragraph (1) shall be on file and available for 
        public inspection in the Price Field Office of the Bureau of 
        Land Management.

    (c) Reversion.--
            (1) In general.--If a parcel of land conveyed under 
        subsection (a) is used for a purpose other than the purpose 
        described in that subsection, the parcel of land shall, at the 
        discretion of the Secretary, revert to the United States.
            (2) Responsibility for remediation.--In the case of a 
        reversion under paragraph (1), if the Secretary determines that 
        the parcel of land is contaminated with hazardous waste, the 
        local governmental entity to which the parcel of land was 
        conveyed under subsection (a) shall be responsible for 
        remediation.
SEC. 1255. EXCHANGE OF BLM AND SCHOOL AND INSTITUTIONAL TRUST 
                          LANDS ADMINISTRATION LAND.

    (a) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Exchange map.--The term ``Exchange Map'' means the map 
        prepared by the Bureau of Land Management entitled

[[Page 133 STAT. 680]]

        ``Emery County Public Land Management Act--Proposed Land 
        Exchange'' and dated December, 10, 2018.
            (2) Federal land.--The term ``Federal land'' means public 
        land located in the State of Utah that is identified on the 
        Exchange Map as--
                    (A) ``BLM Surface and Mineral Lands Proposed for 
                Transfer to SITLA'';
                    (B) ``BLM Mineral Lands Proposed for Transfer to 
                SITLA''; and
                    (C) ``BLM Surface Lands Proposed for Transfer to 
                SITLA''.
            (3) Non-federal land.--The term ``non-Federal land'' means 
        the land owned by the State in the Emery and Uintah Counties 
        that is identified on the Exchange Map as--
                    (A) ``SITLA Surface and Mineral Land Proposed for 
                Transfer to BLM'';
                    (B) ``SITLA Mineral Lands Proposed for Transfer to 
                BLM''; and
                    (C) ``SITLA Surface Lands Proposed for Transfer to 
                BLM''.
            (4) State.--The term ``State'' means the State, acting 
        through the School and Institutional Trust Lands Administration.

    (b) Exchange of Federal Land and Non-federal Land.--
            (1) In general.--If the State offers to convey to the United 
        States title to the non-Federal land, the Secretary, in 
        accordance with this section, shall--
                    (A) accept the offer; and
                    (B) on receipt of all right, title, and interest in 
                and to the non-Federal land, convey to the State (or a 
                designee) all right, title, and interest of the United 
                States in and to the Federal land.
            (2) Conveyance of parcels in phases.--
                    (A) In general.--Notwithstanding that appraisals for 
                all of the parcels of Federal land and non-Federal land 
                may not have been approved under subsection (c)(5), 
                parcels of the Federal land and non-Federal land may be 
                exchanged under paragraph (1) in phases, to be mutually 
                agreed by the Secretary and the State, beginning on the 
                date on which the appraised values of the parcels 
                included in the applicable phase are approved.
                    (B) No agreement on exchange.--If any dispute or 
                delay arises with respect to the exchange of an 
                individual parcel of Federal land or non-Federal land 
                under paragraph (1), the Secretary and the State may 
                mutually agree to set aside the individual parcel to 
                allow the exchange of the other parcels of Federal land 
                and non-Federal land to proceed.
            (3) Exclusion.--
                    (A) In general.--The Secretary shall exclude from 
                any conveyance of a parcel of Federal land under 
                paragraph (1) any Federal land that contains critical 
                habitat designated for a species listed as an endangered 
                species or a threatened species under the Endangered 
                Species Act of 1973 (16 U.S.C. 1531 et seq.).

[[Page 133 STAT. 681]]

                    (B) Requirement.--Any Federal land excluded under 
                subparagraph (A) shall be the smallest area necessary to 
                protect the applicable critical habitat.
            (4) Applicable law.--
                    (A) In general.--The land exchange under paragraph 
                (1) shall be subject to section 206 of the Federal Land 
                Policy and Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1716) and 
                other applicable law.
                    (B) Land use planning.--With respect to the Federal 
                land to be conveyed under paragraph (1), the Secretary 
                shall not be required to undertake any additional land 
                use planning under section 202 of the Federal Land 
                Policy and Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1712) 
                before the conveyance of the Federal land.
            (5) Valid existing rights.--The land exchange under 
        paragraph (1) shall be subject to valid existing rights.
            (6) Title approval.--Title to the Federal land and non-
        Federal land to be exchanged under paragraph (1) shall be in a 
        form acceptable to the Secretary and the State.

    (c) Appraisals.--
            (1) In general.--The value of the Federal land and the non-
        Federal land to be exchanged under subsection (b)(1) shall be 
        determined by appraisals conducted by 1 or more independent and 
        qualified appraisers.
            (2) State appraiser.--The Secretary and the State may agree 
        to use an independent and qualified appraiser--
                    (A) retained by the State; and
                    (B) approved by the Secretary.
            (3) Applicable law.--The appraisals under paragraph (1) 
        shall be conducted in accordance with nationally recognized 
        appraisal standards, including, as appropriate--
                    (A) the Uniform Appraisal Standards for Federal Land 
                Acquisitions; and
                    (B) the Uniform Standards of Professional Appraisal 
                Practice.
            (4) Minerals.--
                    (A) Mineral reports.--The appraisals under paragraph 
                (1) may take into account mineral and technical reports 
                provided by the Secretary and the State in the 
                evaluation of mineral deposits in the Federal land and 
                non-Federal land.
                    (B) Mining claims.--To the extent permissible under 
                applicable appraisal standards, the appraisal of any 
                parcel of Federal land that is encumbered by a mining or 
                millsite claim located under sections 2318 through 2352 
                of the Revised Statutes (commonly known as the ``Mining 
                Law of 1872'') (30 U.S.C. 21 et seq.) shall be appraised 
                in accordance with standard appraisal practices, 
                including, as appropriate, the Uniform Appraisal 
                Standards for Federal Land Acquisition.
                    (C) Validity examinations.--Nothing in this 
                subsection requires the United States to conduct a 
                mineral examination for any mining claim on the Federal 
                land.
                    (D) Adjustment.--
                          (i) In general.--If value is attributed to any 
                      parcel of Federal land because of the presence of 
                      minerals subject to leasing under the Mineral 
                      Leasing

[[Page 133 STAT. 682]]

                      Act (30 U.S.C. 181 et seq.), the value of the 
                      parcel (as otherwise established under this 
                      subsection) shall be reduced by the percentage of 
                      the applicable Federal revenue sharing obligation 
                      under section 35(a) of the Mineral Leasing Act (30 
                      U.S.C. 191(a)).
                          (ii) Limitation.--An adjustment under clause 
                      (i) shall not be considered to be a property right 
                      of the State.
            (5) Approval.--An appraisal conducted under paragraph (1) 
        shall be submitted to the Secretary and the State for approval.
            (6) Duration.--An appraisal conducted under paragraph (1) 
        shall remain valid for 3 years after the date on which the 
        appraisal is approved by the Secretary and the State.
            (7) Cost of appraisal.--
                    (A) In general.--The cost of an appraisal conducted 
                under paragraph (1) shall be paid equally by the 
                Secretary and the State.
                    (B) Reimbursement by secretary.--If the State 
                retains an appraiser in accordance with paragraph (2), 
                the Secretary shall reimburse the State in an amount 
                equal to 50 percent of the costs incurred by the State.

    (d) Conveyance of Title.--It is the intent of Congress that the land 
exchange authorized under subsection (b)(1) shall be completed not later 
than 1 year after the date of final approval by the Secretary and the 
State of the appraisals conducted under subsection (c).
    (e) Public Inspection and Notice.--
            (1) Public inspection.--Not later than 30 days before the 
        date of any exchange of Federal land and non-Federal land under 
        subsection (b)(1), all final appraisals and appraisal reviews 
        for the land to be exchanged shall be available for public 
        review at the office of the State Director of the Bureau of Land 
        Management in the State of Utah.
            (2) Notice.--The Secretary shall make available on the 
        public website of the Secretary, and the Secretary or the State, 
        as applicable, shall publish in a newspaper of general 
        circulation in Salt Lake County, Utah, a notice that the 
        appraisals conducted under subsection (c) are available for 
        public inspection.

    (f) Equal Value Exchange.--
            (1) In general.--The value of the Federal land and non-
        Federal land to be exchanged under subsection (b)(1)--
                    (A) shall be equal; or
                    (B) shall be made equal in accordance with paragraph 
                (2).
            (2) Equalization.--
                    (A) Surplus of federal land.--With respect to any 
                Federal land and non-Federal land to be exchanged under 
                subsection (b)(1), if the value of the Federal land 
                exceeds the value of the non-Federal land, the value of 
                the Federal land and non-Federal land shall be equalized 
                by--
                          (i) the State conveying to the Secretary, as 
                      necessary to equalize the value of the Federal 
                      land and non-Federal land, after the acquisition 
                      of all State trust land located within the 
                      wilderness areas or recreation area designated by 
                      this part, State trust land

[[Page 133 STAT. 683]]

                      located within any of the wilderness areas or 
                      national conservation areas in Washington County, 
                      Utah, established under subtitle O of title I of 
                      the Omnibus Public Land Management Act of 2009 
                      (Public Law 111-11; 123 Stat. 1075); and
                          (ii) the State, to the extent necessary to 
                      equalize any remaining imbalance of value after 
                      all available Washington County, Utah, land 
                      described in clause (i) has been conveyed to the 
                      Secretary, conveying to the Secretary additional 
                      State trust land as identified and agreed on by 
                      the Secretary and the State.
                    (B) Surplus of non-federal land.--If the value of 
                the non-Federal land exceeds the value of the Federal 
                land, the value of the Federal land and the non-Federal 
                land shall be equalized--
                          (i) by the Secretary making a cash 
                      equalization payment to the State, in accordance 
                      with section 206(b) of the Federal Land Policy and 
                      Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1716(b)); or
                          (ii) by removing non-Federal land from the 
                      exchange.

    (g) Indian Tribes.--The Secretary shall consult with any federally 
recognized Indian Tribe in the vicinity of the Federal land and non-
Federal land to be exchanged under subsection (b)(1) before the 
completion of the land exchange.
    (h) Appurtenant Water Rights.--Any conveyance of a parcel of Federal 
land or non-Federal land under subsection (b)(1) shall include the 
conveyance of water rights appurtenant to the parcel conveyed.
    (i) Grazing Permits.--
            (1) In general.--If the Federal land or non-Federal land 
        exchanged under subsection (b)(1) is subject to a lease, permit, 
        or contract for the grazing of domestic livestock in effect on 
        the date of acquisition, the Secretary and the State shall allow 
        the grazing to continue for the remainder of the term of the 
        lease, permit, or contract, subject to the related terms and 
        conditions of user agreements, including permitted stocking 
        rates, grazing fee levels, access rights, and ownership and use 
        of range improvements.
            (2) Renewal.--To the extent allowed by Federal or State law, 
        on expiration of any grazing lease, permit, or contract 
        described in paragraph (1), the holder of the lease, permit, or 
        contract shall be entitled to a preference right to renew the 
        lease, permit, or contract.
            (3) Cancellation.--
                    (A) In general.--Nothing in this section prevents 
                the Secretary or the State from canceling or modifying a 
                grazing permit, lease, or contract if the Federal land 
                or non-Federal land subject to the permit, lease, or 
                contract is sold, conveyed, transferred, or leased for 
                non-grazing purposes by the Secretary or the State.
                    (B) Limitation.--Except to the extent reasonably 
                necessary to accommodate surface operations in support 
                of mineral development, the Secretary or the State shall 
                not cancel or modify a grazing permit, lease, or 
                contract because the land subject to the permit, lease, 
                or contract has been leased for mineral development.

[[Page 133 STAT. 684]]

            (4) Base properties.--If non-Federal land conveyed by the 
        State under subsection (b)(1) is used by a grazing permittee or 
        lessee to meet the base property requirements for a Federal 
        grazing permit or lease, the land shall continue to qualify as a 
        base property for--
                    (A) the remaining term of the lease or permit; and
                    (B) the term of any renewal or extension of the 
                lease or permit.

    (j) Withdrawal of Federal Land From Mineral Entry Prior to 
Exchange.--Subject to valid existing rights, the Federal land to be 
conveyed to the State under subsection (b)(1) is withdrawn from mineral 
location, entry, and patent under the mining laws pending conveyance of 
the Federal land to the State.

                   Subtitle D--Wild and Scenic Rivers

SEC. 1301. LOWER FARMINGTON RIVER AND SALMON BROOK WILD AND SCENIC 
                          RIVER.

    (a) Findings.--Congress finds that--
            (1) the Lower Farmington River and Salmon Brook Study Act of 
        2005 (Public Law 109-370) authorized the study of the Farmington 
        River downstream from the segment designated as a recreational 
        river by section 3(a)(156) of the Wild and Scenic Rivers Act (16 
        U.S.C. 1277(a)(156)) to its confluence with the Connecticut 
        River, and the segment of the Salmon Brook including its main 
        stem and east and west branches for potential inclusion in the 
        National Wild and Scenic Rivers System;
            (2) the studied segments of the Lower Farmington River and 
        Salmon Brook support natural, cultural, and recreational 
        resources of exceptional significance to the citizens of 
        Connecticut and the Nation;
            (3) concurrently with the preparation of the study, the 
        Lower Farmington River and Salmon Brook Wild and Scenic Study 
        Committee prepared the Lower Farmington River and Salmon Brook 
        Management Plan, June 2011 (referred to in this section as the 
        ``management plan''), that establishes objectives, standards, 
        and action programs that will ensure the long-term protection of 
        the outstanding values of the river segments without Federal 
        management of affected lands not owned by the United States;
            (4) the Lower Farmington River and Salmon Brook Wild and 
        Scenic Study Committee has voted in favor of Wild and Scenic 
        River designation for the river segments, and has included this 
        recommendation as an integral part of the management plan;
            (5) there is strong local support for the protection of the 
        Lower Farmington River and Salmon Brook, including votes of 
        support for Wild and Scenic designation from the governing 
        bodies of all ten communities abutting the study area;
            (6) the State of Connecticut General Assembly has endorsed 
        the designation of the Lower Farmington River and Salmon Brook 
        as components of the National Wild and Scenic Rivers System 
        (Public Act 08-37); and
            (7) the Rainbow Dam and Reservoir are located entirely 
        outside of the river segment designated by subsection (b), and,

[[Page 133 STAT. 685]]

        based on the findings of the study of the Lower Farmington River 
        pursuant to Public Law 109-370, this hydroelectric project 
        (including all aspects of its facilities, operations, and 
        transmission lines) is compatible with the designation made by 
        subsection (b).

    (b) Designation.--Section 3(a) of the Wild and Scenic Rivers Act (16 
U.S.C. 1274(a)) (as amended by section 1241(a)) is amended by adding at 
the end the following:
            ``(225) Lower farmington river and salmon brook, 
        connecticut.--Segments of the main stem and its tributary, 
        Salmon Brook, totaling approximately 62 miles, to be 
        administered by the Secretary of the Interior as follows:
                    ``(A) The approximately 27.2-mile segment of the 
                Farmington River beginning 0.2 miles below the tailrace 
                of the Lower Collinsville Dam and extending to the site 
                of the Spoonville Dam in Bloomfield and East Granby as a 
                recreational river.
                    ``(B) The approximately 8.1-mile segment of the 
                Farmington River extending from 0.5 miles below the 
                Rainbow Dam to the confluence with the Connecticut River 
                in Windsor as a recreational river.
                    ``(C) The approximately 2.4-mile segment of the main 
                stem of Salmon Brook extending from the confluence of 
                the East and West Branches to the confluence with the 
                Farmington River as a recreational river.
                    ``(D) The approximately 12.6-mile segment of the 
                West Branch of Salmon Brook extending from its 
                headwaters in Hartland, Connecticut, to its confluence 
                with the East Branch of Salmon Brook as a recreational 
                river.
                    ``(E) The approximately 11.4-mile segment of the 
                East Branch of Salmon Brook extending from the 
                Massachusetts-Connecticut State line to the confluence 
                with the West Branch of Salmon Brook as a recreational 
                river.''.

    (c) &lt;&lt;NOTE: 16 USC 1274 note.&gt;&gt;  Management.--
            (1) In general.--The river segments designated by subsection 
        (b) shall be managed in accordance with the management plan and 
        such amendments to the management plan as the Secretary 
        determines are consistent with this section. The management plan 
        shall be deemed to satisfy the requirements for a comprehensive 
        management plan pursuant to section 3(d) of the Wild and Scenic 
        Rivers Act (16 U.S.C. 1274(d)).
            (2) Committee.--The Secretary shall coordinate the 
        management responsibilities of the Secretary under this section 
        with the Lower Farmington River and Salmon Brook Wild and Scenic 
        Committee, as specified in the management plan.
            (3) Cooperative agreements.--
                    (A) In general.--In order to provide for the long-
                term protection, preservation, and enhancement of the 
                river segment designated by subsection (b), the 
                Secretary is authorized to enter into cooperative 
                agreements pursuant to sections 10(e) and 11(b)(1) of 
                the Wild and Scenic Rivers Act (16 U.S.C. 1281(e), 
                1282(b)(1)) with--
                          (i) the State of Connecticut;
                          (ii) the towns of Avon, Bloomfield, 
                      Burlington, East Granby, Farmington, Granby, 
                      Hartland, Simsbury, and Windsor in Connecticut; 
                      and

[[Page 133 STAT. 686]]

                          (iii) appropriate local planning and 
                      environmental organizations.
                    (B) Consistency.--All cooperative agreements 
                provided for under this section shall be consistent with 
                the management plan and may include provisions for 
                financial or other assistance from the United States.
            (4) Land management.--
                    (A) Zoning ordinances.--For the purposes of the 
                segments designated in subsection (b), the zoning 
                ordinances adopted by the towns in Avon, Bloomfield, 
                Burlington, East Granby, Farmington, Granby, Hartland, 
                Simsbury, and Windsor in Connecticut, including 
                provisions for conservation of floodplains, wetlands, 
                and watercourses associated with the segments, shall be 
                deemed to satisfy the standards and requirements of 
                section 6(c) of the Wild and Scenic Rivers Act (16 
                U.S.C. 1277(c)).
                    (B) Acquisition of land.--The provisions of section 
                6(c) of the Wild and Scenic Rivers Act (16 U.S.C. 
                1277(c)) that prohibit Federal acquisition of lands by 
                condemnation shall apply to the segments designated in 
                subsection (b). The authority of the Secretary to 
                acquire lands for the purposes of the segments 
                designated in subsection (b) shall be limited to 
                acquisition by donation or acquisition with the consent 
                of the owner of the lands, and shall be subject to the 
                additional criteria set forth in the management plan.
            (5) Rainbow dam.--The designation made by subsection (b) 
        shall not be construed to--
                    (A) prohibit, pre-empt, or abridge the potential 
                future licensing of the Rainbow Dam and Reservoir 
                (including any and all aspects of its facilities, 
                operations and transmission lines) by the Federal Energy 
                Regulatory Commission as a federally licensed 
                hydroelectric generation project under the Federal Power 
                Act (16 U.S.C. 791a et seq.), provided that the 
                Commission may, in the discretion of the Commission and 
                consistent with this section, establish such reasonable 
                terms and conditions in a hydropower license for Rainbow 
                Dam as are necessary to reduce impacts identified by the 
                Secretary as invading or unreasonably diminishing the 
                scenic, recreational, and fish and wildlife values of 
                the segments designated by subsection (b); or
                    (B) affect the operation of, or impose any flow or 
                release requirements on, the unlicensed hydroelectric 
                facility at Rainbow Dam and Reservoir.
            (6) Relation to national park system.--Notwithstanding 
        section 10(c) of the Wild and Scenic Rivers Act (16 U.S.C. 
        1281(c)), the Lower Farmington River shall not be administered 
        as part of the National Park System or be subject to regulations 
        which govern the National Park System.

    (d) Farmington River, Connecticut, Designation Revision.--Section 
3(a)(156) of the Wild and Scenic Rivers Act (16 U.S.C. 1274(a)(156)) is 
amended in the first sentence--
            (1) by striking ``14-mile'' and inserting ``15.1-mile''; and
            (2) by striking ``to the downstream end of the New Hartford-
        Canton, Connecticut town line'' and inserting ``to the 
        confluence with the Nepaug River''.

[[Page 133 STAT. 687]]

SEC. 1302. WOOD-PAWCATUCK WATERSHED WILD AND SCENIC RIVER 
                          SEGMENTS.

    (a) Designation.--Section 3(a) of the Wild and Scenic Rivers Act (16 
U.S.C. 1274(a)) (as amended by section 1301(b)) is amended by adding at 
the end the following:
            ``(226) Wood-pawcatuck watershed, rhode island and 
        connecticut.--The following river segments within the Wood-
        Pawcatuck watershed, to be administered by the Secretary of the 
        Interior, in cooperation with the Wood-Pawcatuck Wild and Scenic 
        Rivers Stewardship Council:
                    ``(A) The approximately 11-mile segment of the 
                Beaver River from its headwaters in Exeter and West 
                Greenwich, Rhode Island, to its confluence with the 
                Pawcatuck River in Richmond, Rhode Island, as a scenic 
                river.
                    ``(B) The approximately 3-mile segment of the 
                Chipuxet River from the Kingstown Road Bridge, South 
                Kingstown, Rhode Island, to its outlet in Worden Pond, 
                as a wild river.
                    ``(C) The approximately 9-mile segment of the Green 
                Fall River from its headwaters in Voluntown, 
                Connecticut, to its confluence with the Ashaway River in 
                Hopkinton, Rhode Island, as a scenic river.
                    ``(D) The approximately 3-mile segment of the 
                Ashaway River from its confluence with the Green Fall 
                River to its confluence with the Pawcatuck River in 
                Hopkinton, Rhode Island, as a recreational river.
                    ``(E) The approximately 3-mile segment of the 
                Pawcatuck River from the Worden Pond outlet in South 
                Kingstown, Rhode Island, to the South County Trail 
                Bridge, Charlestown and South Kingstown, Rhode Island, 
                as a wild river.
                    ``(F) The approximately 4-mile segment of the 
                Pawcatuck River from South County Trail Bridge, 
                Charlestown and South Kingstown, Rhode Island, to the 
                Carolina Back Road Bridge in Richmond and Charlestown, 
                Rhode Island, as a recreational river.
                    ``(G) The approximately 21-mile segment of the 
                Pawcatuck River from Carolina Back Road Bridge in 
                Richmond and Charlestown, Rhode Island, to the 
                confluence with Shunock River in Stonington, 
                Connecticut, as a scenic river.
                    ``(H) The approximately 8-mile segment of the 
                Pawcatuck River from the confluence with Shunock River 
                in Stonington, Connecticut, to the mouth of the river 
                between Pawcatuck Point in Stonington, Connecticut, and 
                Rhodes Point in Westerly, Rhode Island, as a 
                recreational river.
                    ``(I) The approximately 11-mile segment of the Queen 
                River from its headwaters in Exeter and West Greenwich, 
                Rhode Island, to the Kingstown Road Bridge in South 
                Kingstown, Rhode Island, as a scenic river.
                    ``(J) The approximately 5-mile segment of the 
                Usquepaugh River from the Kingstown Road Bridge to its 
                confluence with the Pawcatuck River in South Kingstown, 
                Rhode Island, as a wild river.

[[Page 133 STAT. 688]]

                    ``(K) The approximately 8-mile segment of the 
                Shunock River from its headwaters in North Stonington, 
                Connecticut, to its confluence with the Pawcatuck River 
                as a recreational river.
                    ``(L) The approximately 13-mile segment of the Wood 
                River from its headwaters in Sterling and Voluntown, 
                Connecticut, and Exeter and West Greenwich, Rhode 
                Island, to the Arcadia Road Bridge in Hopkinton and 
                Richmond, Rhode Island, as a wild river.
                    ``(M) The approximately 11-mile segment of the Wood 
                River from the Arcadia Road Bridge in Hopkinton and 
                Richmond, Rhode Island, to the confluence with the 
                Pawcatuck River in Charlestown, Hopkinton, and Richmond, 
                Rhode Island, as a recreational river.''.

    (b) &lt;&lt;NOTE: 16 USC 1274 note.&gt;&gt;  Management of River Segments.--
            (1) Definitions.--In this subsection:
                    (A) Covered tributary.--The term ``covered 
                tributary'' means--
                          (i) each of Assekonk Brook, Breakheart Brook, 
                      Brushy Brook, Canochet Brook, Chickasheen Brook, 
                      Cedar Swamp Brook, Fisherville Brook, Glade Brook, 
                      Glen Rock Brook, Kelly Brook, Locke Brook, Meadow 
                      Brook, Pendleton Brook, Parris Brook, Passquisett 
                      Brook, Phillips Brook, Poquiant Brook, Queens Fort 
                      Brook, Roaring Brook, Sherman Brook, Taney Brook, 
                      Tomaquag Brook, White Brook, and Wyassup Brook 
                      within the Wood-Pawcatuck watershed; and
                          (ii) any other perennial stream within the 
                      Wood-Pawcatuck watershed.
                    (B) River segment.--The term ``river segment'' means 
                a river segment designated by paragraph (226) of section 
                3(a) of the Wild and Scenic Rivers Act (16 U.S.C. 
                1274(a)) (as added by subsection (a)).
                    (C) Stewardship plan.--The term ``Stewardship Plan'' 
                means the plan entitled the ``Wood-Pawcatuck Wild and 
                Scenic Rivers Stewardship Plan for the Beaver, Chipuxet, 
                Green Fall-Ashaway, Pawcatuck, Queen-Usquepaugh, 
                Shunock, and Wood Rivers'' and dated June 2018, which 
                takes a watershed approach to the management of the 
                river segments.
            (2) Wood-pawcatuck wild and scenic rivers stewardship 
        plan.--
                    (A) In general.--The Secretary, in cooperation with 
                the Wood-Pawcatuck Wild and Scenic Rivers Stewardship 
                Council, shall manage the river segments in accordance 
                with--
                          (i) the Stewardship Plan; and
                          (ii) any amendment to the Stewardship Plan 
                      that the Secretary determines is consistent with 
                      this subsection.
                    (B) Watershed approach.--In furtherance of the 
                watershed approach to resource preservation and 
                enhancement described in the Stewardship Plan, the 
                covered tributaries are recognized as integral to the 
                protection and enhancement of the river segments.
                    (C) Requirements for comprehensive management 
                plan.--The Stewardship Plan shall be considered to 
                satisfy

[[Page 133 STAT. 689]]

                each requirement for a comprehensive management plan 
                required under section 3(d) of the Wild and Scenic 
                Rivers Act (16 U.S.C. 1274(d)).
            (3) Cooperative agreements.--To provide for the long-term 
        protection, preservation, and enhancement of each river segment, 
        in accordance with sections 10(e) and 11(b)(1) of the Wild and 
        Scenic Rivers Act (16 U.S.C. 1281(e), 1282(b)(1)), the Secretary 
        may enter into cooperative agreements (which may include 
        provisions for financial or other assistance from the Federal 
        Government) with--
                    (A) the States of Connecticut and Rhode Island;
                    (B) political subdivisions of the States of 
                Connecticut and Rhode Island, including--
                          (i) the towns of North Stonington, Sterling, 
                      Stonington, and Voluntown, Connecticut; and
                          (ii) the towns of Charlestown, Exeter, 
                      Hopkinton, North Kingstown, Richmond, South 
                      Kingstown, Westerly, and West Kingstown, Rhode 
                      Island;
                    (C) the Wood-Pawcatuck Wild and Scenic Rivers 
                Stewardship Council; and
                    (D) any appropriate nonprofit organization, as 
                determined by the Secretary.
            (4) Relation to national park system.--Notwithstanding 
        section 10(c) of the Wild and Scenic Rivers Act (16 U.S.C. 
        1281(c)), each river segment shall not be--
                    (A) administered as a unit of the National Park 
                System; or
                    (B) subject to the laws (including regulations) that 
                govern the administration of the National Park System.
            (5) Land management.--
                    (A) Zoning ordinances.--The zoning ordinances 
                adopted by the towns of North Stonington, Sterling, 
                Stonington, and Voluntown, Connecticut, and Charlestown, 
                Exeter, Hopkinton, North Kingstown, Richmond, South 
                Kingstown, Westerly, and West Greenwich, Rhode Island 
                (including any provision of the zoning ordinances 
                relating to the conservation of floodplains, wetlands, 
                and watercourses associated with any river segment), 
                shall be considered to satisfy the standards and 
                requirements described in section 6(c) of the Wild and 
                Scenic Rivers Act (16 U.S.C. 1277(c)).
                    (B) Villages.--For purposes of section 6(c) of the 
                Wild and Scenic Rivers Act (16 U.S.C. 1277(c)), each 
                town described in subparagraph (A) shall be considered 
                to be a village.
                    (C) Acquisition of land.--
                          (i) Limitation of authority of secretary.--
                      With respect to each river segment, the Secretary 
                      may only acquire parcels of land--
                                    (I) by donation; or
                                    (II) with the consent of the owner 
                                of the parcel of land.
                          (ii) Prohibition relating to the acquisition 
                      of land by condemnation.--In accordance with 6(c) 
                      of the Wild and Scenic Rivers Act (16 U.S.C. 
                      1277(c)), with respect to each river segment, the 
                      Secretary may not acquire any parcel of land by 
                      condemnation.

[[Page 133 STAT. 690]]

SEC. 1303. NASHUA WILD AND SCENIC RIVERS, MASSACHUSETTS AND NEW 
                          HAMPSHIRE.

    (a) Designation of Wild and Scenic River Segments.--Section 3(a) of 
the Wild and Scenic Rivers Act (16 U.S.C. 1274(a)) (as amended by 
section 1302(a)) is amended by adding at the end the following:
            ``(227) Nashua, squannacook, and nissitissit wild and scenic 
        rivers, massachusetts and new hampshire.--
                    ``(A) The following segments in the Commonwealth of 
                Massachusetts and State of New Hampshire, to be 
                administered by the Secretary of the Interior as a 
                scenic river:
                          ``(i) The approximately 27-mile segment of the 
                      mainstem of the Nashua River from the confluence 
                      of the North and South Nashua Rivers in Lancaster, 
                      Massachusetts, and extending north to the 
                      Massachusetts-New Hampshire border, except as 
                      provided in subparagraph (B).
                          ``(ii) The approximately 16.3-mile segment of 
                      the Squannacook River from its headwaters in Ash 
                      Swamp, Townsend, Massachusetts, extending 
                      downstream to the confluence of the river with the 
                      Nashua River in Shirley/Ayer, Massachusetts, 
                      except as provided in subparagraph (B).
                          ``(iii) The approximately 9.5-mile segment of 
                      the Nissitissit River from its headwaters in 
                      Brookline, New Hampshire, to the confluence of the 
                      river with the Nashua River in Pepperell, 
                      Massachusetts.
                    ``(B) Exclusion areas.--The designation of the river 
                segments in subparagraph (A) shall exclude--
                          ``(i) with respect to the Ice House 
                      hydroelectric project (FERC P-12769), from 700 
                      feet upstream from the crest of the dam to 500 
                      feet downstream from the crest of the dam;
                          ``(ii) with respect to the Pepperell 
                      hydroelectric project (FERC P12721), from 9,240 
                      feet upstream from the crest of the dam to 1,000 
                      feet downstream from the crest of the dam; and
                          ``(iii) with respect to the Hollingsworth and 
                      Vose dam (non-FERC), from 1,200 feet upstream from 
                      the crest of the dam to 2,665 feet downstream from 
                      the crest of the dam.''.

    (b) &lt;&lt;NOTE: 16 USC 1274 note.&gt;&gt;  Management.--
            (1) Process.--
                    (A) In general.--The river segments designated by 
                paragraph (227) of section 3(a) of the Wild and Scenic 
                Rivers Act (16 U.S.C. 1274(a)) (as added by subsection 
                (a)) shall be managed in accordance with--
                          (i) the Nashua, Squannacook, and Nissitissit 
                      Rivers Stewardship Plan developed pursuant to the 
                      study described in section 5(b)(21) of the Wild 
                      and Scenic Rivers Act (16 U.S.C. 1276(b)(21)) 
                      (referred to in this subsection as the 
                      ``management plan''), dated February 15, 2018; and
                          (ii) such amendments to the management plan as 
                      the Secretary determines are consistent with this 
                      section and as are approved by the Nashua, 
                      Squannacook, and Nissitissit Rivers Stewardship

[[Page 133 STAT. 691]]

                      Council (referred to in this subsection as the 
                      ``Stewardship Council'').
                    (B) Comprehensive management plan.--The management 
                plan shall be considered to satisfy the requirements for 
                a comprehensive management plan under section 3(d) of 
                the Wild and Scenic Rivers Act (16 U.S.C. 1274(d)).
            (2) Committee.--The Secretary shall coordinate the 
        management responsibilities of the Secretary under this section 
        with the Stewardship Council, as specified in the management 
        plan.
            (3) Cooperative agreements.--
                    (A) In general.--In order to provide for the long-
                term protection, preservation, and enhancement of the 
                river segments designated by paragraph (227) of section 
                3(a) of the Wild and Scenic Rivers Act (16 U.S.C. 
                1274(a)) (as added by subsection (a)), the Secretary may 
                enter into cooperative agreements pursuant to sections 
                10(e) and 11(b)(1) of that Act (16 U.S.C. 1281(e), 
                1282(b)(1)) with--
                          (i) the Commonwealth of Massachusetts and the 
                      State of New Hampshire;
                          (ii) the municipalities of--
                                    (I) Ayer, Bolton, Dunstable, Groton, 
                                Harvard, Lancaster, Pepperell, Shirley, 
                                and Townsend in Massachusetts; and
                                    (II) Brookline and Hollis in New 
                                Hampshire; and
                          (iii) appropriate local, regional, State, or 
                      multistate, planning, environmental, or 
                      recreational organizations.
                    (B) Consistency.--Each cooperative agreement entered 
                into under this paragraph shall be consistent with the 
                management plan and may include provisions for financial 
                or other assistance from the United States.
            (4) Effect on working dams.--
                    (A) In general.--The designation of the river 
                segments by paragraph (227) of section 3(a) of the Wild 
                and Scenic Rivers Act (16 U.S.C. 1274(a)) (as added by 
                subsection (a)), does not--
                          (i) impact or alter the existing terms of 
                      permitting, licensing, or operation of--
                                    (I) the Pepperell hydroelectric 
                                project (FERC Project P-12721, Nashua 
                                River, Pepperell, MA);
                                    (II) the Ice House hydroelectric 
                                project (FERC Project P-12769, Nashua 
                                River, Ayer, MA); or
                                    (III) the Hollingsworth and Vose Dam 
                                (non-FERC industrial facility, 
                                Squannacook River, West Groton, MA) as 
                                further described in the management plan 
                                (Appendix A, ``Working Dams''); or
                          (ii) preclude the Federal Energy Regulatory 
                      Commission from licensing, relicensing, or 
                      otherwise authorizing the operation or continued 
                      operation of the Pepperell and Ice House 
                      hydroelectric projects under the terms of licenses 
                      or exemptions in effect on the date of enactment 
                      of this Act; or
                          (iii) limit actions taken to modernize, 
                      upgrade, or carry out other changes to such 
                      projects authorized pursuant to clause (i), 
                      subject to written determination

[[Page 133 STAT. 692]]

                      by the Secretary that the changes are consistent 
                      with the purposes of the designation.
            (5) Land management.--
                    (A) Zoning ordinances.--For the purpose of the 
                segments designated by paragraph (227) of section 3(a) 
                of the Wild and Scenic Rivers Act (16 U.S.C. 1274(a)) 
                (as added by subsection (a)), the zoning ordinances 
                adopted by the municipalities described in paragraph 
                (3)(A)(ii), including provisions for conservation of 
                floodplains, wetlands, and watercourses associated with 
                the segments, shall be deemed to satisfy the standards 
                and requirements of section 6(c) of the Wild and Scenic 
                Rivers Act (16 U.S.C. 1277(c)).
                    (B) Acquisitions of lands.--The authority of the 
                Secretary to acquire land for the purposes of the 
                segments designated by paragraph (227) of section 3(a) 
                of the Wild and Scenic Rivers Act (16 U.S.C. 1274(a)) 
                (as added by subsection (a)) shall be--
                          (i) limited to acquisition by donation or 
                      acquisition with the consent of the owner of the 
                      land; and
                          (ii) subject to the additional criteria set 
                      forth in the management plan.
                    (C) No condemnation.--No land or interest in land 
                within the boundary of the river segments designated by 
                paragraph (227) of section 3(a) of the Wild and Scenic 
                Rivers Act (16 U.S.C. 1274(a)) (as added by subsection 
                (a)) may be acquired by condemnation.
            (6) Relation to the national park system.--Notwithstanding 
        section 10(c) of the Wild and Scenic Rivers Act(16 U.S.C. 
        1281(c)), each segment of the Nashua, Squannacook, and 
        Nissitissit Rivers designated as a component of the Wild and 
        Scenic Rivers System under this section shall not--
                    (A) be administered as a unit of the National Park 
                System; or
                    (B) be subject to regulations that govern the 
                National Park System.

         Subtitle E--California Desert Protection and Recreation

SEC. 1401. &lt;&lt;NOTE: 16 USC 410aaa-7 note.&gt;&gt;  DEFINITIONS.

    In this subtitle:
            (1) Conservation area.--The term ``Conservation Area'' means 
        the California Desert Conservation Area.
            (2) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means--
                    (A) the Secretary, with respect to land administered 
                by the Department of the Interior; or
                    (B) the Secretary of Agriculture, with respect to 
                National Forest System land.
            (3) State.--The term ``State'' means the State of 
        California.

[[Page 133 STAT. 693]]

PART I--DESIGNATION OF WILDERNESS IN THE CALIFORNIA DESERT CONSERVATION 
                                  AREA

SEC. 1411. CALIFORNIA DESERT CONSERVATION AND RECREATION.

    (a) Designation of Wilderness Areas to Be Administered by the Bureau 
of Land Management.--Section 102 of the California Desert Protection Act 
of 1994 (16 U.S.C. 1132 note; Public Law 103-433; 108 Stat. 4472) is 
amended by adding at the end the following:
            ``(70) Avawatz mountains wilderness.--Certain land in the 
        California Desert Conservation Area administered by the Director 
        of the Bureau of Land Management, comprising approximately 
        89,500 acres, as generally depicted on the map entitled 
        `Proposed Avawatz Mountains Wilderness' and dated November 7, 
        2018, to be known as the `Avawatz Mountains Wilderness'.
            ``(71) Great falls basin wilderness.--Certain land in the 
        California Desert Conservation Area administered by the Director 
        of the Bureau of Land Management, comprising approximately 7,810 
        acres, as generally depicted on the map entitled `Proposed Great 
        Falls Basin Wilderness' and dated November 7, 2018, to be known 
        as the `Great Falls Basin Wilderness'.
            ``(72) Soda mountains wilderness.--Certain land in the 
        California Desert Conservation Area, administered by the Bureau 
        of Land Management, comprising approximately 80,090 acres, as 
        generally depicted on the map entitled `Proposed Soda Mountains 
        Wilderness' and dated November 7, 2018, to be known as the `Soda 
        Mountains Wilderness'.
            ``(73) Milpitas wash wilderness.--Certain land in the 
        California Desert Conservation Area, administered by the Bureau 
        of Land Management, comprising approximately 17,250 acres, 
        depicted as `Proposed Milpitas Wash Wilderness' on the map 
        entitled `Proposed Vinagre Wash Special Management Area and 
        Proposed Wilderness' and dated December 4, 2018, to be known as 
        the `Milpitas Wash Wilderness'.
            ``(74) Buzzards peak wilderness.--Certain land in the 
        California Desert Conservation Area, administered by the Bureau 
        of Land Management, comprising approximately 11,840 acres, 
        depicted as `Proposed Buzzards Peak Wilderness' on the map 
        entitled `Proposed Vinagre Wash Special Management Area and 
        Proposed Wilderness' and dated December 4, 2018, to be known as 
        the `Buzzards Peak Wilderness'.''.

    (b) Additions to Existing Wilderness Areas Administered by the 
Bureau of Land Management.--In furtherance of the purposes of the 
Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1131 et seq.), the following land in the State 
is designated as wilderness and as components of the National Wilderness 
Preservation System:
            (1) &lt;&lt;NOTE: 16 USC 1132 note.&gt;&gt;  Golden valley wilderness.--
        Certain land in the Conservation Area administered by the 
        Director of the Bureau of Land Management, comprising 
        approximately 1,250 acres, as generally depicted on the map 
        entitled ``Proposed Golden Valley Wilderness Addition'' and 
        dated November 7, 2018, which shall be added to and administered 
        as part of the ``Golden Valley Wilderness''.

[[Page 133 STAT. 694]]

            (2) &lt;&lt;NOTE: 16 USC 1132 note.&gt;&gt;  Kingston range 
        wilderness.--Certain land in the Conservation Area administered 
        by the Director of the Bureau of Land Management, comprising 
        approximately 52,410 acres, as generally depicted on the map 
        entitled ``Proposed Kingston Range Wilderness Additions'' and 
        dated November 7, 2018, which shall be added to and administered 
        as part of the ``Kingston Range Wilderness''.
            (3) &lt;&lt;NOTE: 16 USC 1132 note.&gt;&gt;  Palo verde mountains 
        wilderness.--Certain land in the Conservation Area administered 
        by the Director of the Bureau of Land Management, comprising 
        approximately 9,350 acres, depicted as ``Proposed Palo Verde 
        Mountains Wilderness Additions'' on the map entitled ``Proposed 
        Vinagre Wash Special Management Area and Proposed Wilderness'' 
        and dated December 4, 2018, which shall be added to and 
        administered as part of the ``Palo Verde Mountains Wilderness''.
            (4) &lt;&lt;NOTE: 16 USC 1132 note.&gt;&gt;  Indian pass mountains 
        wilderness.--Certain land in the Conservation Area administered 
        by the Director of the Bureau of Land Management, comprising 
        approximately 10,860 acres, depicted as ``Proposed Indian Pass 
        Wilderness Additions'' on the map entitled ``Proposed Vinagre 
        Wash Special Management Area and Proposed Wilderness'' and dated 
        December 4, 2018, which shall be added to and administered as 
        part of the ``Indian Pass Mountains Wilderness''.

    (c) &lt;&lt;NOTE: 16 USC 1132 note.&gt;&gt;  Designation of Wilderness Areas to 
Be Administered by the National Park Service.--In furtherance of the 
purposes of the Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1131 et seq.) the following 
land in Death Valley National Park is designated as wilderness and as a 
component of the National Wilderness Preservation System, which shall be 
added to, and administered as part of the Death Valley National Park 
Wilderness established by section 601(a)(1) of the California Desert 
Protection Act of 1994 (16 U.S.C. 1132 note; Public Law 103-433; 108 
Stat. 4496):
            (1) Death valley national park wilderness additions-north 
        eureka valley.--Approximately 11,496 acres, as generally 
        depicted on the map entitled ``Death Valley National Park 
        Proposed Wilderness Area-North Eureka Valley'', numbered 143/
        100,082D, and dated November 1, 2018.
            (2) Death valley national park wilderness additions-ibex.--
        Approximately 23,650 acres, as generally depicted on the map 
        entitled ``Death Valley National Park Proposed Wilderness Area-
        Ibex'', numbered 143/100,081D, and dated November 1, 2018.
            (3) Death valley national park wilderness additions-panamint 
        valley.--Approximately 4,807 acres, as generally depicted on the 
        map entitled ``Death Valley National Park Proposed Wilderness 
        Area-Panamint Valley'', numbered 143/100,083D, and dated 
        November 1, 2018.
            (4) Death valley national park wilderness additions-warm 
        springs.--Approximately 10,485 acres, as generally depicted on 
        the map entitled ``Death Valley National Park Proposed 
        Wilderness Area-Warm Spring Canyon/Galena Canyon'', numbered 
        143/100,084D, and dated November 1, 2018.
            (5) Death valley national park wilderness additions-axe 
        head.--Approximately 8,638 acres, as generally depicted on the 
        map entitled ``Death Valley National Park Proposed

[[Page 133 STAT. 695]]

        Wilderness Area-Axe Head'', numbered 143/100,085D, and dated 
        November 1, 2018.
            (6) Death valley national park wilderness additions-bowling 
        alley.--Approximately 28,923 acres, as generally depicted on the 
        map entitled ``Death Valley National Park Proposed Wilderness 
        Area-Bowling Alley'', numbered 143/128,606A, and dated November 
        1, 2018.

    (d) Additions to Existing Wilderness Area Administered by the Forest 
Service.--
            (1) &lt;&lt;NOTE: 16 USC 1132 note.&gt;&gt;  In general.--In furtherance 
        of the purposes of the Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1131 et seq.), 
        the land described in paragraph (2)--
                    (A) is designated as wilderness and as a component 
                of the National Wilderness Preservation System; and
                    (B) shall be added to and administered as part of 
                the San Gorgonio Wilderness established by the 
                Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1131 et seq.).
            (2) &lt;&lt;NOTE: 16 USC 1132 note.&gt;&gt;  Description of land.--The 
        land referred to in paragraph (1) is certain land in the San 
        Bernardino National Forest, comprising approximately 7,141 
        acres, as generally depicted on the map entitled ``San Gorgonio 
        Wilderness Additions--Proposed'' and dated November 7, 2018.
            (3) Fire management and related activities.--
                    (A) In general.--The Secretary may carry out such 
                activities in the wilderness area designated by 
                paragraph (1) as are necessary for the control of fire, 
                insects, and disease, in accordance with section 4(d)(1) 
                of the Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1133(d)(1)) and House 
                Report 98-40 of the 98th Congress.
                    (B) Funding priorities.--Nothing in this subsection 
                limits the provision of any funding for fire or fuel 
                management in the wilderness area designated by 
                paragraph (1).
                    (C) Revision and development of local fire 
                management plans.--As soon as practicable after the date 
                of enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall amend the 
                local fire management plans that apply to the wilderness 
                area designated by paragraph (1).
                    (D) Administration.--In accordance with subparagraph 
                (A) and other applicable Federal law, to ensure a timely 
                and efficient response to fire emergencies in the 
                wilderness area designated by paragraph (1), the 
                Secretary shall--
                          (i) not later than 1 year after the date of 
                      enactment of this Act, establish agency approval 
                      procedures (including appropriate delegations of 
                      authority to the Forest Supervisor, District 
                      Manager, or other agency officials) for responding 
                      to fire emergencies in the wilderness area 
                      designated by paragraph (1); and
                          (ii) enter into agreements with appropriate 
                      State or local firefighting agencies relating to 
                      the wilderness area.

    (e) Effect on Utility Facilities and Rights-of-way.--Nothing in this 
section or an amendment made by this section affects or precludes the 
renewal or reauthorization of any valid existing right-of-way or 
customary operation, maintenance, repair, upgrading, or replacement 
activities in a right-of-way acquired by or issued, granted, or 
permitted to the Southern California Edison

[[Page 133 STAT. 696]]

Company or successors or assigns of the Southern California Edison 
Company.
    (f) Release of Wilderness Study Areas.--
            (1) Finding.--Congress finds that, for purposes of section 
        603 of the Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 1976 (43 
        U.S.C. 1782), any portion of a wilderness study area described 
        in paragraph (2) that is not designated as a wilderness area or 
        a wilderness addition by this subtitle (including an amendment 
        made by this subtitle) or any other Act enacted before the date 
        of enactment of this Act has been adequately studied for 
        wilderness designation.
            (2) Description of study areas.--The study areas referred to 
        in subsection (a) are--
                    (A) the Cady Mountains Wilderness Study Area;
                    (B) the Soda Mountains Wilderness Study Area;
                    (C) the Kingston Range Wilderness Study Area;
                    (D) the Avawatz Mountain Wilderness Study Area;
                    (E) the Death Valley 17 Wilderness Study Area; and
                    (F) the Great Falls Basin Wilderness Study Area.
            (3) Release.--The following are no longer subject to section 
        603(c) of the Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 1976 (43 
        U.S.C. 1782(c)):
                    (A) Any portion of a wilderness study area described 
                in paragraph (2) that is not designated as a wilderness 
                area or a wilderness addition by this subtitle 
                (including an amendment made by this subtitle) or any 
                other Act enacted before the date of enactment of this 
                Act.
                    (B) Any portion of a wilderness study area described 
                in paragraph (2) that is not transferred to the 
                administrative jurisdiction of the National Park Service 
                for inclusion in a unit of the National Park System by 
                this subtitle (including an amendment made by this 
                subtitle) or any other Act enacted before the date of 
                enactment of this Act.

             PART II--DESIGNATION OF SPECIAL MANAGEMENT AREA

SEC. 1421. VINAGRE WASH SPECIAL MANAGEMENT AREA.

    Title I of the California Desert Protection Act of 1994 (16 U.S.C. 
1132 note; Public Law 103-433; 108 Stat. 4472) is amended by adding at 
the end the following:
``SEC. 109. &lt;&lt;NOTE: 16 USC 460eeee.&gt;&gt;  VINAGRE WASH SPECIAL 
                        MANAGEMENT AREA.

    ``(a) Definitions.--In this section:
            ``(1) Management area.--The term `Management Area' means the 
        Vinagre Wash Special Management Area established by subsection 
        (b).
            ``(2) Map.--The term `map' means the map entitled `Proposed 
        Vinagre Wash Special Management Area and Proposed Wilderness' 
        and dated December 4, 2018.
            ``(3) Public land.--The term `public land' has the meaning 
        given the term `public lands' in section 103 of the Federal Land 
        Policy and Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1702).
            ``(4) State.--The term `State' means the State of 
        California.

[[Page 133 STAT. 697]]

    ``(b) Establishment.--There is established the Vinagre Wash Special 
Management Area in the State, to be managed by the Secretary.
    ``(c) Purpose.--The purpose of the Management Area is to conserve, 
protect, and enhance--
            ``(1) the plant and wildlife values of the Management Area; 
        and
            ``(2) the outstanding and nationally significant ecological, 
        geological, scenic, recreational, archaeological, cultural, 
        historic, and other resources of the Management Area.

    ``(d) Boundaries.--The Management Area shall consist of the public 
land in Imperial County, California, comprising approximately 81,880 
acres, as generally depicted on the map as `Proposed Special Management 
Area'.
    ``(e) Map; Legal Description.--
            ``(1) In general.--As soon as practicable, but not later 
        than 3 years, after the date of enactment of this section, the 
        Secretary shall submit a map and legal description of the 
        Management Area to--
                    ``(A) the Committee on Natural Resources of the 
                House of Representatives; and
                    ``(B) the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources 
                of the Senate.
            ``(2) Effect.--The map and legal description submitted under 
        paragraph (1) shall have the same force and effect as if 
        included in this section, except that the Secretary may correct 
        any errors in the map and legal description.
            ``(3) Availability.--Copies of the map submitted under 
        paragraph (1) shall be on file and available for public 
        inspection in the appropriate offices of the Bureau of Land 
        Management.

    ``(f) Management.--
            ``(1) In general.--The Secretary shall manage the Management 
        Area--
                    ``(A) in a manner that conserves, protects, and 
                enhances the purposes for which the Management Area is 
                established; and
                    ``(B) in accordance with--
                          ``(i) this section;
                          ``(ii) the Federal Land Policy and Management 
                      Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.); and
                          ``(iii) other applicable laws.
            ``(2) Uses.--The Secretary shall allow only those uses that 
        are consistent with the purposes of the Management Area, 
        including hiking, camping, hunting, and sightseeing and the use 
        of motorized vehicles, mountain bikes, and horses on designated 
        routes in the Management Area in a manner that--
                    ``(A) is consistent with the purpose of the 
                Management Area described in subsection (c);
                    ``(B) ensures public health and safety; and
                    ``(C) is consistent with all applicable laws 
                (including regulations), including the Desert Renewable 
                Energy Conservation Plan.
            ``(3) Off-highway vehicle use.--
                    ``(A) In general.--Subject to subparagraphs (B) and 
                (C) and all other applicable laws, the use of off-
                highway vehicles shall be permitted on routes in the 
                Management Area as generally depicted on the map.

[[Page 133 STAT. 698]]

                    ``(B) Closure.--The Secretary may close or 
                permanently reroute a portion of a route described in 
                subparagraph (A)--
                          ``(i) to prevent, or allow for restoration of, 
                      resource damage;
                          ``(ii) to protect Tribal cultural resources, 
                      including the resources identified in the Tribal 
                      cultural resources management plan developed under 
                      section 705(d);
                          ``(iii) to address public safety concerns; or
                          ``(iv) as otherwise required by law.
                    ``(C) Designation of additional routes.--During the 
                3-year period beginning on the date of enactment of this 
                section, the Secretary--
                          ``(i) shall accept petitions from the public 
                      regarding additional routes for off-highway 
                      vehicles; and
                          ``(ii) may designate additional routes that 
                      the Secretary determines--
                                    ``(I) would provide significant or 
                                unique recreational opportunities; and
                                    ``(II) are consistent with the 
                                purposes of the Management Area.
            ``(4) Withdrawal.--Subject to valid existing rights, all 
        Federal land within the Management Area is withdrawn from--
                    ``(A) all forms of entry, appropriation, or disposal 
                under the public land laws;
                    ``(B) location, entry, and patent under the mining 
                laws; and
                    ``(C) right-of-way, leasing, or disposition under 
                all laws relating to--
                          ``(i) minerals and mineral materials; or
                          ``(ii) solar, wind, and geothermal energy.
            ``(5) No buffer zone.--The establishment of the Management 
        Area shall not--
                    ``(A) create a protective perimeter or buffer zone 
                around the Management Area; or
                    ``(B) preclude uses or activities outside the 
                Management Area that are permitted under other 
                applicable laws, even if the uses or activities are 
                prohibited within the Management Area.
            ``(6) Notice of available routes.--The Secretary shall 
        ensure that visitors to the Management Area have access to 
        adequate notice relating to the availability of designated 
        routes in the Management Area through--
                    ``(A) the placement of appropriate signage along the 
                designated routes;
                    ``(B) the distribution of maps, safety education 
                materials, and other information that the Secretary 
                determines to be appropriate; and
                    ``(C) restoration of areas that are not designated 
                as open routes, including vertical mulching.
            ``(7) Stewardship.--The Secretary, in consultation with 
        Indian Tribes and other interests, shall develop a program to 
        provide opportunities for monitoring and stewardship of the 
        Management Area to minimize environmental impacts and prevent 
        resource damage from recreational use, including volunteer 
        assistance with--
                    ``(A) route signage;

[[Page 133 STAT. 699]]

                    ``(B) restoration of closed routes;
                    ``(C) protection of Management Area resources; and
                    ``(D) recreation education.
            ``(8) Protection of tribal cultural resources.--Not later 
        than 2 years after the date of enactment of this section, the 
        Secretary, in accordance with chapter 2003 of title 54, United 
        States Code, and any other applicable law, shall--
                    ``(A) prepare and complete a Tribal cultural 
                resources survey of the Management Area; and
                    ``(B) consult with the Quechan Indian Nation and 
                other Indian Tribes demonstrating ancestral, cultural, 
                or other ties to the resources within the Management 
                Area on the development and implementation of the Tribal 
                cultural resources survey under subparagraph (A).
            ``(9) Military use.--The Secretary may authorize use of the 
        non-wilderness portion of the Management Area by the Secretary 
        of the Navy for Naval Special Warfare Tactical Training, 
        including long-range small unit training and navigation, vehicle 
        concealment, and vehicle sustainment training, consistent with 
        this section and other applicable laws.''.

                PART III--NATIONAL PARK SYSTEM ADDITIONS

SEC. 1431. DEATH VALLEY NATIONAL PARK BOUNDARY REVISION.

    (a) &lt;&lt;NOTE: 16 USC 410aaa-7 note.&gt;&gt;  In General.--The boundary of 
Death Valley National Park is adjusted to include--
            (1) the approximately 28,923 acres of Bureau of Land 
        Management land in San Bernardino County, California, abutting 
        the southern end of the Death Valley National Park that lies 
        between Death Valley National Park to the north and Ft. Irwin 
        Military Reservation to the south and which runs approximately 
        34 miles from west to east, as depicted on the map entitled 
        ``Death Valley National Park Proposed Boundary Addition-Bowling 
        Alley'', numbered 143/128,605A, and dated November 1, 2018; and
            (2) the approximately 6,369 acres of Bureau of Land 
        Management land in Inyo County, California, located in the 
        northeast area of Death Valley National Park that is within, and 
        surrounded by, land under the jurisdiction of the Director of 
        the National Park Service, as depicted on the map entitled 
        ``Death Valley National Park Proposed Boundary Addition-
        Crater'', numbered 143/100,079D, and dated November 1, 2018.

    (b) &lt;&lt;NOTE: 16 USC 410aaa-7 note.&gt;&gt;  Availability of Map.--The maps 
described in paragraphs (1) and (2) of subsection (a) shall be on file 
and available for public inspection in the appropriate offices of the 
National Park Service.

    (c) &lt;&lt;NOTE: 16 USC 410aaa-7 note.&gt;&gt;  Administration.--The 
Secretary--
            (1) shall administer any land added to Death Valley National 
        Park under subsection (a)--
                    (A) as part of Death Valley National Park; and
                    (B) in accordance with applicable laws (including 
                regulations); and
            (2) may enter into a memorandum of understanding with Inyo 
        County, California, to permit operationally feasible, ongoing 
        access to and use (including material storage and excavation) of 
        existing gravel pits along Saline Valley Road within

[[Page 133 STAT. 700]]

        Death Valley National Park for road maintenance and repairs in 
        accordance with applicable laws (including regulations).

    (d) Mormon Peak Microwave Facility.--Title VI of the California 
Desert Protection Act of 1994 (16 U.S.C. 1132 note; Public Law 103-433; 
108 Stat. 4496) is amended by adding at the end the following:
``SEC. 604. MORMON PEAK MICROWAVE FACILITY.

    ``The designation of the Death Valley National Park Wilderness by 
section 601(a)(1) shall not preclude the operation and maintenance of 
the Mormon Peak Microwave Facility.''.
SEC. 1432. &lt;&lt;NOTE: 16 USC 410aaa-56 note.&gt;&gt;  MOJAVE NATIONAL 
                          PRESERVE.

    The boundary of the Mojave National Preserve is adjusted to include 
the 25 acres of Bureau of Land Management land in Baker, California, as 
depicted on the map entitled ``Mojave National Preserve Proposed 
Boundary Addition'', numbered 170/100,199A, and dated November 1, 2018.
SEC. 1433. JOSHUA TREE NATIONAL PARK.

    (a) &lt;&lt;NOTE: 16 USC 410aaa-22 note.&gt;&gt;  Boundary Adjustment.--The 
boundary of the Joshua Tree National Park is adjusted to include--
            (1) the approximately 2,879 acres of land managed by the 
        Bureau of Land Management that are depicted as ``BLM Proposed 
        Boundary Addition'' on the map entitled ``Joshua Tree National 
        Park Proposed Boundary Additions'', numbered 156/149,375, and 
        dated November 1, 2018; and
            (2) the approximately 1,639 acres of land that are depicted 
        as ``MDLT Proposed Boundary Addition'' on the map entitled 
        ``Joshua Tree National Park Proposed Boundary Additions'', 
        numbered 156/149,375, and dated November 1, 2018.

    (b) &lt;&lt;NOTE: 16 USC 410aaa-22 note.&gt;&gt;  Availability of Maps.--The map 
described in subsection (a) and the map depicting the 25 acres described 
in subsection (c)(2) shall be on file and available for public 
inspection in the appropriate offices of the National Park Service.

    (c) &lt;&lt;NOTE: 16 USC 410aaa-22 note.&gt;&gt;  Administration.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary shall administer any land 
        added to the Joshua Tree National Park under subsection (a) and 
        the additional land described in paragraph (2)--
                    (A) as part of Joshua Tree National Park; and
                    (B) in accordance with applicable laws (including 
                regulations).
            (2) Description of additional land.--The additional land 
        referred to in paragraph (1) is the 25 acres of land--
                    (A) depicted on the map entitled ``Joshua Tree 
                National Park Boundary Adjustment Map'', numbered 156/
                80,049, and dated April 1, 2003;
                    (B) added to Joshua Tree National Park by the notice 
                of the Department of the Interior of August 28, 2003 (68 
                Fed. Reg. 51799); and
                    (C) more particularly described as lots 26, 27, 28, 
                33, and 34 in sec. 34, T. 1 N., R. 8 E., San Bernardino 
                Meridian.

    (d) &lt;&lt;NOTE: 16 USC 410aaa-22 note.&gt;&gt;  Southern California Edison 
Company Energy Transport Facilities and Rights-of-way.--
            (1) In general.--Nothing in this section affects any valid 
        right-of-way for the customary operation, maintenance, upgrade, 
        repair, relocation within an existing right-of-way, replacement, 
        or other authorized energy transport facility

[[Page 133 STAT. 701]]

        activities in a right-of-way issued, granted, or permitted to 
        the Southern California Edison Company or the successors or 
        assigns of the Southern California Edison Company that is 
        located on land described in paragraphs (1) and (2) of 
        subsection (a), including, at a minimum, the use of mechanized 
        vehicles, helicopters, or other aerial devices.
            (2) Upgrades and replacements.--Nothing in this section 
        prohibits the upgrading or replacement of--
                    (A) Southern California Edison Company energy 
                transport facilities, including the energy transport 
                facilities referred to as the Jellystone, Burnt 
                Mountain, Whitehorn, Allegra, and Utah distribution 
                circuits rights-of-way; or
                    (B) an energy transport facility in rights-of-way 
                issued, granted, or permitted by the Secretary adjacent 
                to Southern California Edison Joshua Tree Utility 
                Facilities.
            (3) Publication of plans.--Not later than the date that is 1 
        year after the date of enactment of this Act or the issuance of 
        a new energy transport facility right-of-way within the Joshua 
        Tree National Park, whichever is earlier, the Secretary, in 
        consultation with the Southern California Edison Company, shall 
        publish plans for regular and emergency access by the Southern 
        California Edison Company to the rights-of-way of the Southern 
        California Edison Company within Joshua Tree National Park.

    (e) Visitor Center.--Title IV of the California Desert Protection 
Act of 1994 (16 U.S.C. 410aaa-21 et seq.) is amended by adding at the 
end the following:
``SEC. 408. &lt;&lt;NOTE: 16 USC 410aaa-28.&gt;&gt;  VISITOR CENTER.

    ``(a) In General.--The Secretary may acquire not more than 5 acres 
of land and interests in land, and improvements on the land and 
interests, outside the boundaries of the park, in the unincorporated 
village of Joshua Tree, for the purpose of operating a visitor center.
    ``(b) Boundary.--The Secretary shall modify the boundary of the park 
to include the land acquired under this section as a noncontiguous 
parcel.
    ``(c) Administration.--Land and facilities acquired under this 
section--
            ``(1) may include the property owned (as of the date of 
        enactment of this section) by the Joshua Tree National Park 
        Association and commonly referred to as the `Joshua Tree 
        National Park Visitor Center';
            ``(2) shall be administered by the Secretary as part of the 
        park; and
            ``(3) may be acquired only with the consent of the owner, by 
        donation, purchase with donated or appropriated funds, or 
        exchange.''.

              PART IV--OFF-HIGHWAY VEHICLE RECREATION AREAS

SEC. 1441. OFF-HIGHWAY VEHICLE RECREATION AREAS.

    Public Law 103-433 is amended by inserting after title XII (16 
U.S.C. 410bbb et seq.) the following:

[[Page 133 STAT. 702]]

           ``TITLE XIII--OFF-HIGHWAY VEHICLE RECREATION AREAS

``SEC. 1301. &lt;&lt;NOTE: 16 USC 410aaa-91.&gt;&gt;  DESIGNATION OF OFF-
                          HIGHWAY VEHICLE RECREATION AREAS.

    ``(a) In General.--
            ``(1) Designation.--In accordance with the Federal Land 
        Policy and Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.) and 
        resource management plans developed under this title and subject 
        to valid rights, the following land within the Conservation Area 
        in San Bernardino County, California, is designated as Off-
        Highway Vehicle Recreation Areas:
                    ``(A) Dumont dunes off-highway vehicle recreation 
                area.--Certain Bureau of Land Management land in the 
                Conservation Area, comprising approximately 7,620 acres, 
                as generally depicted on the map entitled `Proposed 
                Dumont Dunes OHV Recreation Area' and dated November 7, 
                2018, which shall be known as the `Dumont Dunes Off-
                Highway Vehicle Recreation Area'.
                    ``(B) El mirage off-highway vehicle recreation 
                area.--Certain Bureau of Land Management land in the 
                Conservation Area, comprising approximately 16,370 
                acres, as generally depicted on the map entitled 
                `Proposed El Mirage OHV Recreation Area' and dated 
                December 10, 2018, which shall be known as the `El 
                Mirage Off-Highway Vehicle Recreation Area'.
                    ``(C) Rasor off-highway vehicle recreation area.--
                Certain Bureau of Land Management land in the 
                Conservation Area, comprising approximately 23,900 
                acres, as generally depicted on the map entitled 
                `Proposed Rasor OHV Recreation Area' and dated November 
                7, 2018, which shall be known as the `Rasor Off-Highway 
                Vehicle Recreation Area'.
                    ``(D) Spangler hills off-highway vehicle recreation 
                area.--Certain Bureau of Land Management land in the 
                Conservation Area, comprising approximately 92,340 
                acres, as generally depicted on the map entitled 
                `Proposed Spangler Hills OHV Recreation Area' and dated 
                December 10, 2018, which shall be known as the `Spangler 
                Hills Off-Highway Vehicle Recreation Area'.
                    ``(E) Stoddard valley off-highway vehicle recreation 
                area.--Certain Bureau of Land Management land in the 
                Conservation Area, comprising approximately 40,110 
                acres, as generally depicted on the map entitled 
                `Proposed Stoddard Valley OHV Recreation Area' and dated 
                November 7, 2018, which shall be known as the `Stoddard 
                Valley Off-Highway Vehicle Recreation Area'.
            ``(2) Expansion of johnson valley off-highway vehicle 
        recreation area.--The Johnson Valley Off-Highway Vehicle 
        Recreation Area designated by section 2945 of the Military 
        Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2014 (division B 
        of Public Law 113-66; 127 Stat. 1038) is expanded to include 
        approximately 20,240 acres, depicted as `Proposed OHV Recreation 
        Area Additions' and `Proposed OHV Recreation Area Study Areas' 
        on the map entitled `Proposed Johnson Valley OHV Recreation 
        Area' and dated November 7, 2018.

[[Page 133 STAT. 703]]

    ``(b) Purpose.--The purpose of the off-highway vehicle recreation 
areas designated or expanded under subsection (a) is to preserve and 
enhance the recreational opportunities within the Conservation Area 
(including opportunities for off-highway vehicle recreation), while 
conserving the wildlife and other natural resource values of the 
Conservation Area.
    ``(c) Maps and Descriptions.--
            ``(1) Preparation and submission.--As soon as practicable 
        after the date of enactment of this title, the Secretary shall 
        file a map and legal description of each off-highway vehicle 
        recreation area designated or expanded by subsection (a) with--
                    ``(A) the Committee on Natural Resources of the 
                House of Representatives; and
                    ``(B) the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources 
                of the Senate.
            ``(2) Legal effect.--The map and legal descriptions of the 
        off-highway vehicle recreation areas filed under paragraph (1) 
        shall have the same force and effect as if included in this 
        title, except that the Secretary may correct errors in the map 
        and legal descriptions.
            ``(3) Public availability.--Each map and legal description 
        filed under paragraph (1) shall be filed and made available for 
        public inspection in the appropriate offices of the Bureau of 
        Land Management.

    ``(d) Use of the Land.--
            ``(1) Recreational activities.--
                    ``(A) In general.--The Secretary shall continue to 
                authorize, maintain, and enhance the recreational uses 
                of the off-highway vehicle recreation areas designated 
                or expanded by subsection (a), as long as the 
                recreational use is consistent with this section and any 
                other applicable law.
                    ``(B) Off-highway vehicle and off-highway 
                recreation.--To the extent consistent with applicable 
                Federal law (including regulations) and this section, 
                any authorized recreation activities and use 
                designations in effect on the date of enactment of this 
                title and applicable to the off-highway vehicle 
                recreation areas designated or expanded by subsection 
                (a) shall continue, including casual off-highway 
                vehicular use, racing, competitive events, rock 
                crawling, training, and other forms of off-highway 
                recreation.
            ``(2) Wildlife guzzlers.--Wildlife guzzlers shall be allowed 
        in the off-highway vehicle recreation areas designated or 
        expanded by subsection (a) in accordance with--
                    ``(A) applicable Bureau of Land Management 
                guidelines; and
                    ``(B) State law.
            ``(3) Prohibited uses.--
                    ``(A) In general.--Except as provided in 
                subparagraph (B), commercial development (including 
                development of energy facilities, but excluding energy 
                transport facilities, rights-of-way, and related 
                telecommunication facilities) shall be prohibited in the 
                off-highway vehicle recreation areas designated or 
                expanded by subsection (a) if the Secretary determines 
                that the development is incompatible with the purpose 
                described in subsection (b).

[[Page 133 STAT. 704]]

                    ``(B) Exception.--The Secretary may issue a 
                temporary permit to a commercial vendor to provide 
                accessories and other support for off-highway vehicle 
                use in an off-highway vehicle recreation area designated 
                or expanded by subsection (a) for a limited period and 
                consistent with the purposes of the off-highway vehicle 
                recreation area and applicable laws.

    ``(e) Administration.--
            ``(1) In general.--The Secretary shall administer the off-
        highway vehicle recreation areas designated or expanded by 
        subsection (a) in accordance with--
                    ``(A) this title;
                    ``(B) the Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 
                1976 (43 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.); and
                    ``(C) any other applicable laws (including 
                regulations).
            ``(2) Management plan.--
                    ``(A) In general.--As soon as practicable, but not 
                later than 3 years after the date of enactment of this 
                title, the Secretary shall--
                          ``(i) amend existing resource management plans 
                      applicable to the off-highway vehicle recreation 
                      areas designated or expanded by subsection (a); or
                          ``(ii) develop new management plans for each 
                      off-highway vehicle recreation area designated or 
                      expanded under that subsection.
                    ``(B) Requirements.--All new or amended plans under 
                subparagraph (A) shall be designed to preserve and 
                enhance safe off-highway vehicle and other recreational 
                opportunities within the applicable recreation area 
                consistent with--
                          ``(i) the purpose described in subsection (b); 
                      and
                          ``(ii) any applicable laws (including 
                      regulations).
                    ``(C) Interim plans.--Pending completion of a new 
                management plan under subparagraph (A), the existing 
                resource management plans shall govern the use of the 
                applicable off-highway vehicle recreation area.

    ``(f) Withdrawal.--Subject to valid existing rights, all Federal 
land within the off-highway vehicle recreation areas designated or 
expanded by subsection (a) is withdrawn from--
            ``(1) all forms of entry, appropriation, or disposal under 
        the public land laws;
            ``(2) location, entry, and patent under the mining laws; and
            ``(3) right-of-way, leasing, or disposition under all laws 
        relating to mineral leasing, geothermal leasing, or mineral 
        materials.

    ``(g) Southern California Edison Company Utility Facilities and 
Rights-of-way.--
            ``(1) Effect of title.--Nothing in this title--
                    ``(A) affects any validly issued right-of-way for 
                the customary operation, maintenance, upgrade, repair, 
                relocation within an existing right-of-way, replacement, 
                or other authorized energy transport facility activities 
                (including the use of any mechanized vehicle, 
                helicopter, and other aerial device) in a right-of-way 
                acquired by or issued,

[[Page 133 STAT. 705]]

                granted, or permitted to Southern California Edison 
                Company (including any successor in interest or assign) 
                that is located on land included in--
                          ``(i) the El Mirage Off-Highway Vehicle 
                      Recreation Area;
                          ``(ii) the Spangler Hills Off-Highway Vehicle 
                      Recreation Area;
                          ``(iii) the Stoddard Valley Off-Highway 
                      Vehicle Recreation Area; or
                          ``(iv) the Johnson Valley Off-Highway Vehicle 
                      Recreation Area;
                    ``(B) affects the application, siting, route 
                selection, right-of-way acquisition, or construction of 
                the Coolwater-Lugo transmission project, as may be 
                approved by the California Public Utilities Commission 
                and the Bureau of Land Management; or
                    ``(C) prohibits the upgrading or replacement of any 
                Southern California Edison Company--
                          ``(i) utility facility, including such a 
                      utility facility known on the date of enactment of 
                      this title as--
                                    ``(I) `Gale-PS 512 transmission 
                                lines or rights-of-way';
                                    ``(II) `Patio, Jack Ranch, and 
                                Kenworth distribution circuits or 
                                rights-of-way'; or
                                    ``(III) `Bessemer and Peacor 
                                distribution circuits or rights-of-way'; 
                                or
                          ``(ii) energy transport facility in a right-
                      of-way issued, granted, or permitted by the 
                      Secretary adjacent to a utility facility referred 
                      to in clause (i).
            ``(2) Plans for access.--The Secretary, in consultation with 
        the Southern California Edison Company, shall publish plans for 
        regular and emergency access by the Southern California Edison 
        Company to the rights-of-way of the Company by the date that is 
        1 year after the later of--
                    ``(A) the date of enactment of this title; and
                    ``(B) the date of issuance of a new energy transport 
                facility right-of-way within--
                          ``(i) the El Mirage Off-Highway Vehicle 
                      Recreation Area;
                          ``(ii) the Spangler Hills Off-Highway Vehicle 
                      Recreation Area;
                          ``(iii) the Stoddard Valley Off-Highway 
                      Vehicle Recreation Area; or
                          ``(iv) the Johnson Valley Off-Highway Vehicle 
                      Recreation Area.

    ``(h) Pacific Gas and Electric Company Utility Facilities and 
Rights-of-way.--
            ``(1) Effect of title.--Nothing in this title--
                    ``(A) affects any validly issued right-of-way for 
                the customary operation, maintenance, upgrade, repair, 
                relocation within an existing right-of-way, replacement, 
                or other authorized activity (including the use of any 
                mechanized vehicle, helicopter, and other aerial device) 
                in a right-of-way acquired by or issued, granted, or 
                permitted to Pacific Gas and Electric Company (including 
                any successor in interest or assign) that is located on 
                land included

[[Page 133 STAT. 706]]

                in the Spangler Hills Off-Highway Vehicle Recreation 
                Area; or
                    ``(B) prohibits the upgrading or replacement of 
                any--
                          ``(i) utility facilities of the Pacific Gas 
                      and Electric Company, including those utility 
                      facilities known on the date of enactment of this 
                      title as--
                                    ``(I) `Gas Transmission Line 311 or 
                                rights-of-way'; or
                                    ``(II) `Gas Transmission Line 372 or 
                                rights-of-way'; or
                          ``(ii) utility facilities of the Pacific Gas 
                      and Electric Company in rights-of-way issued, 
                      granted, or permitted by the Secretary adjacent to 
                      a utility facility referred to in clause (i).
            ``(2) Plans for access.--Not later than 1 year after the 
        date of enactment of this title or the issuance of a new utility 
        facility right-of-way within the Spangler Hills Off-Highway 
        Vehicle Recreation Area, whichever is later, the Secretary, in 
        consultation with the Pacific Gas and Electric Company, shall 
        publish plans for regular and emergency access by the Pacific 
        Gas and Electric Company to the rights-of-way of the Pacific Gas 
        and Electric Company.

             ``TITLE XIV--ALABAMA HILLS NATIONAL SCENIC AREA

``SEC. 1401. &lt;&lt;NOTE: 16 USC 460ffff.&gt;&gt;  DEFINITIONS.

    ``In this title:
            ``(1) Management plan.--The term `management plan' means the 
        management plan for the Scenic Area developed under section 
        1403(a).
            ``(2) Map.--The term `Map' means the map entitled `Proposed 
        Alabama Hills National Scenic Area' and dated November 7, 2018.
            ``(3) Motorized vehicle.--The term `motorized vehicle' means 
        a motorized or mechanized vehicle and includes, when used by a 
        utility, mechanized equipment, a helicopter, and any other 
        aerial device necessary to maintain electrical or communications 
        infrastructure.
            ``(4) Scenic area.--The term `Scenic Area' means the Alabama 
        Hills National Scenic Area established by section 1402(a).
            ``(5) State.--The term `State' means the State of 
        California.
            ``(6) Tribe.--The term `Tribe' means the Lone Pine Paiute-
        Shoshone Tribe.
``SEC. 1402. &lt;&lt;NOTE: 16 USC 460ffff-1.&gt;&gt;  ALABAMA HILLS NATIONAL 
                          SCENIC AREA, CALIFORNIA.

    ``(a) Establishment.--Subject to valid existing rights, there is 
established in Inyo County, California, the Alabama Hills National 
Scenic Area, to be comprised of the approximately 18,610 acres generally 
depicted on the Map as `National Scenic Area'.
    ``(b) Purpose.--The purpose of the Scenic Area is to conserve, 
protect, and enhance for the benefit, use, and enjoyment of present and 
future generations the nationally significant scenic, cultural,

[[Page 133 STAT. 707]]

geological, educational, biological, historical, recreational, 
cinematographic, and scientific resources of the Scenic Area managed 
consistent with section 302(a) of the Federal Land Policy and Management 
Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1732(a)).
    ``(c) Map; Legal Descriptions.--
            ``(1) In general.--As soon as practicable after the date of 
        enactment of this title, the Secretary shall file a map and a 
        legal description of the Scenic Area with--
                    ``(A) the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources 
                of the Senate; and
                    ``(B) the Committee on Natural Resources of the 
                House of Representatives.
            ``(2) Force of law.--The map and legal descriptions filed 
        under paragraph (1) shall have the same force and effect as if 
        included in this title, except that the Secretary may correct 
        any clerical and typographical errors in the map and legal 
        descriptions.
            ``(3) Public availability.--Each map and legal description 
        filed under paragraph (1) shall be on file and available for 
        public inspection in the appropriate offices of the Forest 
        Service and the Bureau of Land Management.

    ``(d) Administration.--The Secretary shall manage the Scenic Area--
            ``(1) as a component of the National Landscape Conservation 
        System;
            ``(2) so as not to impact the future continuing operation 
        and maintenance of any activities associated with valid, 
        existing rights, including water rights;
            ``(3) in a manner that conserves, protects, and enhances the 
        resources and values of the Scenic Area described in subsection 
        (b); and
            ``(4) in accordance with--
                    ``(A) the Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 
                1976 (43 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.);
                    ``(B) this title; and
                    ``(C) any other applicable laws.

    ``(e) Management.--
            ``(1) In general.--The Secretary shall allow only such uses 
        of the Scenic Area as the Secretary determines would further the 
        purposes of the Scenic Area as described in subsection (b).
            ``(2) Recreational activities.--Except as otherwise provided 
        in this title or other applicable law, or as the Secretary 
        determines to be necessary for public health and safety, the 
        Secretary shall allow existing recreational uses of the Scenic 
        Area to continue, including hiking, mountain biking, rock 
        climbing, sightseeing, horseback riding, hunting, fishing, and 
        appropriate authorized motorized vehicle use in accordance with 
        paragraph (3).
            ``(3) Motorized vehicles.--Except as otherwise specified in 
        this title, or as necessary for administrative purposes or to 
        respond to an emergency, the use of motorized vehicles in the 
        Scenic Area shall be permitted only on--
                    ``(A) roads and trails designated by the Secretary 
                for use of motorized vehicles as part of a management 
                plan sustaining a semiprimitive motorized experience; or

[[Page 133 STAT. 708]]

                    ``(B) county-maintained roads in accordance with 
                applicable State and county laws.

    ``(f) No Buffer Zones.--
            ``(1) In general.--Nothing in this title creates a 
        protective perimeter or buffer zone around the Scenic Area.
            ``(2) Activities outside scenic area.--The fact that an 
        activity or use on land outside the Scenic Area can be seen or 
        heard within the Scenic Area shall not preclude the activity or 
        use outside the boundaries of the Scenic Area.

    ``(g) Access.--The Secretary shall provide private landowners 
adequate access to inholdings in the Scenic Area.
    ``(h) Filming.--Nothing in this title prohibits filming (including 
commercial film production, student filming, and still photography) 
within the Scenic Area--
            ``(1) subject to--
                    ``(A) such reasonable regulations, policies, and 
                practices as the Secretary considers to be necessary; 
                and
                    ``(B) applicable law; and
            ``(2) in a manner consistent with the purposes described in 
        subsection (b).

    ``(i) Fish and Wildlife.--Nothing in this title affects the 
jurisdiction or responsibilities of the State with respect to fish and 
wildlife.
    ``(j) Livestock.--The grazing of livestock in the Scenic Area, 
including grazing under the Alabama Hills allotment and the George Creek 
allotment, as established before the date of enactment of this title, 
shall be permitted to continue--
            ``(1) subject to--
                    ``(A) such reasonable regulations, policies, and 
                practices as the Secretary considers to be necessary; 
                and
                    ``(B) applicable law; and
            ``(2) in a manner consistent with the purposes described in 
        subsection (b).

    ``(k) Withdrawal.--Subject to the provisions of this title and valid 
rights in existence on the date of enactment of this title, including 
rights established by prior withdrawals, the Federal land within the 
Scenic Area is withdrawn from all forms of--
            ``(1) entry, appropriation, or disposal under the public 
        land laws;
            ``(2) location, entry, and patent under the mining laws; and
            ``(3) disposition under all laws pertaining to mineral and 
        geothermal leasing or mineral materials.

    ``(l) Wildland Fire Operations.--Nothing in this title prohibits the 
Secretary, in cooperation with other Federal, State, and local agencies, 
as appropriate, from conducting wildland fire operations in the Scenic 
Area, consistent with the purposes described in subsection (b).
    ``(m) Cooperative Agreements.--The Secretary may enter into 
cooperative agreements with, State, Tribal, and local governmental 
entities and private entities to conduct research, interpretation, or 
public education or to carry out any other initiative relating to the 
restoration, conservation, or management of the Scenic Area.
    ``(n) Utility Facilities and Rights-of-way.--
            ``(1) Effect of title.--Nothing in this title--
                    ``(A) affects the existence, use, operation, 
                maintenance (including vegetation control), repair, 
                construction,

[[Page 133 STAT. 709]]

                reconfiguration, expansion, inspection, renewal, 
                reconstruction, alteration, addition, relocation, 
                improvement, funding, removal, or replacement of any 
                utility facility or appurtenant right-of-way within or 
                adjacent to the Scenic Area;
                    ``(B) subject to subsection (e), affects necessary 
                or efficient access to utility facilities or rights-of-
                way within or adjacent to the Scenic Area; and
                    ``(C) precludes the Secretary from authorizing the 
                establishment of new utility facility rights-of-way 
                (including instream sites, routes, and areas) within the 
                Scenic Area in a manner that minimizes harm to the 
                purpose of the Scenic Area as described in subsection 
                (b)--
                          ``(i) in accordance with the National 
                      Environmental Policy Act of 1969 (42 U.S.C. 4321 
                      et seq.) and any other applicable law;
                          ``(ii) subject to such terms and conditions as 
                      the Secretary determines to be appropriate; and
                          ``(iii) that are determined by the Secretary 
                      to be the only technical or feasible location, 
                      following consideration of alternatives within 
                      existing rights-of-way or outside of the Scenic 
                      Area.
            ``(2) Management plan.--Consistent with this title, the 
        Management Plan shall establish provisions for maintenance of 
        public utility and other rights-of-way within the Scenic Area.
``SEC. 1403. &lt;&lt;NOTE: 16 USC 460ffff-2.&gt;&gt;  MANAGEMENT PLAN.

    ``(a) In General.--Not later than 3 years after the date of 
enactment of this title, in accordance with subsections (b) and (c), the 
Secretary shall develop a comprehensive plan for the long-term 
management of the Scenic Area.
    ``(b) Consultation.--In developing the management plan, the 
Secretary shall consult with--
            ``(1) appropriate State, Tribal, and local governmental 
        entities, including Inyo County and the Tribe;
            ``(2) utilities, including Southern California Edison 
        Company and the Los Angeles Department of Water and Power;
            ``(3) the Alabama Hills Stewardship Group; and
            ``(4) members of the public.

    ``(c) Requirement.--In accordance with this title, the management 
plan shall include provisions for maintenance of existing public utility 
and other rights-of-way within the Scenic Area.
    ``(d) Incorporation.--In developing the management plan, in 
accordance with this section, the Secretary may allow casual use mining 
limited to the use of hand tools, metal detectors, hand-fed dry washers, 
vacuum cleaners, gold pans, small sluices, and similar items.
    ``(e) Interim Management.--Pending completion of the management 
plan, the Secretary shall manage the Scenic Area in accordance with 
section 1402(b).
``SEC. 1404. &lt;&lt;NOTE: 16 USC 460ffff-3.&gt;&gt;  LAND TAKEN INTO TRUST 
                          FOR LONE PINE PAIUTE-SHOSHONE 
                          RESERVATION.

    ``(a) Trust Land.--
            ``(1) In general.--On completion of the survey described in 
        subsection (b), all right, title, and interest of the United 
        States in and to the approximately 132 acres of Federal land 
        depicted on the Map as `Lone Pine Paiute-Shoshone Reservation

[[Page 133 STAT. 710]]

        Addition' shall be held in trust for the benefit of the Tribe, 
        subject to paragraphs (2) and (3).
            ``(2) Conditions.--The land described in paragraph (1) shall 
        be subject to all easements, covenants, conditions, 
        restrictions, withdrawals, and other matters of record in 
        existence on the date of enactment of this title.
            ``(3) Exclusion.--The Federal land over which the right-of-
        way for the Los Angeles Aqueduct is located, generally described 
        as the 250-foot-wide right-of-way granted to the City of Los 
        Angeles pursuant to the Act of June 30, 1906 (34 Stat. 801, 
        chapter 3926), shall not be taken into trust for the Tribe.

    ``(b) Survey.--Not later than 180 days after the date of enactment 
of this title, the Secretary shall complete a survey of the boundary 
lines to establish the boundaries of the land to be held in trust under 
subsection (a)(1).
    ``(c) Reservation Land.--The land held in trust pursuant to 
subsection (a)(1) shall be considered to be a part of the reservation of 
the Tribe.
    ``(d) Gaming Prohibition.--Land held in trust under subsection 
(a)(1) shall not be eligible, or considered to have been taken into 
trust, for gaming (within the meaning of the Indian Gaming Regulatory 
Act (25 U.S.C. 2701 et seq.)).
``SEC. 1405. &lt;&lt;NOTE: 16 USC 460ffff-4.&gt;&gt;  TRANSFER OF 
                          ADMINISTRATIVE JURISDICTION.

    ``Administrative jurisdiction over the approximately 56 acres of 
Federal land depicted on the Map as `USFS Transfer to BLM' is 
transferred from the Forest Service to the Bureau of Land Management.
``SEC. 1406. &lt;&lt;NOTE: 16 USC 460ffff-5.&gt;&gt;  PROTECTION OF SERVICES 
                          AND RECREATIONAL OPPORTUNITIES.

    ``(a) Effect of Title.--Nothing in this title limits commercial 
services for existing or historic recreation uses, as authorized by the 
permit process of the Bureau of Land Management.
    ``(b) Guided Recreational Opportunities.--Commercial permits to 
exercise guided recreational opportunities for the public that are 
authorized as of the date of enactment of this title may continue to be 
authorized.''.

                          PART V--MISCELLANEOUS

SEC. 1451. TRANSFER OF LAND TO ANZA-BORREGO DESERT STATE PARK.

    Title VII of the California Desert Protection Act is 1994 (16 U.S.C. 
410aaa-71 et seq.) is amended by adding at the end the following:
``SEC. 712. &lt;&lt;NOTE: 16 USC 410aaa-81a.&gt;&gt;  TRANSFER OF LAND TO 
                        ANZA-BORREGO DESERT STATE PARK.

    ``(a) In General.--On termination of all mining claims to the land 
described in subsection (b), the Secretary shall transfer the land 
described in that subsection to the State of California.
    ``(b) Description of Land.--The land referred to in subsection (a) 
is certain Bureau of Land Management land in San Diego County, 
California, comprising approximately 934 acres, as generally depicted on 
the map entitled `Proposed Table Mountain Wilderness Study Area Transfer 
to the State' and dated November 7, 2018.

[[Page 133 STAT. 711]]

    ``(c) Management.--
            ``(1) In general.--The land transferred under subsection (a) 
        shall be managed in accordance with the provisions of the 
        California Wilderness Act (California Public Resources Code 
        sections 5093.30-5093.40).
            ``(2) Withdrawal.--Subject to valid existing rights, the 
        land transferred under subsection (a) is withdrawn from--
                    ``(A) all forms of entry, appropriation, or disposal 
                under the public land laws;
                    ``(B) location, entry, and patent under the mining 
                laws; and
                    ``(C) disposition under all laws relating to mineral 
                and geothermal leasing.
            ``(3) Reversion.--If the State ceases to manage the land 
        transferred under subsection (a) as part of the State Park 
        System or in a manner inconsistent with the California 
        Wilderness Act (California Public Resources Code sections 
        5093.30-5093.40), the land shall revert to the Secretary at the 
        discretion of the Secretary, to be managed as a Wilderness Study 
        Area.''.
SEC. 1452. WILDLIFE CORRIDORS.

    Title VII of the California Desert Protection Act is 1994 (16 U.S.C. 
410aaa-71 et seq.) (as amended by section 1451) is amended by adding at 
the end the following:
``SEC. 713. &lt;&lt;NOTE: 16 USC 410aaa-81b.&gt;&gt;  WILDLIFE CORRIDORS.

    ``(a) In General.--The Secretary shall--
            ``(1) assess the impacts of habitat fragmentation on 
        wildlife in the California Desert Conservation Area; and
            ``(2) establish policies and procedures to ensure the 
        preservation of wildlife corridors and facilitate species 
        migration.

    ``(b) Study.--
            ``(1) In general.--As soon as practicable, but not later 
        than 2 years, after the date of enactment of this section, the 
        Secretary shall complete a study regarding the impact of habitat 
        fragmentation on wildlife in the California Desert Conservation 
        Area.
            ``(2) Components.--The study under paragraph (1) shall--
                    ``(A) identify the species migrating, or likely to 
                migrate in the California Desert Conservation Area;
                    ``(B) examine the impacts and potential impacts of 
                habitat fragmentation on--
                          ``(i) plants, insects, and animals;
                          ``(ii) soil;
                          ``(iii) air quality;
                          ``(iv) water quality and quantity; and
                          ``(v) species migration and survival;
                    ``(C) identify critical wildlife and species 
                migration corridors recommended for preservation; and
                    ``(D) include recommendations for ensuring the 
                biological connectivity of public land managed by the 
                Secretary and the Secretary of Defense throughout the 
                California Desert Conservation Area.
            ``(3) Rights-of-way.--The Secretary shall consider the 
        information and recommendations of the study under paragraph (1) 
        to determine the individual and cumulative impacts

[[Page 133 STAT. 712]]

        of rights-of-way for projects in the California Desert 
        Conservation Area, in accordance with--
                    ``(A) the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 
                (42 U.S.C. 4321 et seq.);
                    ``(B) the Endangered Species Act of 1973 (16 U.S.C. 
                1531 et seq.); and
                    ``(C) any other applicable law.

    ``(c) Land Management Plans.--The Secretary shall incorporate into 
all land management plans applicable to the California Desert 
Conservation Area the findings and recommendations of the study 
completed under subsection (b).''.
SEC. 1453. PROHIBITED USES OF ACQUIRED, DONATED, AND CONSERVATION 
                          LAND.

    Title VII of the California Desert Protection Act is 1994 (16 U.S.C. 
410aaa-71 et seq.) (as amended by section 1452) is amended by adding at 
the end the following:
``SEC. 714. &lt;&lt;NOTE: 16 USC 410aaa-81c.&gt;&gt;  PROHIBITED USES OF 
                        ACQUIRED, DONATED, AND CONSERVATION LAND.

    ``(a) Definitions.--In this section:
            ``(1) Acquired land.--The term `acquired land' means any 
        land acquired within the Conservation Area using amounts from 
        the land and water conservation fund established under section 
        200302 of title 54, United States Code.
            ``(2) Conservation area.--The term `Conservation Area' means 
        the California Desert Conservation Area.
            ``(3) Conservation land.--The term `conservation land' means 
        any land within the Conservation Area that is designated to 
        satisfy the conditions of a Federal habitat conservation plan, 
        general conservation plan, or State natural communities 
        conservation plan, including--
                    ``(A) national conservation land established 
                pursuant to section 2002(b)(2)(D) of the Omnibus Public 
                Land Management Act of 2009 (16 U.S.C. 7202(b)(2)(D)); 
                and
                    ``(B) areas of critical environmental concern 
                established pursuant to section 202(c)(3) of the Federal 
                Land Policy and Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 
                1712(c)(3)).
            ``(4) Donated land.--The term `donated land' means any 
        private land donated to the United States for conservation 
        purposes in the Conservation Area.
            ``(5) Donor.--The term `donor' means an individual or entity 
        that donates private land within the Conservation Area to the 
        United States.
            ``(6) Secretary.--The term `Secretary' means the Secretary, 
        acting through the Director of the Bureau of Land Management.
            ``(7) State.--The term `State' means the State of 
        California.

    ``(b) Prohibitions.--Except as provided in subsection (c), the 
Secretary shall not authorize the use of acquired land, conservation 
land, or donated land within the Conservation Area for any activities 
contrary to the conservation purposes for which the land was acquired, 
designated, or donated, including--
            ``(1) disposal;
            ``(2) rights-of-way;
            ``(3) leases;
            ``(4) livestock grazing;

[[Page 133 STAT. 713]]

            ``(5) infrastructure development, except as provided in 
        subsection (c);
            ``(6) mineral entry; and
            ``(7) off-highway vehicle use, except on--
                    ``(A) designated routes;
                    ``(B) off-highway vehicle areas designated by law; 
                and
                    ``(C) administratively designated open areas.

    ``(c) Exceptions.--
            ``(1) Authorization by secretary.--Subject to paragraph (2), 
        the Secretary may authorize limited exceptions to prohibited 
        uses of acquired land or donated land in the Conservation Area 
        if--
                    ``(A) a right-of-way application for a renewable 
                energy development project or associated energy 
                transport facility on acquired land or donated land was 
                submitted to the Bureau of Land Management on or before 
                December 1, 2009; or
                    ``(B) after the completion and consideration of an 
                analysis under the National Environmental Policy Act of 
                1969 (42 U.S.C. 4321 et seq.), the Secretary has 
                determined that proposed use is in the public interest.
            ``(2) Conditions.--
                    ``(A) In general.--If the Secretary grants an 
                exception to the prohibition under paragraph (1), the 
                Secretary shall require the permittee to donate private 
                land of comparable value located within the Conservation 
                Area to the United States to mitigate the use.
                    ``(B) Approval.--The private land to be donated 
                under subparagraph (A) shall be approved by the 
                Secretary after--
                          ``(i) consultation, to the maximum extent 
                      practicable, with the donor of the private land 
                      proposed for nonconservation uses; and
                          ``(ii) an opportunity for public comment 
                      regarding the donation.

    ``(d) Existing Agreements.--Nothing in this section affects 
permitted or prohibited uses of donated land or acquired land in the 
Conservation Area established in any easements, deed restrictions, 
memoranda of understanding, or other agreements in existence on the date 
of enactment of this section.
    ``(e) Deed Restrictions.--Effective beginning on the date of 
enactment of this section, within the Conservation Area, the Secretary 
may--
            ``(1) accept deed restrictions requested by landowners for 
        land donated to, or otherwise acquired by, the United States; 
        and
            ``(2) consistent with existing rights, create deed 
        restrictions, easements, or other third-party rights relating to 
        any public land determined by the Secretary to be necessary--
                    ``(A) to fulfill the mitigation requirements 
                resulting from the development of renewable resources; 
                or
                    ``(B) to satisfy the conditions of--
                          ``(i) a habitat conservation plan or general 
                      conservation plan established pursuant to section 
                      10 of the Endangered Species Act of 1973 (16 
                      U.S.C. 1539); or

[[Page 133 STAT. 714]]

                          ``(ii) a natural communities conservation plan 
                      approved by the State.''.
SEC. 1454. TRIBAL USES AND INTERESTS.

    Section 705 of the California Desert Protection Act is 1994 (16 
U.S.C. 410aaa-75) is amended--
            (1) by redesignating subsection (b) as subsection (c);
            (2) by striking subsection (a) and inserting the following:

    ``(a) Access.--The Secretary shall ensure access to areas designated 
under this Act by members of Indian Tribes for traditional cultural and 
religious purposes, consistent with applicable law, including Public Law 
95-341 (commonly known as the `American Indian Religious Freedom Act') 
(42 U.S.C. 1996).
    ``(b) Temporary Closure.--
            ``(1) In general.--In accordance with applicable law, 
        including Public Law 95-341 (commonly known as the `American 
        Indian Religious Freedom Act') (42 U.S.C. 1996), and subject to 
        paragraph (2), the Secretary, on request of an Indian Tribe or 
        Indian religious community, shall temporarily close to general 
        public use any portion of an area designated as a national 
        monument, special management area, wild and scenic river, area 
        of critical environmental concern, or National Park System unit 
        under this Act (referred to in this subsection as a `designated 
        area') to protect the privacy of traditional cultural and 
        religious activities in the designated area by members of the 
        Indian Tribe or Indian religious community.
            ``(2) Limitation.--In closing a portion of a designated area 
        under paragraph (1), the Secretary shall limit the closure to 
        the smallest practicable area for the minimum period necessary 
        for the traditional cultural and religious activities.''; and
            (3) by adding at the end the following:

    ``(d) Tribal Cultural Resources Management Plan.--
            ``(1) In general.--Not later than 2 years after the date of 
        enactment of the John D. Dingell, Jr. Conservation, Management, 
        and Recreation Act, the Secretary shall develop and implement a 
        Tribal cultural resources management plan to identify, protect, 
        and conserve cultural resources of Indian Tribes associated with 
        the Xam Kwatchan Trail network extending from Avikwaame (Spirit 
        Mountain, Nevada) to Avikwlal (Pilot Knob, California).
            ``(2) Consultation.--The Secretary shall consult on the 
        development and implementation of the Tribal cultural resources 
        management plan under paragraph (1) with--
                    ``(A) each of--
                          ``(i) the Chemehuevi Indian Tribe;
                          ``(ii) the Hualapai Tribal Nation;
                          ``(iii) the Fort Mojave Indian Tribe;
                          ``(iv) the Colorado River Indian Tribes;
                          ``(v) the Quechan Indian Tribe; and
                          ``(vi) the Cocopah Indian Tribe;
                    ``(B) the Advisory Council on Historic Preservation; 
                and
                    ``(C) the State Historic Preservation Offices of 
                Nevada, Arizona, and California.
            ``(3) Resource protection.--The Tribal cultural resources 
        management plan developed under paragraph (1) shall--

[[Page 133 STAT. 715]]

                    ``(A) be based on a completed Tribal cultural 
                resources survey; and
                    ``(B) include procedures for identifying, 
                protecting, and preserving petroglyphs, ancient trails, 
                intaglios, sleeping circles, artifacts, and other 
                resources of cultural, archaeological, or historical 
                significance in accordance with all applicable laws and 
                policies, including--
                          ``(i) chapter 2003 of title 54, United States 
                      Code;
                          ``(ii) Public Law 95-341 (commonly known as 
                      the `American Indian Religious Freedom Act') (42 
                      U.S.C. 1996);
                          ``(iii) the Archaeological Resources 
                      Protection Act of 1979 (16 U.S.C. 470aa et seq.);
                          ``(iv) the Native American Graves Protection 
                      and Repatriation Act (25 U.S.C. 3001 et seq.); and
                          ``(v) Public Law 103-141 (commonly known as 
                      the `Religious Freedom Restoration Act of 1993') 
                      (42 U.S.C. 2000bb et seq.).

    ``(e) Withdrawal.--Subject to valid existing rights, all Federal 
land within the area administratively withdrawn and known as the `Indian 
Pass Withdrawal Area' is permanently withdrawn from--
            ``(1) all forms of entry, appropriation, or disposal under 
        the public land laws;
            ``(2) location, entry, and patent under the mining laws; and
            ``(3) right-of-way leasing and disposition under all laws 
        relating to minerals or solar, wind, or geothermal energy.''.
SEC. 1455. RELEASE OF FEDERAL REVERSIONARY LAND INTERESTS.

    (a) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) 1932 act.--The term ``1932 Act'' means the Act of June 
        18, 1932 (47 Stat. 324, chapter 270).
            (2) District.--The term ``District'' means the Metropolitan 
        Water District of Southern California.

    (b) Release.--Subject to valid existing claims perfected prior to 
the effective date of the 1932 Act and the reservation of minerals set 
forth in the 1932 Act, the Secretary shall release, convey, or otherwise 
quitclaim to the District, in a form recordable in local county records, 
and subject to the approval of the District, after consultation and 
without monetary consideration, all right, title, and remaining interest 
of the United States in and to the land that was conveyed to the 
District pursuant to the 1932 Act or any other law authorizing 
conveyance subject to restrictions or reversionary interests retained by 
the United States, on request by the District.
    (c) Terms and Conditions.--A conveyance authorized by subsection (b) 
shall be subject to the following terms and conditions:
            (1) The District shall cover, or reimburse the Secretary 
        for, the costs incurred by the Secretary to make the conveyance, 
        including title searches, surveys, deed preparation, attorneys' 
        fees, and similar expenses.
            (2) By accepting the conveyances, the District agrees to 
        indemnify and hold harmless the United States with regard to any 
        boundary dispute relating to any parcel conveyed under this 
        section.

[[Page 133 STAT. 716]]

SEC. 1456. CALIFORNIA STATE SCHOOL LAND.

    Section 707 of the California Desert Protection Act of 1994 (16 
U.S.C. 410aaa-77) is amended--
            (1) in subsection (a)--
                    (A) in the first sentence--
                          (i) by striking ``Upon request of the 
                      California State Lands Commission (hereinafter in 
                      this section referred to as the `Commission'), the 
                      Secretary shall enter into negotiations for an 
                      agreement'' and inserting the following:
            ``(1) In general.--The Secretary shall negotiate in good 
        faith to reach an agreement with the California State Lands 
        Commission (referred to in this section as the `Commission')''; 
        and
                          (ii) by inserting ``, national monuments, off-
                      highway vehicle recreation areas,'' after ``more 
                      of the wilderness areas''; and
                    (B) in the second sentence, by striking ``The 
                Secretary shall negotiate in good faith to'' and 
                inserting the following:
            ``(2) Agreement.--To the maximum extent practicable, not 
        later than 10 years after the date of enactment of this title, 
        the Secretary shall''; and
            (2) in subsection (b)(1), by inserting ``, national 
        monuments, off-highway vehicle recreation areas,'' after 
        ``wilderness areas''.
SEC. 1457. DESIGNATION OF WILD AND SCENIC RIVERS.

    (a) Amargosa River, California.--Section 3(a)(196)(A) of the Wild 
and Scenic Rivers Act (16 U.S.C. 1274(a)(196)(A)) is amended to read as 
follows:
                    ``(A) The approximately 7.5-mile segment of the 
                Amargosa River in the State of California, the private 
                property boundary in sec. 19, T. 22 N., R. 7 E., to 100 
                feet upstream of the Tecopa Hot Springs Road crossing, 
                to be administered by the Secretary of the Interior as a 
                scenic river.''.

    (b) Additional Segments.--Section 3(a) of the Wild and Scenic Rivers 
Act (16 U.S.C. 1274(a)) (as amended by section 1303(a)) is amended by 
adding at the end the following:
            ``(228) Surprise canyon creek, california.--
                    ``(A) In general.--The following segments of 
                Surprise Canyon Creek in the State of California, to be 
                administered by the Secretary of the Interior:
                          ``(i) The approximately 5.3 miles of Surprise 
                      Canyon Creek from the confluence of Frenchman's 
                      Canyon and Water Canyon to 100 feet upstream of 
                      Chris Wicht Camp, as a wild river.
                          ``(ii) The approximately 1.8 miles of Surprise 
                      Canyon Creek from 100 feet upstream of Chris Wicht 
                      Camp to the southern boundary of sec. 14, T. 21 
                      S., R. 44 E., as a recreational river.
                    ``(B) Effect on historic mining structures.--Nothing 
                in this paragraph affects the historic mining structures 
                associated with the former Panamint Mining District.
            ``(229) Deep creek, california.--
                    ``(A) In general.--The following segments of Deep 
                Creek in the State of California, to be administered by 
                the Secretary of Agriculture:

[[Page 133 STAT. 717]]

                          ``(i) The approximately 6.5-mile segment from 
                      0.125 mile downstream of the Rainbow Dam site in 
                      sec. 33, T. 2 N., R. 2 W., San Bernardino 
                      Meridian, to 0.25 miles upstream of the Road 3N34 
                      crossing, as a wild river.
                          ``(ii) The 0.5-mile segment from 0.25 mile 
                      upstream of the Road 3N34 crossing to 0.25 mile 
                      downstream of the Road 3N34 crossing, as a scenic 
                      river.
                          ``(iii) The 2.5-mile segment from 0.25 miles 
                      downstream of the Road 3 N. 34 crossing to 0.25 
                      miles upstream of the Trail 2W01 crossing, as a 
                      wild river.
                          ``(iv) The 0.5-mile segment from 0.25 miles 
                      upstream of the Trail 2W01 crossing to 0.25 mile 
                      downstream of the Trail 2W01 crossing, as a scenic 
                      river.
                          ``(v) The 10-mile segment from 0.25 miles 
                      downstream of the Trail 2W01 crossing to the upper 
                      limit of the Mojave dam flood zone in sec. 17, T. 
                      3 N., R. 3 W., San Bernardino Meridian, as a wild 
                      river.
                          ``(vi) The 11-mile segment of Holcomb Creek 
                      from 100 yards downstream of the Road 3N12 
                      crossing to .25 miles downstream of Holcomb 
                      Crossing, as a recreational river.
                          ``(vii) The 3.5-mile segment of the Holcomb 
                      Creek from 0.25 miles downstream of Holcomb 
                      Crossing to the Deep Creek confluence, as a wild 
                      river.
                    ``(B) Effect on ski operations.--Nothing in this 
                paragraph affects--
                          ``(i) the operations of the Snow Valley Ski 
                      Resort; or
                          ``(ii) the State regulation of water rights 
                      and water quality associated with the operation of 
                      the Snow Valley Ski Resort.
            ``(230) Whitewater river, california.--The following 
        segments of the Whitewater River in the State of California, to 
        be administered by the Secretary of Agriculture and the 
        Secretary of the Interior, acting jointly:
                    ``(A) The 5.8-mile segment of the North Fork 
                Whitewater River from the source of the River near Mt. 
                San Gorgonio to the confluence with the Middle Fork, as 
                a wild river.
                    ``(B) The 6.4-mile segment of the Middle Fork 
                Whitewater River from the source of the River to the 
                confluence with the South Fork, as a wild river.
                    ``(C) The 1-mile segment of the South Fork 
                Whitewater River from the confluence of the River with 
                the East Fork to the section line between sections 32 
                and 33, T. 1 S., R. 2 E., San Bernardino Meridian, as a 
                wild river.
                    ``(D) The 1-mile segment of the South Fork 
                Whitewater River from the section line between sections 
                32 and 33, T. 1 S., R. 2 E., San Bernardino Meridian, to 
                the section line between sections 33 and 34, T. 1 S., R. 
                2 E., San Bernardino Meridian, as a recreational river.
                    ``(E) The 4.9-mile segment of the South Fork 
                Whitewater River from the section line between sections 
                33 and 34, T. 1 S., R. 2 E., San Bernardino Meridian, to 
                the confluence with the Middle Fork, as a wild river.

[[Page 133 STAT. 718]]

                    ``(F) The 5.4-mile segment of the main stem of the 
                Whitewater River from the confluence of the South and 
                Middle Forks to the San Gorgonio Wilderness boundary, as 
                a wild river.
                    ``(G) The 3.6-mile segment of the main stem of the 
                Whitewater River from the San Gorgonio Wilderness 
                boundary to .25 miles upstream of the southern boundary 
                of section 35, T. 2 S., R. 3 E., San Bernardino 
                Meridian, as a recreational river.''.
SEC. 1458. CONFORMING AMENDMENTS.

    (a) Short Title.--Section 1 of the California Desert Protection Act 
of 1994 (16 U.S.C. 410aaa note; Public Law 103-433) is amended by 
striking ``1 and 2, and titles I through IX'' and inserting ``1, 2, and 
3, titles I through IX, and titles XIII and XIV''.
    (b) Definitions.--The California Desert Protection Act of 1994 
(Public Law 103-433; 108 Stat. 4471) is amended by inserting after 
section 2 the following:
``SEC. 3. &lt;&lt;NOTE: 16 USC 410aaa note.&gt;&gt;  DEFINITIONS.

    ``(a) Titles I Through Ix.--In titles I through IX, the term `this 
Act' means only--
            ``(1) sections 1 and 2; and
            ``(2) titles I through IX.

    ``(b) Titles Xiii and Xiv.--In titles XIII and XIV:
            ``(1) Conservation area.--The term `Conservation Area' means 
        the California Desert Conservation Area.
            ``(2) Secretary.--The term `Secretary' means--
                    ``(A) with respect to land under the jurisdiction of 
                the Secretary of the Interior, the Secretary of the 
                Interior; and
                    ``(B) with respect to land under the jurisdiction of 
                the Secretary of Agriculture, the Secretary of 
                Agriculture.
            ``(3) State.--The term `State' means the State of 
        California.''.
SEC. 1459. JUNIPER FLATS.

    The California Desert Protection Act of 1994 is amended by striking 
section 711 (16 U.S.C. 410aaa-81) and inserting the following:
``SEC. 711. &lt;&lt;NOTE: 16 USC 410aaa-81.&gt;&gt;  JUNIPER FLATS.

    ``Development of renewable energy generation facilities (excluding 
rights-of-way or facilities for the transmission of energy and 
telecommunication facilities and infrastructure) is prohibited on the 
approximately 27,990 acres of Federal land generally depicted as `BLM 
Land Unavailable for Energy Development' on the map entitled `Juniper 
Flats' and dated November 7, 2018.''.
SEC. 1460. CONFORMING AMENDMENTS TO CALIFORNIA MILITARY LANDS 
                          WITHDRAWAL AND OVERFLIGHTS ACT OF 1994.

    (a) Findings.--Section 801(b)(2) of the California Military Lands 
Withdrawal and Overflights Act of 1994 (16 U.S.C. 410aaa-82 note; Public 
Law 103-433) is amended by inserting ``, special management areas, off-
highway vehicle recreation areas, scenic areas,'' before ``and 
wilderness areas''.

[[Page 133 STAT. 719]]

    (b) Overflights; Special Airspace.--Section 802 of the California 
Military Lands Withdrawal and Overflights Act of 1994 (16 U.S.C. 410aaa-
82) is amended--
            (1) in subsection (a), by inserting ``, scenic areas, off-
        highway vehicle recreation areas, or special management areas'' 
        before ``designated by this Act'';
            (2) in subsection (b), by inserting ``, scenic areas, off-
        highway vehicle recreation areas, or special management areas'' 
        before ``designated by this Act''; and
            (3) by adding at the end the following:

    ``(d) Department of Defense Facilities.--Nothing in this Act alters 
any authority of the Secretary of Defense to conduct military operations 
at installations and ranges within the California Desert Conservation 
Area that are authorized under any other provision of law.''.
SEC. 1461. &lt;&lt;NOTE: 16 USC 670g note.&gt;&gt;  DESERT TORTOISE 
                          CONSERVATION CENTER.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary shall establish, operate, and 
maintain a trans-State desert tortoise conservation center (referred to 
in this section as the ``Center'') on public land along the California-
Nevada border--
            (1) to support desert tortoise research, disease monitoring, 
        handling training, rehabilitation, and reintroduction;
            (2) to provide temporary quarters for animals collected from 
        authorized salvage from renewable energy sites; and
            (3) to ensure the full recovery and ongoing survival of the 
        species.

    (b) Center.--In carrying out this section, the Secretary shall--
            (1) seek the participation of or contract with qualified 
        organizations with expertise in desert tortoise disease research 
        and experience with desert tortoise translocation techniques, 
        and scientific training of professional biologists for handling 
        tortoises, to staff and manage the Center;
            (2) ensure that the Center engages in public outreach and 
        education on tortoise handling; and
            (3) consult with the State and the State of Nevada to ensure 
        that the Center is operated consistent with State law.

    (c) Non-Federal Contributions.--The Secretary may accept and expend 
contributions of non-Federal funds to establish, operate, and maintain 
the Center.

                        TITLE II--NATIONAL PARKS

                  Subtitle A--Special Resource Studies

SEC. 2001. SPECIAL RESOURCE STUDY OF JAMES K. POLK PRESIDENTIAL 
                          HOME.

    (a) Definition of Study Area.--In this section, the term ``study 
area'' means the President James K. Polk Home in Columbia, Tennessee, 
and adjacent property.
    (b) Special Resource Study.--
            (1) Study.--The Secretary shall conduct a special resource 
        study of the study area.
            (2) Contents.--In conducting the study under paragraph (1), 
        the Secretary shall--
                    (A) evaluate the national significance of the study 
                area;

[[Page 133 STAT. 720]]

                    (B) determine the suitability and feasibility of 
                designating the study area as a unit of the National 
                Park System;
                    (C) consider other alternatives for preservation, 
                protection, and interpretation of the study area by the 
                Federal Government, State or local government entities, 
                or private and nonprofit organizations;
                    (D) consult with interested Federal agencies, State 
                or local governmental entities, private and nonprofit 
                organizations, or any other interested individuals; and
                    (E) identify cost estimates for any Federal 
                acquisition, development, interpretation, operation, and 
                maintenance associated with the alternatives.
            (3) Applicable law.--The study required under paragraph (1) 
        shall be conducted in accordance with section 100507 of title 
        54, United States Code.
            (4) Report.--Not later than 3 years after the date on which 
        funds are first made available for the study under paragraph 
        (1), the Secretary shall submit to the Committee on Energy and 
        Natural Resources of the Senate and the Committee on Natural 
        Resources of the House of Representatives a report that 
        describes--
                    (A) the results of the study; and
                    (B) any conclusions and recommendations of the 
                Secretary.
SEC. 2002. SPECIAL RESOURCE STUDY OF THURGOOD MARSHALL SCHOOL.

    (a) Definition of Study Area.--In this section, the term ``study 
area'' means--
            (1) P.S. 103, the public school located in West Baltimore, 
        Maryland, which Thurgood Marshall attended as a youth; and
            (2) any other resources in the neighborhood surrounding P.S. 
        103 that relate to the early life of Thurgood Marshall.

    (b) Special Resource Study.--
            (1) Study.--The Secretary shall conduct a special resource 
        study of the study area.
            (2) Contents.--In conducting the study under paragraph (1), 
        the Secretary shall--
                    (A) evaluate the national significance of the study 
                area;
                    (B) determine the suitability and feasibility of 
                designating the study area as a unit of the National 
                Park System;
                    (C) consider other alternatives for preservation, 
                protection, and interpretation of the study area by the 
                Federal Government, State or local government entities, 
                or private and nonprofit organizations;
                    (D) consult with interested Federal agencies, State 
                or local governmental entities, private and nonprofit 
                organizations, or any other interested individuals; and
                    (E) identify cost estimates for any Federal 
                acquisition, development, interpretation, operation, and 
                maintenance associated with the alternatives.
            (3) Applicable law.--The study required under paragraph (1) 
        shall be conducted in accordance with section 100507 of title 
        54, United States Code.

[[Page 133 STAT. 721]]

            (4) Report.--Not later than 3 years after the date on which 
        funds are first made available to carry out the study under 
        paragraph (1), the Secretary shall submit to the Committee on 
        Natural Resources of the House of Representatives and the 
        Committee on Energy and Natural Resources of the Senate a report 
        that describes--
                    (A) the results of the study; and
                    (B) any conclusions and recommendations of the 
                Secretary.
SEC. 2003. SPECIAL RESOURCE STUDY OF PRESIDENT STREET STATION.

    (a) Definition of Study Area.--In this section, the term ``study 
area'' means the President Street Station, a railroad terminal in 
Baltimore, Maryland, the history of which is tied to the growth of the 
railroad industry in the 19th century, the Civil War, the Underground 
Railroad, and the immigrant influx of the early 20th century.
    (b) Special Resource Study.--
            (1) Study.--The Secretary shall conduct a special resource 
        study of the study area.
            (2) Contents.--In conducting the study under paragraph (1), 
        the Secretary shall--
                    (A) evaluate the national significance of the study 
                area;
                    (B) determine the suitability and feasibility of 
                designating the study area as a unit of the National 
                Park System;
                    (C) consider other alternatives for preservation, 
                protection, and interpretation of the study area by the 
                Federal Government, State or local government entities, 
                or private and nonprofit organizations;
                    (D) consult with interested Federal agencies, State 
                or local governmental entities, private and nonprofit 
                organizations, or any other interested individuals; and
                    (E) identify cost estimates for any Federal 
                acquisition, development, interpretation, operation, and 
                maintenance associated with the alternatives.
            (3) Applicable law.--The study required under paragraph (1) 
        shall be conducted in accordance with section 100507 of title 
        54, United States Code.
            (4) Report.--Not later than 3 years after the date on which 
        funds are first made available for the study under paragraph 
        (1), the Secretary shall submit to the Committee on Natural 
        Resources of the House of Representatives and the Committee on 
        Energy and Natural Resources of the Senate a report that 
        describes--
                    (A) the results of the study; and
                    (B) any conclusions and recommendations of the 
                Secretary.
SEC. 2004. AMACHE SPECIAL RESOURCE STUDY.

    (a) Definition of Study Area.--In this section, the term ``study 
area'' means the site known as ``Amache'', ``Camp Amache'', and 
``Granada Relocation Center'' in Granada, Colorado, which was 1 of the 
10 relocation centers where Japanese Americans were incarcerated during 
World War II.
    (b) Special Resource Study.--

[[Page 133 STAT. 722]]

            (1) In general.--The Secretary shall conduct a special 
        resource study of the study area.
            (2) Contents.--In conducting the study under paragraph (1), 
        the Secretary shall--
                    (A) evaluate the national significance of the study 
                area;
                    (B) determine the suitability and feasibility of 
                designating the study area as a unit of the National 
                Park System;
                    (C) consider other alternatives for preservation, 
                protection, and interpretation of the study area by the 
                Federal Government, State or local government entities, 
                or private and nonprofit organizations;
                    (D) consult with interested Federal agencies, State 
                or local governmental entities, private and nonprofit 
                organizations, or any other interested individuals; and
                    (E) identify cost estimates for any Federal 
                acquisition, development, interpretation, operation, and 
                maintenance associated with the alternatives described 
                in subparagraphs (B) and (C).
            (3) Applicable law.--The study required under paragraph (1) 
        shall be conducted in accordance with section 100507 of title 
        54, United States Code.
            (4) Report.--Not later than 3 years after the date on which 
        funds are first made available to carry out the study under 
        paragraph (1), the Secretary shall submit to the Committee on 
        Natural Resources of the House of Representatives and the 
        Committee on Energy and Natural Resources of the Senate a report 
        that describes--
                    (A) the results of the study; and
                    (B) any conclusions and recommendations of the 
                Secretary.
SEC. 2005. SPECIAL RESOURCE STUDY OF GEORGE W. BUSH CHILDHOOD 
                          HOME.

    (a) Definition of Study Area.--In this section, the term ``study 
area'' means the George W. Bush Childhood Home, located at 1412 West 
Ohio Avenue, Midland, Texas.
    (b) Special Resource Study.--
            (1) Study.--The Secretary shall conduct a special resource 
        study of the study area.
            (2) Contents.--In conducting the study under paragraph (1), 
        the Secretary shall--
                    (A) evaluate the national significance of the study 
                area;
                    (B) determine the suitability and feasibility of 
                designating the study area as a unit of the National 
                Park System;
                    (C) consider other alternatives for preservation, 
                protection, and interpretation of the study area by the 
                Federal Government, State or local government entities, 
                or private and nonprofit organizations;
                    (D) consult with interested Federal agencies, State 
                or local governmental entities, private and nonprofit 
                organizations, or any other interested individuals; and
                    (E) identify cost estimates for any Federal 
                acquisition, development, interpretation, operation, and 
                maintenance associated with the alternatives.

[[Page 133 STAT. 723]]

            (3) Applicable law.--The study required under paragraph (1) 
        shall be conducted in accordance with section 100507 of title 
        54, United States Code.
            (4) Report.--Not later than 3 years after the date on which 
        funds are first made available for the study under paragraph 
        (1), the Secretary shall submit to the Committee on Energy and 
        Natural Resources of the Senate and the Committee on Natural 
        Resources of the House of Representatives a report that 
        describes--
                    (A) the results of the study; and
                    (B) any conclusions and recommendations of the 
                Secretary.

   Subtitle B--National Park System Boundary Adjustments and Related 
                                 Matters

SEC. 2101. &lt;&lt;NOTE: 16 USC 430f-13.&gt;&gt;  SHILOH NATIONAL MILITARY 
                          PARK BOUNDARY ADJUSTMENT.

    (a) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Affiliated area.--The term ``affiliated area'' means the 
        Parker's Crossroads Battlefield established as an affiliated 
        area of the National Park System by subsection (c)(1).
            (2) Park.--The term ``Park'' means Shiloh National Military 
        Park, a unit of the National Park System.

    (b) Areas to Be Added to Shiloh National Military Park.--
            (1) Additional areas.--The boundary of the Park is modified 
        to include the areas that are generally depicted on the map 
        entitled ``Shiloh National Military Park, Proposed Boundary 
        Adjustment'', numbered 304/80,011, and dated July 2014, and 
        which are comprised of the following:
                    (A) Fallen Timbers Battlefield.
                    (B) Russell House Battlefield.
                    (C) Davis Bridge Battlefield.
            (2) Acquisition authority.--The Secretary may acquire the 
        land described in paragraph (1) by donation, purchase from 
        willing sellers with donated or appropriated funds, or exchange.
            (3) Administration.--Any land acquired under this subsection 
        shall be administered as part of the Park.

    (c) Establishment of Affiliated Area.--
            (1) In general.--Parker's Crossroads Battlefield in the 
        State of Tennessee is established as an affiliated area of the 
        National Park System.
            (2) Description of affiliated area.--The affiliated area 
        shall consist of the area generally depicted within the 
        ``Proposed Boundary'' on the map entitled ``Parker's Crossroads 
        Battlefield, Proposed Boundary'', numbered 903/80,073, and dated 
        July 2014.
            (3) Administration.--The affiliated area shall be managed in 
        accordance with--
                    (A) this section; and
                    (B) any law generally applicable to units of the 
                National Park System.
            (4) Management entity.--The City of Parkers Crossroads and 
        the Tennessee Historical Commission shall jointly be the 
        management entity for the affiliated area.

[[Page 133 STAT. 724]]

            (5) Cooperative agreements.--The Secretary may provide 
        technical assistance and enter into cooperative agreements with 
        the management entity for the purpose of providing financial 
        assistance for the marketing, marking, interpretation, and 
        preservation of the affiliated area.
            (6) Limited role of the secretary.--Nothing in this section 
        authorizes the Secretary to acquire property at the affiliated 
        area or to assume overall financial responsibility for the 
        operation, maintenance, or management of the affiliated area.
            (7) General management plan.--
                    (A) In general.--The Secretary, in consultation with 
                the management entity, shall develop a general 
                management plan for the affiliated area in accordance 
                with section 100502 of title 54, United States Code.
                    (B) Transmittal.--Not later than 3 years after the 
                date on which funds are made available to carry out this 
                section, the Secretary shall submit to the Committee on 
                Natural Resources of the House of Representatives and 
                the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources of the 
                Senate the general management plan developed under 
                subparagraph (A).
SEC. 2102. &lt;&lt;NOTE: 16 USC 410yyy-3.&gt;&gt;  OCMULGEE MOUNDS NATIONAL 
                          HISTORICAL PARK BOUNDARY.

    (a) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Historical park.--The term ``Historical Park'' means the 
        Ocmulgee Mounds National Historical Park in the State of 
        Georgia, as redesignated by subsection(b)(1)(A).
            (2) Map.--The term ``map'' means the map entitled ``Ocmulgee 
        National Monument Proposed Boundary Adjustment'', numbered 363/
        125996, and dated January 2016.
            (3) Study area.--The term ``study area'' means the Ocmulgee 
        River corridor between the cities of Macon, Georgia, and 
        Hawkinsville, Georgia.

    (b) Ocmulgee Mounds National Historical Park.--
            (1) Redesignation.--
                    (A) In general.--The Ocmulgee National Monument, 
                established pursuant to the Act of June 14, 1934 (48 
                Stat. 958, chapter 519), shall be known and designated 
                as the ``Ocmulgee Mounds National Historical Park''.
                    (B) References.--Any reference in a law, map, 
                regulation, document, paper, or other record of the 
                United States to the ``Ocmulgee National Monument'' 
                shall be deemed to be a reference to the ``Ocmulgee 
                Mounds National Historical Park''.
            (2) Boundary adjustment.--
                    (A) In general.--The boundary of the Historical Park 
                is revised to include approximately 2,100 acres of land, 
                as generally depicted on the map.
                    (B) Availability of map.--The map shall be on file 
                and available for public inspection in the appropriate 
                offices of the National Park Service.
            (3) Land acquisition.--
                    (A) In general.--The Secretary may acquire land and 
                interests in land within the boundaries of the 
                Historical Park by donation, purchase from a willing 
                seller with donated or appropriated funds, or exchange.

[[Page 133 STAT. 725]]

                    (B) Limitation.--The Secretary may not acquire by 
                condemnation any land or interest in land within the 
                boundaries of the Historical Park.
            (4) Administration.--The Secretary shall administer any land 
        acquired under paragraph (3) as part of the Historical Park in 
        accordance with applicable laws (including regulations).

    (c) Ocmulgee River Corridor Special Resource Study.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary shall conduct a special 
        resource study of the study area.
            (2) Contents.--In conducting the study under paragraph (1), 
        the Secretary shall--
                    (A) evaluate the national significance of the study 
                area;
                    (B) determine the suitability and feasibility of 
                designating the study area as a unit of the National 
                Park System;
                    (C) consider other alternatives for preservation, 
                protection, and interpretation of the study area by the 
                Federal Government, State or local government entities, 
                or private and nonprofit organizations;
                    (D) consult with interested Federal agencies, State 
                or local governmental entities, private and nonprofit 
                organizations, or any other interested individuals; and
                    (E) identify cost estimates for any Federal 
                acquisition, development, interpretation, operation, and 
                maintenance associated with the alternatives.
            (3) Applicable law.--The study required under paragraph (1) 
        shall be conducted in accordance with section 100507 of title 
        54, United States Code.
            (4) Report.--Not later than 3 years after the date on which 
        funds are first made available to carry out the study under 
        paragraph (1), the Secretary shall submit to the Committee on 
        Natural Resources of the House of Representatives and the 
        Committee on Energy and Natural Resources of the Senate a report 
        that describes--
                    (A) the results of the study; and
                    (B) any conclusions and recommendations of the 
                Secretary.
SEC. 2103. &lt;&lt;NOTE: 16 USC 430t-1.&gt;&gt;  KENNESAW MOUNTAIN NATIONAL 
                          BATTLEFIELD PARK BOUNDARY.

    (a) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Map.--The term ``map'' means the map entitled ``Kennesaw 
        Mountain National Battlefield Park, Proposed Boundary 
        Adjustment'', numbered 325/80,020, and dated February 2010.
            (2) Park.--The term ``Park'' means the Kennesaw Mountain 
        National Battlefield Park.

    (b) Kennesaw Mountain National Battlefield Park Boundary 
Adjustment.--
            (1) Boundary adjustment.--The boundary of the Park is 
        modified to include the approximately 8 acres of land or 
        interests in land identified as ``Wallis House and Harriston 
        Hill'', as generally depicted on the map.
            (2) Map.--The map shall be on file and available for 
        inspection in the appropriate offices of the National Park 
        Service.
            (3) Land acquisition.--The Secretary may acquire land or 
        interests in land described in paragraph (1) by donation, 
        purchase from willing sellers, or exchange.

[[Page 133 STAT. 726]]

            (4) Administration of acquired land.--The Secretary shall 
        administer land and interests in land acquired under this 
        section as part of the Park in accordance with applicable laws 
        (including regulations).
SEC. 2104. FORT FREDERICA NATIONAL MONUMENT, GEORGIA.

    (a) Maximum Acreage.--The first section of the Act of May 26, 1936 
(16 U.S.C. 433g), is amended by striking ``two hundred and fifty acres'' 
and inserting ``305 acres''.
    (b) Boundary Expansion.--
            (1) In general.--The boundary of the Fort Frederica National 
        Monument in the State of Georgia is modified to include the land 
        generally depicted as ``Proposed Acquisition Areas'' on the map 
        entitled ``Fort Frederica National Monument Proposed Boundary 
        Expansion'', numbered 369/132,469, and dated April 2016.
            (2) Availability of map.--The map described in paragraph (1) 
        shall be on file and available for public inspection in the 
        appropriate offices of the National Park Service.
            (3) Acquisition of land.--The Secretary may acquire the land 
        and interests in land described in paragraph (1) by donation or 
        purchase with donated or appropriated funds from willing sellers 
        only.
            (4) No use of condemnation or eminent domain.--The Secretary 
        may not acquire by condemnation or eminent domain any land or 
        interests in land under this section or for the purposes of this 
        section.
SEC. 2105. FORT SCOTT NATIONAL HISTORIC SITE BOUNDARY.

    Public Law 95-484 (92 Stat. 1610) &lt;&lt;NOTE: 54 USC 320101 note.&gt;&gt;  is 
amended--
            (1) in the first section--
                    (A) by inserting ``, by purchase with appropriated 
                funds, or by exchange'' after ``donation''; and
                    (B) by striking the proviso; and
            (2) in section 2--
                    (A) by striking ``sec. 2. When'' and inserting the 
                following:
``SEC. 2. ESTABLISHMENT.

    ``(a) In General.--When''; and
                    (B) by adding at the end the following:

    ``(b) Boundary Modification.--The boundary of the Fort Scott 
National Historic Site established under subsection (a) is modified as 
generally depicted on the map referred to as `Fort Scott National 
Historic Site Proposed Boundary Modification', numbered 471/80,057, and 
dated February 2016.''.
SEC. 2106. FLORISSANT FOSSIL BEDS NATIONAL MONUMENT BOUNDARY.

    The first section of Public Law 91-60 (83 Stat. 101) &lt;&lt;NOTE: 54 USC 
320301 note.&gt;&gt;  is amended--
            (1) by striking ``entitled `Proposed Florissant Fossil Beds 
        National Monument', numbered NM-FFB-7100, and dated March 1967, 
        and more particularly described by metes and bounds in an 
        attachment to that map,'' and inserting ``entitled `Florissant 
        Fossil Beds National Monument Proposed Boundary Adjustment', 
        numbered 171/132,544, and dated May 3, 2016,''; and

[[Page 133 STAT. 727]]

            (2) by striking ``six thousand acres'' and inserting ``6,300 
        acres''.
SEC. 2107. VOYAGEURS NATIONAL PARK BOUNDARY ADJUSTMENT.

    (a) Boundaries.--
            (1) In general.--Section 102(a) of Public Law 91-661 (16 
        U.S.C. 160a-1(a)) is amended--
                    (A) in the first sentence, by striking ``the drawing 
                entitled'' and all that follows through ``February 
                1969'' and inserting ``the map entitled `Voyageurs 
                National Park, Proposed Land Transfer & Boundary 
                Adjustment', numbered 172/80,056, and dated June 2009 
                (22 sheets)''; and
                    (B) in the second and third sentences, by striking 
                ``drawing'' each place it appears and inserting ``map''.
            (2) Technical corrections.--Section 102(b)(2)(A) of Public 
        Law 91-661 (16 U.S.C. 160a-1(b)(2)(A)) is amended--
                    (A) by striking ``paragraph (1)(C) and (D)'' and 
                inserting ``subparagraphs (C) and (D) of paragraph 
                (1)''; and
                    (B) in the second proviso, by striking ``paragraph 
                1(E)'' and inserting ``paragraph (1)(E)''.

    (b) Land Acquisitions.--Section 201 of Public Law 91-661 (16 U.S.C. 
160b) is amended--
            (1) by striking the section designation and heading and all 
        that follows through ``(a) The Secretary'' and inserting the 
        following:
``SEC. 201. LAND ACQUISITIONS.

    ``(a) Authorization.--
            ``(1) In general.--The Secretary'';
            (2) in subsection (a)--
                    (A) in the second sentence, by striking ``When any 
                tract of land is only partly within such boundaries'' 
                and inserting the following:
            ``(2) Certain portions of tracts.--
                    ``(A) In general.--In any case in which only a 
                portion of a tract of land is within the boundaries of 
                the park'';
                    (B) in the third sentence, by striking ``Land so 
                acquired'' and inserting the following:
                    ``(B) Exchange.--
                          ``(i) In general.--Any land acquired pursuant 
                      to subparagraph (A)'';
                    (C) in the fourth sentence, by striking ``Any 
                portion'' and inserting the following:
                          ``(ii) Portions not exchanged.--Any portion'';
                    (D) in the fifth sentence, by striking ``Any Federal 
                property'' and inserting the following:
                    ``(C) Transfers of federal property.--Any Federal 
                property''; and
                    (E) by striking the last sentence and inserting the 
                following:
                    ``(D) Administrative jurisdiction.--Effective 
                beginning on the date of enactment of this subparagraph, 
                there is transferred to the National Park Service 
                administrative jurisdiction over--
                          ``(i) any land managed by the Bureau of Land 
                      Management within the boundaries of the park, as 
                      depicted on the map described in section 102(a); 
                      and

[[Page 133 STAT. 728]]

                          ``(ii) any additional public land identified 
                      by the Bureau of Land Management as appropriate 
                      for transfer within the boundaries of the park.
                    ``(E) Land owned by state.--
                          ``(i) Donations and exchanges.--Any land 
                      located within or adjacent to the boundaries of 
                      the park that is owned by the State of Minnesota 
                      (or a political subdivision of the State) may be 
                      acquired by the Secretary only through donation or 
                      exchange.
                          ``(ii) Revision.--On completion of an 
                      acquisition from the State under clause (i), the 
                      Secretary shall revise the boundaries of the park 
                      to reflect the acquisition.''; and
            (3) in subsection (b), by striking ``(b) In exercising his'' 
        and inserting the following:

    ``(b) Offers by Individuals.--In exercising the''.
SEC. 2108. ACADIA NATIONAL PARK BOUNDARY.

    (a) Boundary Clarification.--Section 101 of Public Law 99-420 (16 
U.S.C. 341 note) is amended--
            (1) in the first sentence, by striking ``In order to'' and 
        inserting the following:

    ``(a) Boundaries.--Subject to subsections (b) and (c)(2), to'';
            (2) in the second sentence--
                    (A) by striking ``The map shall be on file'' and 
                inserting the following:

    ``(c) Availability and Revisions of Maps.--
            ``(1) Availability.--The map, together with the map 
        described in subsection (b)(1) and any revised boundary map 
        published under paragraph (2), if applicable, shall be--
                    ``(A) on file''; and
                    (B) by striking ``Interior, and it shall be made'' 
                and inserting the following: ``Interior; and
                    ``(B) made'';
            (3) by inserting after subsection (a) (as designated by 
        paragraph (1)) the following:

    ``(b) Schoodic Peninsula Addition.--
            ``(1) In general.--The boundary of the Park is confirmed to 
        include approximately 1,441 acres of land and interests in land, 
        as depicted on the map entitled `Acadia National Park, Hancock 
        County, Maine, Schoodic Peninsula Boundary Revision', numbered 
        123/129102, and dated July 10, 2015.
            ``(2) Ratification and approval of acquisitions of land.--
        Congress ratifies and approves--
                    ``(A) effective as of September 26, 2013, the 
                acquisition by the United States of the land and 
                interests in the land described in paragraph (1); and
                    ``(B) effective as of the date on which the 
                alteration occurred, any alteration of the land or 
                interests in the land described in paragraph (1) that is 
                held or claimed by the United States (including 
                conversion of the land to fee simple interest) that 
                occurred after the date described in subparagraph 
                (A).''; and
            (4) in subsection (c) (as designated by paragraph (2)(A)), 
        by adding at the end the following:
            ``(2) Technical and limited revisions.--Subject to section 
        102(k), notwithstanding any other provision of this section,

[[Page 133 STAT. 729]]

        the Secretary of the Interior (referred to in this title as the 
        `Secretary'), by publication in the Federal Register of a 
        revised boundary map or other description, may make--
                    ``(A) such technical boundary revisions as the 
                Secretary determines to be appropriate to the permanent 
                boundaries of the Park (including any property of the 
                Park located within the Schoodic Peninsula and Isle Au 
                Haut districts) to resolve issues resulting from causes 
                such as survey error or changed road alignments; and
                    ``(B) such limited boundary revisions as the 
                Secretary determines to be appropriate to the permanent 
                boundaries of the Park to take into account acquisitions 
                or losses, by exchange, donation, or purchase from 
                willing sellers using donated or appropriated funds, of 
                land adjacent to or within the Park, respectively, in 
                any case in which the total acreage of the land to be so 
                acquired or lost is less than 10 acres, subject to the 
                condition that--
                          ``(i) any such boundary revision shall not be 
                      a part of a more-comprehensive boundary revision; 
                      and
                          ``(ii) all such boundary revisions, considered 
                      collectively with any technical boundary revisions 
                      made pursuant to subparagraph (A), do not increase 
                      the size of the Park by more than a total of 100 
                      acres, as compared to the size of the Park on the 
                      date of enactment of this paragraph.''.

    (b) Limitation on Acquisitions of Land for Acadia National Park.--
Section 102 of Public Law 99-420 (16 U.S.C. 341 note) is amended--
            (1) in subsection (a), in the matter preceding paragraph 
        (1), by striking ``of the Interior (hereinafter in this title 
        referred to as `the Secretary')'';
            (2) in subsection (d)(1), in the first sentence, by striking 
        ``the the'' and inserting ``the'';
            (3) in subsection (k)--
                    (A) by redesignating the subsection as paragraph (4) 
                and indenting the paragraph appropriately; and
                    (B) by moving the paragraph so as to appear at the 
                end of subsection (b); and
            (4) by adding at the end the following:

    ``(k) Requirements.--Before revising the boundaries of the Park 
pursuant to this section or section 101(c)(2)(B), the Secretary shall--
            ``(1) certify that the proposed boundary revision will 
        contribute to, and is necessary for, the proper preservation, 
        protection, interpretation, or management of the Park;
            ``(2) consult with the governing body of each county, city, 
        town, or other jurisdiction with primary taxing authority over 
        the land or interest in land to be acquired regarding the 
        impacts of the proposed boundary revision;
            ``(3) obtain from each property owner the land or interest 
        in land of which is proposed to be acquired for, or lost from, 
        the Park written consent for the proposed boundary revision; and
            ``(4) submit to the Acadia National Park Advisory Commission 
        established by section 103(a), the Committee on Natural 
        Resources of the House of Representatives, the Committee on 
        Energy and Natural Resources of the Senate, and the Maine

[[Page 133 STAT. 730]]

        Congressional Delegation a written notice of the proposed 
        boundary revision.

    ``(l) Limitation.--The Secretary may not use the authority provided 
by section 100506 of title 54, United States Code, to adjust the 
permanent boundaries of the Park pursuant to this title.''.
    (c) Acadia National Park Advisory Commission.--
            (1) &lt;&lt;NOTE: 16 USC 341 note.&gt;&gt;  In general.--The Secretary 
        shall reestablish and appoint members to the Acadia National 
        Park Advisory Commission in accordance with section 103 of 
        Public Law 99-420 (16 U.S.C. 341 note).
            (2) Conforming amendment.--Section 103 of Public Law 99-420 
        (16 U.S.C. 341 note) is amended by striking subsection (f).

    (d) Repeal of Certain Provisions Relating to Acadia National Park.--
The following are repealed:
            (1) Section 3 of the Act of February 26, 1919 &lt;&lt;NOTE: 16 USC 
        343.&gt;&gt;  (40 Stat. 1178, chapter 45).
            (2) The first section of the Act of January 19, 
        1929 &lt;&lt;NOTE: 16 USC 342a.&gt;&gt;  (45 Stat. 1083, chapter 77).

    (e) Modification of Use Restriction.--The Act of August 1, 1950 (64 
Stat. 383, chapter 511), is amended--
            (1) by striking ``That the Secretary'' and inserting the 
        following:
``SECTION 1. CONVEYANCE OF LAND IN ACADIA NATIONAL PARK.

    ``The Secretary''; and
            (2) by striking ``for school purposes'' and inserting ``for 
        public purposes, subject to the conditions that use of the land 
        shall not degrade or adversely impact the resources or values of 
        Acadia National Park and that the land shall remain in public 
        ownership for recreational, educational, or similar public 
        purposes''.

    (f) Continuation of Certain Traditional Uses.--Title I of Public Law 
99-420 (16 U.S.C. 341 note) is amended by adding at the end the 
following:
``SEC. 109. &lt;&lt;NOTE: 16 USC 341 note.&gt;&gt;  CONTINUATION OF CERTAIN 
                        TRADITIONAL USES.

    ``(a) Definitions.--In this section:
            ``(1) Land within the park.--The term `land within the Park' 
        means land owned or controlled by the United States--
                    ``(A) that is within the boundary of the Park 
                established by section 101; or
                    ``(B)(i) that is outside the boundary of the Park; 
                and
                    ``(ii) in which the Secretary has or acquires a 
                property interest or conservation easement pursuant to 
                this title.
            ``(2) Marine species; marine worm; shellfish.--The terms 
        `marine species', `marine worm', and `shellfish' have the 
        meanings given those terms in section 6001 of title 12 of the 
        Maine Revised Statutes (as in effect on the date of enactment of 
        this section).
            ``(3) State law.--The term `State law' means the law 
        (including regulations) of the State of Maine, including the 
        common law.
            ``(4) Taking.--The term `taking' means the removal or 
        attempted removal of a marine species, marine worm, or shellfish 
        from the natural habitat of the marine species, marine worm, or 
        shellfish.

[[Page 133 STAT. 731]]

    ``(b) Continuation of Traditional Uses.--The Secretary shall allow 
for the traditional taking of marine species, marine worms, and 
shellfish, on land within the Park between the mean high watermark and 
the mean low watermark in accordance with State law.''.
    (g) Conveyance of Certain Land in Acadia National Park to the Town 
of Bar Harbor, Maine.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary shall convey to the Town of 
        Bar Harbor all right, title, and interest of the United States 
        in and to the .29-acre parcel of land in Acadia National Park 
        identified as lot 110-055-000 on the tax map of the Town of Bar 
        Harbor for section 110, dated April 1, 2015, to be used for--
                    (A) a solid waste transfer facility; or
                    (B) other public purposes consistent with uses 
                allowed under the Act of June 14, 1926 (commonly known 
                as the ``Recreation and Public Purposes Act'') (44 Stat. 
                741, chapter 578; 43 U.S.C. 869 et seq.).
            (2) Reversion.--If the land conveyed under paragraph (1) is 
        used for a purpose other than a purpose described in that 
        paragraph, the land shall, at the discretion of the Secretary, 
        revert to the United States.
SEC. 2109. AUTHORITY OF SECRETARY OF THE INTERIOR TO ACCEPT 
                          CERTAIN PROPERTIES, MISSOURI.

    (a) Ste. Genevieve National Historical Park.--Section 7134(a)(3) of 
the Energy and Natural Resources Act of 2017 (as enacted into law by 
section 121(a)(2) of division G of the Consolidated Appropriations Act, 
2018 (Public Law 115-141)) &lt;&lt;NOTE: 16 USC 410xxx.&gt;&gt;  is amended by 
striking `` `Ste. Genevieve National Historical Park Proposed Boundary', 
numbered 571/132,626, and dated May 2016'' and inserting `` `Ste. 
Genevieve National Historical Park Proposed Boundary Addition', numbered 
571/149,942, and dated December 2018''.

    (b) Harry S Truman National Historic Site.--Public Law 98-32 (54 
U.S.C. 320101 note) is amended--
            (1) in section 3, by striking the section designation and 
        all that follows through ``is authorized'' and inserting the 
        following:
``SEC. 4. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.

    ``There are authorized'';
            (2) in section 2--
                    (A) in the second sentence, by striking ``The 
                Secretary is further authorized, in the administration 
                of the site, to'' and inserting the following:

    ``(b) Use by Margaret Truman Daniel.--In administering the Harry S 
Truman National Historic Site, the Secretary may''; and
                    (B) by striking the section designation and all that 
                follows through ``and shall be'' in the first sentence 
                and inserting the following:
``SEC. 3. DESIGNATION; USE BY MARGARET TRUMAN DANIEL.

    ``(a) Designation.--Any property acquired pursuant to section 2--
            ``(1) is designated as the `Harry S Truman National Historic 
        Site'; and
            ``(2) shall be''; and

[[Page 133 STAT. 732]]

            (3) in the first section--
                    (A) by redesignating subsection (e) as paragraph 
                (2), indenting the paragraph appropriately, and moving 
                the paragraph so as to appear at the end of subsection 
                (c);
                    (B) in subsection (c)--
                          (i) by striking the subsection designation and 
                      all that follows through ``authorized to'' and 
                      inserting the following:

    ``(c) Truman Farm Home.--
            ``(1) In general.--The Secretary may''; and
                          (ii) in paragraph (2) (as redesignated by 
                      subparagraph (A))--
                                    (I) by striking ``Farm House'' and 
                                inserting ``Farm Home''; and
                                    (II) by striking the paragraph 
                                designation and all that follows through 
                                ``authorized and directed to'' and 
                                inserting the following:
            ``(2) Technical and planning assistance.--The Secretary 
        shall'';
                    (C) in subsection (b)--
                          (i) by striking ``(b)(1) The Secretary is 
                      further authorized to'' and inserting the 
                      following:

    ``(b) Noland/Haukenberry and Wallace Houses.--
            ``(1) In general.--The Secretary may''; and
                          (ii) in paragraph (1), by indenting 
                      subparagraphs (A) and (B) appropriately;
                    (D) by adding at the end the following:

    ``(e) Additional Land in Independence for Visitor Center.--
            ``(1) In general.--The Secretary may acquire, by donation 
        from the city of Independence, Missouri, the land described in 
        paragraph (2) for--
                    ``(A) inclusion in the Harry S Truman National 
                Historic Site; and
                    ``(B) if the Secretary determines appropriate, use 
                as a visitor center of the historic site, which may 
                include administrative services.
            ``(2) Description of land.--The land referred to in 
        paragraph (1) consists of the approximately 1.08 acres of land--
                    ``(A) owned by the city of Independence, Missouri;
                    ``(B) designated as Lots 6 through 19, DELAYS 
                Subdivision, a subdivision in Independence, Jackson 
                County, Missouri; and
                    ``(C) located in the area of the city bound by 
                Truman Road on the south, North Lynn Street on the west, 
                East White Oak Street on the north, and the city transit 
                center on the east.
            ``(3) Boundary modification.--On acquisition of the land 
        under this subsection, the Secretary shall modify the boundary 
        of the Harry S Truman National Historic Site to reflect that 
        acquisition.''; and
                    (E) in subsection (a)--
                          (i) in the second sentence, by striking ``The 
                      Secretary may also acquire, by any of the above 
                      means, fixtures,'' and inserting the following:

[[Page 133 STAT. 733]]

            ``(2) Fixtures and personal property.--The Secretary may 
        acquire, by any means described in paragraph (1), any 
        fixtures''; and
                          (ii) in the first sentence--
                                    (I) by striking ``of the Interior 
                                (hereinafter referred to as the 
                                `Secretary')''; and
                                    (II) by striking ``That (a) in order 
                                to'' and inserting the following:
``SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE; DEFINITION OF SECRETARY.

    ``(a) Short Title.--This Act may be cited as the `Harry S Truman 
National Historic Site Establishment Act'.
    ``(b) Definition of Secretary.--In this Act, the term `Secretary' 
means the Secretary of the Interior.
``SEC. 2. PURPOSE; ACQUISITION OF PROPERTY.

    ``(a) Purpose; Acquisition.--
            ``(1) In general.--To''.
SEC. 2110. &lt;&lt;NOTE: 54 USC 320101 note.&gt;&gt;  HOME OF FRANKLIN D. 
                          ROOSEVELT NATIONAL HISTORIC SITE.

    (a) Land Acquisition.--The Secretary may acquire, by donation, 
purchase from a willing seller using donated or appropriated funds, or 
exchange, the approximately 89 acres of land identified as the ``Morgan 
Property'' and generally depicted on the map entitled ``Home of Franklin 
D. Roosevelt National Historic Site, Proposed Park Addition'', numbered 
384/138,461, and dated May 2017.
    (b) Availability of Map.--The map referred to in subsection (a) 
shall be available for public inspection in the appropriate offices of 
the National Park Service.
    (c) Boundary Adjustment; Administration.--On acquisition of the land 
referred to in subsection (a), the Secretary shall--
            (1) adjust the boundary of the Home of Franklin D. Roosevelt 
        National Historic Site to reflect the acquisition; and
            (2) administer the acquired land as part of the Home of 
        Franklin D. Roosevelt National Historic Site, in accordance with 
        applicable laws.

             Subtitle C--National Park System Redesignations

SEC. 2201. &lt;&lt;NOTE: 16 USC 410zzz note.&gt;&gt;  DESIGNATION OF SAINT-
                          GAUDENS NATIONAL HISTORICAL PARK.

    (a) In General.--The Saint-Gaudens National Historic Site shall be 
known and designated as the ``Saint-Gaudens National Historical Park''.
    (b) Amendments to Public Law 88-543.--Public Law 88-543 (78 
Stat.749) is amended--
            (1) &lt;&lt;NOTE: 16 USC791410zzz-2--zzz-4.&gt;&gt;  by striking 
        ``National Historic Site'' each place it appears and inserting 
        ``National Historical Park'';410zzz-2--zzz-4.
            (2) &lt;&lt;NOTE: 16 USC 410zzz-1.&gt;&gt;  in section 2(a), by striking 
        ``historic site'' and inserting ``Saint-Gaudens National 
        Historical Park'';
            (3) &lt;&lt;NOTE: 16 USC 410zzz-2.&gt;&gt;  in section 3, by--
                    (A) striking ``national historical site'' and 
                inserting ``Saint-Gaudens National Historical Park''; 
                and

[[Page 133 STAT. 734]]

                    (B) striking ``part of the site'' and inserting 
                ``part of the park''; and
            (4) &lt;&lt;NOTE: 16 USC 410zzz-3.&gt;&gt;  in section 4(b), by striking 
        ``traditional to the site'' and inserting ``traditional to the 
        park''.

    (c) &lt;&lt;NOTE: 16 USC 410zzz note.&gt;&gt;  References.--Any reference in any 
law, regulation, document, record, map, or other paper of the United 
States to the Saint-Gaudens National Historic Site shall be considered 
to be a reference to the ``Saint-Gaudens National Historical Park''.
SEC. 2202. REDESIGNATION OF ROBERT EMMET PARK.

    (a) Redesignation.--The small triangular property designated by the 
National Park Service as reservation 302, shall be known as ``Robert 
Emmet Park''.
    (b) Reference.--Any reference in any law, regulation, document, 
record, map, paper, or other record of the United States to the property 
referred to in subsection (a) is deemed to be a reference to ``Robert 
Emmet Park''.
    (c) Signage.--The Secretary may post signs on or near Robert Emmet 
Park that include 1 or more of the following:
            (1) Information on Robert Emmet, his contribution to Irish 
        Independence, and his respect for the United States and the 
        American Revolution.
            (2) Information on the history of the statue of Robert Emmet 
        located in Robert Emmet Park.
SEC. 2203. &lt;&lt;NOTE: 16 USC 410aaaa.&gt;&gt;  FORT SUMTER AND FORT 
                          MOULTRIE NATIONAL HISTORICAL PARK.

    (a) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Map.--The term ``map'' means the map entitled ``Boundary 
        Map, Fort Sumter and Fort Moultrie National Historical Park'', 
        numbered 392/80,088, and dated August 2009.
            (2) Park.--The term ``Park'' means the Fort Sumter and Fort 
        Moultrie National Historical Park established by subsection (b).
            (3) State.--The term ``State'' means the State of South 
        Carolina.
            (4) Sullivan's island life saving station historic 
        district.--The term ``Sullivan's Island Life Saving Station 
        Historic District'' means the Charleston Lighthouse, the 
        boathouse, garage, bunker/sighting station, signal tower, and 
        any associated land and improvements to the land that are 
        located between Sullivan's Island Life Saving Station and the 
        mean low water mark.

    (b) Establishment.--There is established the Fort Sumter and Fort 
Moultrie National Historical Park in the State as a single unit of the 
National Park System to preserve, maintain, and interpret the nationally 
significant historical values and cultural resources associated with 
Fort Sumter National Monument, Fort Moultrie National Monument, and the 
Sullivan's Island Life Saving Station Historic District.
    (c) Boundary.--The boundary of the Park shall be as generally 
depicted on the map.
    (d) Availability of Map.--The map shall be on file and available for 
public inspection in the appropriate offices of the National Park 
Service.
    (e) Administration.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary, acting through the Director 
        of the National Park Service, shall administer the

[[Page 133 STAT. 735]]

        Park in accordance with this section and the laws generally 
        applicable to units of the National Park System, including--
                    (A) section 100101(a), chapter 1003, and sections 
                100751(a), 100752, 100753, and 102101 of title 54, 
                United States Code; and
                    (B) chapter 3201 of title 54, United States Code.
            (2) Interpretation of historical events.--The Secretary 
        shall provide for the interpretation of historical events and 
        activities that occurred in the vicinity of Fort Sumter and Fort 
        Moultrie, including--
                    (A) the Battle of Sullivan's Island on June 28, 
                1776;
                    (B) the Siege of Charleston during 1780;
                    (C) the Civil War, including--
                          (i) the bombardment of Fort Sumter by 
                      Confederate forces on April 12, 1861; and
                          (ii) any other events of the Civil War that 
                      are associated with Fort Sumter and Fort Moultrie;
                    (D) the development of the coastal defense system of 
                the United States during the period from the 
                Revolutionary War to World War II, including--
                          (i) the Sullivan's Island Life Saving Station;
                          (ii) the lighthouse associated with the 
                      Sullivan's Island Life Saving Station; and
                          (iii) the coastal defense sites constructed 
                      during the period of fortification construction 
                      from 1898 to 1942, known as the ``Endicott 
                      Period''; and
                    (E) the lives of--
                          (i) the free and enslaved workers who built 
                      and maintained Fort Sumter and Fort Moultrie;
                          (ii) the soldiers who defended the forts;
                          (iii) the prisoners held at the forts; and
                          (iv) captive Africans bound for slavery who, 
                      after first landing in the United States, were 
                      brought to quarantine houses in the vicinity of 
                      Fort Moultrie in the 18th century, if the 
                      Secretary determines that the quarantine houses 
                      and associated historical values are nationally 
                      significant.

    (f) Cooperative Agreements.--The Secretary may enter into 
cooperative agreements with public and private entities and individuals 
to carry out this section.
    (g) Repeal of Existing Law.--Section 2 of the Joint Resolution 
entitled ``Joint Resolution to establish the Fort Sumter National 
Monument in the State of South Carolina'', approved April 28, 1948 (16 
U.S.C. 450ee-1), is repealed.
SEC. 2204. &lt;&lt;NOTE: 16 USC 410bbbb.&gt;&gt;  RECONSTRUCTION ERA NATIONAL 
                          HISTORICAL PARK AND RECONSTRUCTION ERA 
                          NATIONAL HISTORIC NETWORK.

    (a) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Historical park.--The term ``historical park'' means the 
        Reconstruction Era National Historical Park.
            (2) Map.--The term ``Map'' means the maps entitled 
        ``Reconstruction Era National Monument Old Beaufort Firehouse'', 
        numbered 550/135,755, and dated January 2017; ``Reconstruction 
        Era National Monument Darrah Hall and Brick Baptist Church'', 
        numbered 550/135,756, and dated January 2017; and 
        ``Reconstruction Era National Monument Camp

[[Page 133 STAT. 736]]

        Saxton'', numbered 550/135,757, and dated January 2017, 
        collectively.
            (3) Network.--The term ``Network'' means the Reconstruction 
        Era National Historic Network established pursuant to this 
        section.

    (b) Reconstruction Era National Historical Park.--
            (1) Redesignation of reconstruction era national monument.--
                    (A) In general.--The Reconstruction Era National 
                Monument is redesignated as the Reconstruction Era 
                National Historical Park, as generally depicted on the 
                Map.
                    (B) Availability of funds.--Any funds available for 
                the purposes of the Reconstruction Era National Monument 
                shall be available for the purposes of the historical 
                park.
                    (C) References.--Any references in a law, 
                regulation, document, record, map, or other paper of the 
                United States to the Reconstruction Era National 
                Monument shall be considered to be a reference to the 
                historical park.
            (2) Boundary expansion.--
                    (A) Beaufort national historic landmark district.--
                Subject to subparagraph (D), the Secretary is authorized 
                to acquire land or interests in land within the Beaufort 
                National Historic Landmark District that has historic 
                connection to the Reconstruction Era. Upon finalizing an 
                agreement to acquire land, the Secretary shall expand 
                the boundary of the historical park to encompass the 
                property.
                    (B) St. helena island.--Subject to subparagraph (D), 
                the Secretary is authorized to acquire the following and 
                shall expand the boundary of the historical park to 
                include acquisitions under this authority:
                          (i) Land and interests in land adjacent to the 
                      existing boundary on St. Helena Island, South 
                      Carolina, as reflected on the Map.
                          (ii) Land or interests in land on St. Helena 
                      Island, South Carolina, that has a historic 
                      connection to the Reconstruction Era.
                    (C) Camp saxton.--Subject to subparagraph (D), the 
                Secretary is authorized to accept administrative 
                jurisdiction of Federal land or interests in Federal 
                land adjacent to the existing boundary at Camp Saxton, 
                as reflected on the Map. Upon finalizing an agreement to 
                accept administrative jurisdiction of Federal land or 
                interests in Federal land, the Secretary shall expand 
                the boundary of the historical park to encompass that 
                Federal land or interests in Federal land.
                    (D) Land acquisition authority.--The Secretary may 
                only acquire land under this section by donation, 
                exchange, or purchase with donated funds.
            (3) Administration.--
                    (A) In general.--The Secretary shall administer the 
                historical park in accordance with this section and with 
                the laws generally applicable to units of the National 
                Park System.
                    (B) Management plan.--If the management plan for the 
                Reconstruction Era National Monument--

[[Page 133 STAT. 737]]

                          (i) has not been completed on or before the 
                      date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall 
                      incorporate all provisions of this section into 
                      the planning process and complete a management 
                      plan for the historical park within 3 years; and
                          (ii) has been completed on or before the date 
                      of enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall 
                      update the plan incorporating the provisions of 
                      this section.

    (c) Reconstruction Era National Historic Network.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary shall--
                    (A) establish, within the National Park Service, a 
                program to be known as the ``Reconstruction Era National 
                Historic Network'';
                    (B) not later than 1 year after the date of 
                enactment of this Act, solicit proposals from sites 
                interested in being a part of the Network; and
                    (C) administer the Network through the historical 
                park.
            (2) Duties of secretary.--In carrying out the Network, the 
        Secretary shall--
                    (A) review studies and reports to complement and not 
                duplicate studies of the historical importance of 
                Reconstruction Era that may be underway or completed, 
                such as the National Park Service Reconstruction 
                Handbook and the National Park Service Theme Study on 
                Reconstruction;
                    (B) produce and disseminate appropriate educational 
                and promotional materials relating to the Reconstruction 
                Era and the sites in the Network, such as handbooks, 
                maps, interpretive guides, or electronic information;
                    (C) enter into appropriate cooperative agreements 
                and memoranda of understanding to provide technical 
                assistance;
                    (D)(i) create and adopt an official, uniform symbol 
                or device for the Network; and
                    (ii) issue regulations for the use of the symbol or 
                device adopted under clause (i); and
                    (E) conduct research relating to Reconstruction and 
                the Reconstruction Era.
            (3) Elements.--The Network shall encompass the following 
        elements:
                    (A) All units and programs of the National Park 
                Service that are determined by the Secretary to relate 
                to the Reconstruction Era.
                    (B) Other Federal, State, local, and privately owned 
                properties that the Secretary determines--
                          (i) relate to the Reconstruction Era; and
                          (ii) are included in, or determined by the 
                      Secretary to be eligible for inclusion in, the 
                      National Register of Historic Places.
                    (C) Other governmental and nongovernmental sites, 
                facilities, and programs of an educational, research, or 
                interpretive nature that are directly related to the 
                Reconstruction Era.
            (4) Cooperative agreements and memoranda of understanding.--
        To achieve the purposes of this section and to ensure effective 
        coordination of the Federal and non-Federal elements of the 
        Network and units and programs of the

[[Page 133 STAT. 738]]

        National Park Service, the Secretary may enter into cooperative 
        agreements and memoranda of understanding with, and provide 
        technical assistance to, the heads of other Federal agencies, 
        States, units of local government, regional governmental bodies, 
        and private entities.
SEC. 2205. &lt;&lt;NOTE: 16 USC 410cccc-3.&gt;&gt;  GOLDEN SPIKE NATIONAL 
                          HISTORICAL PARK.

    (a) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Park.--The term ``Park'' means the Golden Spike National 
        Historical Park designated by subsection (b)(1).
            (2) Program.--The term ``Program'' means the program to 
        commemorate and interpret the Transcontinental Railroad 
        authorized under subsection (c).
            (3) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary, 
        acting through the Director of the National Park Service.
            (4) Transcontinental railroad.--The term ``Transcontinental 
        Railroad'' means the approximately 1,912-mile continuous 
        railroad constructed between 1863 and 1869 extending from 
        Council Bluffs, Iowa, to San Francisco, California.

    (b) Redesignation.--
            (1) Redesignation.--The Golden Spike National Historic Site 
        designated April 2, 1957, and placed under the administration of 
        the National Park Service under Public Law 89-102 (54 U.S.C. 
        320101 note; 79 Stat. 426), shall be known and designated as the 
        ``Golden Spike National Historical Park''.
            (2) References.--Any reference in a law, map, regulation, 
        document, paper, or other record of the United States to the 
        Golden Spike National Historic Site shall be considered to be a 
        reference to the ``Golden Spike National Historical Park''.

    (c) Transcontinental Railroad Commemoration and Program.--
            (1) In general.--Subject to paragraph (2), the Secretary 
        shall establish within the National Park Service a program to 
        commemorate and interpret the Transcontinental Railroad.
            (2) Study.--Before establishing the Program, the Secretary 
        shall conduct a study of alternatives for commemorating and 
        interpreting the Transcontinental Railroad that includes--
                    (A) a historical assessment of the Transcontinental 
                Railroad;
                    (B) the identification of--
                          (i) existing National Park System land and 
                      affiliated areas, land managed by other Federal 
                      agencies, and Federal programs that may be related 
                      to preserving, commemorating, and interpreting the 
                      Transcontinental Railroad;
                          (ii) any properties relating to the 
                      Transcontinental Railroad--
                                    (I) that are designated as, or could 
                                meet the criteria for designation as, 
                                National Historic Landmarks; or
                                    (II) that are included, or eligible 
                                for inclusion, on the National Register 
                                of Historic Places;
                          (iii) any objects relating to the 
                      Transcontinental Railroad that have educational, 
                      research, or interpretative value; and

[[Page 133 STAT. 739]]

                          (iv) any governmental programs and 
                      nongovernmental programs of an educational, 
                      research, or interpretive nature relating to the 
                      Transcontinental Railroad; and
                    (C) recommendations for--
                          (i) incorporating the resources identified 
                      under subparagraph (B) into the Program; and
                          (ii) other appropriate ways to enhance 
                      historical research, education, interpretation, 
                      and public awareness of the Transcontinental 
                      Railroad.
            (3) Report.--Not later than 3 years after the date on which 
        funds are made available to carry out the study under paragraph 
        (2), the Secretary shall submit to the Committee on Natural 
        Resources of the House of Representatives and the Committee on 
        Energy and Natural Resources of the Senate a report containing 
        the findings and recommendations of the study.
            (4) Freight railroad operations.--The Program shall not 
        include any properties that are--
                    (A) used in active freight railroad operations (or 
                other ancillary purposes); or
                    (B) reasonably anticipated to be used for freight 
                railroad operations in the future.
            (5) Elements of the program.--In carrying out the Program 
        under this subsection, the Secretary--
                    (A) shall produce and disseminate appropriate 
                education materials relating to the history, 
                construction, and legacy of the Transcontinental 
                Railroad, such as handbooks, maps, interpretive guides, 
                or electronic information;
                    (B) may enter into appropriate cooperative 
                agreements and memoranda of understanding and provide 
                technical assistance to the heads of other Federal 
                agencies, States, units of local government, regional 
                governmental bodies, and private entities to further the 
                purposes of the Program and this section; and
                    (C) may--
                          (i) create and adopt an official, uniform 
                      symbol or device to identify the Program; and
                          (ii) issue guidance for the use of the symbol 
                      or device created and adopted under clause (i).

    (d) Programmatic Agreement.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 180 days after the date of 
        enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall seek to enter into a 
        programmatic agreement with the Utah State Historic Preservation 
        Officer to add to the list of undertakings eligible for 
        streamlined review under section 306108 of title 54, United 
        States Code, certain uses that would have limited physical 
        impact to land in the Park.
            (2) Development and consultation.--The programmatic 
        agreement entered into under paragraph (1) shall be developed--
                    (A) in accordance with applicable laws (including 
                regulations); and
                    (B) in consultation with adjacent landowners, Indian 
                Tribes, and other interested parties.
            (3) Approval.--The Secretary shall--

[[Page 133 STAT. 740]]

                    (A) consider any application for uses covered by the 
                programmatic agreement; and
                    (B) not later than 60 days after the receipt of an 
                application described in subparagraph (A), approve the 
                application, if the Secretary determines the application 
                is consistent with--
                          (i) the programmatic agreement entered into 
                      under paragraph (1); and
                          (ii) applicable laws (including regulations).

    (e) Invasive Species.--The Secretary shall consult with, and seek to 
coordinate with, adjacent landowners to address the treatment of 
invasive species adjacent to, and within the boundaries of, the Park.
SEC. 2206. WORLD WAR II PACIFIC SITES.

    (a) &lt;&lt;NOTE: 54 USC 320301 notes.&gt;&gt;  Pearl Harbor National Memorial, 
Hawai'i.--
            (1) Definitions.--In this subsection:
                    (A) Map.--The term ``Map'' means the map entitled 
                ``Pearl Harbor National Memorial--Proposed Boundary'', 
                numbered 580/140,514, and dated November 2017.
                    (B) National memorial.--The term ``National 
                Memorial'' means the Pearl Harbor National Memorial 
                established by paragraph (2)(A)(i).
            (2) Pearl harbor national memorial.--
                    (A) Establishment.--
                          (i) In general.--There is established the 
                      Pearl Harbor National Memorial in the State of 
                      Hawai'i as a unit of the National Park System.
                          (ii) Boundaries.--The boundaries of the 
                      National Memorial shall be the boundaries 
                      generally depicted on the Map.
                          (iii) Availability of map.--The Map shall be 
                      on file and available for public inspection in 
                      appropriate offices of the National Park Service.
                    (B) Purposes.--The purposes of the National Memorial 
                are to preserve, interpret, and commemorate for the 
                benefit of present and future generations the history of 
                World War II in the Pacific from the events leading to 
                the December 7, 1941, attack on O'ahu, to peace and 
                reconciliation.
            (3) Administration.--The Secretary shall administer the 
        National Memorial in accordance with this subsection, section 
        121 of Public Law 111-88 (123 Stat. 2930), and the laws 
        generally applicable to units of the National Park System 
        including--
                    (A) section 100101(a), chapter 1003, and sections 
                100751(a), 100752, 100753, and 102101 of title 54, 
                United States Code; and
                    (B) chapter 3201 of title 54, United States Code.
            (4) Removal of pearl harbor national memorial from the world 
        war ii valor in the pacific national monument.--
                    (A) Boundaries.--The boundaries of the World War II 
                Valor in the Pacific National Monument are revised to 
                exclude from the monument the land and interests in land 
                identified as the ``Pearl Harbor National Memorial'', as 
                depicted on the Map.

[[Page 133 STAT. 741]]

                    (B) Incorporation into national memorial.--
                          (i) In general.--The land and interests in 
                      land excluded from the monument under subparagraph 
                      (A) are incorporated in and made part of the 
                      National Memorial in accordance with this 
                      subsection.
                          (ii) Use of funds.--Any funds for the purposes 
                      of the land and interests in land excluded from 
                      the monument under subparagraph (A) shall be made 
                      available for the purposes of the National 
                      Memorial.
                          (iii) References.--Any reference in a law 
                      (other than this section), regulation, document, 
                      record, map, or other paper of the United States 
                      to resources in the State of Hawai'i included in 
                      the World War II Valor in the Pacific National 
                      Monument shall be considered a reference to the 
                      ``Pearl Harbor National Memorial''.

    (b) &lt;&lt;NOTE: 54 USC 320301 notes.&gt;&gt;  Tule Lake National Monument, 
California.--
            (1) In general.--The areas of the World War II Valor in the 
        Pacific National Monument located in the State of California, as 
        established by Presidential Proclamation 8327 (73 Fed. Reg. 
        75293; December 10, 2008), are redesignated as the ``Tule Lake 
        National Monument''.
            (2) Administration.--The Secretary shall administer the Tule 
        Lake National Monument in accordance with the provisions of 
        Presidential Proclamation 8327 (73 Fed. Reg. 75293; December 10, 
        2008) applicable to the sites and resources in the State of 
        California that are subject to that proclamation.
            (3) References.--Any reference in a law (other than this 
        section), regulation, document, record, map, or other paper of 
        the United States to resources in the State of California 
        included in the World War II Valor in the Pacific National 
        Monument shall be considered to be a reference to ``Tule Lake 
        National Monument''.

    (c) &lt;&lt;NOTE: 54 USC 320301 notes.&gt;&gt;  Aleutian Islands World War II 
National Monument, Alaska.--
            (1) In general.--The areas of the World War II Valor in the 
        Pacific National Monument located in the State of Alaska, as 
        established by Presidential Proclamation 8327 (73 Fed. Reg. 
        75293; December 10, 2008), are redesignated as the ``Aleutian 
        Islands World War II National Monument''.
            (2) Administration.--The Secretary shall administer the 
        Aleutian Islands World War II National Monument in accordance 
        with the provisions of Presidential Proclamation 8327 (73 Fed. 
        Reg. 75293; December 10, 2008) applicable to the sites and 
        resources in the State of Alaska that are subject to that 
        proclamation.
            (3) References.--Any reference in a law (other than this 
        section), regulation, document, record, map, or other paper of 
        the United States to the sites and resources in the State of 
        Alaska included in the World War II Valor in the Pacific 
        National Monument shall be considered to be a reference to the 
        ``Aleutian Islands World War II National Monument''.

    (d) &lt;&lt;NOTE: 54 USC 320301 notes.&gt;&gt;  Honouliuli National Historic 
Site, Hawai'i.--
            (1) Definitions.--In this subsection:
                    (A) Historic site.--The term ``Historic Site'' means 
                the Honouliuli National Historic Site established by 
                paragraph (2)(A)(i).

[[Page 133 STAT. 742]]

                    (B) Map.--The term ``Map'' means the map entitled 
                ``Honouliuli National Historic Site--Proposed 
                Boundary'', numbered 680/139428, and dated June 2017.
            (2) Honouliuli national historic site.--
                    (A) Establishment.--
                          (i) In general.--There is established the 
                      Honouliuli National Historic Site in the State of 
                      Hawai'i as a unit of the National Park System.
                          (ii) Boundaries.--The boundaries of the 
                      Historic Site shall be the boundaries generally 
                      depicted on the Map.
                          (iii) Availability of map.--The Map shall be 
                      on file and available for public inspection in 
                      appropriate offices of the National Park Service.
                    (B) Purposes.--The purposes of the Historic Site are 
                to preserve and interpret for the benefit of present and 
                future generations the history associated with the 
                internment and detention of civilians of Japanese and 
                other ancestries during World War II in Hawai'i, the 
                impacts of war and martial law on society in the 
                Hawaiian Islands, and the co-location and diverse 
                experiences of Prisoners of War at the Honouliuli 
                Internment Camp site.
            (3) Administration.--
                    (A) In general.--The Secretary shall administer the 
                Historic Site in accordance with this subsection and the 
                laws generally applicable to units of the National Park 
                System, including--
                          (i) section 100101(a), chapter 1003, and 
                      sections 100751(a), 100752, 100753, and 102101 of 
                      title 54, United States Code; and
                          (ii) chapter 3201 of title 54, United States 
                      Code.
                    (B) Partnerships.--
                          (i) In general.--The Secretary may enter into 
                      agreements with, or acquire easements from, the 
                      owners of property adjacent to the Historic Site 
                      to provide public access to the Historic Site.
                          (ii) Interpretation.--The Secretary may enter 
                      into cooperative agreements with governmental and 
                      nongovernmental organizations to provide for 
                      interpretation at the Historic Site.
                    (C) Shared resources.--To the maximum extent 
                practicable, the Secretary may use the resources of the 
                Pearl Harbor National Memorial to administer the 
                Historic Site.
            (4) Abolishment of honouliuli national monument.--
                    (A) In general.--In light of the establishment of 
                the Honouliuli National Historic Site, the Honouliuli 
                National Monument is abolished and the lands and 
                interests therein are incorporated within and made part 
                of Honouliuli National Historic Site. Any funds 
                available for purposes of Honouliuli National Monument 
                shall be available for purposes of the Historic Site.
                    (B) References.--Any references in law (other than 
                in this section), regulation, document, record, map or 
                other paper of the United States to Honouliuli National 
                Monument shall be considered a reference to Honouliuli 
                National Historic Site.

[[Page 133 STAT. 743]]

            Subtitle D--New Units of the National Park System

SEC. 2301. &lt;&lt;NOTE: 54 USC 320301 note.&gt;&gt;  MEDGAR AND MYRLIE EVERS 
                          HOME NATIONAL MONUMENT.

    (a) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) College.--The term ``College'' means Tougaloo College, a 
        private educational institution located in Tougaloo, 
        Mississippi.
            (2) Historic district.--The term ``Historic District'' means 
        the Medgar Evers Historic District, as included on the National 
        Register of Historic Places, and as generally depicted on the 
        Map.
            (3) Map.--The term ``Map'' means the map entitled ``Medgar 
        and Myrlie Evers Home National Monument'', numbered 515/142561, 
        and dated September 2018.
            (4) Monument.--The term ``Monument'' means the Medgar and 
        Myrlie Evers Home National Monument established by subsection 
        (b).
            (5) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary, 
        acting through the Director of the National Park Service.

    (b) Establishment.--
            (1) In general.--Subject to paragraph (2), there is 
        established the Medgar and Myrlie Evers Home National Monument 
        in the State of Mississippi as a unit of the National Park 
        System to preserve, protect, and interpret for the benefit of 
        present and future generations resources associated with the 
        pivotal roles of Medgar and Myrlie Evers in the American Civil 
        Rights Movement.
            (2) Determination by the secretary.--The Monument shall not 
        be established until the date on which the Secretary determines 
        that a sufficient quantity of land or interests in land has been 
        acquired to constitute a manageable park unit.

    (c) Boundaries.--The boundaries of the Monument shall be the 
boundaries generally depicted on the Map.
    (d) Availability of Map.--The Map shall be on file and available for 
public inspection in the appropriate offices of the National Park 
Service.
    (e) Acquisition Authority.--The Secretary may only acquire any land 
or interest in land located within the boundary of the Monument by--
            (1) donation;
            (2) purchase from a willing seller with donated or 
        appropriated funds; or
            (3) exchange.

    (f) Administration.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary shall administer the Monument 
        in accordance with--
                    (A) this section; and
                    (B) the laws generally applicable to units of the 
                National Park System, including--
                          (i) section 100101(a), chapter 1003, and 
                      sections 100751(a), 100752, 100753, and 102101 of 
                      title 54, United States Code; and
                          (ii) chapter 3201 of title 54, United States 
                      Code.
            (2) Management plan.--

[[Page 133 STAT. 744]]

                    (A) In general.--Not later than 3 years after the 
                date on which funds are first made available to the 
                Secretary for this purpose, the Secretary shall prepare 
                a general management plan for the Monument in accordance 
                with section 100502 of title 54, United States Code.
                    (B) Submission.--On completion of the general 
                management plan under subparagraph (A), the Secretary 
                shall submit it to the Committee on Natural Resources of 
                the House of Representatives and the Committee on Energy 
                and Natural Resources of the Senate.

    (g) Agreements.--
            (1) Monument.--The Secretary--
                    (A) shall seek to enter into an agreement with the 
                College to provide interpretive and educational services 
                relating to the Monument; and
                    (B) may enter into agreements with the College and 
                other entities for the purposes of carrying out this 
                section.
            (2) Historic district.--The Secretary may enter into 
        agreements with the owner of a nationally significant property 
        within the Historic District, to identify, mark, interpret, and 
        provide technical assistance with respect to the preservation 
        and interpretation of the property.
SEC. 2302. &lt;&lt;NOTE: 54 USC 320301 note.&gt;&gt;  MILL SPRINGS BATTLEFIELD 
                          NATIONAL MONUMENT.

    (a) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Map.--The term ``Map'' means the map entitled ``Mill 
        Springs Battlefield National Monument, Nancy, Kentucky'', 
        numbered 297/145513, and dated June 2018.
            (2) Monument.--The term ``Monument'' means the Mill Springs 
        Battlefield National Monument established by subsection (b)(1).
            (3) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary, 
        acting through the Director of the National Park Service.

    (b) Establishment.--
            (1) In general.--Subject to paragraph (2), there is 
        established as a unit of the National Park System, the Mill 
        Springs Battlefield National Monument in the State of Kentucky, 
        to preserve, protect, and interpret for the benefit of present 
        and future generations--
                    (A) the nationally significant historic resources of 
                the Mill Springs Battlefield; and
                    (B) the role of the Mill Springs Battlefield in the 
                Civil War.
            (2) Determination by the secretary.--The Monument shall not 
        be established until the date on which the Secretary determines 
        that a sufficient quantity of land or interests in land has been 
        acquired to constitute a manageable park unit.
            (3) Notice.--Not later than 30 days after the date on which 
        the Secretary makes a determination under paragraph (2), the 
        Secretary shall publish in the Federal Register notice of the 
        establishment of the Monument.
            (4) Boundary.--The boundary of the Monument shall be as 
        generally depicted on the Map.
            (5) Availability of map.--The Map shall be on file and 
        available for public inspection in the appropriate offices of 
        the National Park Service.

[[Page 133 STAT. 745]]

            (6) Acquisition authority.--The Secretary may only acquire 
        land or an interest in land located within the boundary of the 
        Monument by--
                    (A) donation;
                    (B) purchase from a willing seller with donated or 
                appropriated funds; or
                    (C) exchange.

    (c) Administration.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary shall administer the Monument 
        in accordance with--
                    (A) this section; and
                    (B) the laws generally applicable to units of the 
                National Park System, including--
                          (i) section 100101(a), chapter 1003, and 
                      sections 100751(a), 100752, 100753, and 102101 of 
                      title 54, United States Code; and
                          (ii) chapter 3201 of title 54, United States 
                      Code.
            (2) Management plan.--
                    (A) In general.--Not later than 3 years after the 
                date on which funds are first made available to prepare 
                a general management plan for the Monument, the 
                Secretary shall prepare the general management plan in 
                accordance with section 100502 of title 54, United 
                States Code.
                    (B) Submission to congress.--On completion of the 
                general management plan, the Secretary shall submit to 
                the Committee on Natural Resources of the House of 
                Representatives and the Committee on Energy and Natural 
                Resources of the Senate the general management plan.

    (d) Private Property Protection.--Nothing in this section affects 
the land use rights of private property owners within or adjacent to the 
Monument.
    (e) No Buffer Zones.--
            (1) In general.--Nothing in this section creates a 
        protective perimeter or buffer zone around the Monument.
            (2) Activities outside national monument.--The fact that an 
        activity or use on land outside the Monument can be seen or 
        heard within the Monument shall not preclude the activity or use 
        outside the boundary of the Monument.
SEC. 2303. &lt;&lt;NOTE: 54 USC 320301 note.&gt;&gt;  CAMP NELSON HERITAGE 
                          NATIONAL MONUMENT.

    (a) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Map.--The term ``Map'' means the map entitled ``Camp 
        Nelson Heritage National Monument Nicholasville, Kentucky'', 
        numbered 532/144,148, and dated April 2018.
            (2) Monument.--The term ``Monument'' means the Camp Nelson 
        Heritage National Monument established by subsection (b)(1).
            (3) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary, 
        acting through the Director of the National Park Service.

    (b) Establishment.--
            (1) In general.--Subject to paragraph (2), there is 
        established, as a unit of the National Park System, the Camp 
        Nelson Heritage National Monument in the State of Kentucky, to 
        preserve, protect, and interpret for the benefit of present and 
        future generations, the nationally significant historic 
        resources of Camp Nelson and the role of Camp Nelson in the 
        American

[[Page 133 STAT. 746]]

        Civil War, Reconstruction, and African American history and 
        civil rights.
            (2) Conditions.--The Monument shall not be established until 
        after the Secretary--
                    (A) has entered into a written agreement with the 
                owner of any private or non-Federal land within the 
                boundary of the Monument, as depicted on the Map, 
                providing that the property shall be donated to the 
                United States for inclusion in the Monument, to be 
                managed consistently with the purposes of the Monument; 
                and
                    (B) has determined that sufficient land or interests 
                in land have been acquired within the boundary of the 
                Monument to constitute a manageable unit.

    (c) Boundaries.--The boundaries of the Monument shall be the 
boundaries generally depicted on the Map.
    (d) Availability of Map.--The Map shall be on file and available for 
public inspection in the appropriate offices of the National Park 
Service.
    (e) Acquisition Authority.--The Secretary may only acquire any land 
or interest in land located within the boundary of the Monument by 
donation, purchase with donated or appropriated funds, or exchange.
    (f) Administration.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary shall administer the Monument 
        in accordance with--
                    (A) this section;
                    (B) Presidential Proclamation 9811 (83 Fed. Reg. 
                54845 (October 31, 2018)); and
                    (C) the laws generally applicable to units of the 
                National Park System, including--
                          (i) section 100101(a), chapter 1003, and 
                      sections 100751(a), 100752, 100753, and 102101 of 
                      title 54, United States Code; and
                          (ii) chapter 3201 of title 54, United States 
                      Code.
            (2) Management plan.--
                    (A) In general.--Not later than 3 years after the 
                date on which funds are first made available to the 
                Secretary for the preparation of a general management 
                plan for the Monument, the Secretary shall prepare a 
                general management plan for the Monument in accordance 
                with section 100502 of title 54, United States Code.
                    (B) Submission to congress.--On completion of the 
                general management plan, the Secretary shall submit to 
                the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources of the 
                Senate and the Committee on Natural Resources of the 
                House of Representatives the general management plan.

    (g) No Buffer Zones.--
            (1) In general.--Nothing in this section creates a 
        protective perimeter or buffer zone around the Monument.
            (2) Activities outside national monument.--The fact that an 
        activity or use on land outside the Monument can be seen or 
        heard within the Monument shall not preclude the activity or use 
        outside the boundary of the Monument.

    (h) Conflicts.--If there is conflict between this section and 
Proclamation 9811 (83 Fed. Reg. 54845; October 31, 2018), this section 
shall control.

[[Page 133 STAT. 747]]

               Subtitle E--National Park System Management

SEC. 2401. DENALI NATIONAL PARK AND PRESERVE NATURAL GAS PIPELINE.

    (a) Permit.--Section 3(b)(1) of the Denali National Park Improvement 
Act (Public Law 113-33; 127 Stat. 516) is amended by striking ``within, 
along, or near the approximately 7-mile segment of the George Parks 
Highway that runs through the Park''.
    (b) Terms and Conditions.--Section 3(c)(1) of the Denali National 
Park Improvement Act (Public Law 113-33; 127 Stat. 516) is amended--
            (1) in subparagraph (A), by inserting ``and'' after the 
        semicolon;
            (2) by striking subparagraph (B); and
            (3) by redesignating subparagraph (C) as subparagraph (B).

    (c) Applicable Law.--Section 3 of the Denali National Park 
Improvement Act (Public Law 113-33; 127 Stat. 515) is amended by adding 
at the end the following:
    ``(d) Applicable Law.--A high pressure gas transmission pipeline 
(including appurtenances) in a nonwilderness area within the boundary of 
the Park, shall not be subject to title XI of the Alaska National 
Interest Lands Conservation Act (16 U.S.C. 3161 et seq.).''.
SEC. 2402. HISTORICALLY BLACK COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES HISTORIC 
                          PRESERVATION PROGRAM REAUTHORIZED.

    Section 507(d)(2) of the Omnibus Parks and Public Lands Management 
Act of 1996 (54 U.S.C. 302101 note) is amended by striking the period at 
the end and inserting ``and each of fiscal years 2019 through 2025.''.
SEC. 2402A. JOHN H. CHAFEE COASTAL BARRIER RESOURCES SYSTEM.

    (a) In General.--Section 2(b) of the Strengthening Coastal 
Communities Act of 2018 (Public Law 115-358) &lt;&lt;NOTE: 16 USC 3503 
note.&gt;&gt;  is amended by adding at the end the following:
            ``(36) The map entitled `Cape San Blas Unit P30/P30P (1 of 
        2)' and dated December 19, 2018, with respect to Unit P30 and 
        Unit P30P.
            ``(37) The map entitled `Cape San Blas Unit P30/P30P (2 of 
        2)' and dated December 19, 2018, with respect to Unit P30 and 
        Unit P30P.''.

    (b) Effect.--Section 7003 shall have no force or effect.
SEC. 2403. &lt;&lt;NOTE: 54 USC 101703 note.&gt;&gt;  AUTHORIZING COOPERATIVE 
                          MANAGEMENT AGREEMENTS BETWEEN THE 
                          DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA AND THE SECRETARY 
                          OF THE INTERIOR.

    The Secretary may enter into a cooperative management agreement with 
the District of Columbia in accordance with section 101703 of title 54, 
United States Code.
SEC. 2404. &lt;&lt;NOTE: 54 USC 102712 note.&gt;&gt;  FEES FOR MEDICAL 
                          SERVICES.

    (a) Fees Authorized.--The Secretary may establish and collect fees 
for medical services provided to persons in units of the National Park 
System or for medical services provided by National Park Service 
personnel outside units of the National Park System.

[[Page 133 STAT. 748]]

    (b) National Park Medical Services Fund.--There is established in 
the Treasury a fund, to be known as the ``National Park Medical Services 
Fund'' (referred to in this section as the ``Fund''). The Fund shall 
consist of--
            (1) donations to the Fund; and
            (2) fees collected under subsection (a).

    (c) Availability of Amounts.--All amounts deposited into the Fund 
shall be available to the Secretary, to the extent provided in advance 
by Acts of appropriation, for the following in units of the National 
Park System:
            (1) Services listed in subsection (a).
            (2) Preparing needs assessments or other programmatic 
        analyses for medical facilities, equipment, vehicles, and other 
        needs and costs of providing services listed in subsection (a).
            (3) Developing management plans for medical facilities, 
        equipment, vehicles, and other needs and costs of services 
        listed in subsection (a).
            (4) Training related to providing services listed in 
        subsection (a).
            (5) Obtaining or improving medical facilities, equipment, 
        vehicles, and other needs and costs of providing services listed 
        in subsection (a).
SEC. 2405. AUTHORITY TO GRANT EASEMENTS AND RIGHTS-OF-WAY OVER 
                          FEDERAL LANDS WITHIN GATEWAY NATIONAL 
                          RECREATION AREA.

    Section 3 of Public Law 92-592 (16 U.S.C. 460cc-2) is amended by 
adding at the end the following:
    ``(j) Authority To Grant Easements and Rights-of-Way.--
            ``(1) In general.--The Secretary of the Interior may grant, 
        to any State or local government, an easement or right-of-way 
        over Federal lands within Gateway National Recreation Area for 
        construction, operation, and maintenance of projects for control 
        and prevention of flooding and shoreline erosion.
            ``(2) Charges and reimbursement of costs.--The Secretary may 
        grant such an easement or right-of-way without charge for the 
        value of the right so conveyed, except for reimbursement of 
        costs incurred by the United States for processing the 
        application therefore and managing such right. Amounts received 
        as such reimbursement shall be credited to the relevant 
        appropriation account.''.
SEC. 2406. &lt;&lt;NOTE: 40 USC 8903 note.&gt;&gt;  ADAMS MEMORIAL COMMISSION.

    (a) Commission.--There is established a commission to be known as 
the ``Adams Memorial Commission'' (referred to in this section as the 
``Commission'') for the purpose of establishing a permanent memorial to 
honor John Adams and his legacy as authorized by Public Law 107-62 (115 
Stat. 411), located in the city of Washington, District of Columbia, 
including sites authorized by Public Law 107-315 (116 Stat. 2763).
    (b) Membership.--The Commission shall be composed of--
            (1) 4 persons appointed by the President, not more than 2 of 
        whom may be members of the same political party;
            (2) 4 Members of the Senate appointed by the President pro 
        tempore of the Senate in consultation with the Majority Leader 
        and Minority Leader of the Senate, of which not more than 2 
        appointees may be members of the same political party; and

[[Page 133 STAT. 749]]

            (3) 4 Members of the House of Representatives appointed by 
        the Speaker of the House of Representatives in consultation with 
        the Majority Leader and Minority Leader of the House of 
        Representatives, of which not more than 2 appointees may be 
        members of the same political party.

    (c) Chair and Vice Chair.--The members of the Commission shall 
select a Chair and Vice Chair of the Commission. The Chair and Vice 
Chair shall not be members of the same political party.
    (d) Vacancies.--Any vacancy in the Commission shall not affect its 
powers if a quorum is present, but shall be filled in the same manner as 
the original appointment.
    (e) Meetings.--
            (1) Initial meeting.--Not later than 45 days after the date 
        on which a majority of the members of the Commission have been 
        appointed, the Commission shall hold its first meeting.
            (2) Subsequent meetings.--The Commission shall meet at the 
        call of the Chair.

    (f) Quorum.--A majority of the members of the Commission shall 
constitute a quorum but a lesser number of members may hold hearings.
    (g) No Compensation.--A member of the Commission shall serve without 
compensation, but may be reimbursed for expenses incurred in carrying 
out the duties of the Commission.
    (h) Duties.--The Commission shall consider and formulate plans for a 
permanent memorial to honor John Adams and his legacy, including the 
nature, location, design, and construction of the memorial.
    (i) Powers.--The Commission may--
            (1) make such expenditures for services and materials for 
        the purpose of carrying out this section as the Commission 
        considers advisable from funds appropriated or received as gifts 
        for that purpose;
            (2) accept gifts, including funds from the Adams Memorial 
        Foundation, to be used in carrying out this section or to be 
        used in connection with the construction or other expenses of 
        the memorial; and
            (3) hold hearings, enter into contracts for personal 
        services and otherwise, and do such other things as are 
        necessary to carry out this section.

    (j) Reports.--The Commission shall--
            (1) report the plans required by subsection (h), together 
        with recommendations, to the President and the Congress at the 
        earliest practicable date; and
            (2) in the interim, make annual reports on its progress to 
        the President and the Congress.

    (k) Applicability of Other Laws.--The Federal Advisory Committee Act 
(5 U.S.C. App.) shall not apply to the Commission.
    (l) Termination.--The Commission shall terminate on December 2, 
2025.
    (m) Amendments to Public Law 107-62.--
            (1) References to commission.--Public Law 107-62 (115 Stat. 
        411) is amended by striking ``Adams Memorial Foundation'' each 
        place it occurs and inserting ``Adams Memorial Commission''.

[[Page 133 STAT. 750]]

            (2) Extension of authorization.--Section 1(c) of Public Law 
        107-62 (115 Stat. 411; 124 Stat. 1192; 127 Stat. 3880) is 
        amended by striking ``2020'' and inserting ``2025''.
SEC. 2407. TECHNICAL CORRECTIONS TO REFERENCES TO THE AFRICAN 
                          AMERICAN CIVIL RIGHTS NETWORK.

    (a) Chapter Amendments.--Chapter 3084 of title 54, United States 
Code, &lt;&lt;NOTE: 54 USC 308401 prec., 308402.&gt;&gt;  is amended by striking 
``U.S. Civil Rights Network'' each place it appears and inserting 
``African American Civil Rights Network'' (using identical font as used 
in the text being replaced).

    (b) Amendments to List of Items.--The list of items of title 54, 
United States Code, &lt;&lt;NOTE: 54 USC 100101 prec.&gt;&gt;  is amended by 
striking ``U.S. Civil Rights Network'' each place it appears and 
inserting ``African American Civil Rights Network'' (using identical 
font as used in the text being replaced).

    (c) &lt;&lt;NOTE: 54 USC 308402 note.&gt;&gt;  References.--Any reference in any 
law (other than in this section), regulation, document, record, map, or 
other paper of the United States to the ``U.S. Civil Rights Network'' 
shall be considered to be a reference to the ``African American Civil 
Rights Network''.
SEC. 2408. TRANSFER OF THE JAMES J. HOWARD MARINE SCIENCES 
                          LABORATORY.

    Section 7 of Public Law 100-515 (16 U.S.C. 1244 note) is amended by 
striking subsection (b) and inserting the following:
    ``(b) Transfer From the State to the National Oceanic and 
Atmospheric Administration.--
            ``(1) In general.--Notwithstanding any other provision of 
        law, or the provisions of the August 13, 1991, Ground Lease 
        Agreement (`Lease') between the Department of the Interior and 
        the State of New Jersey (`State'), upon notice to the National 
        Park Service, the State may transfer without consideration, and 
        the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration may accept, 
        all State improvements within the land assignment and right of 
        way, including the James J. Howard Marine Sciences Laboratory 
        (`Laboratory'), two parking lots, and the seawater supply and 
        backflow pipes as generally depicted on the map entitled 
        `Gateway National Recreation Area, James J. Howard Marine 
        Science Laboratory Land Assignment', numbered 646/142,581A, and 
        dated April 2018 (`Map') and any related State personal 
        property.
            ``(2) Lease amendment.--Upon the transfer authorized in 
        paragraph (1), the Lease shall be amended to exclude any 
        obligations of the State and the Department of the Interior 
        related to the Laboratory and associated property and 
        improvements transferred to the National Oceanic and Atmospheric 
        Administration. However, all obligations of the State to 
        rehabilitate Building 74 and modify landscaping on the 
        surrounding property as depicted on the Map, under the Lease and 
        pursuant to subsection (a), shall remain in full force and 
        effect.
            ``(3) Use by the national oceanic and atmospheric 
        administration.--Upon the transfer authorized in paragraph (1), 
        the Administrator of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric 
        Administration is authorized to use the land generally depicted 
        on the Map as a land assignment and right of way and associated 
        land and appurtenances for continued use of the Laboratory, 
        including providing maintenance and repair, and access

[[Page 133 STAT. 751]]

        to the Laboratory, the parking lots and the seawater supply and 
        back flow pipes, without consideration, except for reimbursement 
        to the National Park Service of agreed upon reasonable actual 
        costs of subsequently provided goods and services.
            ``(4) Agreement between the national park service and the 
        national oceanic and atmospheric administration.--Upon the 
        transfer authorized in paragraph (1), the Director of the 
        National Park Service and the Administrator of the National 
        Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration shall enter into an 
        agreement addressing responsibilities pertaining to the use of 
        the land assignment within the Sandy Hook Unit of the Gateway 
        National Recreation Area as authorized in paragraph (3). The 
        agreement shall prohibit any new construction on this land, 
        permanent or nonpermanent, or significant alteration to the 
        exterior of the Laboratory, without National Park Service 
        approval.
            ``(5) Restoration.--
                    ``(A) Notwithstanding any provision of the Lease to 
                the contrary, if the State does not transfer the 
                improvements as authorized in paragraph (1), and these 
                improvements are not used as or in support of a marine 
                science laboratory, the State shall demolish and remove 
                the improvements and restore the land in accordance with 
                the standards set forth by the National Park Service, 
                free of unacceptable encumbrances and in compliance with 
                all applicable laws and regulations regarding known 
                contaminants.
                    ``(B) If the National Oceanic and Atmospheric 
                Administration accepts the improvements as authorized in 
                paragraph (1) and these improvements are not used as or 
                in support of a marine science laboratory, the National 
                Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration shall be 
                responsible for demolishing and removing these 
                improvements and restoring the land, in accordance with 
                the standards set forth by the National Park Service, 
                free of unacceptable encumbrances and in compliance with 
                all applicable laws and regulations regarding known 
                contaminants.''.
SEC. 2409. BOWS IN PARKS.

    (a) In General.--Chapter 1049 of title 54, United States Code, is 
amended by adding at the end the following:
``Sec. 104908. &lt;&lt;NOTE: 54 USC 104908.&gt;&gt;  Bows in parks

    ``(a) Definition of Not Ready for Immediate Use.--The term `not 
ready for immediate use' means--
            ``(1) a bow or crossbow, the arrows of which are secured or 
        stowed in a quiver or other arrow transport case; and
            ``(2) with respect to a crossbow, uncocked.

    ``(b) Vehicular Transportation Authorized.--The Director shall not 
promulgate or enforce any regulation that prohibits an individual from 
transporting bows and crossbows that are not ready for immediate use 
across any System unit in the vehicle of the individual if--
            ``(1) the individual is not otherwise prohibited by law from 
        possessing the bows and crossbows;

[[Page 133 STAT. 752]]

            ``(2) the bows or crossbows that are not ready for immediate 
        use remain inside the vehicle of the individual throughout the 
        period during which the bows or crossbows are transported across 
        System land; and
            ``(3) the possession of the bows and crossbows is in 
        compliance with the law of the State in which the System unit is 
        located.''.

    (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of sections for chapter 1049 of 
title 54, United States Code, &lt;&lt;NOTE: 54 USC 104901 prec.&gt;&gt;  is amended 
by inserting after the item relating to section 104907 the following:

``104908. Bows in parks.''.

SEC. 2410. WILDLIFE MANAGEMENT IN PARKS.

    (a) In General.--Chapter 1049 of title 54, United States Code (as 
amended by section 2409(a)), is amended by adding at the end the 
following:
``Sec. 104909. &lt;&lt;NOTE: 54 USC 104909.&gt;&gt;  Wildlife management in 
                      parks

    ``(a) Use of Qualified Volunteers.--If the Secretary determines it 
is necessary to reduce the size of a wildlife population on System land 
in accordance with applicable law (including regulations), the Secretary 
may use qualified volunteers to assist in carrying out wildlife 
management on System land.
    ``(b) Requirements for Qualified Volunteers.--Qualified volunteers 
providing assistance under subsection (a) shall be subject to--
            ``(1) any training requirements or qualifications 
        established by the Secretary; and
            ``(2) any other terms and conditions that the Secretary may 
        require.

    ``(c) Donations.--The Secretary may authorize the donation and 
distribution of meat from wildlife management activities carried out 
under this section, including the donation and distribution to Indian 
Tribes, qualified volunteers, food banks, and other organizations that 
work to address hunger, in accordance with applicable health guidelines 
and such terms and conditions as the Secretary may require.''.
    (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of sections for chapter 1049 of 
title 54 (as amended by section 2409(b)), United States Code, &lt;&lt;NOTE: 54 
USC 104901 prec.&gt;&gt;  is amended by inserting after the item relating to 
section 104908 the following:

``104909. Wildlife management in parks.''.

SEC. 2411. POTTAWATTAMIE COUNTY REVERSIONARY INTEREST.

    Section 2 of Public Law 101-191 (103 Stat. 1697) &lt;&lt;NOTE: 16 USC 1244 
note.&gt;&gt;  is amended by adding at the end the following:

    ``(g) Conveyance of Reversionary Interest.--
            ``(1) In general.--If the Secretary determines that it is no 
        longer in the public interest to operate and maintain the 
        center, subject to paragraph (2), the Secretary may enter into 1 
        or more agreements--
                    ``(A) to convey the reversionary interest held by 
                the United States and described in the quitclaim deed 
                dated April 13, 1998, instrument number 19170, and as 
                recorded in book 98, page 55015, in Pottawattamie 
                County, Iowa (referred to in this subsection as the 
                `deed'); and

[[Page 133 STAT. 753]]

                    ``(B) to extinguish the requirement in the deed that 
                alterations to structures on the property may not be 
                made without the authorization of the Secretary.
            ``(2) Consideration.--A reversionary interest may be 
        conveyed under paragraph (1)(A)--
                    ``(A) without consideration, if the land subject to 
                the reversionary interest is required to be used in 
                perpetuity for public recreational, educational, or 
                similar purposes; or
                    ``(B) for consideration in an amount equal to the 
                fair market value of the reversionary interest, as 
                determined based on an appraisal that is conducted in 
                accordance with--
                          ``(i) the Uniform Appraisal Standards for 
                      Federal Land Acquisitions; and
                          ``(ii) the Uniform Standards of Professional 
                      Appraisal Practice.
            ``(3) Execution of agreements.--The Secretary shall execute 
        appropriate instruments to carry out an agreement entered into 
        under paragraph (1).
            ``(4) Effect on prior agreement.--Effective on the date on 
        which the Secretary has executed instruments under paragraph (3) 
        and all Federal interests in the land and properties acquired 
        under this Act have been conveyed, the agreement between the 
        National Park Service and the State Historical Society of Iowa, 
        dated July 21, 1995, and entered into under subsection (d), 
        shall have no force or effect.''.
SEC. 2412. DESIGNATION OF DEAN STONE BRIDGE.

    (a) Designation.--The bridge located in Blount County, Tennessee, on 
the Foothills Parkway (commonly known as ``Bridge 2'') shall be known 
and designated as the ``Dean Stone Bridge''.
    (b) References.--Any reference in a law, map, regulation, document, 
paper, or other record of the United States to the bridge referred to in 
subsection (a) shall be deemed to be a reference to the ``Dean Stone 
Bridge''.

             Subtitle F--National Trails and Related Matters

SEC. 2501. NORTH COUNTRY SCENIC TRAIL ROUTE ADJUSTMENT.

    Section 5(a)(8) of the National Trails System Act (16 U.S.C. 
1244(a)(8)) is amended in the first sentence--
            (1) by striking ``thirty two hundred miles, extending from 
        eastern New York State'' and inserting ``4,600 miles, extending 
        from the Appalachian Trail in Vermont''; and
            (2) by striking ``Proposed North Country Trail'' and all 
        that follows through ``June 1975.'' and inserting `` `North 
        Country National Scenic Trail, Authorized Route', dated February 
        2014, and numbered 649/116870.''.
SEC. 2502. EXTENSION OF LEWIS AND CLARK NATIONAL HISTORIC TRAIL.

    (a) Extension.--Section 5(a)(6) of the National Trails System Act 
(16 U.S.C. 1244(a)(6)) is amended--

[[Page 133 STAT. 754]]

            (1) by striking ``three thousand seven hundred'' and 
        inserting ``4,900'';
            (2) by striking ``Wood River, Illinois,'' and inserting 
        ``the Ohio River in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania,''; and
            (3) by striking ``maps identified as, `Vicinity Map, Lewis 
        and Clark Trail' study report dated April 1977.'' and inserting 
        ``the map entitled `Lewis and Clark National Historic Trail 
        Authorized Trail Including Proposed Eastern Legacy Extension', 
        dated April 2018, and numbered 648/143721.''.

    (b) &lt;&lt;NOTE: 16 USC 1244 note.&gt;&gt;  Effective Date.--The amendments 
made by subsection (a) shall take effect on the date that is 60 days 
after the date of enactment of this Act.
SEC. 2503. AMERICAN DISCOVERY TRAIL SIGNAGE.

    (a) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Secretary concerned.--The term ``Secretary concerned'' 
        means--
                    (A) the Secretary, with respect to Federal land 
                under the jurisdiction of the Secretary; or
                    (B) the Secretary of Agriculture, with respect to 
                Federal land under the jurisdiction of the Secretary of 
                Agriculture.
            (2) Trail.--The term ``Trail'' means the trail known as the 
        ``American Discovery Trail'', which consists of approximately 
        6,800 miles of trails extending from Cape Henlopen State Park in 
        Delaware to Point Reyes National Seashore in California, as 
        generally described in volume 2 of the National Park Service 
        feasibility study dated June 1995.

    (b) Signage Authorized.--As soon as practicable after the date on 
which signage acceptable to the Secretary concerned is donated to the 
United States for placement on Federal land at points along the Trail, 
the Secretary concerned shall place the signage on the Federal land.
    (c) No Federal Funds.--No Federal funds may be used to acquire 
signage authorized for placement under subsection (b).
SEC. 2504. PIKE NATIONAL HISTORIC TRAIL STUDY.

    Section 5(c) of the National Trails System Act (16 U.S.C. 1244(c)) 
is amended by adding at the end the following:
            ``(46) Pike national historic trail.--The Pike National 
        Historic Trail, a series of routes extending approximately 3,664 
        miles, which follows the route taken by Lt. Zebulon Montgomery 
        Pike during the 1806-1807 Pike expedition that began in Fort 
        Bellefontaine, Missouri, extended through portions of the States 
        of Kansas, Nebraska, Colorado, New Mexico, and Texas, and ended 
        in Natchitoches, Louisiana.''.

                 TITLE III--CONSERVATION AUTHORIZATIONS

SEC. 3001. REAUTHORIZATION OF LAND AND WATER CONSERVATION FUND.

    (a) In General.--Section 200302 of title 54, United States Code, is 
amended--

[[Page 133 STAT. 755]]

            (1) in subsection (b), in the matter preceding paragraph 
        (1), by striking ``During the period ending September 30, 2018, 
        there'' and inserting ``There''; and
            (2) in subsection (c)(1), by striking ``through September 
        30, 2018''.

    (b) Allocation of Funds.--Section 200304 of title 54, United States 
Code, is amended--
            (1) by striking the second sentence;
            (2) by striking ``There'' and inserting the following:

    ``(a) In General.--There''; and
            (3) by adding at the end the following:

    ``(b) Allocation of Funds.--Of the total amount made available to 
the Fund through appropriations or deposited in the Fund under section 
105(a)(2)(B) of the Gulf of Mexico Energy Security Act of 2006 (43 
U.S.C. 1331 note; Public Law 109-432)--
            ``(1) not less than 40 percent shall be used for Federal 
        purposes; and
            ``(2) not less than 40 percent shall be used to provide 
        financial assistance to States.''.

    (c) Parity for Territories and the District of Columbia.--Section 
200305(b) of title 54, United States Code, is amended by striking 
paragraph (5).
    (d) Recreational Public Access.--Section 200306 of title 54, United 
States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following:
    ``(c) Recreational Public Access.--
            ``(1) In general.--Of the amounts made available for 
        expenditure in any fiscal year under section 200303, there shall 
        be made available for recreational public access projects 
        identified on the priority list developed under paragraph (2) 
        not less than the greater of--
                    ``(A) an amount equal to 3 percent of those amounts; 
                or
                    ``(B) $15,000,000.
            ``(2) Priority list.--The Secretary and the Secretary of 
        Agriculture, in consultation with the head of each affected 
        Federal agency, shall annually develop a priority list for 
        projects that, through acquisition of land (or an interest in 
        land), secure recreational public access to Federal land under 
        the jurisdiction of the applicable Secretary for hunting, 
        fishing, recreational shooting, or other outdoor recreational 
        purposes.''.

    (e) Acquisition Considerations.--Section 200306 of title 54, United 
States Code (as amended by subsection (d)), is amended by adding at the 
end the following:
    ``(d) Acquisition Considerations.--In determining whether to acquire 
land (or an interest in land) under this section, the Secretary and the 
Secretary of Agriculture shall take into account--
            ``(1) the significance of the acquisition;
            ``(2) the urgency of the acquisition;
            ``(3) management efficiencies;
            ``(4) management cost savings;
            ``(5) geographic distribution;
            ``(6) threats to the integrity of the land; and
            ``(7) the recreational value of the land.''.

[[Page 133 STAT. 756]]

SEC. 3002. &lt;&lt;NOTE: 16 USC 3474.&gt;&gt;  CONSERVATION INCENTIVES 
                          LANDOWNER EDUCATION PROGRAM.

    (a) In General.--Not later than 1 year after the date of enactment 
of this Act, the Secretary shall establish a conservation incentives 
landowner education program (referred to in this section as the 
``program'').
    (b) Purpose of Program.--The program shall provide information on 
Federal conservation programs available to landowners interested in 
undertaking conservation actions on the land of the landowners, 
including options under each conservation program available to achieve 
the conservation goals of the program, such as--
            (1) fee title land acquisition;
            (2) donation; and
            (3) perpetual and term conservation easements or agreements.

    (c) Availability.--The Secretary shall ensure that the information 
provided under the program is made available to--
            (1) interested landowners; and
            (2) the public.

    (d) Notification.--In any case in which the Secretary contacts a 
landowner directly about participation in a Federal conservation 
program, the Secretary shall, in writing--
            (1) notify the landowner of the program; and
            (2) make available information on the conservation program 
        options that may be available to the landowner.

            TITLE IV--SPORTSMEN'S ACCESS AND RELATED MATTERS

                       Subtitle A--National Policy

SEC. 4001. &lt;&lt;NOTE: 16 USC 7901.&gt;&gt;  CONGRESSIONAL DECLARATION OF 
                          NATIONAL POLICY.

    (a) In General.--Congress declares that it is the policy of the 
United States that Federal departments and agencies, in accordance with 
the missions of the departments and agencies, Executive Orders 12962 and 
13443 (60 Fed. Reg. 30769 (June 7, 1995); 72 Fed. Reg. 46537 (August 16, 
2007)), and applicable law, shall--
            (1) facilitate the expansion and enhancement of hunting, 
        fishing, and recreational shooting opportunities on Federal 
        land, in consultation with the Wildlife and Hunting Heritage 
        Conservation Council, the Sport Fishing and Boating Partnership 
        Council, State and Tribal fish and wildlife agencies, and the 
        public;
            (2) conserve and enhance aquatic systems and the management 
        of game species and the habitat of those species on Federal 
        land, including through hunting and fishing, in a manner that 
        respects--
                    (A) State management authority over wildlife 
                resources; and
                    (B) private property rights; and
            (3) consider hunting, fishing, and recreational shooting 
        opportunities as part of all Federal plans for land, resource, 
        and travel management.

[[Page 133 STAT. 757]]

    (b) Exclusion.--In this title, the term ``fishing'' does not include 
commercial fishing in which fish are harvested, either in whole or in 
part, that are intended to enter commerce through sale.

             Subtitle B--Sportsmen's Access to Federal Land

SEC. 4101. &lt;&lt;NOTE: 16 USC 7911.&gt;&gt;  DEFINITIONS.

    In this subtitle:
            (1) Federal land.--The term ``Federal land'' means--
                    (A) any land in the National Forest System (as 
                defined in section 11(a) of the Forest and Rangeland 
                Renewable Resources Planning Act of 1974 (16 U.S.C. 
                1609(a))) that is administered by the Secretary of 
                Agriculture, acting through the Chief of the Forest 
                Service; and
                    (B) public lands (as defined in section 103 of the 
                Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 1976 (43 
                U.S.C. 1702)), the surface of which is administered by 
                the Secretary, acting through the Director of the Bureau 
                of Land Management.
            (2) Secretary concerned.--The term ``Secretary concerned'' 
        means--
                    (A) the Secretary of Agriculture, with respect to 
                land described in paragraph (1)(A); and
                    (B) the Secretary, with respect to land described in 
                paragraph (1)(B).
SEC. 4102. &lt;&lt;NOTE: 16 USC 7912.&gt;&gt;  FEDERAL LAND OPEN TO HUNTING, 
                          FISHING, AND RECREATIONAL SHOOTING.

    (a) In General.--Subject to subsection (b), Federal land shall be 
open to hunting, fishing, and recreational shooting, in accordance with 
applicable law, unless the Secretary concerned closes an area in 
accordance with section 4103.
    (b) Effect of Part.--Nothing in this subtitle opens to hunting, 
fishing, or recreational shooting any land that is not open to those 
activities as of the date of enactment of this Act.
SEC. 4103. &lt;&lt;NOTE: 16 USC 7913.&gt;&gt;  CLOSURE OF FEDERAL LAND TO 
                          HUNTING, FISHING, AND RECREATIONAL 
                          SHOOTING.

    (a) Authorization.--
            (1) In general.--Subject to paragraph (2) and in accordance 
        with section 302(b) of the Federal Land Policy and Management 
        Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1732(b)), the Secretary concerned may 
        designate any area on Federal land in which, and establish any 
        period during which, for reasons of public safety, 
        administration, or compliance with applicable laws, no hunting, 
        fishing, or recreational shooting shall be permitted.
            (2) Requirement.--In making a designation under paragraph 
        (1), the Secretary concerned shall designate the smallest area 
        for the least amount of time that is required for public safety, 
        administration, or compliance with applicable laws.

    (b) Closure Procedures.--
            (1) In general.--Except in an emergency, before permanently 
        or temporarily closing any Federal land to hunting, fishing, or 
        recreational shooting, the Secretary concerned shall--

[[Page 133 STAT. 758]]

                    (A) consult with State fish and wildlife agencies; 
                and
                    (B) provide public notice and opportunity for 
                comment under paragraph (2).
            (2) Public notice and comment.--
                    (A) In general.--Public notice and comment shall 
                include--
                          (i) a notice of intent--
                                    (I) published in advance of the 
                                public comment period for the closure--
                                            (aa) in the Federal 
                                        Register;
                                            (bb) on the website of the 
                                        applicable Federal agency;
                                            (cc) on the website of the 
                                        Federal land unit, if available; 
                                        and
                                            (dd) in at least 1 local 
                                        newspaper;
                                    (II) made available in advance of 
                                the public comment period to local 
                                offices, chapters, and affiliate 
                                organizations in the vicinity of the 
                                closure that are signatories to the 
                                memorandum of understanding entitled 
                                ``Federal Lands Hunting, Fishing, and 
                                Shooting Sports Roundtable Memorandum of 
                                Understanding''; and
                                    (III) that describes--
                                            (aa) the proposed closure; 
                                        and
                                            (bb) the justification for 
                                        the proposed closure, including 
                                        an explanation of the reasons 
                                        and necessity for the decision 
                                        to close the area to hunting, 
                                        fishing, or recreational 
                                        shooting; and
                          (ii) an opportunity for public comment for a 
                      period of--
                                    (I) not less than 60 days for a 
                                permanent closure; or
                                    (II) not less than 30 days for a 
                                temporary closure.
                    (B) Final decision.--In a final decision to 
                permanently or temporarily close an area to hunting, 
                fishing, or recreation shooting, the Secretary concerned 
                shall--
                          (i) respond in a reasoned manner to the 
                      comments received;
                          (ii) explain how the Secretary concerned 
                      resolved any significant issues raised by the 
                      comments; and
                          (iii) show how the resolution led to the 
                      closure.

    (c) Temporary Closures.--
            (1) In general.--A temporary closure under this section may 
        not exceed a period of 180 days.
            (2) Renewal.--Except in an emergency, a temporary closure 
        for the same area of land closed to the same activities--
                    (A) may not be renewed more than 3 times after the 
                first temporary closure; and
                    (B) must be subject to a separate notice and comment 
                procedure in accordance with subsection (b)(2).
            (3) Effect of temporary closure.--Any Federal land that is 
        temporarily closed to hunting, fishing, or recreational shooting 
        under this section shall not become permanently closed to that 
        activity without a separate public notice and opportunity to 
        comment in accordance with subsection (b)(2).

[[Page 133 STAT. 759]]

    (d) Reporting.--On an annual basis, the Secretaries concerned 
shall--
            (1) publish on a public website a list of all areas of 
        Federal land temporarily or permanently subject to a closure 
        under this section; and
            (2) submit to the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources 
        and the Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry of the 
        Senate and the Committee on Natural Resources and the Committee 
        on Agriculture of the House of Representatives a report that 
        identifies--
                    (A) a list of each area of Federal land temporarily 
                or permanently subject to a closure;
                    (B) the acreage of each closure; and
                    (C) a survey of--
                          (i) the aggregate areas and acreage closed 
                      under this section in each State; and
                          (ii) the percentage of Federal land in each 
                      State closed under this section with respect to 
                      hunting, fishing, and recreational shooting.

    (e) Application.--This section shall not apply if the closure is--
            (1) less than 14 days in duration; and
            (2) covered by a special use permit.
SEC. 4104. &lt;&lt;NOTE: 16 USC 7914.&gt;&gt;  SHOOTING RANGES.

    (a) In General.--Except as provided in subsection (b), the Secretary 
concerned may, in accordance with this section and other applicable law, 
lease or permit the use of Federal land for a shooting range.
    (b) Exception.--The Secretary concerned shall not lease or permit 
the use of Federal land for a shooting range within--
            (1) a component of the National Landscape Conservation 
        System;
            (2) a component of the National Wilderness Preservation 
        System;
            (3) any area that is--
                    (A) designated as a wilderness study area;
                    (B) administratively classified as--
                          (i) wilderness-eligible; or
                          (ii) wilderness-suitable; or
                    (C) a primitive or semiprimitive area;
            (4) a national monument, national volcanic monument, or 
        national scenic area; or
            (5) a component of the National Wild and Scenic Rivers 
        System (including areas designated for study for potential 
        addition to the National Wild and Scenic Rivers System).
SEC. 4105. &lt;&lt;NOTE: 16 USC 7915.&gt;&gt;  IDENTIFYING OPPORTUNITIES FOR 
                          RECREATION, HUNTING, AND FISHING ON 
                          FEDERAL LAND.

    (a) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means--
                    (A) the Secretary, with respect to land administered 
                by--
                          (i) the Director of the National Park Service;
                          (ii) the Director of the United States Fish 
                      and Wildlife Service; and
                          (iii) the Director of the Bureau of Land 
                      Management; and

[[Page 133 STAT. 760]]

                    (B) the Secretary of Agriculture, with respect to 
                land administered by the Chief of the Forest Service.
            (2) State or regional office.--The term ``State or regional 
        office'' means--
                    (A) a State office of the Bureau of Land Management; 
                or
                    (B) a regional office of--
                          (i) the National Park Service;
                          (ii) the United States Fish and Wildlife 
                      Service; or
                          (iii) the Forest Service.
            (3) Travel management plan.--The term ``travel management 
        plan'' means a plan for the management of travel--
                    (A) with respect to land under the jurisdiction of 
                the National Park Service, on park roads and designated 
                routes under section 4.10 of title 36, Code of Federal 
                Regulations (or successor regulations);
                    (B) with respect to land under the jurisdiction of 
                the United States Fish and Wildlife Service, on the land 
                under a comprehensive conservation plan prepared under 
                section 4(e) of the National Wildlife Refuge System 
                Administration Act of 1966 (16 U.S.C. 668dd(e));
                    (C) with respect to land under the jurisdiction of 
                the Forest Service, on National Forest System land under 
                part 212 of title 36, Code of Federal Regulations (or 
                successor regulations); and
                    (D) with respect to land under the jurisdiction of 
                the Bureau of Land Management, under a resource 
                management plan developed under the Federal Land Policy 
                and Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.).

    (b) Priority Lists Required.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 1 year after the date of 
        enactment of this Act, and biennially thereafter during the 10-
        year period beginning on the date on which the first priority 
        list is completed, the Secretary shall prepare a priority list, 
        to be made publicly available on the website of the applicable 
        Federal agency referred to in subsection (a)(1), which shall 
        identify the location and acreage of land within the 
        jurisdiction of each State or regional office on which the 
        public is allowed, under Federal or State law, to hunt, fish, or 
        use the land for other recreational purposes but--
                    (A) to which there is no public access or egress; or
                    (B) to which public access or egress to the legal 
                boundaries of the land is significantly restricted (as 
                determined by the Secretary).
            (2) Minimum size.--Any land identified under paragraph (1) 
        shall consist of contiguous acreage of at least 640 acres.
            (3) Considerations.--In preparing the priority list required 
        under paragraph (1), the Secretary shall consider, with respect 
        to the land--
                    (A) whether access is absent or merely restricted, 
                including the extent of the restriction;
                    (B) the likelihood of resolving the absence of or 
                restriction to public access;
                    (C) the potential for recreational use;

[[Page 133 STAT. 761]]

                    (D) any information received from the public or 
                other stakeholders during the nomination process 
                described in paragraph (5); and
                    (E) any other factor, as determined by the 
                Secretary.
            (4) Adjacent land status.--For each parcel of land on the 
        priority list, the Secretary shall include in the priority list 
        whether resolving the issue of public access or egress to the 
        land would require acquisition of an easement, right-of-way, or 
        fee title from--
                    (A) another Federal agency;
                    (B) a State, local, or Tribal government; or
                    (C) a private landowner.
            (5) Nomination process.--In preparing a priority list under 
        this section, the Secretary shall provide an opportunity for 
        members of the public to nominate parcels for inclusion on the 
        priority list.

    (c) Access Options.--With respect to land included on a priority 
list described in subsection (b), the Secretary shall develop and submit 
to the Committees on Appropriations and Energy and Natural Resources of 
the Senate and the Committees on Appropriations and Natural Resources of 
the House of Representatives a report on options for providing access 
that--
            (1) identifies how public access and egress could reasonably 
        be provided to the legal boundaries of the land in a manner that 
        minimizes the impact on wildlife habitat and water quality;
            (2) specifies the steps recommended to secure the access and 
        egress, including acquiring an easement, right-of-way, or fee 
        title from a willing owner of any land that abuts the land or 
        the need to coordinate with State land management agencies or 
        other Federal, State, or Tribal governments to allow for such 
        access and egress; and
            (3) is consistent with the travel management plan in effect 
        on the land.

    (d) Protection of Personally Identifying Information.--In making the 
priority list and report prepared under subsections (b) and (c) 
available, the Secretary shall ensure that no personally identifying 
information is included, such as names or addresses of individuals or 
entities.
    (e) Willing Owners.--For purposes of providing any permits to, or 
entering into agreements with, a State, local, or Tribal government or 
private landowner with respect to the use of land under the jurisdiction 
of the government or landowner, the Secretary shall not take into 
account whether the State, local, or Tribal government or private 
landowner has granted or denied public access or egress to the land.
    (f) Means of Public Access and Egress Included.--In considering 
public access and egress under subsections (b) and (c), the Secretary 
shall consider public access and egress to the legal boundaries of the 
land described in those subsections, including access and egress--
            (1) by motorized or non-motorized vehicles; and
            (2) on foot or horseback.

    (g) Effect.--
            (1) In general.--This section shall have no effect on 
        whether a particular recreational use shall be allowed on the 
        land included in a priority list under this section.

[[Page 133 STAT. 762]]

            (2) Effect of allowable uses on agency consideration.--In 
        preparing the priority list under subsection (b), the Secretary 
        shall only consider recreational uses that are allowed on the 
        land at the time that the priority list is prepared.

            Subtitle C--Open Book on Equal Access to Justice

SEC. 4201. FEDERAL ACTION TRANSPARENCY.

    (a) Modification of Equal Access to Justice Provisions.--
            (1) Agency proceedings.--Section 504 of title 5, United 
        States Code, is amended--
                    (A) in subsection (c)(1), by striking ``, United 
                States Code'';
                    (B) by redesignating subsection (f) as subsection 
                (i); and
                    (C) by striking subsection (e) and inserting the 
                following:

    ``(e)(1) Not later than March 31 of the first fiscal year beginning 
after the date of enactment of the John D. Dingell, Jr. Conservation, 
Management, and Recreation Act, and every fiscal year thereafter, the 
Chairman of the Administrative Conference of the United States, after 
consultation with the Chief Counsel for Advocacy of the Small Business 
Administration, shall submit to Congress and make publicly available 
online a report on the amount of fees and other expenses awarded during 
the preceding fiscal year under this section.
    ``(2) Each report under paragraph (1) shall describe the number, 
nature, and amount of the awards, the claims involved in the 
controversy, and any other relevant information that may aid Congress in 
evaluating the scope and impact of such awards.
    ``(3)(A) Each report under paragraph (1) shall account for all 
payments of fees and other expenses awarded under this section that are 
made pursuant to a settlement agreement, regardless of whether the 
settlement agreement is sealed or otherwise subject to a nondisclosure 
provision.
    ``(B) The disclosure of fees and other expenses required under 
subparagraph (A) shall not affect any other information that is subject 
to a nondisclosure provision in a settlement agreement.
    ``(f) As soon as practicable, and in any event not later than the 
date on which the first report under subsection (e)(1) is required to be 
submitted, the Chairman of the Administrative Conference of the United 
States shall create and maintain online a searchable database 
containing, with respect to each award of fees and other expenses under 
this section made on or after the date of enactment of the John D. 
Dingell, Jr. Conservation, Management, and Recreation Act, the following 
information:
            ``(1) The case name and number of the adversary 
        adjudication, if available, hyperlinked to the case, if 
        available.
            ``(2) The name of the agency involved in the adversary 
        adjudication.
            ``(3) A description of the claims in the adversary 
        adjudication.
            ``(4) The name of each party to whom the award was made as 
        such party is identified in the order or other court document 
        making the award.

[[Page 133 STAT. 763]]

            ``(5) The amount of the award.
            ``(6) The basis for the finding that the position of the 
        agency concerned was not substantially justified.

    ``(g) The online searchable database described in subsection (f) may 
not reveal any information the disclosure of which is prohibited by law 
or a court order.
    ``(h) The head of each agency shall provide to the Chairman of the 
Administrative Conference of the United States in a timely manner all 
information requested by the Chairman to comply with the requirements of 
subsections (e), (f), and (g).''.
            (2) Court cases.--Section 2412(d) of title 28, United States 
        Code, is amended by adding at the end the following:

    ``(5)(A) Not later than March 31 of the first fiscal year beginning 
after the date of enactment of the John D. Dingell, Jr. Conservation, 
Management, and Recreation Act, and every fiscal year thereafter, the 
Chairman of the Administrative Conference of the United States shall 
submit to Congress and make publicly available online a report on the 
amount of fees and other expenses awarded during the preceding fiscal 
year pursuant to this subsection.
    ``(B) Each report under subparagraph (A) shall describe the number, 
nature, and amount of the awards, the claims involved in the 
controversy, and any other relevant information that may aid Congress in 
evaluating the scope and impact of such awards.
    ``(C)(i) Each report under subparagraph (A) shall account for all 
payments of fees and other expenses awarded under this subsection that 
are made pursuant to a settlement agreement, regardless of whether the 
settlement agreement is sealed or otherwise subject to a nondisclosure 
provision.
    ``(ii) The disclosure of fees and other expenses required under 
clause (i) shall not affect any other information that is subject to a 
nondisclosure provision in a settlement agreement.
    ``(D) The Chairman of the Administrative Conference of the United 
States shall include and clearly identify in each annual report under 
subparagraph (A), for each case in which an award of fees and other 
expenses is included in the report--
            ``(i) any amounts paid under section 1304 of title 31 for a 
        judgment in the case;
            ``(ii) the amount of the award of fees and other expenses; 
        and
            ``(iii) the statute under which the plaintiff filed suit.

    ``(6) As soon as practicable, and in any event not later than the 
date on which the first report under paragraph (5)(A) is required to be 
submitted, the Chairman of the Administrative Conference of the United 
States shall create and maintain online a searchable database 
containing, with respect to each award of fees and other expenses under 
this subsection made on or after the date of enactment of the John D. 
Dingell, Jr. Conservation, Management, and Recreation Act, the following 
information:
            ``(A) The case name and number, hyperlinked to the case, if 
        available.
            ``(B) The name of the agency involved in the case.
            ``(C) The name of each party to whom the award was made as 
        such party is identified in the order or other court document 
        making the award.
            ``(D) A description of the claims in the case.
            ``(E) The amount of the award.

[[Page 133 STAT. 764]]

            ``(F) The basis for the finding that the position of the 
        agency concerned was not substantially justified.

    ``(7) The online searchable database described in paragraph (6) may 
not reveal any information the disclosure of which is prohibited by law 
or a court order.
    ``(8) The head of each agency (including the Attorney General of the 
United States) shall provide to the Chairman of the Administrative 
Conference of the United States in a timely manner all information 
requested by the Chairman to comply with the requirements of paragraphs 
(5), (6), and (7).''.
            (3) Technical and conforming amendments.--Section 2412 of 
        title 28, United States Code, is amended--
                    (A) in subsection (d)(3), by striking ``United 
                States Code,''; and
                    (B) in subsection (e)--
                          (i) by striking ``of section 2412 of title 28, 
                      United States Code,'' and inserting ``of this 
                      section''; and
                          (ii) by striking ``of such title'' and 
                      inserting ``of this title''.

    (b) Judgment Fund Transparency.--Section 1304 of title 31, United 
States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following:
    ``(d) Beginning not later than the date that is 60 days after the 
date of enactment of the John D. Dingell, Jr. Conservation, Management, 
and Recreation Act, and unless the disclosure of such information is 
otherwise prohibited by law or a court order, the Secretary of the 
Treasury shall make available to the public on a website, as soon as 
practicable, but not later than 30 days after the date on which a 
payment under this section is tendered, the following information with 
regard to that payment:
            ``(1) The name of the specific agency or entity whose 
        actions gave rise to the claim or judgment.
            ``(2) The name of the plaintiff or claimant.
            ``(3) The name of counsel for the plaintiff or claimant.
            ``(4) The amount paid representing principal liability, and 
        any amounts paid representing any ancillary liability, including 
        attorney fees, costs, and interest.
            ``(5) A brief description of the facts that gave rise to the 
        claim.
            ``(6) The name of the agency that submitted the claim.''.

   Subtitle D--Migratory Bird Framework and Hunting Opportunities for 
                                Veterans

SEC. 4301. FEDERAL CLOSING DATE FOR HUNTING OF DUCKS, MERGANSERS, 
                          AND COOTS.

    Section 3 of the Migratory Bird Treaty Act (16 U.S.C. 704) is 
amended by adding at the end the following:
    ``(c) Federal Framework Closing Date for Hunting of Ducks, 
Mergansers, and Coots.--
            ``(1) Regulations relating to framework closing date.--
                    ``(A) In general.--In promulgating regulations under 
                subsection (a) relating to the Federal framework for the 
                closing date up to which the States may select seasons 
                for migratory bird hunting, except as provided in 
                paragraph

[[Page 133 STAT. 765]]

                (2), the Secretary shall, with respect to the hunting 
                season for ducks, mergansers, and coots--
                          ``(i) subject to subparagraph (B), adopt the 
                      recommendation of each respective flyway council 
                      (as defined in section 20.152 of title 50, Code of 
                      Federal Regulations) for the Federal framework if 
                      the Secretary determines that the recommendation 
                      is consistent with science-based and sustainable 
                      harvest management; and
                          ``(ii) allow the States to establish the 
                      closing date for the hunting season in accordance 
                      with the Federal framework.
                    ``(B) Requirement.--The framework closing date 
                promulgated by the Secretary under subparagraph (A) 
                shall not be later than January 31 of each year.
            ``(2) Special hunting days for youths, veterans, and active 
        military personnel.--
                    ``(A) In general.--Notwithstanding the Federal 
                framework closing date under paragraph (1) and subject 
                to subparagraphs (B) and (C), the Secretary shall allow 
                States to select 2 days for youths and 2 days for 
                veterans (as defined in section 101 of title 38, United 
                States Code) and members of the Armed Forces on active 
                duty, including members of the National Guard and 
                Reserves on active duty (other than for training), to 
                hunt eligible ducks, geese, swans, mergansers, coots, 
                moorhens, and gallinules, if the Secretary determines 
                that the addition of those days is consistent with 
                science-based and sustainable harvest management. Such 
                days shall be treated as separate from, and in addition 
                to, the annual Federal framework hunting season lengths.
                    ``(B) Requirements.--In selecting days under 
                subparagraph (A), a State shall ensure that--
                          ``(i) the days selected--
                                    ``(I) may only include the hunting 
                                of duck, geese, swan, merganser, coot, 
                                moorhen, and gallinule species that are 
                                eligible for hunting under the 
                                applicable annual Federal framework;
                                    ``(II) are not more than 14 days 
                                before or after the Federal framework 
                                hunting season for ducks, mergansers, 
                                and coots; and
                                    ``(III) are otherwise consistent 
                                with the Federal framework; and
                          ``(ii) the total number of days in a hunting 
                      season for any migratory bird species, including 
                      any days selected under subparagraph (A), is not 
                      more than 107 days.
                    ``(C) Limitation.--A State may combine the 2 days 
                allowed for youths with the 2 days allowed for veterans 
                and members of the Armed Forces on active duty under 
                subparagraph (A), but in no circumstance may a State 
                have more than a total of 4 additional days added to its 
                regular hunting season for any purpose.
            ``(3) Regulations.--The Secretary shall promulgate 
        regulations in accordance with this subsection for the Federal 
        framework for migratory bird hunting for the 2019-2020 hunting 
        season and each hunting season thereafter.''.

[[Page 133 STAT. 766]]

                        Subtitle E--Miscellaneous

SEC. 4401. &lt;&lt;NOTE: 16 USC 7931.&gt;&gt;  RESPECT FOR TREATIES AND 
                          RIGHTS.

    Nothing in this title or the amendments made by this title--
            (1) affects or modifies any treaty or other right of any 
        federally recognized Indian Tribe; or
            (2) modifies any provision of Federal law relating to 
        migratory birds or to endangered or threatened species.
SEC. 4402. &lt;&lt;NOTE: 16 USC 7932.&gt;&gt;  NO PRIORITY.

    Nothing in this title or the amendments made by this title provides 
a preference to hunting, fishing, or recreational shooting over any 
other use of Federal land or water.
SEC. 4403. &lt;&lt;NOTE: 16 USC 7933.&gt;&gt;  STATE AUTHORITY FOR FISH AND 
                          WILDLIFE.

    Nothing in this title--
            (1) authorizes the Secretary of Agriculture or the Secretary 
        to require Federal licenses or permits to hunt and fish on 
        Federal land; or
            (2) enlarges or diminishes the responsibility or authority 
        of States with respect to fish and wildlife management.

                      TITLE V--HAZARDS AND MAPPING

SEC. 5001. &lt;&lt;NOTE: 43 USC 31k.&gt;&gt;  NATIONAL VOLCANO EARLY WARNING 
                          AND MONITORING SYSTEM.

    (a) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary, 
        acting through the Director of the United States Geological 
        Survey.
            (2) System.--The term ``System'' means the National Volcano 
        Early Warning and Monitoring System established under subsection 
        (b)(1)(A).

    (b) National Volcano Early Warning and Monitoring System.--
            (1) Establishment.--
                    (A) In general.--The Secretary shall establish 
                within the United States Geological Survey a system, to 
                be known as the ``National Volcano Early Warning and 
                Monitoring System'', to monitor, warn, and protect 
                citizens of the United States from undue and avoidable 
                harm from volcanic activity.
                    (B) Purposes.--The purposes of the System are--
                          (i) to organize, modernize, standardize, and 
                      stabilize the monitoring systems of the volcano 
                      observatories in the United States, which includes 
                      the Alaska Volcano Observatory, California Volcano 
                      Observatory, Cascades Volcano Observatory, 
                      Hawaiian Volcano Observatory, and Yellowstone 
                      Volcano Observatory; and
                          (ii) to unify the monitoring systems of 
                      volcano observatories in the United States into a 
                      single interoperative system.
                    (C) Objective.--The objective of the System is to 
                monitor all the volcanoes in the United States at a 
                level commensurate with the threat posed by the 
                volcanoes by--

[[Page 133 STAT. 767]]

                          (i) upgrading existing networks on monitored 
                      volcanoes;
                          (ii) installing new networks on unmonitored 
                      volcanoes; and
                          (iii) employing geodetic and other components 
                      when applicable.
            (2) System components.--
                    (A) In general.--The System shall include--
                          (i) a national volcano watch office that is 
                      operational 24 hours a day and 7 days a week;
                          (ii) a national volcano data center; and
                          (iii) an external grants program to support 
                      research in volcano monitoring science and 
                      technology.
                    (B) Modernization activities.--Modernization 
                activities under the System shall include the 
                comprehensive application of emerging technologies, 
                including digital broadband seismometers, real-time 
                continuous Global Positioning System receivers, 
                satellite and airborne radar interferometry, acoustic 
                pressure sensors, and spectrometry to measure gas 
                emissions.
            (3) Management.--
                    (A) Management plan.--
                          (i) In general.--Not later than 180 days after 
                      the date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary 
                      shall submit to Congress a 5-year management plan 
                      for establishing and operating the System.
                          (ii) Inclusions.--The management plan 
                      submitted under clause (i) shall include--
                                    (I) annual cost estimates for 
                                modernization activities and operation 
                                of the System;
                                    (II) annual milestones, standards, 
                                and performance goals; and
                                    (III) recommendations for, and 
                                progress towards, establishing new, or 
                                enhancing existing, partnerships to 
                                leverage resources.
                    (B) Advisory committee.--The Secretary shall 
                establish an advisory committee to assist the Secretary 
                in implementing the System, to be comprised of 
                representatives of relevant agencies and members of the 
                scientific community, to be appointed by the Secretary.
                    (C) Partnerships.--The Secretary may enter into 
                cooperative agreements with institutions of higher 
                education and State agencies designating the 
                institutions of higher education and State agencies as 
                volcano observatory partners for the System.
                    (D) Coordination.--The Secretary shall coordinate 
                the activities under this section with the heads of 
                relevant Federal agencies, including--
                          (i) the Secretary of Transportation;
                          (ii) the Administrator of the Federal Aviation 
                      Administration;
                          (iii) the Administrator of the National 
                      Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration; and
                          (iv) the Administrator of the Federal 
                      Emergency Management Agency.

[[Page 133 STAT. 768]]

            (4) Annual report.--Annually, the Secretary shall submit to 
        Congress a report that describes the activities carried out 
        under this section.

    (c) Funding.--
            (1) Authorization of appropriations.--There is authorized to 
        be appropriated to carry out this section $55,000,000 for the 
        period of fiscal years 2019 through 2023.
            (2) Effect on other sources of federal funding.--Amounts 
        made available under this subsection shall supplement, and not 
        supplant, Federal funds made available for other United States 
        Geological Survey hazards activities and programs.
SEC. 5002. REAUTHORIZATION OF NATIONAL GEOLOGIC MAPPING ACT OF 
                          1992.

    (a) Reauthorization.--
            (1) In general.--Section 9(a) of the National Geologic 
        Mapping Act of 1992 (43 U.S.C. 31h(a)) is amended by striking 
        ``2018'' and inserting ``2023''.
            (2) Conforming amendment.--Section 4(b)(1) of the National 
        Geologic Mapping Act of 1992 (43 U.S.C. 31c(b)(1)) is amended by 
        striking ``Omnibus Public Land Management Act of 2009'' each 
        place it appears in subparagraphs (A) and (B) and inserting 
        ``John D. Dingell, Jr. Conservation, Management, and Recreation 
        Act''.

    (b) Geologic Mapping Advisory Committee.--Section 5(a)(3) of the 
National Geologic Mapping Act of 1992 (43 U.S.C. 31d(a)(3)) is amended 
by striking ``Associate Director for Geology'' and inserting ``Associate 
Director for Core Science Systems''.
    (c) Clerical Amendments.--Section 3 of the National Geologic Mapping 
Act of 1992 (43 U.S.C. 31b) is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (4), by striking ``section 6(d)(3)'' and 
        inserting ``section 4(d)(3)'';
            (2) in paragraph (5), by striking ``section 6(d)(1)'' and 
        inserting ``section 4(d)(1)''; and
            (3) in paragraph (9), by striking ``section 6(d)(2)'' and 
        inserting ``section 4(d)(2)''.

                    TITLE VI--NATIONAL HERITAGE AREAS

SEC. 6001. NATIONAL HERITAGE AREA DESIGNATIONS.

    (a) In General.--The following areas are designated as National 
Heritage Areas, to be administered in accordance with this section:
            (1) Appalachian forest national heritage area, west virginia 
        and maryland.--
                    (A) In general.--There is established the 
                Appalachian Forest National Heritage Area in the States 
                of West Virginia and Maryland, as depicted on the map 
                entitled ``Appalachian Forest National Heritage Area'', 
                numbered T07/80,000, and dated October 2007, including--
                          (i) Barbour, Braxton, Grant, Greenbrier, 
                      Hampshire, Hardy, Mineral, Morgan, Nicholas, 
                      Pendleton, Pocahontas, Preston, Randolph, Tucker, 
                      Upshur, and Webster Counties in West Virginia; and
                          (ii) Allegany and Garrett Counties in 
                      Maryland.

[[Page 133 STAT. 769]]

                    (B) Local coordinating entity.--The Appalachian 
                Forest Heritage Area, Inc., shall be--
                          (i) the local coordinating entity for the 
                      National Heritage Area designated by subparagraph 
                      (A) (referred to in this subparagraph as the 
                      ``local coordinating entity''); and
                          (ii) governed by a board of directors that 
                      shall--
                                    (I) include members to represent a 
                                geographic balance across the counties 
                                described in subparagraph (A) and the 
                                States of West Virginia and Maryland;
                                    (II) be composed of not fewer than 
                                7, and not more than 15, members elected 
                                by the membership of the local 
                                coordinating entity;
                                    (III) be selected to represent a 
                                balanced group of diverse interests, 
                                including--
                                            (aa) the forest industry;
                                            (bb) environmental 
                                        interests;
                                            (cc) cultural heritage 
                                        interests;
                                            (dd) tourism interests; and
                                            (ee) regional agency 
                                        partners;
                                    (IV) exercise all corporate powers 
                                of the local coordinating entity;
                                    (V) manage the activities and 
                                affairs of the local coordinating 
                                entity; and
                                    (VI) subject to any limitations in 
                                the articles and bylaws of the local 
                                coordinating entity, this section, and 
                                other applicable Federal or State law, 
                                establish the policies of the local 
                                coordinating entity.
            (2) &lt;&lt;NOTE: 54 USC 320101 note.&gt;&gt;  Maritime washington 
        national heritage area, washington.--
                    (A) In general.--There is established the Maritime 
                Washington National Heritage Area in the State of 
                Washington, to include land in Whatcom, Skagit, 
                Snohomish, San Juan, Island, King, Pierce, Thurston, 
                Mason, Kitsap, Jefferson, Clallam, and Grays Harbor 
                Counties in the State that is at least partially located 
                within the area that is \1/4\-mile landward of the 
                shoreline, as generally depicted on the map entitled 
                ``Maritime Washington National Heritage Area Proposed 
                Boundary'', numbered 584/125,484, and dated August, 
                2014.
                    (B) Local coordinating entity.--The Washington Trust 
                for Historic Preservation shall be the local 
                coordinating entity for the National Heritage Area 
                designated by subparagraph (A).
            (3) &lt;&lt;NOTE: 54 USC 320101 note.&gt;&gt;  Mountains to sound 
        greenway national heritage area, washington.--
                    (A) In general.--There is established the Mountains 
                to Sound Greenway National Heritage Area in the State of 
                Washington, to consist of land in King and Kittitas 
                Counties in the State, as generally depicted on the map 
                entitled ``Mountains to Sound Greenway National Heritage 
                Area Proposed Boundary'', numbered 584/125,483, and 
                dated August, 2014 (referred to in this paragraph as the 
                ``map'').

[[Page 133 STAT. 770]]

                    (B) Local coordinating entity.--The Mountains to 
                Sound Greenway Trust shall be the local coordinating 
                entity for the National Heritage Area designated by 
                subparagraph (A).
                    (C) Map.--The map shall be on file and available for 
                public inspection in the appropriate offices of--
                          (i) the National Park Service;
                          (ii) the Forest Service;
                          (iii) the Indian Tribes; and
                          (iv) the local coordinating entity.
                    (D) References to indian tribe; tribal.--Any 
                reference in this paragraph to the terms ``Indian 
                Tribe'' and ``Tribal'' shall be considered, for purposes 
                of the National Heritage Area designated by subparagraph 
                (A), to refer to each of the Tribal governments of the 
                Snoqualmie, Yakama, Tulalip, Muckleshoot, and Colville 
                Indian Tribes.
                    (E) Management requirements.--With respect to the 
                National Heritage Area designated by subparagraph (A)--
                          (i) the preparation of an interpretive plan 
                      under subsection (c)(2)(C)(vii) shall also include 
                      plans for Tribal heritage;
                          (ii) the Secretary shall ensure that the 
                      management plan developed under subsection (c) is 
                      consistent with the trust responsibilities of the 
                      Secretary to Indian Tribes and Tribal treaty 
                      rights within the National Heritage Area;
                          (iii) the interpretive plan and management 
                      plan for the National Heritage Area shall be 
                      developed in consultation with the Indian Tribes;
                          (iv) nothing in this paragraph shall grant or 
                      diminish any hunting, fishing, or gathering treaty 
                      right of any Indian Tribe; and
                          (v) nothing in this paragraph affects the 
                      authority of a State or an Indian Tribe to manage 
                      fish and wildlife, including the regulation of 
                      hunting and fishing within the National Heritage 
                      Area.
            (4) &lt;&lt;NOTE: 54 USC 320101 note.&gt;&gt;  Sacramento-san joaquin 
        delta national heritage area, california.--
                    (A) In general.--There is established the 
                Sacramento-San Joaquin Delta National Heritage Area in 
                the State of California, to consist of land in Contra 
                Costa, Sacramento, San Joaquin, Solano, and Yolo 
                Counties in the State, as generally depicted on the map 
                entitled ``Sacramento-San Joaquin Delta National 
                Heritage Area Proposed Boundary'', numbered T27/105,030, 
                and dated October 2012.
                    (B) Local coordinating entity.--The Delta Protection 
                Commission established by section 29735 of the 
                California Public Resources Code shall be the local 
                coordinating entity for the National Heritage Area 
                designated by subparagraph (A).
                    (C) Effect.--This paragraph shall not be interpreted 
                or implemented in a manner that directly or indirectly 
                has a negative effect on the operations of the Central 
                Valley Project, the State Water Project, or any water 
                supply facilities within the Bay-Delta watershed.

[[Page 133 STAT. 771]]

            (5) &lt;&lt;NOTE: 54 USC 320101 note.&gt;&gt;  Santa cruz valley 
        national heritage area, arizona.--
                    (A) In general.--There is established the Santa Cruz 
                Valley National Heritage Area in the State of Arizona, 
                to consist of land in Pima and Santa Cruz Counties in 
                the State, as generally depicted on the map entitled 
                ``Santa Cruz Valley National Heritage Area'', numbered 
                T09/80,000, and dated November 13, 2007.
                    (B) Local coordinating entity.--Santa Cruz Valley 
                Heritage Alliance, Inc., a nonprofit organization 
                established under the laws of the State of Arizona, 
                shall be the local coordinating entity for the National 
                Heritage Area designated by subparagraph (A).
            (6) &lt;&lt;NOTE: 54 USC 320101 note.&gt;&gt;  Susquehanna national 
        heritage area, pennsylvania.--
                    (A) In general.--There is established the 
                Susquehanna National Heritage Area in the State of 
                Pennsylvania, to consist of land in Lancaster and York 
                Counties in the State.
                    (B) Local coordinating entity.--The Susquehanna 
                Heritage Corporation, a nonprofit organization 
                established under the laws of the State of Pennsylvania, 
                shall be the local coordinating entity for the National 
                Heritage Area designated by subparagraph (A).

    (b) &lt;&lt;NOTE: 54 USC 320101 note.&gt;&gt;  Administration.--
            (1) Authorities.--For purposes of carrying out the 
        management plan for each of the National Heritage Areas 
        designated by subsection (a), the Secretary, acting through the 
        local coordinating entity, may use amounts made available under 
        subsection (g)--
                    (A) to make grants to the State or a political 
                subdivision of the State, Indian Tribes, nonprofit 
                organizations, and other persons;
                    (B) to enter into cooperative agreements with, or 
                provide technical assistance to, the State or a 
                political subdivision of the State, Indian Tribes, 
                nonprofit organizations, and other interested parties;
                    (C) to hire and compensate staff, which shall 
                include individuals with expertise in natural, cultural, 
                and historical resources protection, and heritage 
                programming;
                    (D) to obtain money or services from any source 
                including any money or services that are provided under 
                any other Federal law or program;
                    (E) to contract for goods or services; and
                    (F) to undertake to be a catalyst for any other 
                activity that furthers the National Heritage Area and is 
                consistent with the approved management plan.
            (2) Duties.--The local coordinating entity for each of the 
        National Heritage Areas designated by subsection (a) shall--
                    (A) in accordance with subsection (c), prepare and 
                submit a management plan for the National Heritage Area 
                to the Secretary;
                    (B) assist Federal agencies, the State or a 
                political subdivision of the State, Indian Tribes, 
                regional planning organizations, nonprofit organizations 
                and other interested parties in carrying out the 
                approved management plan by--

[[Page 133 STAT. 772]]

                          (i) carrying out programs and projects that 
                      recognize, protect, and enhance important resource 
                      values in the National Heritage Area;
                          (ii) establishing and maintaining interpretive 
                      exhibits and programs in the National Heritage 
                      Area;
                          (iii) developing recreational and educational 
                      opportunities in the National Heritage Area;
                          (iv) increasing public awareness of, and 
                      appreciation for, natural, historical, scenic, and 
                      cultural resources of the National Heritage Area;
                          (v) protecting and restoring historic sites 
                      and buildings in the National Heritage Area that 
                      are consistent with National Heritage Area themes;
                          (vi) ensuring that clear, consistent, and 
                      appropriate signs identifying points of public 
                      access and sites of interest are posted throughout 
                      the National Heritage Area; and
                          (vii) promoting a wide range of partnerships 
                      among the Federal Government, State, Tribal, and 
                      local governments, organizations, and individuals 
                      to further the National Heritage Area;
                    (C) consider the interests of diverse units of 
                government, businesses, organizations, and individuals 
                in the National Heritage Area in the preparation and 
                implementation of the management plan;
                    (D) conduct meetings open to the public at least 
                semiannually regarding the development and 
                implementation of the management plan;
                    (E) for any year that Federal funds have been 
                received under this subsection--
                          (i) submit to the Secretary an annual report 
                      that describes the activities, expenses, and 
                      income of the local coordinating entity (including 
                      grants to any other entities during the year that 
                      the report is made);
                          (ii) make available to the Secretary for audit 
                      all records relating to the expenditure of the 
                      funds and any matching funds; and
                          (iii) require, with respect to all agreements 
                      authorizing expenditure of Federal funds by other 
                      organizations, that the organizations receiving 
                      the funds make available to the Secretary for 
                      audit all records concerning the expenditure of 
                      the funds; and
                    (F) encourage by appropriate means economic 
                viability that is consistent with the National Heritage 
                Area.
            (3) Prohibition on the acquisition of real property.--The 
        local coordinating entity shall not use Federal funds made 
        available under subsection (g) to acquire real property or any 
        interest in real property.

    (c) &lt;&lt;NOTE: 54 USC 320101 note.&gt;&gt;  Management Plan.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 3 years after the date of 
        enactment of this Act, the local coordinating entity for each of 
        the National Heritage Areas designated by subsection (a) shall 
        submit to the Secretary for approval a proposed management plan 
        for the National Heritage Area.
            (2) Requirements.--The management plan shall--
                    (A) incorporate an integrated and cooperative 
                approach for the protection, enhancement, and 
                interpretation of the

[[Page 133 STAT. 773]]

                natural, cultural, historic, scenic, and recreational 
                resources of the National Heritage Area;
                    (B) take into consideration Federal, State, local, 
                and Tribal plans and treaty rights;
                    (C) include--
                          (i) an inventory of--
                                    (I) the resources located in the 
                                National Heritage Area; and
                                    (II) any other property in the 
                                National Heritage Area that--
                                            (aa) is related to the 
                                        themes of the National Heritage 
                                        Area; and
                                            (bb) should be preserved, 
                                        restored, managed, or maintained 
                                        because of the significance of 
                                        the property;
                          (ii) comprehensive policies, strategies and 
                      recommendations for conservation, funding, 
                      management, and development of the National 
                      Heritage Area;
                          (iii) a description of actions that the 
                      Federal Government, State, Tribal, and local 
                      governments, private organizations, and 
                      individuals have agreed to take to protect the 
                      natural, historical, cultural, scenic, and 
                      recreational resources of the National Heritage 
                      Area;
                          (iv) a program of implementation for the 
                      management plan by the local coordinating entity 
                      that includes a description of--
                                    (I) actions to facilitate ongoing 
                                collaboration among partners to promote 
                                plans for resource protection, 
                                restoration, and construction; and
                                    (II) specific commitments for 
                                implementation that have been made by 
                                the local coordinating entity or any 
                                government, organization, or individual 
                                for the first 5 years of operation;
                          (v) the identification of sources of funding 
                      for carrying out the management plan;
                          (vi) analysis and recommendations for means by 
                      which Federal, State, local, and Tribal programs, 
                      including the role of the National Park Service in 
                      the National Heritage Area, may best be 
                      coordinated to carry out this subsection; and
                          (vii) an interpretive plan for the National 
                      Heritage Area; and
                    (D) recommend policies and strategies for resource 
                management that consider and detail the application of 
                appropriate land and water management techniques, 
                including the development of intergovernmental and 
                interagency cooperative agreements to protect the 
                natural, historical, cultural, educational, scenic, and 
                recreational resources of the National Heritage Area.
            (3) Deadline.--If a proposed management plan is not 
        submitted to the Secretary by the date that is 3 years after the 
        date of enactment of this Act, the local coordinating entity 
        shall be ineligible to receive additional funding under this 
        section until the date on which the Secretary receives and 
        approves the management plan.
            (4) Approval or disapproval of management plan.--

[[Page 133 STAT. 774]]

                    (A) In general.--Not later than 180 days after the 
                date of receipt of the management plan under paragraph 
                (1), the Secretary, in consultation with State and 
                Tribal governments, shall approve or disapprove the 
                management plan.
                    (B) Criteria for approval.--In determining whether 
                to approve the management plan, the Secretary shall 
                consider whether--
                          (i) the local coordinating entity is 
                      representative of the diverse interests of the 
                      National Heritage Area, including Federal, State, 
                      Tribal, and local governments, natural and 
                      historic resource protection organizations, 
                      educational institutions, businesses, and 
                      recreational organizations;
                          (ii) the local coordinating entity has 
                      afforded adequate opportunity, including public 
                      hearings, for public and governmental involvement 
                      in the preparation of the management plan; and
                          (iii) the resource protection and 
                      interpretation strategies contained in the 
                      management plan, if implemented, would adequately 
                      protect the natural, historical, and cultural 
                      resources of the National Heritage Area.
                    (C) Action following disapproval.--If the Secretary 
                disapproves the management plan under subparagraph (A), 
                the Secretary shall--
                          (i) advise the local coordinating entity in 
                      writing of the reasons for the disapproval;
                          (ii) make recommendations for revisions to the 
                      management plan; and
                          (iii) not later than 180 days after the 
                      receipt of any proposed revision of the management 
                      plan from the local coordinating entity, approve 
                      or disapprove the proposed revision.
                    (D) Amendments.--
                          (i) In general.--The Secretary shall approve 
                      or disapprove each amendment to the management 
                      plan that the Secretary determines make a 
                      substantial change to the management plan.
                          (ii) Use of funds.--The local coordinating 
                      entity shall not use Federal funds authorized by 
                      this subsection to carry out any amendments to the 
                      management plan until the Secretary has approved 
                      the amendments.

    (d) &lt;&lt;NOTE: 54 USC 320101 note.&gt;&gt;  Relationship to Other Federal 
Agencies.--
            (1) In general.--Nothing in this section affects the 
        authority of a Federal agency to provide technical or financial 
        assistance under any other law.
            (2) Consultation and coordination.--The head of any Federal 
        agency planning to conduct activities that may have an impact on 
        a National Heritage Area designated by subsection (a) is 
        encouraged to consult and coordinate the activities with the 
        Secretary and the local coordinating entity to the maximum 
        extent practicable.
            (3) Other federal agencies.--Nothing in this section--

[[Page 133 STAT. 775]]

                    (A) modifies, alters, or amends any law or 
                regulation authorizing a Federal agency to manage 
                Federal land under the jurisdiction of the Federal 
                agency;
                    (B) limits the discretion of a Federal land manager 
                to implement an approved land use plan within the 
                boundaries of a National Heritage Area designated by 
                subsection (a); or
                    (C) modifies, alters, or amends any authorized use 
                of Federal land under the jurisdiction of a Federal 
                agency.

    (e) &lt;&lt;NOTE: 54 USC 320101 note.&gt;&gt;  Private Property and Regulatory 
Protections.--Nothing in this section--
            (1) abridges the rights of any property owner (whether 
        public or private), including the right to refrain from 
        participating in any plan, project, program, or activity 
        conducted within a National Heritage Area designated by 
        subsection (a);
            (2) requires any property owner--
                    (A) to permit public access (including access by 
                Federal, State, or local agencies) to the property of 
                the property owner; or
                    (B) to modify public access or use of property of 
                the property owner under any other Federal, State, or 
                local law;
            (3) alters any duly adopted land use regulation, approved 
        land use plan, or other regulatory authority of any Federal, 
        State, Tribal, or local agency;
            (4) conveys any land use or other regulatory authority to 
        the local coordinating entity;
            (5) authorizes or implies the reservation or appropriation 
        of water or water rights;
            (6) enlarges or diminishes the treaty rights of any Indian 
        Tribe within the National Heritage Area;
            (7) diminishes--
                    (A) the authority of the State to manage fish and 
                wildlife, including the regulation of fishing and 
                hunting within a National Heritage Area designated by 
                subsection (a); or
                    (B) the authority of Indian Tribes to regulate 
                members of Indian Tribes with respect to fishing, 
                hunting, and gathering in the exercise of treaty rights; 
                or
            (8) creates any liability, or affects any liability under 
        any other law, of any private property owner with respect to any 
        person injured on the private property.

    (f) &lt;&lt;NOTE: 54 USC 320101 note.&gt;&gt;  Evaluation and Report.--
            (1) In general.--For each of the National Heritage Areas 
        designated by subsection (a), not later than 3 years before the 
        date on which authority for Federal funding terminates for each 
        National Heritage Area, the Secretary shall--
                    (A) conduct an evaluation of the accomplishments of 
                the National Heritage Area; and
                    (B) prepare a report in accordance with paragraph 
                (3).
            (2) Evaluation.--An evaluation conducted under paragraph 
        (1)(A) shall--
                    (A) assess the progress of the local management 
                entity with respect to--
                          (i) accomplishing the purposes of the 
                      authorizing legislation for the National Heritage 
                      Area; and

[[Page 133 STAT. 776]]

                          (ii) achieving the goals and objectives of the 
                      approved management plan for the National Heritage 
                      Area;
                    (B) analyze the investments of the Federal 
                Government, State, Tribal, and local governments, and 
                private entities in each National Heritage Area to 
                determine the impact of the investments; and
                    (C) review the management structure, partnership 
                relationships, and funding of the National Heritage Area 
                for purposes of identifying the critical components for 
                sustainability of the National Heritage Area.
            (3) Report.--Based on the evaluation conducted under 
        paragraph (1)(A), the Secretary shall submit to the Committee on 
        Energy and Natural Resources of the Senate and the Committee on 
        Natural Resources of the House of Representatives a report that 
        includes recommendations for the future role of the National 
        Park Service, if any, with respect to the National Heritage 
        Area.

    (g) &lt;&lt;NOTE: 54 USC 320101 note.&gt;&gt;  Authorization of 
Appropriations.--
            (1) In general.--There is authorized to be appropriated for 
        each National Heritage Area designated by subsection (a) to 
        carry out the purposes of this section $10,000,000, of which not 
        more than $1,000,000 may be made available in any fiscal year.
            (2) Availability.--Amounts made available under paragraph 
        (1) shall remain available until expended.
            (3) Cost-sharing requirement.--
                    (A) In general.--The Federal share of the total cost 
                of any activity under this section shall be not more 
                than 50 percent.
                    (B) Form.--The non-Federal contribution of the total 
                cost of any activity under this section may be in the 
                form of in-kind contributions of goods or services 
                fairly valued.
            (4) Termination of authority.--The authority of the 
        Secretary to provide assistance under this section terminates on 
        the date that is 15 years after the date of enactment of this 
        Act.
SEC. 6002. ADJUSTMENT OF BOUNDARIES OF LINCOLN NATIONAL HERITAGE 
                          AREA.

    (a) Boundary Adjustment.--Section 443(b)(1) of the Consolidated 
Natural Resources Act of 2008 (Public Law 110-229; 122 Stat. 
819) &lt;&lt;NOTE: 54 USC 320101 note.&gt;&gt;  is amended--
            (1) by inserting ``, Livingston,'' after ``LaSalle''; and
            (2) by inserting ``, the city of Jonesboro in Union County, 
        and the city of Freeport in Stephenson County'' after ``Woodford 
        counties''.

    (b) Map.--The Secretary shall update the map referred to in section 
443(b)(2) of the Consolidated Natural Resources Act of 2008 to reflect 
the boundary adjustment made by the amendments in subsection (a).
SEC. 6003. FINGER LAKES NATIONAL HERITAGE AREA STUDY.

    (a) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Heritage area.--The term ``Heritage Area'' means the 
        Finger Lakes National Heritage Area.
            (2) State.--The term ``State'' means the State of New York.

[[Page 133 STAT. 777]]

            (3) Study area.--The term ``study area'' means--
                    (A) the counties in the State of Cayuga, Chemung, 
                Cortland, Livingston, Monroe, Onondaga, Ontario, 
                Schuyler, Seneca, Steuben, Tioga, Tompkins, Wayne, and 
                Yates; and
                    (B) any other areas in the State that--
                          (i) have heritage aspects that are similar to 
                      the areas described in subparagraph (A); and
                          (ii) are adjacent to, or in the vicinity of, 
                      those areas.

    (b) Study.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary, in consultation with State 
        and local historic preservation officers, State and local 
        historical societies, State and local tourism offices, and other 
        appropriate organizations and governmental agencies, shall 
        conduct a study to assess the suitability and feasibility of 
        designating the study area as a National Heritage Area, to be 
        known as the ``Finger Lakes National Heritage Area''.
            (2) Requirements.--The study shall include analysis, 
        documentation, and determinations on whether the study area--
                    (A) has an assemblage of natural, historic, and 
                cultural resources that--
                          (i) represent distinctive aspects of the 
                      heritage of the United States;
                          (ii) are worthy of recognition, conservation, 
                      interpretation, and continuing use; and
                          (iii) would be best managed--
                                    (I) through partnerships among 
                                public and private entities; and
                                    (II) by linking diverse and 
                                sometimes noncontiguous resources and 
                                active communities;
                    (B) reflects traditions, customs, beliefs, and 
                folklife that are a valuable part of the story of the 
                United States;
                    (C) provides outstanding opportunities--
                          (i) to conserve natural, historic, cultural, 
                      or scenic features; and
                          (ii) for recreation and education;
                    (D) contains resources that--
                          (i) are important to any identified themes of 
                      the study area; and
                          (ii) retain a degree of integrity capable of 
                      supporting interpretation;
                    (E) includes residents, business interests, 
                nonprofit organizations, and State and local governments 
                that--
                          (i) are involved in the planning of the 
                      Heritage Area;
                          (ii) have developed a conceptual financial 
                      plan that outlines the roles of all participants 
                      in the Heritage Area, including the Federal 
                      Government; and
                          (iii) have demonstrated support for the 
                      designation of the Heritage Area;
                    (F) has a potential management entity to work in 
                partnership with the individuals and entities described 
                in subparagraph (E) to develop the Heritage Area while 
                encouraging State and local economic activity; and
                    (G) has a conceptual boundary map that is supported 
                by the public.

[[Page 133 STAT. 778]]

    (c) Report.--Not later than 3 years after the date on which funds 
are first made available to carry out this section, the Secretary shall 
submit to the Committee on Natural Resources of the House of 
Representatives and the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources of the 
Senate a report that describes--
            (1) the findings of the study under subsection (b); and
            (2) any conclusions and recommendations of the Secretary.
SEC. 6004. NATIONAL HERITAGE AREA AMENDMENTS.

    (a) Rivers of Steel National Heritage Area.--Section 409(a) of the 
Omnibus Parks and Public Lands Management Act of 1996 (Public Law 104-
333; 110 Stat. 4256; 129 Stat. 2551) &lt;&lt;NOTE: 54 USC 320101 note.&gt;&gt;  is 
amended in the second sentence, by striking ``$17,000,000'' and 
inserting ``$20,000,000''.

    (b) Essex National Heritage Area.--Section 508(a) of the Omnibus 
Parks and Public Lands Management Act of 1996 (Public Law 104-333; 110 
Stat. 4260; 129 Stat. 2551) is amended in the second sentence, by 
striking ``$17,000,000'' and inserting ``$20,000,000''.
    (c) Ohio & Erie National Heritage Canalway.--Section 810(a) of the 
Omnibus Parks and Public Lands Management Act of 1996 (Public Law 104-
333; 110 Stat. 4275; 122 Stat. 826) is amended by striking the second 
sentence and inserting the following: ``Not more than a total of 
$20,000,000 may be appropriated for the canalway under this title.''.
    (d) Blue Ridge National Heritage Area.--The Blue Ridge National 
Heritage Area Act of 2003 (Public Law 108-108; 117 Stat. 1274; 131 Stat. 
461; 132 Stat. 661) is amended--
            (1) in subsection (i)(1), by striking ``$12,000,000'' and 
        inserting ``$14,000,000''; and
            (2) by striking subsection (j) and inserting the following:

    ``(j) Termination of Authority.--The authority of the Secretary to 
provide assistance under this section terminates on September 30, 
2021.''.
    (e) MotorCities National Heritage Area.--Section 110(a) of the 
Automobile National Heritage Area Act (Public Law 105-355; 112 Stat. 
3252) is amended, in the second sentence, by striking ``$10,000,000'' 
and inserting ``$12,000,000''.
    (f) Wheeling National Heritage Area.--Subsection (h)(1) of the 
Wheeling National Heritage Area Act of 2000 (Public Law 106-291; 114 
Stat. 967; 128 Stat. 2421; 129 Stat. 2550) is amended by striking 
``$13,000,000'' and inserting ``$15,000,000''.
    (g) Tennessee Civil War Heritage Area.--Section 208 of the Omnibus 
Parks and Public Lands Management Act of 1996 (Public Law 104-333; 110 
Stat. 4248; 127 Stat. 420; 128 Stat. 314; 129 Stat. 2551; 132 Stat. 661) 
is amended by striking ``after'' and all that follows through the period 
at the end and inserting the following: ``after September 30, 2021.''.
    (h) Augusta Canal National Heritage Area.--Section 310 of the 
Omnibus Parks and Public Lands Management Act of 1996 (Public Law 104-
333; 110 Stat. 4252; 127 Stat. 420; 128 Stat. 314; 129 Stat. 2551; 132 
Stat. 661) is amended by striking ``2019'' and inserting ``2021''.
    (i) South Carolina National Heritage Corridor.--Section 607 of the 
Omnibus Parks and Public Lands Management Act of 1996 (Public Law 104-
333; 110 Stat. 4264; 127 Stat. 420; 128

[[Page 133 STAT. 779]]

Stat. 314; 129 Stat. 2551; 132 Stat. 661) is amended by striking 
``2019'' and inserting ``2021''.
    (j) Oil Region National Heritage Area.--The Oil Region National 
Heritage Area Act (Public Law 108-447; 118 Stat. 3368) is amended by 
striking ``Oil Heritage Region, Inc.'' each place it appears and 
inserting ``Oil Region Alliance of Business, Industry and Tourism''.
    (k) Hudson River Valley National Heritage Area Redesignation.--
            (1) In general.--The Hudson River Valley National Heritage 
        Area Act of 1996 (Public Law 104-333; 110 Stat. 4275) is amended 
        by striking ``Hudson River Valley National Heritage Area'' each 
        place it appears and inserting ``Maurice D. Hinchey Hudson River 
        Valley National Heritage Area''.
            (2) Reference in law.--Any reference in a law, map, 
        regulation, document, paper, or other record of the United 
        States to the Heritage Area referred to in paragraph (1) shall 
        be deemed to be a reference to the ``Maurice D. Hinchey Hudson 
        River Valley National Heritage Area''.

              TITLE VII--WILDLIFE HABITAT AND CONSERVATION

SEC. 7001. WILDLIFE HABITAT AND CONSERVATION.

    (a) Partners for Fish and Wildlife Program Reauthorization.--Section 
5 of the Partners for Fish and Wildlife Act (16 U.S.C. 3774) is amended 
by striking ``2006 through 2011'' and inserting ``2019 through 2023''.
    (b) Fish and Wildlife Coordination.--
            (1) Purpose.--The purpose of this subsection is to protect 
        water, oceans, coasts, and wildlife from invasive species.
            (2) Amendments to fish and wildlife coordination act.--
                    (A) Short title; authorization.--The first section 
                of the Fish and Wildlife Coordination Act (16 U.S.C. 
                661) is amended by striking ``For the purpose'' and 
                inserting the following:
``SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE; AUTHORIZATION.

    ``(a) Short Title.--This Act may be cited as the `Fish and Wildlife 
Coordination Act'.
    ``(b) Authorization.--For the purpose''.
                    (B) Protection of water, oceans, coasts, and 
                wildlife from invasive species.--The Fish and Wildlife 
                Coordination Act (16 U.S.C. 661 et seq.) is amended by 
                adding at the end the following:
``SEC. 10. &lt;&lt;NOTE: 16 USC 666c-1.&gt;&gt;  PROTECTION OF WATER, OCEANS, 
                      COASTS, AND WILDLIFE FROM INVASIVE SPECIES.

    ``(a) Definitions.--In this section:
            ``(1) Control.--The term `control', with respect to an 
        invasive species, means the eradication, suppression, or 
        reduction of the population of the invasive species within the 
        area in which the invasive species is present.

[[Page 133 STAT. 780]]

            ``(2) Ecosystem.--The term `ecosystem' means the complex of 
        a community of organisms and the environment of the organisms.
            ``(3) Eligible state.--The term `eligible State' means any 
        of--
                    ``(A) a State;
                    ``(B) the District of Columbia;
                    ``(C) the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico;
                    ``(D) Guam;
                    ``(E) American Samoa;
                    ``(F) the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana 
                Islands; and
                    ``(G) the United States Virgin Islands.
            ``(4) Invasive species.--
                    ``(A) In general.--The term `invasive species' means 
                an alien species, the introduction of which causes, or 
                is likely to cause, economic or environmental harm or 
                harm to human health.
                    ``(B) Associated definition.--For purposes of 
                subparagraph (A), the term `alien species', with respect 
                to a particular ecosystem, means any species (including 
                the seeds, eggs, spores, or other biological material of 
                the species that are capable of propagating the species) 
                that is not native to the affected ecosystem.
            ``(5) Manage; management.--The terms `manage' and 
        `management', with respect to an invasive species, mean the 
        active implementation of any activity--
                    ``(A) to reduce or stop the spread of the invasive 
                species; and
                    ``(B) to inhibit further infestations of the 
                invasive species, the spread of the invasive species, or 
                harm caused by the invasive species, including 
                investigations regarding methods for early detection and 
                rapid response, prevention, control, or management of 
                the invasive species.
            ``(6) Prevent.--The term `prevent', with respect to an 
        invasive species, means--
                    ``(A) to hinder the introduction of the invasive 
                species onto land or water; or
                    ``(B) to impede the spread of the invasive species 
                within land or water by inspecting, intercepting, or 
                confiscating invasive species threats prior to the 
                establishment of the invasive species onto land or water 
                of an eligible State.
            ``(7) Secretary concerned.--The term `Secretary concerned' 
        means--
                    ``(A) the Secretary of the Army, with respect to 
                Federal land administered by the Corps of Engineers;
                    ``(B) the Secretary of the Interior, with respect to 
                Federal land administered by the Secretary of the 
                Interior through--
                          ``(i) the United States Fish and Wildlife 
                      Service;
                          ``(ii) the Bureau of Indian Affairs;
                          ``(iii) the Bureau of Land Management;
                          ``(iv) the Bureau of Reclamation; or
                          ``(v) the National Park Service;
                    ``(C) the Secretary of Agriculture, with respect to 
                Federal land administered by the Secretary of 
                Agriculture through the Forest Service; and

[[Page 133 STAT. 781]]

                    ``(D) the head or a representative of any other 
                Federal agency the duties of whom require planning 
                relating to, and the treatment of, invasive species for 
                the purpose of protecting water and wildlife on land and 
                coasts and in oceans and water.
            ``(8) Species.--The term `species' means a group of 
        organisms, all of which--
                    ``(A) have a high degree of genetic similarity;
                    ``(B) are morphologically distinct;
                    ``(C) generally--
                          ``(i) interbreed at maturity only among 
                      themselves; and
                          ``(ii) produce fertile offspring; and
                    ``(D) show persistent differences from members of 
                allied groups of organisms.

    ``(b) Control and Management.--Each Secretary concerned shall plan 
and carry out activities on land directly managed by the Secretary 
concerned to protect water and wildlife by controlling and managing 
invasive species--
            ``(1) to inhibit or reduce the populations of invasive 
        species; and
            ``(2) to effectuate restoration or reclamation efforts.

    ``(c) Strategic Plan.--
            ``(1) In general.--Each Secretary concerned shall develop a 
        strategic plan for the implementation of the invasive species 
        program to achieve, to the maximum extent practicable, a 
        substantive annual net reduction of invasive species populations 
        or infested acreage on land or water managed by the Secretary 
        concerned.
            ``(2) Coordination.--Each strategic plan under paragraph (1) 
        shall be developed--
                    ``(A) in coordination with affected--
                          ``(i) eligible States; and
                          ``(ii) political subdivisions of eligible 
                      States;
                    ``(B) in consultation with federally recognized 
                Indian tribes; and
                    ``(C) in accordance with the priorities established 
                by 1 or more Governors of the eligible States in which 
                an ecosystem affected by an invasive species is located.
            ``(3) Factors for consideration.--In developing a strategic 
        plan under this subsection, the Secretary concerned shall take 
        into consideration the economic and ecological costs of action 
        or inaction, as applicable.

    ``(d) Cost-effective Methods.--In selecting a method to be used to 
control or manage an invasive species as part of a specific control or 
management project conducted as part of a strategic plan developed under 
subsection (c), the Secretary concerned shall prioritize the use of 
methods that--
            ``(1) effectively control and manage invasive species, as 
        determined by the Secretary concerned, based on sound scientific 
        data;
            ``(2) minimize environmental impacts; and
            ``(3) control and manage invasive species in the most cost-
        effective manner.

    ``(e) Comparative Economic Assessment.--To achieve compliance with 
subsection (d), the Secretary concerned shall require

[[Page 133 STAT. 782]]

a comparative economic assessment of invasive species control and 
management methods to be conducted.
    ``(f) Expedited Action.--
            ``(1) In general.--The Secretaries concerned shall use all 
        tools and flexibilities available (as of the date of enactment 
        of this section) to expedite the projects and activities 
        described in paragraph (2).
            ``(2) Description of projects and activities.--A project or 
        activity referred to in paragraph (1) is a project or activity--
                    ``(A) to protect water or wildlife from an invasive 
                species that, as determined by the Secretary concerned 
                is, or will be, carried out on land or water that is--
                          ``(i) directly managed by the Secretary 
                      concerned; and
                          ``(ii) located in an area that is--
                                    ``(I) at high risk for the 
                                introduction, establishment, or spread 
                                of invasive species; and
                                    ``(II) determined by the Secretary 
                                concerned to require immediate action to 
                                address the risk identified in subclause 
                                (I); and
                    ``(B) carried out in accordance with applicable 
                agency procedures, including any applicable--
                          ``(i) land or resource management plan; or
                          ``(ii) land use plan.

    ``(g) Allocation of Funding.--Of the amount appropriated or 
otherwise made available to each Secretary concerned for a fiscal year 
for programs that address or include protection of land or water from an 
invasive species, the Secretary concerned shall use not less than 75 
percent for on-the-ground control and management of invasive species, 
which may include--
            ``(1) the purchase of necessary products, equipment, or 
        services to conduct that control and management;
            ``(2) the use of integrated pest management options, 
        including options that use pesticides authorized for sale, 
        distribution, or use under the Federal Insecticide, Fungicide, 
        and Rodenticide Act (7 U.S.C. 136 et seq.);
            ``(3) the use of biological control agents that are proven 
        to be effective to reduce invasive species populations;
            ``(4) the use of revegetation or cultural restoration 
        methods designed to improve the diversity and richness of 
        ecosystems;
            ``(5) the use of monitoring and detection activities for 
        invasive species, including equipment, detection dogs, and 
        mechanical devices;
            ``(6) the use of appropriate methods to remove invasive 
        species from a vehicle or vessel capable of conveyance; or
            ``(7) the use of other effective mechanical or manual 
        control methods.

    ``(h) Investigations, Outreach, and Public Awareness.--Of the amount 
appropriated or otherwise made available to each Secretary concerned for 
a fiscal year for programs that address or include protection of land or 
water from an invasive species, the Secretary concerned may use not more 
than 15 percent for investigations, development activities, and outreach 
and public awareness efforts to address invasive species control and 
management needs.
    ``(i) Administrative Costs.--Of the amount appropriated or otherwise 
made available to each Secretary concerned for a fiscal

[[Page 133 STAT. 783]]

year for programs that address or include protection of land or water 
from an invasive species, not more than 10 percent may be used for 
administrative costs incurred to carry out those programs, including 
costs relating to oversight and management of the programs, 
recordkeeping, and implementation of the strategic plan developed under 
subsection (c).
    ``(j) Reporting Requirements.--Not later than 60 days after the end 
of the second fiscal year beginning after the date of enactment of this 
section, each Secretary concerned shall submit to Congress a report--
            ``(1) describing the use by the Secretary concerned during 
        the 2 preceding fiscal years of funds for programs that address 
        or include invasive species management; and
            ``(2) specifying the percentage of funds expended for each 
        of the purposes specified in subsections (g), (h), and (i).

    ``(k) Relation to Other Authority.--
            ``(1) Other invasive species control, prevention, and 
        management authorities.--Nothing in this section precludes the 
        Secretary concerned from pursuing or supporting, pursuant to any 
        other provision of law, any activity regarding the control, 
        prevention, or management of an invasive species, including 
        investigations to improve the control, prevention, or management 
        of the invasive species.
            ``(2) Public water supply systems.--Nothing in this section 
        authorizes the Secretary concerned to suspend any water delivery 
        or diversion, or otherwise to prevent the operation of a public 
        water supply system, as a measure to control, manage, or prevent 
        the introduction or spread of an invasive species.

    ``(l) Use of Partnerships.--Subject to the subsections (m) and (n), 
the Secretary concerned may enter into any contract or cooperative 
agreement with another Federal agency, an eligible State, a federally 
recognized Indian tribe, a political subdivision of an eligible State, 
or a private individual or entity to assist with the control and 
management of an invasive species.
    ``(m) Memorandum of Understanding.--
            ``(1) In general.--As a condition of a contract or 
        cooperative agreement under subsection (l), the Secretary 
        concerned and the applicable Federal agency, eligible State, 
        political subdivision of an eligible State, or private 
        individual or entity shall enter into a memorandum of 
        understanding that describes--
                    ``(A) the nature of the partnership between the 
                parties to the memorandum of understanding; and
                    ``(B) the control and management activities to be 
                conducted under the contract or cooperative agreement.
            ``(2) Contents.--A memorandum of understanding under this 
        subsection shall contain, at a minimum, the following:
                    ``(A) A prioritized listing of each invasive species 
                to be controlled or managed.
                    ``(B) An assessment of the total acres of land or 
                area of water infested by the invasive species.
                    ``(C) An estimate of the expected total acres of 
                land or area of water infested by the invasive species 
                after control and management of the invasive species is 
                attempted.

[[Page 133 STAT. 784]]

                    ``(D) A description of each specific, integrated 
                pest management option to be used, including a 
                comparative economic assessment to determine the least-
                costly method.
                    ``(E) Any map, boundary, or Global Positioning 
                System coordinates needed to clearly identify the area 
                in which each control or management activity is proposed 
                to be conducted.
                    ``(F) A written assurance that each partner will 
                comply with section 15 of the Federal Noxious Weed Act 
                of 1974 (7 U.S.C. 2814).
            ``(3) Coordination.--If a partner to a contract or 
        cooperative agreement under subsection (l) is an eligible State, 
        political subdivision of an eligible State, or private 
        individual or entity, the memorandum of understanding under this 
        subsection shall include a description of--
                    ``(A) the means by which each applicable control or 
                management effort will be coordinated; and
                    ``(B) the expected outcomes of managing and 
                controlling the invasive species.
            ``(4) Public outreach and awareness efforts.--If a contract 
        or cooperative agreement under subsection (l) involves any 
        outreach or public awareness effort, the memorandum of 
        understanding under this subsection shall include a list of 
        goals and objectives for each outreach or public awareness 
        effort that have been determined to be efficient to inform 
        national, regional, State, Tribal, or local audiences regarding 
        invasive species control and management.

    ``(n) Investigations.--The purpose of any invasive species-related 
investigation carried out under a contract or cooperative agreement 
under subsection (l) shall be--
            ``(1) to develop solutions and specific recommendations for 
        control and management of invasive species; and
            ``(2) specifically to provide faster implementation of 
        control and management methods.

    ``(o) Coordination With Affected Local Governments.--Each project 
and activity carried out pursuant to this section shall be coordinated 
with affected local governments in a manner that is consistent with 
section 202(c)(9) of the Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 1976 
(43 U.S.C. 1712(c)(9)).''.
    (c) Wildlife Conservation.--
            (1) Reauthorizations.--
                    (A) Reauthorization of african elephant conservation 
                act.--Section 2306(a) of the African Elephant 
                Conservation Act (16 U.S.C. 4245(a)) is amended by 
                striking ``2007 through 2012'' and inserting ``2019 
                through 2023''.
                    (B) Reauthorization of asian elephant conservation 
                act of 1997.--Section 8(a) of the Asian Elephant 
                Conservation Act of 1997 (16 U.S.C. 4266(a)) is amended 
                by striking ``2007 through 2012'' and inserting ``2019 
                through 2023''.
                    (C) Reauthorization of rhinoceros and tiger 
                conservation act of 1994.--Section 10(a) of the 
                Rhinoceros and Tiger Conservation Act of 1994 (16 U.S.C. 
                5306(a)) is amended by striking ``2007 through 2012'' 
                and inserting ``2019 through 2023''.

[[Page 133 STAT. 785]]

            (2) Amendments to great ape conservation act of 2000.--
                    (A) Panel.--Section 4(i) of the Great Ape 
                Conservation Act of 2000 (16 U.S.C. 6303(i)) is 
                amended--
                          (i) by striking paragraph (1) and inserting 
                      the following:
            ``(1) Convention.--Not later than 1 year after the date of 
        enactment of the John D. Dingell, Jr. Conservation, Management, 
        and Recreation Act, and every 5 years thereafter, the Secretary 
        may convene a panel of experts on great apes to identify the 
        greatest needs and priorities for the conservation of great 
        apes.'';
                          (ii) by redesignating paragraph (2) as 
                      paragraph (5); and
                          (iii) by inserting after paragraph (1) the 
                      following:
            ``(2) Composition.--The Secretary shall ensure that the 
        panel referred to in paragraph (1) includes, to the maximum 
        extent practicable, 1 or more representatives--
                    ``(A) from each country that comprises the natural 
                range of great apes; and
                    ``(B) with expertise in great ape conservation.
            ``(3) Conservation plans.--In identifying the conservation 
        needs and priorities under paragraph (1), the panel referred to 
        in that paragraph shall consider any relevant great ape 
        conservation plan or strategy, including scientific research and 
        findings relating to--
                    ``(A) the conservation needs and priorities of great 
                apes;
                    ``(B) any regional or species-specific action plan 
                or strategy;
                    ``(C) any applicable strategy developed or initiated 
                by the Secretary; and
                    ``(D) any other applicable conservation plan or 
                strategy.
            ``(4) Funds.--Subject to the availability of appropriations, 
        the Secretary may use amounts available to the Secretary to pay 
        for the costs of convening and facilitating any meeting of the 
        panel referred to in paragraph (1).''.
                    (B) Multiyear grants.--Section 4 of the Great Ape 
                Conservation Act of 2000 (16 U.S.C. 6303) is amended by 
                adding at the end the following:

    ``(j) Multiyear Grants.--
            ``(1) Authorization.--The Secretary may award to a person 
        who is otherwise eligible for a grant under this section a 
        multiyear grant to carry out a project that the person 
        demonstrates is an effective, long-term conservation strategy 
        for great apes and the habitat of great apes.
            ``(2) Effect of subsection.--Nothing in this subsection 
        precludes the Secretary from awarding a grant on an annual 
        basis.''.
                    (C) Administrative expenses.--Section 5(b)(2) of the 
                Great Ape Conservation Act of 2000 (16 U.S.C. 
                6304(b)(2)) is amended by striking ``$100,000'' and 
                inserting ``$150,000''.
                    (D) Authorization of appropriations.--Section 6 of 
                the Great Ape Conservation Act of 2000 (16 U.S.C. 6305) 
                is amended by striking ``2006 through 2010'' and 
                inserting ``2019 through 2023''.

[[Page 133 STAT. 786]]

            (3) Amendments to marine turtle conservation act of 2004.--
                    (A) Purpose.--Section 2 of the Marine Turtle 
                Conservation Act of 2004 (16 U.S.C. 6601) is amended by 
                striking subsection (b) and inserting the following:

    ``(b) Purpose.--The purpose of this Act is to assist in the 
conservation of marine turtles, freshwater turtles, and tortoises and 
the habitats of marine turtles, freshwater turtles, and tortoises in 
foreign countries and territories of the United States by supporting and 
providing financial resources for projects--
            ``(1) to conserve marine turtle, freshwater turtle, and 
        tortoise habitats under the jurisdiction of United States Fish 
        and Wildlife Service programs;
            ``(2) to conserve marine turtles, freshwater turtles, and 
        tortoises in those habitats; and
            ``(3) to address other threats to the survival of marine 
        turtles, freshwater turtles, and tortoises, including habitat 
        loss, poaching of turtles or their eggs, and wildlife 
        trafficking.''.
                    (B) Definitions.--Section 3 of the Marine Turtle 
                Conservation Act of 2004 (16 U.S.C. 6602) is amended--
                          (i) in paragraph (2)--
                                    (I) in the matter preceding 
                                subparagraph (A), by striking ``nesting 
                                habitats of marine turtles in foreign 
                                countries and of marine turtles in those 
                                habitats'' and inserting ``marine 
                                turtles, freshwater turtles, and 
                                tortoises, and the habitats of marine 
                                turtles, freshwater turtles, and 
                                tortoises, in foreign countries and 
                                territories of the United States under 
                                the jurisdiction of United States Fish 
                                and Wildlife Service programs'';
                                    (II) in subparagraphs (A), (B), and 
                                (C), by striking ``nesting'' each place 
                                it appears;
                                    (III) in subparagraph (D)--
                                            (aa) in the matter preceding 
                                        clause (i), by striking 
                                        ``countries to--'' and inserting 
                                        ``countries--'';
                                            (bb) in clause (i)--
                                                (AA) by inserting ``to'' 
                                            before ``protect''; and
                                                (BB) by striking 
                                            ``nesting'' each place it 
                                            appears; and
                                            (cc) in clause (ii), by 
                                        inserting ``to'' before 
                                        ``prevent'';
                                    (IV) in subparagraph (E)(i), by 
                                striking ``turtles on nesting habitat'' 
                                and inserting ``turtles, freshwater 
                                turtles, and tortoises'';
                                    (V) in subparagraph (F), by striking 
                                ``turtles over habitat used by marine 
                                turtles for nesting'' and inserting 
                                ``turtles, freshwater turtles, and 
                                tortoises over habitats used by marine 
                                turtles, freshwater turtles, and 
                                tortoises''; and
                                    (VI) in subparagraph (H), by 
                                striking ``nesting'' each place it 
                                appears;
                          (ii) by redesignating paragraphs (3), (4), 
                      (5), and (6) as paragraphs (4), (6), (7), and (8), 
                      respectively;
                          (iii) by inserting before paragraph (4) (as so 
                      redesignated) the following:

[[Page 133 STAT. 787]]

            ``(3) Freshwater turtle.--
                    ``(A) In general.--The term `freshwater turtle' 
                means any member of the family Carettochelyidae, 
                Chelidae, Chelydridae, Dermatemydidae, Emydidae, 
                Geoemydidae, Kinosternidae, Pelomedusidae, 
                Platysternidae, Podocnemididae, or Trionychidae.
                    ``(B) Inclusions.--The term `freshwater turtle' 
                includes--
                          ``(i) any part, product, egg, or offspring of 
                      a turtle described in subparagraph (A); and
                          ``(ii) a carcass of such a turtle.'';
                          (iv) by inserting after paragraph (4) (as so 
                      redesignated) the following:
            ``(5) Habitat.--The term `habitat' means any marine turtle, 
        freshwater turtle, or tortoise habitat (including a nesting 
        habitat) that is under the jurisdiction of United States Fish 
        and Wildlife Service programs.''; and
                          (v) by inserting after paragraph (8) (as so 
                      redesignated) the following:
            ``(9) Territory of the united states.--The term `territory 
        of the United States' means--
                    ``(A) American Samoa;
                    ``(B) the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana 
                Islands;
                    ``(C) the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico;
                    ``(D) Guam;
                    ``(E) the United States Virgin Islands; and
                    ``(F) any other territory or possession of the 
                United States.
            ``(10) Tortoise.--
                    ``(A) In general.--The term `tortoise' means any 
                member of the family Testudinidae.
                    ``(B) Inclusions.--The term `tortoise' includes--
                          ``(i) any part, product, egg, or offspring of 
                      a tortoise described in subparagraph (A); and
                          ``(ii) a carcass of such a tortoise.''.
                    (C) Conservation assistance.--Section 4 of the 
                Marine Turtle Conservation Act of 2004 (16 U.S.C. 6603) 
                is amended--
                          (i) in the section heading, by striking 
                      ``marine turtle'';
                          (ii) in subsection (a), by inserting ``, 
                      freshwater turtles, or tortoises'' after ``marine 
                      turtles'';
                          (iii) in subsection (b)(1)--
                                    (I) in the matter preceding 
                                subparagraph (A), by inserting ``, 
                                freshwater turtles, or tortoises'' after 
                                ``marine turtles'';
                                    (II) by striking subparagraph (A) 
                                and inserting the following:
                    ``(A) any wildlife management authority of a foreign 
                country or territory of the United States that has 
                within its boundaries marine turtle, freshwater turtle, 
                or tortoise habitat, if the activities of the authority 
                directly or indirectly affect marine turtle, freshwater 
                turtle, or tortoise conservation; or''; and
                                    (III) in subparagraph (B), by 
                                inserting ``, freshwater turtles, or 
                                tortoises'' after ``marine turtles'';

[[Page 133 STAT. 788]]

                          (iv) in subsection (c)(2), in each of 
                      subparagraphs (A) and (C), by inserting ``and 
                      territory of the United States'' after ``each 
                      country'';
                          (v) by striking subsection (d) and inserting 
                      the following:

    ``(d) Criteria for Approval.--The Secretary may approve a project 
proposal under this section if the Secretary determines that the project 
will help to restore, recover, and sustain a viable population of marine 
turtles, freshwater turtles, or tortoises in the wild by assisting 
efforts in a foreign country or territory of the United States to 
implement a marine turtle, freshwater turtle, or tortoise conservation 
program.''; and
                          (vi) in subsection (e), by striking ``marine 
                      turtles and their nesting habitats'' and inserting 
                      ``marine turtles, freshwater turtles, or tortoises 
                      and the habitats of marine turtles, freshwater 
                      turtles, or tortoises''.
                    (D) Marine turtle conservation fund.--Section 5 of 
                the Marine Turtle Conservation Act of 2004 (16 U.S.C. 
                6604) is amended--
                          (i) in subsection (a)(2), by striking 
                      ``section 6'' and inserting ``section 7(a)''; and
                          (ii) in subsection (b)(2), by striking ``3 
                      percent, or up to $80,000'' and inserting ``5 
                      percent, or up to $150,000''.
                    (E) Advisory group.--Section 6(a) of the Marine 
                Turtle Conservation Act of 2004 (16 U.S.C. 6605(a)) is 
                amended by inserting ``, freshwater turtles, or 
                tortoises'' after ``marine turtles''.
                    (F) Authorization of appropriations.--Section 7 of 
                the Marine Turtle Conservation Act of 2004 (16 U.S.C. 
                6606) is amended to read as follows:
``SEC. 7. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.

    ``(a) In General.--There is authorized to be appropriated to the 
Fund $5,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2019 through 2023.
    ``(b) Allocation.--Of the amounts made available for each fiscal 
year pursuant to subsection (a)--
            ``(1) not less than $1,510,000 shall be used by the 
        Secretary for marine turtle conservation purposes in accordance 
        with this Act; and
            ``(2) of the amounts in excess of the amount described in 
        paragraph (1), not less than 40 percent shall be used by the 
        Secretary for freshwater turtle and tortoise conservation 
        purposes in accordance with this Act.''.

    (d) &lt;&lt;NOTE: 16 USC 742b note.&gt;&gt;  Prize Competitions.--
            (1) Definitions.--In this subsection:
                    (A) Non-federal funds.--The term ``non-Federal 
                funds'' means funds provided by--
                          (i) a State;
                          (ii) a territory of the United States;
                          (iii) 1 or more units of local or tribal 
                      government;
                          (iv) a private for-profit entity;
                          (v) a nonprofit organization; or
                          (vi) a private individual.
                    (B) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the 
                Secretary, acting through the Director of the United 
                States Fish and Wildlife Service.

[[Page 133 STAT. 789]]

                    (C) Wildlife.--The term ``wildlife'' has the meaning 
                given the term in section 8 of the Fish and Wildlife 
                Coordination Act (16 U.S.C. 666b).
            (2) Theodore roosevelt genius prize for prevention of 
        wildlife poaching and trafficking.--
                    (A) Definitions.--In this paragraph:
                          (i) Board.--The term ``Board'' means the 
                      Prevention of Wildlife Poaching and Trafficking 
                      Technology Advisory Board established by 
                      subparagraph (C)(i).
                          (ii) Prize competition.--The term ``prize 
                      competition'' means the Theodore Roosevelt Genius 
                      Prize for the prevention of wildlife poaching and 
                      trafficking established under subparagraph (B).
                    (B) Authority.--Not later than 180 days after the 
                date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall 
                establish under section 24 of the Stevenson-Wydler 
                Technology Innovation Act of 1980 (15 U.S.C. 3719) a 
                prize competition, to be known as the ``Theodore 
                Roosevelt Genius Prize for the prevention of wildlife 
                poaching and trafficking''--
                          (i) to encourage technological innovation with 
                      the potential to advance the mission of the United 
                      States Fish and Wildlife Service with respect to 
                      the prevention of wildlife poaching and 
                      trafficking; and
                          (ii) to award 1 or more prizes annually for a 
                      technological advancement that prevents wildlife 
                      poaching and trafficking.
                    (C) Advisory board.--
                          (i) Establishment.--There is established an 
                      advisory board, to be known as the ``Prevention of 
                      Wildlife Poaching and Trafficking Technology 
                      Advisory Board''.
                          (ii) Composition.--The Board shall be composed 
                      of not fewer than 9 members appointed by the 
                      Secretary, who shall provide expertise in--
                                    (I) wildlife trafficking and trade;
                                    (II) wildlife conservation and 
                                management;
                                    (III) biology;
                                    (IV) technology development;
                                    (V) engineering;
                                    (VI) economics;
                                    (VII) business development and 
                                management; and
                                    (VIII) any other discipline, as the 
                                Secretary determines to be necessary to 
                                achieve the purposes of this paragraph.
                          (iii) Duties.--Subject to clause (iv), with 
                      respect to the prize competition, the Board 
                      shall--
                                    (I) select a topic;
                                    (II) issue a problem statement;
                                    (III) advise the Secretary regarding 
                                any opportunity for technological 
                                innovation to prevent wildlife poaching 
                                and trafficking; and
                                    (IV) advise winners of the prize 
                                competition regarding opportunities to 
                                pilot and implement winning technologies 
                                in relevant fields, including in 
                                partnership with conservation 
                                organizations, Federal or State 
                                agencies, federally recognized

[[Page 133 STAT. 790]]

                                Indian tribes, private entities, and 
                                research institutions with expertise or 
                                interest relating to the prevention of 
                                wildlife poaching and trafficking.
                          (iv) Consultation.--In selecting a topic and 
                      issuing a problem statement for the prize 
                      competition under subclauses (I) and (II) of 
                      clause (iii), respectively, the Board shall 
                      consult widely with Federal and non-Federal 
                      stakeholders, including--
                                    (I) 1 or more Federal agencies with 
                                jurisdiction over the prevention of 
                                wildlife poaching and trafficking;
                                    (II) 1 or more State agencies with 
                                jurisdiction over the prevention of 
                                wildlife poaching and trafficking;
                                    (III) 1 or more State, regional, or 
                                local wildlife organizations, the 
                                mission of which relates to the 
                                prevention of wildlife poaching and 
                                trafficking; and
                                    (IV) 1 or more wildlife conservation 
                                groups, technology companies, research 
                                institutions, institutions of higher 
                                education, industry associations, or 
                                individual stakeholders with an interest 
                                in the prevention of wildlife poaching 
                                and trafficking.
                          (v) Requirements.--The Board shall comply with 
                      all requirements under paragraph (7)(A).
                    (D) Agreement with national fish and wildlife 
                foundation.--
                          (i) In general.--The Secretary shall offer to 
                      enter into an agreement under which the National 
                      Fish and Wildlife Foundation shall administer the 
                      prize competition.
                          (ii) Requirements.--An agreement entered into 
                      under clause (i) shall comply with all 
                      requirements under paragraph (7)(B).
                    (E) Judges.--
                          (i) Appointment.--The Secretary shall appoint 
                      not fewer than 3 judges who shall, except as 
                      provided in clause (ii), select the 1 or more 
                      annual winners of the prize competition.
                          (ii) Determination by secretary.--The judges 
                      appointed under clause (i) shall not select any 
                      annual winner of the prize competition if the 
                      Secretary makes a determination that, in any 
                      fiscal year, none of the technological 
                      advancements entered into the prize competition 
                      merits an award.
                    (F) Report to congress.--Not later than 60 days 
                after the date on which a cash prize is awarded under 
                this paragraph, the Secretary shall submit to the 
                Committee on Environment and Public Works of the Senate 
                and the Committee on Natural Resources of the House of 
                Representatives a report on the prize competition that 
                includes--
                          (i) a statement by the Board that describes 
                      the activities carried out by the Board relating 
                      to the duties described in subparagraph (C)(iii);
                          (ii) if the Secretary has entered into an 
                      agreement under subparagraph (D)(i), a statement 
                      by the National

[[Page 133 STAT. 791]]

                      Fish and Wildlife Foundation that describes the 
                      activities carried out by the National Fish and 
                      Wildlife Foundation relating to the duties 
                      described in paragraph (7)(B); and
                          (iii) a statement by 1 or more of the judges 
                      appointed under subparagraph (E) that explains the 
                      basis on which the winner of the cash prize was 
                      selected.
                    (G) Termination of authority.--The Board and all 
                authority provided under this paragraph shall terminate 
                on December 31, 2023.
            (3) Theodore roosevelt genius prize for promotion of 
        wildlife conservation.--
                    (A) Definitions.--In this paragraph:
                          (i) Board.--The term ``Board'' means the 
                      Promotion of Wildlife Conservation Technology 
                      Advisory Board established by subparagraph (C)(i).
                          (ii) Prize competition.--The term ``prize 
                      competition'' means the Theodore Roosevelt Genius 
                      Prize for the promotion of wildlife conservation 
                      established under subparagraph (B).
                    (B) Authority.--Not later than 180 days after the 
                date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall 
                establish under section 24 of the Stevenson-Wydler 
                Technology Innovation Act of 1980 (15 U.S.C. 3719) a 
                prize competition, to be known as the ``Theodore 
                Roosevelt Genius Prize for the promotion of wildlife 
                conservation''--
                          (i) to encourage technological innovation with 
                      the potential to advance the mission of the United 
                      States Fish and Wildlife Service with respect to 
                      the promotion of wildlife conservation; and
                          (ii) to award 1 or more prizes annually for a 
                      technological advancement that promotes wildlife 
                      conservation.
                    (C) Advisory board.--
                          (i) Establishment.--There is established an 
                      advisory board, to be known as the ``Promotion of 
                      Wildlife Conservation Technology Advisory Board''.
                          (ii) Composition.--The Board shall be composed 
                      of not fewer than 9 members appointed by the 
                      Secretary, who shall provide expertise in--
                                    (I) wildlife conservation and 
                                management;
                                    (II) biology;
                                    (III) technology development;
                                    (IV) engineering;
                                    (V) economics;
                                    (VI) business development and 
                                management; and
                                    (VII) any other discipline, as the 
                                Secretary determines to be necessary to 
                                achieve the purposes of this paragraph.
                          (iii) Duties.--Subject to clause (iv), with 
                      respect to the prize competition, the Board 
                      shall--
                                    (I) select a topic;
                                    (II) issue a problem statement;

[[Page 133 STAT. 792]]

                                    (III) advise the Secretary regarding 
                                any opportunity for technological 
                                innovation to promote wildlife 
                                conservation; and
                                    (IV) advise winners of the prize 
                                competition regarding opportunities to 
                                pilot and implement winning technologies 
                                in relevant fields, including in 
                                partnership with conservation 
                                organizations, Federal or State 
                                agencies, federally recognized Indian 
                                tribes, private entities, and research 
                                institutions with expertise or interest 
                                relating to the promotion of wildlife 
                                conservation.
                          (iv) Consultation.--In selecting a topic and 
                      issuing a problem statement for the prize 
                      competition under subclauses (I) and (II) of 
                      clause (iii), respectively, the Board shall 
                      consult widely with Federal and non-Federal 
                      stakeholders, including--
                                    (I) 1 or more Federal agencies with 
                                jurisdiction over the promotion of 
                                wildlife conservation;
                                    (II) 1 or more State agencies with 
                                jurisdiction over the promotion of 
                                wildlife conservation;
                                    (III) 1 or more State, regional, or 
                                local wildlife organizations, the 
                                mission of which relates to the 
                                promotion of wildlife conservation; and
                                    (IV) 1 or more wildlife conservation 
                                groups, technology companies, research 
                                institutions, institutions of higher 
                                education, industry associations, or 
                                individual stakeholders with an interest 
                                in the promotion of wildlife 
                                conservation.
                          (v) Requirements.--The Board shall comply with 
                      all requirements under paragraph (7)(A).
                    (D) Agreement with national fish and wildlife 
                foundation.--
                          (i) In general.--The Secretary shall offer to 
                      enter into an agreement under which the National 
                      Fish and Wildlife Foundation shall administer the 
                      prize competition.
                          (ii) Requirements.--An agreement entered into 
                      under clause (i) shall comply with all 
                      requirements under paragraph (7)(B).
                    (E) Judges.--
                          (i) Appointment.--The Secretary shall appoint 
                      not fewer than 3 judges who shall, except as 
                      provided in clause (ii), select the 1 or more 
                      annual winners of the prize competition.
                          (ii) Determination by secretary.--The judges 
                      appointed under clause (i) shall not select any 
                      annual winner of the prize competition if the 
                      Secretary makes a determination that, in any 
                      fiscal year, none of the technological 
                      advancements entered into the prize competition 
                      merits an award.
                    (F) Report to congress.--Not later than 60 days 
                after the date on which a cash prize is awarded under 
                this paragraph, the Secretary shall submit to the 
                Committee on Environment and Public Works of the Senate 
                and the Committee on Natural Resources of the House of 
                Representatives a report on the prize competition that 
                includes--

[[Page 133 STAT. 793]]

                          (i) a statement by the Board that describes 
                      the activities carried out by the Board relating 
                      to the duties described in subparagraph (C)(iii);
                          (ii) if the Secretary has entered into an 
                      agreement under subparagraph (D)(i), a statement 
                      by the National Fish and Wildlife Foundation that 
                      describes the activities carried out by the 
                      National Fish and Wildlife Foundation relating to 
                      the duties described in paragraph (7)(B); and
                          (iii) a statement by 1 or more of the judges 
                      appointed under subparagraph (E) that explains the 
                      basis on which the winner of the cash prize was 
                      selected.
                    (G) Termination of authority.--The Board and all 
                authority provided under this paragraph shall terminate 
                on December 31, 2023.
            (4) Theodore roosevelt genius prize for management of 
        invasive species.--
                    (A) Definitions.--In this paragraph:
                          (i) Board.--The term ``Board'' means the 
                      Management of Invasive Species Technology Advisory 
                      Board established by subparagraph (C)(i).
                          (ii) Prize competition.--The term ``prize 
                      competition'' means the Theodore Roosevelt Genius 
                      Prize for the management of invasive species 
                      established under subparagraph (B).
                    (B) Authority.--Not later than 180 days after the 
                date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall 
                establish under section 24 of the Stevenson-Wydler 
                Technology Innovation Act of 1980 (15 U.S.C. 3719) a 
                prize competition, to be known as the ``Theodore 
                Roosevelt Genius Prize for the management of invasive 
                species''--
                          (i) to encourage technological innovation with 
                      the potential to advance the mission of the United 
                      States Fish and Wildlife Service with respect to 
                      the management of invasive species; and
                          (ii) to award 1 or more prizes annually for a 
                      technological advancement that manages invasive 
                      species.
                    (C) Advisory board.--
                          (i) Establishment.--There is established an 
                      advisory board, to be known as the ``Management of 
                      Invasive Species Technology Advisory Board''.
                          (ii) Composition.--The Board shall be composed 
                      of not fewer than 9 members appointed by the 
                      Secretary, who shall provide expertise in--
                                    (I) invasive species;
                                    (II) biology;
                                    (III) technology development;
                                    (IV) engineering;
                                    (V) economics;
                                    (VI) business development and 
                                management; and
                                    (VII) any other discipline, as the 
                                Secretary determines to be necessary to 
                                achieve the purposes of this paragraph.
                          (iii) Duties.--Subject to clause (iv), with 
                      respect to the prize competition, the Board 
                      shall--

[[Page 133 STAT. 794]]

                                    (I) select a topic;
                                    (II) issue a problem statement;
                                    (III) advise the Secretary regarding 
                                any opportunity for technological 
                                innovation to manage invasive species; 
                                and
                                    (IV) advise winners of the prize 
                                competition regarding opportunities to 
                                pilot and implement winning technologies 
                                in relevant fields, including in 
                                partnership with conservation 
                                organizations, Federal or State 
                                agencies, federally recognized Indian 
                                tribes, private entities, and research 
                                institutions with expertise or interest 
                                relating to the management of invasive 
                                species.
                          (iv) Consultation.--In selecting a topic and 
                      issuing a problem statement for the prize 
                      competition under subclauses (I) and (II) of 
                      clause (iii), respectively, the Board shall 
                      consult widely with Federal and non-Federal 
                      stakeholders, including--
                                    (I) 1 or more Federal agencies with 
                                jurisdiction over the management of 
                                invasive species;
                                    (II) 1 or more State agencies with 
                                jurisdiction over the management of 
                                invasive species;
                                    (III) 1 or more State, regional, or 
                                local wildlife organizations, the 
                                mission of which relates to the 
                                management of invasive species; and
                                    (IV) 1 or more wildlife conservation 
                                groups, technology companies, research 
                                institutions, institutions of higher 
                                education, industry associations, or 
                                individual stakeholders with an interest 
                                in the management of invasive species.
                          (v) Requirements.--The Board shall comply with 
                      all requirements under paragraph (7)(A).
                    (D) Agreement with national fish and wildlife 
                foundation.--
                          (i) In general.--The Secretary shall offer to 
                      enter into an agreement under which the National 
                      Fish and Wildlife Foundation shall administer the 
                      prize competition.
                          (ii) Requirements.--An agreement entered into 
                      under clause (i) shall comply with all 
                      requirements under paragraph (7)(B).
                    (E) Judges.--
                          (i) Appointment.--The Secretary shall appoint 
                      not fewer than 3 judges who shall, except as 
                      provided in clause (ii), select the 1 or more 
                      annual winners of the prize competition.
                          (ii) Determination by secretary.--The judges 
                      appointed under clause (i) shall not select any 
                      annual winner of the prize competition if the 
                      Secretary makes a determination that, in any 
                      fiscal year, none of the technological 
                      advancements entered into the prize competition 
                      merits an award.
                    (F) Report to congress.--Not later than 60 days 
                after the date on which a cash prize is awarded under 
                this paragraph, the Secretary shall submit to the 
                Committee on Environment and Public Works of the Senate 
                and the Committee on Natural Resources of the House

[[Page 133 STAT. 795]]

                of Representatives a report on the prize competition 
                that includes--
                          (i) a statement by the Board that describes 
                      the activities carried out by the Board relating 
                      to the duties described in subparagraph (C)(iii);
                          (ii) if the Secretary has entered into an 
                      agreement under subparagraph (D)(i), a statement 
                      by the National Fish and Wildlife Foundation that 
                      describes the activities carried out by the 
                      National Fish and Wildlife Foundation relating to 
                      the duties described in paragraph (7)(B); and
                          (iii) a statement by 1 or more of the judges 
                      appointed under subparagraph (E) that explains the 
                      basis on which the winner of the cash prize was 
                      selected.
                    (G) Termination of authority.--The Board and all 
                authority provided under this paragraph shall terminate 
                on December 31, 2023.
            (5) Theodore roosevelt genius prize for protection of 
        endangered species.--
                    (A) Definitions.--In this paragraph:
                          (i) Board.--The term ``Board'' means the 
                      Protection of Endangered Species Technology 
                      Advisory Board established by subparagraph (C)(i).
                          (ii) Prize competition.--The term ``prize 
                      competition'' means the Theodore Roosevelt Genius 
                      Prize for the protection of endangered species 
                      established under subparagraph (B).
                    (B) Authority.--Not later than 180 days after the 
                date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall 
                establish under section 24 of the Stevenson-Wydler 
                Technology Innovation Act of 1980 (15 U.S.C. 3719) a 
                prize competition, to be known as the ``Theodore 
                Roosevelt Genius Prize for the protection of endangered 
                species''--
                          (i) to encourage technological innovation with 
                      the potential to advance the mission of the United 
                      States Fish and Wildlife Service with respect to 
                      the protection of endangered species; and
                          (ii) to award 1 or more prizes annually for a 
                      technological advancement that protects endangered 
                      species.
                    (C) Advisory board.--
                          (i) Establishment.--There is established an 
                      advisory board, to be known as the ``Protection of 
                      Endangered Species Technology Advisory Board''.
                          (ii) Composition.--The Board shall be composed 
                      of not fewer than 9 members appointed by the 
                      Secretary, who shall provide expertise in--
                                    (I) endangered species;
                                    (II) biology;
                                    (III) technology development;
                                    (IV) engineering;
                                    (V) economics;
                                    (VI) business development and 
                                management; and
                                    (VII) any other discipline, as the 
                                Secretary determines to be necessary to 
                                achieve the purposes of this paragraph.

[[Page 133 STAT. 796]]

                          (iii) Duties.--Subject to clause (iv), with 
                      respect to the prize competition, the Board 
                      shall--
                                    (I) select a topic;
                                    (II) issue a problem statement;
                                    (III) advise the Secretary regarding 
                                any opportunity for technological 
                                innovation to protect endangered 
                                species; and
                                    (IV) advise winners of the prize 
                                competition regarding opportunities to 
                                pilot and implement winning technologies 
                                in relevant fields, including in 
                                partnership with conservation 
                                organizations, Federal or State 
                                agencies, federally recognized Indian 
                                tribes, private entities, and research 
                                institutions with expertise or interest 
                                relating to the protection of endangered 
                                species.
                          (iv) Consultation.--In selecting a topic and 
                      issuing a problem statement for the prize 
                      competition under subclauses (I) and (II) of 
                      clause (iii), respectively, the Board shall 
                      consult widely with Federal and non-Federal 
                      stakeholders, including--
                                    (I) 1 or more Federal agencies with 
                                jurisdiction over the protection of 
                                endangered species;
                                    (II) 1 or more State agencies with 
                                jurisdiction over the protection of 
                                endangered species;
                                    (III) 1 or more State, regional, or 
                                local wildlife organizations, the 
                                mission of which relates to the 
                                protection of endangered species; and
                                    (IV) 1 or more wildlife conservation 
                                groups, technology companies, research 
                                institutions, institutions of higher 
                                education, industry associations, or 
                                individual stakeholders with an interest 
                                in the protection of endangered species.
                          (v) Requirements.--The Board shall comply with 
                      all requirements under paragraph (7)(A).
                    (D) Agreement with national fish and wildlife 
                foundation.--
                          (i) In general.--The Secretary shall offer to 
                      enter into an agreement under which the National 
                      Fish and Wildlife Foundation shall administer the 
                      prize competition.
                          (ii) Requirements.--An agreement entered into 
                      under clause (i) shall comply with all 
                      requirements under paragraph (7)(B).
                    (E) Judges.--
                          (i) Appointment.--The Secretary shall appoint 
                      not fewer than 3 judges who shall, except as 
                      provided in clause (ii), select the 1 or more 
                      annual winners of the prize competition.
                          (ii) Determination by secretary.--The judges 
                      appointed under clause (i) shall not select any 
                      annual winner of the prize competition if the 
                      Secretary makes a determination that, in any 
                      fiscal year, none of the technological 
                      advancements entered into the prize competition 
                      merits an award.
                    (F) Report to congress.--Not later than 60 days 
                after the date on which a cash prize is awarded under

[[Page 133 STAT. 797]]

                this paragraph, the Secretary shall submit to the 
                Committee on Environment and Public Works of the Senate 
                and the Committee on Natural Resources of the House of 
                Representatives a report on the prize competition that 
                includes--
                          (i) a statement by the Board that describes 
                      the activities carried out by the Board relating 
                      to the duties described in subparagraph (C)(iii);
                          (ii) if the Secretary has entered into an 
                      agreement under subparagraph (D)(i), a statement 
                      by the National Fish and Wildlife Foundation that 
                      describes the activities carried out by the 
                      National Fish and Wildlife Foundation relating to 
                      the duties described in paragraph (7)(B); and
                          (iii) a statement by 1 or more of the judges 
                      appointed under subparagraph (E) that explains the 
                      basis on which the winner of the cash prize was 
                      selected.
                    (G) Termination of authority.--The Board and all 
                authority provided under this paragraph shall terminate 
                on December 31, 2023.
            (6) Theodore roosevelt genius prize for nonlethal management 
        of human-wildlife conflicts.--
                    (A) Definitions.--In this paragraph:
                          (i) Board.--The term ``Board'' means the 
                      Nonlethal Management of Human-Wildlife Conflicts 
                      Technology Advisory Board established by 
                      subparagraph (C)(i).
                          (ii) Prize competition.--The term ``prize 
                      competition'' means the Theodore Roosevelt Genius 
                      Prize for the nonlethal management of human-
                      wildlife conflicts established under subparagraph 
                      (B).
                    (B) Authority.--Not later than 180 days after the 
                date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall 
                establish under section 24 of the Stevenson-Wydler 
                Technology Innovation Act of 1980 (15 U.S.C. 3719) a 
                prize competition, to be known as the ``Theodore 
                Roosevelt Genius Prize for the nonlethal management of 
                human-wildlife conflicts''--
                          (i) to encourage technological innovation with 
                      the potential to advance the mission of the United 
                      States Fish and Wildlife Service with respect to 
                      the nonlethal management of human-wildlife 
                      conflicts; and
                          (ii) to award 1 or more prizes annually for a 
                      technological advancement that promotes the 
                      nonlethal management of human-wildlife conflicts.
                    (C) Advisory board.--
                          (i) Establishment.--There is established an 
                      advisory board, to be known as the ``Nonlethal 
                      Management of Human-Wildlife Conflicts Technology 
                      Advisory Board''.
                          (ii) Composition.--The Board shall be composed 
                      of not fewer than 9 members appointed by the 
                      Secretary, who shall provide expertise in--
                                    (I) nonlethal wildlife management;
                                    (II) social aspects of human-
                                wildlife conflict management;
                                    (III) biology;
                                    (IV) technology development;

[[Page 133 STAT. 798]]

                                    (V) engineering;
                                    (VI) economics;
                                    (VII) business development and 
                                management; and
                                    (VIII) any other discipline, as the 
                                Secretary determines to be necessary to 
                                achieve the purposes of this paragraph.
                          (iii) Duties.--Subject to clause (iv), with 
                      respect to the prize competition, the Board 
                      shall--
                                    (I) select a topic;
                                    (II) issue a problem statement;
                                    (III) advise the Secretary regarding 
                                any opportunity for technological 
                                innovation to promote the nonlethal 
                                management of human-wildlife conflicts; 
                                and
                                    (IV) advise winners of the prize 
                                competition regarding opportunities to 
                                pilot and implement winning technologies 
                                in relevant fields, including in 
                                partnership with conservation 
                                organizations, Federal or State 
                                agencies, federally recognized Indian 
                                tribes, private entities, and research 
                                institutions with expertise or interest 
                                relating to the nonlethal management of 
                                human-wildlife conflicts.
                          (iv) Consultation.--In selecting a topic and 
                      issuing a problem statement for the prize 
                      competition under subclauses (I) and (II) of 
                      subparagraph (C), respectively, the Board shall 
                      consult widely with Federal and non-Federal 
                      stakeholders, including--
                                    (I) 1 or more Federal agencies with 
                                jurisdiction over the management of 
                                native wildlife species at risk due to 
                                conflict with human activities;
                                    (II) 1 or more State agencies with 
                                jurisdiction over the management of 
                                native wildlife species at risk due to 
                                conflict with human activities;
                                    (III) 1 or more State, regional, or 
                                local wildlife organizations, the 
                                mission of which relates to the 
                                management of native wildlife species at 
                                risk due to conflict with human 
                                activities; and
                                    (IV) 1 or more wildlife conservation 
                                groups, technology companies, research 
                                institutions, institutions of higher 
                                education, industry associations, or 
                                individual stakeholders with an interest 
                                in the management of native wildlife 
                                species at risk due to conflict with 
                                human activities.
                          (v) Requirements.--The Board shall comply with 
                      all requirements under paragraph (7)(A).
                    (D) Agreement with national fish and wildlife 
                foundation.--
                          (i) In general.--The Secretary shall offer to 
                      enter into an agreement under which the National 
                      Fish and Wildlife Foundation shall administer the 
                      prize competition.
                          (ii) Requirements.--An agreement entered into 
                      under clause (i) shall comply with all 
                      requirements under paragraph (7)(B).
                    (E) Judges.--

[[Page 133 STAT. 799]]

                          (i) Appointment.--The Secretary shall appoint 
                      not fewer than 3 judges who shall, except as 
                      provided in clause (ii), select the 1 or more 
                      annual winners of the prize competition.
                          (ii) Determination by secretary.--The judges 
                      appointed under clause (i) shall not select any 
                      annual winner of the prize competition if the 
                      Secretary makes a determination that, in any 
                      fiscal year, none of the technological 
                      advancements entered into the prize competition 
                      merits an award.
                    (F) Report to congress.--Not later than 60 days 
                after the date on which a cash prize is awarded under 
                this paragraph, the Secretary shall submit to the 
                Committee on Environment and Public Works of the Senate 
                and the Committee on Natural Resources of the House of 
                Representatives a report on the prize competition that 
                includes--
                          (i) a statement by the Board that describes 
                      the activities carried out by the Board relating 
                      to the duties described in subparagraph (C)(iii);
                          (ii) if the Secretary has entered into an 
                      agreement under subparagraph (D)(i), a statement 
                      by the National Fish and Wildlife Foundation that 
                      describes the activities carried out by the 
                      National Fish and Wildlife Foundation relating to 
                      the duties described in paragraph (7)(B); and
                          (iii) a statement by 1 or more of the judges 
                      appointed under subparagraph (E) that explains the 
                      basis on which the winner of the cash prize was 
                      selected.
                    (G) Termination of authority.--The Board and all 
                authority provided under this paragraph shall terminate 
                on December 31, 2023.
            (7) Administration of prize competitions.--
                    (A) Additional requirements for advisory boards.--An 
                advisory board established under paragraph (2)(C)(i), 
                (3)(C)(i), (4)(C)(i), (5)(C)(i), or (6)(C)(i) (referred 
                to in this paragraph as a ``Board'') shall comply with 
                the following requirements:
                          (i) Term; vacancies.--
                                    (I) Term.--A member of the Board 
                                shall serve for a term of 5 years.
                                    (II) Vacancies.--A vacancy on the 
                                Board--
                                            (aa) shall not affect the 
                                        powers of the Board; and
                                            (bb) shall be filled in the 
                                        same manner as the original 
                                        appointment was made.
                          (ii) Initial meeting.--Not later than 30 days 
                      after the date on which all members of the Board 
                      have been appointed, the Board shall hold the 
                      initial meeting of the Board.
                          (iii) Meetings.--
                                    (I) In general.--The Board shall 
                                meet at the call of the Chairperson.
                                    (II) Remote participation.--

[[Page 133 STAT. 800]]

                                            (aa) In general.--Any member 
                                        of the Board may participate in 
                                        a meeting of the Board through 
                                        the use of--
                                                (AA) teleconferencing; 
                                            or
                                                (BB) any other remote 
                                            business telecommunications 
                                            method that allows each 
                                            participating member to 
                                            simultaneously hear each 
                                            other participating member 
                                            during the meeting.
                                            (bb) Presence.--A member of 
                                        the Board who participates in a 
                                        meeting remotely under item (aa) 
                                        shall be considered to be 
                                        present at the meeting.
                          (iv) Quorum.--A majority of the members of the 
                      Board shall constitute a quorum, but a lesser 
                      number of members may hold a meeting.
                          (v) Chairperson and vice chairperson.--The 
                      Board shall select a Chairperson and Vice 
                      Chairperson from among the members of the Board.
                          (vi) Administrative cost reduction.--The Board 
                      shall, to the maximum extent practicable, minimize 
                      the administrative costs of the Board, including 
                      by encouraging the remote participation described 
                      in clause (iii)(II)(aa) to reduce travel costs.
                    (B) Agreements with national fish and wildlife 
                foundation.--Any agreement entered into under paragraph 
                (2)(D)(i), (3)(D)(i), (4)(D)(i), (5)(D)(i), or (6)(D)(i) 
                shall comply with the following requirements:
                          (i) Duties.--An agreement shall provide that 
                      the National Fish and Wildlife Foundation shall--
                                    (I) advertise the prize competition;
                                    (II) solicit prize competition 
                                participants;
                                    (III) administer funds relating to 
                                the prize competition;
                                    (IV) receive Federal funds--
                                            (aa) to administer the prize 
                                        competition; and
                                            (bb) to award a cash prize;
                                    (V) carry out activities to generate 
                                contributions of non-Federal funds to 
                                offset, in whole or in part--
                                            (aa) the administrative 
                                        costs of the prize competition; 
                                        and
                                            (bb) the costs of a cash 
                                        prize;
                                    (VI) in consultation with, and 
                                subject to final approval by, the 
                                Secretary, develop criteria for the 
                                selection of prize competition winners;
                                    (VII) provide advice and 
                                consultation to the Secretary on the 
                                selection of judges under paragraphs 
                                (2)(E), (3)(E), (4)(E), (5)(E), and 
                                (6)(E) based on criteria developed in 
                                consultation with, and subject to the 
                                final approval of, the Secretary;
                                    (VIII) announce 1 or more annual 
                                winners of the prize competition;
                                    (IX) subject to clause (ii), award 1 
                                cash prize annually; and

[[Page 133 STAT. 801]]

                                    (X) protect against unauthorized use 
                                or disclosure by the National Fish and 
                                Wildlife Foundation of any trade secret 
                                or confidential business information of 
                                a prize competition participant.
                          (ii) Additional cash prizes.--An agreement 
                      shall provide that the National Fish and Wildlife 
                      Foundation may award more than 1 cash prize 
                      annually if the initial cash prize referred to in 
                      clause (i)(IX) and any additional cash prize are 
                      awarded using only non-Federal funds.
                          (iii) Solicitation of funds.--An agreement 
                      shall provide that the National Fish and Wildlife 
                      Foundation--
                                    (I) may request and accept Federal 
                                funds and non-Federal funds for a cash 
                                prize;
                                    (II) may accept a contribution for a 
                                cash prize in exchange for the right to 
                                name the prize; and
                                    (III) shall not give special 
                                consideration to any Federal agency or 
                                non-Federal entity in exchange for a 
                                donation for a cash prize awarded under 
                                this subsection.
                    (C) Award amounts.--
                          (i) In general.--The amount of the initial 
                      cash prize referred to in subparagraph (B)(i)(IX) 
                      shall be $100,000.
                          (ii) Additional cash prizes.--On notification 
                      by the National Fish and Wildlife Foundation that 
                      non-Federal funds are available for an additional 
                      cash prize, the Secretary shall determine the 
                      amount of the additional cash prize.
SEC. 7002. REAUTHORIZATION OF NEOTROPICAL MIGRATORY BIRD 
                          CONSERVATION ACT.

    Section 10 of the Neotropical Migratory Bird Conservation Act (16 
U.S.C. 6109) is amended to read as follows:
``SEC. 10. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.

    ``(a) In General.--There is authorized to be appropriated to carry 
out this Act $6,500,000 for each of fiscal years 2019 through 2023.
    ``(b) Use of Funds.--Of the amounts made available under subsection 
(a) for each fiscal year, not less than 75 percent shall be expended for 
projects carried out at a location outside of the United States.''.
SEC. 7003. JOHN H. CHAFEE COASTAL BARRIER RESOURCES SYSTEM.

    (a) Replacement of John H. Chafee Coastal Barrier Resources System 
Maps.--
            (1) In general.--Subject to paragraph (3), each map included 
        in the set of maps referred to in section 4(a) of the Coastal 
        Barrier Resources Act (16 U.S.C. 3503(a)) that relates to a Unit 
        of such System referred to in paragraph (2) is replaced in such 
        set with the map described in that paragraph with respect to 
        that Unit.
            (2) Replacement maps described.--The replacement maps 
        referred to in paragraph (1) are the following:
                    (A) The map entitled ``Delaware Seashore Unit DE-07/
                DE-07P North Bethany Beach Unit H01'' and dated

[[Page 133 STAT. 802]]

                March 18, 2016, with respect to Unit DE-07, Unit DE-07P, 
                and Unit H01.
                    (B) The map entitled ``Pine Island Bay Unit NC-01/
                NC-01P'' and dated March 18, 2016, with respect to Unit 
                NC-01 and Unit NC-01P.
                    (C) The map entitled ``Roosevelt Natural Area Unit 
                NC-05P'' and dated March 18, 2016, with respect to Unit 
                NC-05P.
                    (D) The map entitled ``Hammocks Beach Unit NC-06/NC-
                06P (2 of 2) Onslow Beach Complex L05 (1 of 2)'' and 
                dated March 18, 2016, with respect to Unit L05.
                    (E) The map entitled ``Onslow Beach Complex L05 (2 
                of 2) Topsail Unit L06 (1 of 2)'' and dated November 20, 
                2013, with respect to Unit L05 and Unit L06.
                    (F) The map entitled ``Topsail Unit L06 (2 of 2)'' 
                and dated November 20, 2013, with respect to Unit L06.
                    (G) The map entitled ``Litchfield Beach Unit M02 
                Pawleys Inlet Unit M03'' and dated March 18, 2016, with 
                respect to Unit M02 and Unit M03.
                    (H) The map entitled ``Fort Clinch Unit FL-01/FL-
                01P'' and dated March 18, 2016, with respect to Unit FL-
                01 and Unit FL-01P.
                    (I) The map entitled ``Usina Beach Unit P04A Conch 
                Island Unit P05/P05P'' and dated March 18, 2016, with 
                respect to Unit P04A, Unit P05, and Unit P05P.
                    (J) The map entitled ``Ponce Inlet Unit P08/P08P'' 
                and dated March 18, 2016, with respect to Unit P08 and 
                Unit P08P.
                    (K) The map entitled ``Spessard Holland Park Unit 
                FL-13P Coconut Point Unit P09A/P09AP'' and dated March 
                18, 2016, with respect to Unit FL-13P, Unit P09A, and 
                Unit P09AP.
                    (L) The map entitled ``Blue Hole Unit P10A Pepper 
                Beach Unit FL-14P'' and dated March 18, 2016, with 
                respect to Unit P10A and Unit FL-14P.
                    (M) The map entitled ``Hutchinson Island Unit P11/
                P11P (1 of 2)'' and dated March 18, 2016, with respect 
                to Unit P11 and Unit P11P.
                    (N) The map entitled ``Hutchinson Island Unit P11 (2 
                of 2)'' and dated March 18, 2016, with respect to Unit 
                P11.
                    (O) The map entitled ``Blowing Rocks Unit FL-15 
                Jupiter Beach Unit FL-16P Carlin Unit FL-17P'' and dated 
                March 18, 2016, with respect to Unit FL-15, Unit FL-16P, 
                and Unit FL-17P.
                    (P) The map entitled ``MacArthur Beach Unit FL-18P'' 
                and dated March 18, 2016, with respect to Unit FL-18P.
                    (Q) The map entitled ``Birch Park Unit FL-19P'' and 
                dated March 18, 2016, with respect to Unit FL-19P.
                    (R) The map entitled ``Lloyd Beach Unit FL-20P North 
                Beach Unit P14A'' and dated March 18, 2016, with respect 
                to Unit FL-20P and Unit P14A.
                    (S) The map entitled ``Tavernier Key Unit FL-39 
                Snake Creek Unit FL-40'' and dated March 18, 2016, with 
                respect to Unit FL-39 and Unit FL-40.
                    (T) The map entitled ``Channel Key Unit FL-43 Toms 
                Harbor Keys Unit FL-44 Deer/Long Point Keys Unit FL-

[[Page 133 STAT. 803]]

                45'' and dated March 18, 2016, with respect to Unit FL-
                43, Unit FL-44, and FL-45.
                    (U) The map entitled ``Boot Key Unit FL-46'' and 
                dated March 18, 2016, with respect to Unit FL-46.
                    (V) The map entitled ``Bowditch Point Unit P17A 
                Bunche Beach Unit FL-67/FL-67P Sanibel Island Complex 
                P18P (1 of 2)'' and dated March 18, 2016, with respect 
                to Unit P17A, Unit FL-67, and Unit FL-67P.
                    (W) The map entitled ``Bocilla Island Unit P21/
                P21P'' and dated March 18, 2016, with respect to Unit 
                P21 and Unit P21P.
                    (X) The map entitled ``Venice Inlet Unit FL-71P 
                Casey Key Unit P22'' and dated March 18, 2016, with 
                respect to Unit P22.
                    (Y) The map entitled ``Lido Key Unit FL-72P'' and 
                dated March 18, 2016, with respect to Unit FL-72P.
                    (Z) The map entitled ``De Soto Unit FL-73P 
                Rattlesnake Key Unit FL-78 Bishop Harbor Unit FL-82'' 
                and dated March 18, 2016, with respect to Unit FL-73P, 
                Unit FL-78, and Unit FL-82.
                    (AA) The map entitled ``Passage Key Unit FL-80P 
                Egmont Key Unit FL-81/FL-81P The Reefs Unit P24P (1 of 
                2)'' and dated March 18, 2016, with respect to Unit FL-
                80P, Unit FL-81, and Unit FL-81P.
                    (BB) The map entitled ``Cockroach Bay Unit FL-83'' 
                and dated March 18, 2016, with respect to Unit FL-83.
                    (CC) The map entitled ``Sand Key Unit FL-85P'' and 
                dated March 18, 2016, with respect to Unit FL-85P.
                    (DD) The map entitled ``Pepperfish Keys Unit P26'' 
                and dated March 18, 2016, with respect to Unit P26.
                    (EE) The map entitled ``Peninsula Point Unit FL-89'' 
                and dated March 18, 2016, with respect to Unit FL-89.
                    (FF) The map entitled ``Phillips Inlet Unit FL-93/
                FL-93P Deer Lake Complex FL-94'' and dated March 18, 
                2016, with respect to Unit FL-93, Unit FL-93P, and Unit 
                FL-94.
                    (GG) The map entitled ``St. Andrew Complex P31 (1 of 
                3)'' and dated October 7, 2016, with respect to Unit 
                P31.
                    (HH) The map entitled ``St. Andrew Complex P31 (2 of 
                3)'' and dated October 7, 2016, with respect to Unit 
                P31.
                    (II) The map entitled ``St. Andrew Complex P31/P31P 
                (3 of 3)'' and dated October 7, 2016, with respect to 
                Unit P31 and Unit P31P.
            (3) Limitations.--For purposes of paragraph (1)--
                    (A) nothing in this subsection affects the 
                boundaries of any of Units NC-06 and NC-06P;
                    (B) the occurrence in paragraph (2) of the name of a 
                Unit solely in the title of a map shall not be construed 
                to be a reference to such Unit; and
                    (C) the depiction of boundaries of any of Units 
                P18P, FL-71P, and P24P in a map referred to in 
                subparagraph (V), (X), or (AA) of paragraph (2) shall 
                not be construed to affect the boundaries of such Unit.
            (4) Conforming amendment.--Section 4(a) of the Coastal 
        Barrier Resources Act (16 U.S.C. 3503(a)) is amended--

[[Page 133 STAT. 804]]

                    (A) in the matter preceding paragraph (1), by 
                inserting ``replaced,'' after ``may be''; and
                    (B) in paragraph (3), by inserting ``replaces such a 
                map or'' after ``that specifically''.

    (b) Digital Maps of John H. Chafee Coastal Barrier Resources System 
Units.--Section 4(b) of the Coastal Barrier Resources Act (16 U.S.C. 
3503(b)) is amended--
            (1) by inserting before the first sentence the following:
            ``(1) In general.--''; and
            (2) by adding at the end the following:
            ``(2) Digital maps.--
                    ``(A) Availability.--The Secretary shall make 
                available to the public on the Internet web site of the 
                United States Fish and Wildlife Service digital versions 
                of the maps included in the set of maps referred to in 
                subsection (a).
                    ``(B) Effect.--Any determination as to whether a 
                location is inside or outside the System shall be made 
                without regard to the digital maps available under this 
                paragraph, except that this subparagraph does not apply 
                with respect to any printed version of such a digital 
                map if the printed version is included in the maps 
                referred to in subsection (a).
                    ``(C) Report.--No later than 180 days after the date 
                of the enactment of John D. Dingell, Jr. Conservation, 
                Management, and Recreation Act, the Secretary shall 
                submit to the Committee on Natural Resources of the 
                House of Representatives and the Committee on 
                Environment and Public Works of the Senate a report 
                regarding the progress and challenges in the transition 
                from paper to digital maps and a timetable for 
                completion of the digitization of all maps related to 
                the System.''.

    (c) Repeal of Report.--Section 3 of Public Law 109-226 (16 U.S.C. 
3503 note) is repealed.

                       TITLE VIII--WATER AND POWER

                 Subtitle A--Reclamation Title Transfer

SEC. 8001. &lt;&lt;NOTE: 43 USC 2901.&gt;&gt;  PURPOSE.

    The purpose of this subtitle is to facilitate the transfer of title 
to Reclamation project facilities to qualifying entities on the 
completion of repayment of capital costs.
SEC. 8002. &lt;&lt;NOTE: 43 USC 2902.&gt;&gt;  DEFINITIONS.

    In this subtitle:
            (1) Conveyed property.--The term ``conveyed property'' means 
        an eligible facility that has been conveyed to a qualifying 
        entity under section 8003.
            (2) Eligible facility.--The term ``eligible facility'' means 
        a facility that meets the criteria for potential transfer 
        established under section 8004(a).
            (3) Facility.--
                    (A) In general.--The term ``facility'' includes a 
                dam or appurtenant works, canal, lateral, ditch, gate, 
                control

[[Page 133 STAT. 805]]

                structure, pumping station, other infrastructure, 
                recreational facility, building, distribution and 
                drainage works, and associated land or interest in land 
                or water.
                    (B) Exclusions.--The term ``facility'' does not 
                include a Reclamation project facility, or a portion of 
                a Reclamation project facility--
                          (i) that is a reserved works as of the date of 
                      enactment of this Act;
                          (ii) that generates hydropower marketed by a 
                      Federal power marketing administration; or
                          (iii) that is managed for recreation under a 
                      lease, permit, license, or other management 
                      agreement that does contribute to capital 
                      repayment.
            (4) Project use power.--The term ``project use power'' means 
        the electrical capacity, energy, and associated ancillary 
        service components required to provide the minimum electrical 
        service needed to operate or maintain Reclamation project 
        facilities in accordance with the authorization for the 
        Reclamation project.
            (5) Qualifying entity.--The term ``qualifying entity'' means 
        an agency of a State or political subdivision of a State, a 
        joint action or powers agency, a water users association, or an 
        Indian Tribe or Tribal utility authority that--
                    (A) as of the date of conveyance under this 
                subtitle, is the current operator of the eligible 
                facility pursuant to a contract with Reclamation; and
                    (B) as determined by the Secretary, has the capacity 
                to continue to manage the eligible facility for the same 
                purposes for which the property has been managed under 
                the reclamation laws.
            (6) Reclamation.--The term ``Reclamation'' means the Bureau 
        of Reclamation.
            (7) Reclamation project.--The term ``Reclamation project'' 
        means--
                    (A) any reclamation or irrigation project, including 
                incidental features of the project--
                          (i) that is authorized by the reclamation 
                      laws;
                          (ii) that is constructed by the United States 
                      pursuant to the reclamation laws; or
                          (iii) in connection with which there is a 
                      repayment or water service contract executed by 
                      the United States pursuant to the reclamation 
                      laws; or
                    (B) any project constructed by the Secretary for the 
                reclamation of land.
            (8) Reserved works.--The term ``reserved works'' means any 
        building, structure, facility, or equipment--
                    (A) that is owned by the Bureau; and
                    (B) for which operations and maintenance are 
                performed, regardless of the source of funding--
                          (i) by an employee of the Bureau; or
                          (ii) through a contract entered into by the 
                      Commissioner.
            (9) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary, 
        acting through the Commissioner of Reclamation.

[[Page 133 STAT. 806]]

SEC. 8003. &lt;&lt;NOTE: 43 USC 2903.&gt;&gt;  AUTHORIZATION OF TRANSFERS OF 
                          TITLE TO ELIGIBLE FACILITIES.

    (a) Authorization.--
            (1) In general.--Subject to the requirements of this 
        subtitle, the Secretary, without further authorization from 
        Congress, may, on application of a qualifying entity, convey to 
        a qualifying entity all right, title, and interest of the United 
        States in and to any eligible facility, if--
                    (A) not later than 90 days before the date on which 
                the Secretary makes the conveyance, the Secretary 
                submits to Congress--
                          (i) a written notice of the proposed 
                      conveyance; and
                          (ii) a description of the reasons for the 
                      conveyance; and
                    (B) a joint resolution disapproving the conveyance 
                is not enacted before the date on which the Secretary 
                makes the conveyance.
            (2) Consultation.--A conveyance under paragraph (1) shall be 
        made by written agreement between the Secretary and the 
        qualifying entity, developed in consultation with any existing 
        water and power customers affected by the conveyance of the 
        eligible facility.

    (b) Reservation of Easement.--The Secretary may reserve an easement 
over a conveyed property if--
            (1) the Secretary determines that the easement is necessary 
        for the management of any interests retained by the Federal 
        Government under this subtitle;
            (2) the Reclamation project or a portion of the Reclamation 
        project remains under Federal ownership; and
            (3) the Secretary enters into an agreement regarding the 
        easement with the applicable qualifying entity.

    (c) Interests in Water.--No interests in water shall be conveyed 
under this subtitle unless the conveyance is provided for in a separate, 
quantified agreement between the Secretary and the qualifying entity, 
subject to applicable State law and public process requirements.
SEC. 8004. &lt;&lt;NOTE: 43 USC 2904.&gt;&gt;  ELIGIBILITY CRITERIA.

    (a) Establishment.--The Secretary shall establish criteria for 
determining whether a facility is eligible for conveyance under this 
subtitle.
    (b) Minimum Requirements.--
            (1) Agreement of qualifying entity.--The criteria 
        established under subsection (a) shall include a requirement 
        that a qualifying entity shall agree--
                    (A) to accept title to the eligible facility;
                    (B) to use the eligible facility for substantially 
                the same purposes for which the eligible facility is 
                being used at the time the Secretary evaluates the 
                potential transfer; and
                    (C) to provide, as consideration for the assets to 
                be conveyed, compensation to the reclamation fund 
                established by the first section of the Act of June 17, 
                1902 (32 Stat. 388, chapter 1093), in an amount that is 
                the equivalent of the net present value of any repayment 
                obligation to the United States or other income stream 
                that the United

[[Page 133 STAT. 807]]

                States derives from the eligible facility to be 
                transferred, as of the date of the transfer.
            (2) Determinations of secretary.--The criteria established 
        under subsection (a) shall include a requirement that the 
        Secretary shall--
                    (A) be able to enter into an agreement with the 
                qualifying entity with respect to the legal, 
                institutional, and financial arrangements relating to 
                the conveyance;
                    (B) determine that the proposed transfer--
                          (i) would not have an unmitigated significant 
                      effect on the environment;
                          (ii) is consistent with the responsibilities 
                      of the Secretary--
                                    (I) in the role as trustee for 
                                federally recognized Indian Tribes; and
                                    (II) to ensure compliance with any 
                                applicable international and Tribal 
                                treaties and agreements and interstate 
                                compacts and agreements;
                          (iii) is in the financial interest of the 
                      United States;
                          (iv) protects the public aspects of the 
                      eligible facility, including water rights managed 
                      for public purposes, such as flood control or fish 
                      and wildlife;
                          (v) complies with all applicable Federal and 
                      State law; and
                          (vi) will not result in an adverse impact on 
                      fulfillment of existing water delivery obligations 
                      consistent with historical operations and 
                      applicable contracts; and
                    (C) if the eligible facility proposed to be 
                transferred is a dam or diversion works (not including 
                canals or other project features that receive or convey 
                water from the diverting works) diverting water from a 
                water body containing a species listed as a threatened 
                species or an endangered species or critical habitat 
                under the Endangered Species Act of 1973 (16 U.S.C. 1531 
                et seq.), determine that--
                          (i) the eligible facility continues to comply 
                      with the Endangered Species Act of 1973 (16 U.S.C. 
                      1531 et seq.) in a manner that provides no less 
                      protection to the listed species as existed under 
                      Federal ownership; and
                          (ii) the eligible facility is not part of the 
                      Central Valley Project in the State of California.
            (3) Status of reclamation land.--The criteria established 
        under subsection (a) shall require that any land to be conveyed 
        out of Federal ownership under this subtitle is--
                    (A) land acquired by the Secretary; or
                    (B) land withdrawn by the Secretary, only if--
                          (i) the Secretary determines in writing that 
                      the withdrawn land is encumbered by facilities to 
                      the extent that the withdrawn land is unsuitable 
                      for return to the public domain; and
                          (ii) the qualifying entity agrees to pay fair 
                      market value based on historical or existing uses 
                      for the withdrawn land to be conveyed.

    (c) Hold Harmless.--No conveyance under this subtitle shall 
adversely impact applicable Federal power rates, repayment obligations, 
or other project power uses.

[[Page 133 STAT. 808]]

SEC. 8005. &lt;&lt;NOTE: 43 USC 2905.&gt;&gt;  LIABILITY.

    (a) In General.--Effective on the date of conveyance of any eligible 
facility under this subtitle, the United States shall not be held liable 
by any court for damages of any kind arising out of any act, omission, 
or occurrence relating to the eligible facility, other than damages 
caused by acts of negligence committed by the United States or by agents 
or employees of the United States prior to the date of the conveyance.
    (b) Effect.--Nothing in this section increases the liability of the 
United States beyond that currently provided in chapter 171 of title 28, 
United States Code (commonly known as the ``Federal Tort Claims Act'').
SEC. 8006. &lt;&lt;NOTE: 43 USC 2906.&gt;&gt;  BENEFITS.

    After a conveyance of an eligible facility under this subtitle--
            (1) the conveyed property shall no longer be considered to 
        be part of a Reclamation project;
            (2) except as provided in paragraph (3), the qualifying 
        entity to which the conveyed property is conveyed shall not be 
        eligible to receive any benefits, including project use power, 
        with respect to the conveyed property, except for any benefit 
        that would be available to a similarly situated entity with 
        respect to property that is not a part of a Reclamation project; 
        and
            (3) the qualifying entity to which the conveyed property is 
        conveyed may be eligible to receive project use power if--
                    (A) the qualifying entity is receiving project use 
                power as of the date of enactment of this Act;
                    (B) the project use power will be used for the 
                delivery of Reclamation project water; and
                    (C) the Secretary and the qualifying entity enter 
                into an agreement under which the qualifying entity 
                agrees to continue to be responsible for a proportionate 
                share of operation and maintenance and capital costs for 
                the Federal facilities that generate and deliver, if 
                applicable, power used for delivery of Reclamation 
                project water after the date of conveyance, in 
                accordance with Reclamation project use power rates.
SEC. 8007. &lt;&lt;NOTE: 43 USC 2907.&gt;&gt;  COMPLIANCE WITH OTHER LAWS.

    (a) In General.--Before conveying an eligible facility under this 
subtitle, the Secretary shall comply with all applicable Federal 
environmental laws, including--
            (1) the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 (42 U.S.C. 
        4321 et seq.);
            (2) the Endangered Species Act of 1973 (16 U.S.C. 1531 et 
        seq.); and
            (3) subtitle III of title 54, United States Code.

    (b) Sense of Congress.--It is the sense of Congress that any Federal 
permitting and review processes required with respect to a conveyance of 
an eligible facility under this subtitle should be completed with the 
maximum efficiency and effectiveness.

[[Page 133 STAT. 809]]

              Subtitle B--Endangered Fish Recovery Programs

SEC. 8101. EXTENSION OF AUTHORIZATION FOR ANNUAL BASE FUNDING OF 
                          FISH RECOVERY PROGRAMS; REMOVAL OF 
                          CERTAIN REPORTING REQUIREMENT.

    Section 3(d) of Public Law 106-392 (114 Stat. 1604; 126 Stat. 2444) 
is amended--
            (1) by striking paragraph (1) and inserting the following:
            ``(1) Authorization of appropriations.--
                    ``(A) In general.--There is authorized to be 
                appropriated to the Secretary to be used by the Bureau 
                of Reclamation to make the annual base funding 
                contributions to the Recovery Implementation Programs 
                $10,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2020 through 2023.
                    ``(B) Nonreimursable funds.--The funds contributed 
                to the Recovery Implementation Programs under 
                subparagraph (A) shall be considered a nonreimbursable 
                Federal expenditure.''; and
            (2) in paragraph (2), by striking the fourth, fifth, sixth, 
        and seventh sentences.
SEC. 8102. REPORT ON RECOVERY IMPLEMENTATION PROGRAMS.

    Section 3 of Public Law 106-392 (114 Stat. 1603; 126 Stat. 2444) is 
amended by adding at the end the following:
    ``(j) Report.--
            ``(1) In general.--Not later than September 30, 2021, the 
        Secretary shall submit to the appropriate committees of Congress 
        a report that--
                    ``(A) describes the accomplishments of the Recovery 
                Implementation Programs;
                    ``(B) identifies--
                          ``(i) as of the date of the report, the 
                      listing status under the Endangered Species Act of 
                      1973 (16 U.S.C. 1531 et seq.) of the Colorado 
                      pikeminnow, humpback chub, razorback sucker, and 
                      bonytail; and
                          ``(ii) as of September 30, 2023, the projected 
                      listing status under that Act of each of the 
                      species referred to in clause (i);
                    ``(C)(i) identifies--
                          ``(I) the total expenditures and the 
                      expenditures by categories of activities by the 
                      Recovery Implementation Programs during the period 
                      beginning on the date on which the applicable 
                      Recovery Implementation Program was established 
                      and ending on September 30, 2021; and
                          ``(II) projected expenditures by the Recovery 
                      Implementation Programs during the period 
                      beginning on October 1, 2021, and ending on 
                      September 30, 2023; and
                    ``(ii) for purposes of the expenditures identified 
                under clause (i), includes a description of--
                          ``(I) any expenditures of appropriated funds;
                          ``(II) any power revenues;

[[Page 133 STAT. 810]]

                          ``(III) any contributions by the States, power 
                      customers, Tribes, water users, and environmental 
                      organizations; and
                          ``(IV) any other sources of funds for the 
                      Recovery Implementation Programs; and
                    ``(D) describes--
                          ``(i) any activities to be carried out under 
                      the Recovery Implementation Program after 
                      September 30, 2023; and
                          ``(ii) the projected cost of the activities 
                      described under clause (i).
            ``(2) Consultation required.--The Secretary shall consult 
        with the participants in the Recovery Implementation Programs in 
        preparing the report under paragraph (1).''.

        Subtitle C--Yakima River Basin Water Enhancement Project

SEC. 8201. AUTHORIZATION OF PHASE III.

    (a) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Integrated plan.--The term ``Integrated Plan'' means the 
        Yakima River Basin Integrated Water Resource Management Plan, 
        the Federal elements of which are known as ``phase III of the 
        Yakima River Basin Water Enhancement Project'', as described in 
        the Bureau of Reclamation document entitled ``Record of Decision 
        for the Yakima River Basin Integrated Water Resource Management 
        Plan Final Programmatic Environmental Impact Statement'' and 
        dated March 2, 2012.
            (2) Irrigation entity.--The term ``irrigation entity'' means 
        a district, project, or State-recognized authority, board of 
        control, agency, or entity located in the Yakima River basin 
        that manages and delivers irrigation water to farms in the 
        Yakima River basin.
            (3) Proratable irrigation entity.--The term ``proratable 
        irrigation entity'' means an irrigation entity that possesses, 
        or the members of which possess, proratable water (as defined in 
        section 1202 of Public Law 103-434 (108 Stat. 4551)).
            (4) State.--The term ``State'' means the State of 
        Washington.
            (5) Total water supply available.--The term ``total water 
        supply available'' has the meaning given the term in applicable 
        civil actions, as determined by the Secretary.
            (6) Yakima river basin water enhancement project.--The term 
        ``Yakima River Basin Water Enhancement Project'' means the 
        Yakima River basin water enhancement project authorized by 
        Congress pursuant to title XII of Public Law 103-434 (108 Stat. 
        4550; 114 Stat. 1425) and other Acts (including Public Law 96-
        162 (93 Stat. 1241), section 109 of Public Law 98-381 (16 U.S.C. 
        839b note), and Public Law 105-62 (111 Stat. 1320)) to promote 
        water conservation, water supply, habitat, and stream 
        enhancement improvements in the Yakima River basin.

    (b) Integrated Plan.--
            (1) Initial development phase.--
                    (A) In general.--As the initial development phase of 
                the Integrated Plan, the Secretary, in coordination with

[[Page 133 STAT. 811]]

                the State and the Yakama Nation, shall identify and 
                implement projects under the Integrated Plan that are 
                prepared to be commenced during the 10-year period 
                beginning on the date of enactment of this Act.
                    (B) Requirement.--The initial development phase of 
                the Integrated Plan under subparagraph (A) shall be 
                carried out in accordance with--
                          (i) this subsection, including any related 
                      plans, reports, and correspondence referred to in 
                      this subsection; and
                          (ii) title XII of Public Law 103-434 (108 
                      Stat. 4550; 114 Stat. 1425).
            (2) Intermediate and final development phases.--
                    (A) Plans.--The Secretary, in coordination with the 
                State and the Yakama Nation, shall develop plans for the 
                intermediate and final development phases of the 
                Integrated Plan to achieve the purposes of title XII of 
                Public Law 103-434 (108 Stat. 4550; 114 Stat. 1425), 
                including conducting applicable feasibility studies, 
                environmental reviews, and other relevant studies 
                required to develop those plans.
                    (B) Intermediate development phase.--The Secretary, 
                in coordination with the State and the Yakama Nation, 
                shall develop an intermediate development phase of the 
                Integrated Plan, to commence not earlier than the date 
                that is 10 years after the date of enactment of this 
                Act.
                    (C) Final development phase.--The Secretary, in 
                coordination with the State and the Yakama Nation, shall 
                develop a final development phase of the Integrated 
                Plan, to commence not earlier than the date that is 20 
                years after the date of enactment of this Act.
            (3) Requirements.--The projects and activities identified by 
        the Secretary for implementation under the Integrated Plan shall 
        be carried out only--
                    (A) subject to authorization and appropriation;
                    (B) contingent on the completion of applicable 
                feasibility studies, environmental reviews, and cost-
                benefit analyses that include favorable recommendations 
                for further project development;
                    (C) on public review and a determination by the 
                Secretary that design, construction, and operation of a 
                proposed project or activity is in the best interest of 
                the public; and
                    (D) in accordance with applicable laws, including--
                          (i) the National Environmental Policy Act of 
                      1969 (42 U.S.C. 4321 et seq.); and
                          (ii) the Endangered Species Act of 1973 (16 
                      U.S.C. 1531 et seq.).
            (4) Effect of subsection.--Nothing in this subsection--
                    (A) shall be considered to be a new or supplemental 
                benefit for purposes of the Reclamation Reform Act of 
                1982 (43 U.S.C. 390aa et seq.);
                    (B) affects--
                          (i) any contract in existence on the date of 
                      enactment of this Act that was executed pursuant 
                      to the reclamation laws; or

[[Page 133 STAT. 812]]

                          (ii) any contract or agreement between the 
                      Bureau of Indian Affairs and the Bureau of 
                      Reclamation;
                    (C) affects, waives, abrogates, diminishes, defines, 
                or interprets any treaty between the Yakama Nation and 
                the United States; or
                    (D) constrains the authority of the Secretary to 
                provide fish passage in the Yakima River basin, in 
                accordance with the Hoover Power Plant Act of 1984 (43 
                U.S.C. 619 et seq.).
            (5) Progress report.--Not later than 5 years after the date 
        of enactment of this Act, the Secretary, in conjunction with the 
        State and in consultation with the Yakama Nation, shall submit 
        to the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources of the Senate 
        and the Committee on Natural Resources of the House of 
        Representatives a progress report on the development and 
        implementation of the Integrated Plan.

    (c) Financing, Construction, Operation, and Maintenance of Kachess 
Drought Relief Pumping Plant and Keechelus to Kachess Pipeline.--
            (1) Long-term agreements.--
                    (A) In general.--A long-term agreement negotiated 
                pursuant to this section or the reclamation laws between 
                the Secretary and a participating proratable irrigation 
                entity in the Yakima River basin for the non-Federal 
                financing, construction, operation, or maintenance of 
                the Drought Relief Pumping Plant or the Keechelus to 
                Kachess Pipeline shall include provisions regarding--
                          (i) responsibilities of each participating 
                      proratable irrigation entity for--
                                    (I) the planning, design, and 
                                construction of infrastructure, in 
                                consultation and coordination with the 
                                Secretary; and
                                    (II) the pumping and operational 
                                costs necessary to provide the total 
                                water supply available that is made 
                                inaccessible due to drought pumping 
                                during any preceding calendar year, if 
                                the Kachess Reservoir fails to refill as 
                                a result of pumping drought storage 
                                water during such a calendar year;
                          (ii) property titles and responsibilities of 
                      each participating proratable irrigation entity 
                      for the maintenance of, and liability for, all 
                      infrastructure constructed under title XII of 
                      Public Law 103-434 (108 Stat. 4550; 114 Stat. 
                      1425);
                          (iii) operation and integration of the 
                      projects by the Secretary in the operation of the 
                      Yakima Project; and
                          (iv) costs associated with the design, 
                      financing, construction, operation, maintenance, 
                      and mitigation of projects, with the costs of 
                      Federal oversight and review to be nonreimbursable 
                      to the participating proratable irrigation 
                      entities and the Yakima Project.
                    (B) Treatment.--A facility developed or operated by 
                a participating proratable irrigation entity under this 
                subsection shall not be considered to be a supplemental 
                work for purposes of section 9(a) of the Reclamation 
                Project Act of 1939 (43 U.S.C. 485h(a)).
            (2) Kachess reservoir.--

[[Page 133 STAT. 813]]

                    (A) In general.--Any additional stored water made 
                available by the construction of a facility to access 
                and deliver inactive and natural storage in Kachess Lake 
                and Reservoir under this subsection--
                          (i) shall be considered to be Yakima Project 
                      water;
                          (ii) shall be used exclusively by the 
                      Secretary to enhance the water supply during years 
                      for which the total water supply available is not 
                      sufficient to provide a percentage of proratable 
                      entitlements in order to make that additional 
                      water available, in a quantity representing not 
                      more than 70 percent of proratable entitlements to 
                      the Kittitas Reclamation District, the Roza 
                      Irrigation District, or any other proratable 
                      irrigation entity participating in the 
                      construction, operation, or maintenance costs of a 
                      facility under this section, in accordance with 
                      such terms and conditions as the districts may 
                      agree, subject to the conditions that--
                                    (I) the Bureau of Indian Affairs, 
                                the Wapato Irrigation Project, and the 
                                Yakama Nation, on an election to 
                                participate, may also obtain water from 
                                Kachess Reservoir inactive storage to 
                                enhance applicable existing irrigation 
                                water supply in accordance with such 
                                terms and conditions as the Bureau of 
                                Indian Affairs and the Yakama Nation may 
                                agree; and
                                    (II) the additional supply made 
                                available under this clause shall be 
                                available to participating individuals 
                                and entities based on--
                                            (aa) the proportion that--
                                                (AA) the proratable 
                                            entitlement of each 
                                            participating individual or 
                                            entity; bears to
                                                (BB) the proratable 
                                            entitlements of all 
                                            participating individuals 
                                            and entities; or
                                            (bb) such other proportion 
                                        as the participating entities 
                                        may agree; and
                          (iii) shall not be any portion of the total 
                      water supply available.
                    (B) Effect of paragraph.--Nothing in this paragraph 
                affects, as in existence on the date of enactment of 
                this Act, any--
                          (i) contract;
                          (ii) law (including regulations) relating to 
                      repayment costs;
                          (iii) water rights; or
                          (iv) treaty right of the Yakama Nation.
            (3) Project power for kachess pumping plant.--
                    (A) In general.--Subject to subparagraphs (B) 
                through (D), the Administrator of the Bonneville Power 
                Administration, pursuant to the Pacific Northwest 
                Electric Power Planning and Conservation Act (16 U.S.C. 
                839 et seq.), shall provide to the Secretary project 
                power to operate the Kachess Pumping Plant constructed 
                under this section if inactive storage in the Kachess 
                Reservoir is needed to provide drought relief for 
                irrigation.

[[Page 133 STAT. 814]]

                    (B) Determinations by secretary.--The project power 
                described in subparagraph (A) may be provided only if 
                the Secretary determines that--
                          (i) there are in effect--
                                    (I) a drought declaration issued by 
                                the State; and
                                    (II) conditions that have led to 70 
                                percent or lower water delivery to 
                                proratable irrigation districts; and
                          (ii) it is appropriate to provide the power 
                      under that subparagraph.
                    (C) Period of availability.--The power described in 
                subparagraph (A) shall be provided during the period--
                          (i) beginning on the date on which the 
                      Secretary makes the determinations described in 
                      subparagraph (B); and
                          (ii) ending on the earlier of--
                                    (I) the date that is 1 year after 
                                that date; and
                                    (II) the date on which the Secretary 
                                determines that--
                                            (aa) drought mitigation 
                                        measures are still necessary in 
                                        the Yakima River basin; or
                                            (bb) the power should no 
                                        longer be provided for any other 
                                        reason.
                    (D) Rate.--
                          (i) In general.--The Administrator of the 
                      Bonneville Power Administration shall provide 
                      project power under subparagraph (A) at the then-
                      applicable lowest Bonneville Power Administration 
                      rate for public body, cooperative, and Federal 
                      agency customer firm obligations on the date on 
                      which the authority is provided.
                          (ii) No discounts.--The rate under clause (i) 
                      shall not include any irrigation discount.
                    (E) Local provider.--During any period for which 
                project power is not provided under subparagraph (A), 
                the Secretary shall obtain power to operate the Kachess 
                Pumping Plant from a local provider.
                    (F) Other costs.--The cost of power for pumping and 
                station service, and the costs of transmitting power 
                from the Federal Columbia River power system to the 
                pumping facilities of the Yakima River Basin Water 
                Enhancement Project, shall be borne by the irrigation 
                districts receiving the benefits of the applicable 
                water.
                    (G) Duties of commissioner.--For purposes of this 
                paragraph, the Commissioner of Reclamation shall arrange 
                transmission for any delivery of--
                          (i) Federal power over the Bonneville system 
                      through applicable tariff and business practice 
                      processes of that system; or
                          (ii) power obtained from any local provider.

    (d) Design and Use of Groundwater Recharge Projects.--The Secretary, 
in coordination with the State and the Yakama Nation, may provide 
technical assistance for, participate in, and enter into agreements, 
including with irrigation entities for the use of excess conveyance 
capacity in Yakima River Basin Water Enhancement Project facilities, 
for--

[[Page 133 STAT. 815]]

            (1) groundwater recharge projects; and
            (2) aquifer storage and recovery projects.

    (e) Operational Control of Water Supplies.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary shall retain authority and 
        discretion over the management of Yakima River Basin Water 
        Enhancement Project supplies--
                    (A) to optimize operational use and flexibility; and
                    (B) to ensure compliance with all applicable Federal 
                and State laws, treaty rights of the Yakama Nation, and 
                legal obligations, including those under title XII of 
                Public Law 103-434 (108 Stat. 4550; 114 Stat. 1425).
            (2) Inclusion.--The authority and discretion described in 
        paragraph (1) shall include the ability of the United States to 
        store, deliver, conserve, and reuse water supplies deriving from 
        projects authorized under title XII of Public Law 103-434 (108 
        Stat. 4550; 114 Stat. 1425).

    (f) Cooperative Agreements and Grants.--The Secretary may enter into 
cooperative agreements and make grants to carry out this section, 
including for the purposes of land and water transfers, leases, and 
acquisitions from willing participants, subject to the condition that 
the acquiring entity shall hold title to, and be responsible for, all 
required operation, maintenance, and management of the acquired land or 
water during any period in which the acquiring entity holds title to the 
acquired land.
    (g) Water Conservation Projects.--The Secretary may participate in, 
provide funding for, and accept non-Federal financing for water 
conservation projects, regardless of whether the projects are in 
accordance with the Yakima River Basin Water Conservation Program 
established under section 1203 of Public Law 103-434 (108 Stat. 4551), 
that are intended to partially implement the Integrated Plan by 
providing conserved water to improve tributary and mainstem stream flow.
    (h) Indian Irrigation Projects.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary, acting through the 
        Commissioner of Reclamation, may contribute funds for the 
        preparation of plans and investigation measures, and, after the 
        date on which the Secretary certifies that the measures are 
        consistent with the water conservation objectives of this 
        section, to any Indian irrigation project--
                    (A) that is located in the Pacific Northwest Region;
                    (B) that is identified in the report of the 
                Government Accountability Office numbered GAO-15-453T;
                    (C) that has been identified as part of a Bureau of 
                Reclamation basin study pursuant to subtitle F of title 
                IX of Public Law 111-11 (42 U.S.C. 10361 et seq.) to 
                increase water supply for the Pacific Northwest Region; 
                and
                    (D) an improvement to which would contribute to the 
                flow of interstate water.
            (2) Authorization of appropriations.--There is authorized to 
        be appropriated to carry out this subsection $75,000,000.
SEC. 8202. MODIFICATION OF PURPOSES AND DEFINITIONS.

    (a) Purposes.--Section 1201 of Public Law 103-434 (108 Stat. 4550) 
is amended--
            (1) by striking paragraph (1) and inserting the following:

[[Page 133 STAT. 816]]

            ``(1) to protect, mitigate, and enhance fish and wildlife 
        and the recovery and maintenance of self-sustaining harvestable 
        populations of fish and other aquatic life, both anadromous and 
        resident species, throughout their historic distribution range 
        in the Yakima Basin through--
                    ``(A) improved water management and the 
                constructions of fish passage at storage and diversion 
                dams, as authorized under the Hoover Power Plant Act of 
                1984 (43 U.S.C. 619 et seq.);
                    ``(B) improved instream flows and water supplies;
                    ``(C) improved water quality, watershed, and 
                ecosystem function;
                    ``(D) protection, creation, and enhancement of 
                wetlands; and
                    ``(E) other appropriate means of habitat 
                improvement;'';
            (2) in paragraph (2), by inserting ``, municipal, 
        industrial, and domestic water supply and use purposes, 
        especially during drought years, including reducing the 
        frequency and severity of water supply shortages for pro-ratable 
        irrigation entities'' before the semicolon at the end;
            (3) by striking paragraph (4);
            (4) by redesignating paragraph (3) as paragraph (4);
            (5) by inserting after paragraph (2) the following:
            ``(3) to authorize the Secretary to make water available for 
        purchase or lease for meeting municipal, industrial, and 
        domestic water supply purposes;'';
            (6) by redesignating paragraphs (5) and (6) as paragraphs 
        (6) and (8), respectively;
            (7) by inserting after paragraph (4) (as redesignated by 
        paragraph (4)) the following:
            ``(5) to realize sufficient water savings from implementing 
        the Yakima River Basin Integrated Water Resource Management 
        Plan, so that not less than 85,000 acre feet of water savings 
        are achieved by implementing the initial development phase of 
        the Integrated Plan pursuant to section 8201(b)(1) of the John 
        D. Dingell, Jr. Conservation, Management, and Recreation Act, in 
        addition to the 165,000 acre-feet of water savings targeted 
        through the Basin Conservation Program, as authorized on October 
        31, 1994;'';
            (8) in paragraph (6) (as redesignated by paragraph (6))--
                    (A) by inserting ``an increase in'' before 
                ``voluntary''; and
                    (B) by striking ``and'' at the end;
            (9) by inserting after paragraph (6) (as so redesignated) 
        the following:
            ``(7) to encourage an increase in the use of, and reduce the 
        barriers to, water transfers, leasing, markets, and other 
        voluntary transactions among public and private entities to 
        enhance water management in the Yakima River basin;'';
            (10) in paragraph (8) (as so redesignated), by striking the 
        period at the end and inserting ``; and''; and
            (11) by adding at the end the following:
            ``(9) to improve the resilience of the ecosystems, 
        economies, and communities in the Yakima River basin facing 
        drought, hydrologic changes, and other related changes and 
        variability in natural and human systems, for the benefit of the 
        people, fish, and wildlife of the region.''.

[[Page 133 STAT. 817]]

    (b) Definitions.--Section 1202 of Public Law 103-434 (108 Stat. 
4550) is amended--
            (1) by redesignating paragraphs (6), (7), (8), (9), (10), 
        (11), (12), (13), and (14) as paragraphs (8), (10), (11), (12), 
        (13), (14), (15), (17), and (18), respectively;
            (2) by inserting after paragraph (5) the following:
            ``(6) Designated federal official.--The term `designated 
        Federal official' means the Commissioner of Reclamation (or a 
        designee), acting pursuant to the charter of the Conservation 
        Advisory Group.
            ``(7) Integrated plan.--The term `Integrated Plan' has the 
        meaning given the term in section 8201(a) of the John D. 
        Dingell, Jr. Conservation, Management, and Recreation Act, to be 
        carried out in cooperation with, and in addition to, activities 
        of the State of Washington and the Yakama Nation.'';
            (3) by inserting after paragraph (8) (as redesignated by 
        paragraph (1)) the following:
            ``(9) Municipal, industrial, and domestic water supply and 
        use.--The term `municipal, industrial, and domestic water supply 
        and use' means the supply and use of water for--
                    ``(A) domestic consumption (whether urban or rural);
                    ``(B) maintenance and protection of public health 
                and safety;
                    ``(C) manufacture, fabrication, processing, 
                assembly, or other production of a good or commodity;
                    ``(D) production of energy;
                    ``(E) fish hatcheries; or
                    ``(F) water conservation activities relating to a 
                use described in subparagraphs (A) through (E).''; and
            (4) by inserting after paragraph (15) (as so redesignated) 
        the following:
            ``(16) Yakima enhancement project; yakima river basin water 
        enhancement project.--The terms `Yakima Enhancement Project' and 
        `Yakima River Basin Water Enhancement Project' mean the Yakima 
        River basin water enhancement project authorized by Congress 
        pursuant to this Act and other Acts (including Public Law 96-162 
        (93 Stat. 1241), section 109 of Public Law 98-381 (16 U.S.C. 
        839b note; 98 Stat. 1340), Public Law 105-62 (111 Stat. 1320), 
        and Public Law 106-372 (114 Stat. 1425)) to promote water 
        conservation, water supply, habitat, and stream enhancement 
        improvements in the Yakima River basin.''.
SEC. 8203. YAKIMA RIVER BASIN WATER CONSERVATION PROGRAM.

    Section 1203 of Public Law 103-434 (108 Stat. 4551) is amended--
            (1) in subsection (a)--
                    (A) in paragraph (1)--
                          (i) in the second sentence, by striking 
                      ``title'' and inserting ``section''; and
                          (ii) in the third sentence, by striking 
                      ``within 5 years of the date of enactment of this 
                      Act''; and
                    (B) in paragraph (2), by striking ``irrigation'' and 
                inserting ``the number of irrigated acres'';
            (2) in subsection (c)--
                    (A) in paragraph (2)--

[[Page 133 STAT. 818]]

                          (i) in each of subparagraphs (A) through (D), 
                      by striking the comma at the end of the 
                      subparagraph and inserting a semicolon;
                          (ii) in subparagraph (E), by striking the 
                      comma at the end and inserting ``; and'';
                          (iii) in subparagraph (F), by striking 
                      ``Department of Wildlife of the State of 
                      Washington, and'' and inserting ``Department of 
                      Fish and Wildlife of the State of Washington.''; 
                      and
                          (iv) by striking subparagraph (G);
                    (B) in paragraph (3)--
                          (i) in each of subparagraphs (A) through (C), 
                      by striking the comma at the end of the 
                      subparagraph and inserting a semicolon;
                          (ii) in subparagraph (D), by striking ``, 
                      and'' at the end and inserting a semicolon;
                          (iii) in subparagraph (E), by striking the 
                      period at the end and inserting ``; and''; and
                          (iv) by adding at the end the following:
                    ``(F) provide recommendations to advance the 
                purposes and programs of the Yakima Enhancement Project, 
                including the Integrated Plan.''; and
                    (C) by striking paragraph (4) and inserting the 
                following:
            ``(4) Authority of designated federal official.--The 
        designated Federal official may--
                    ``(A) arrange and provide logistical support for 
                meetings of the Conservation Advisory Group;
                    ``(B) use a facilitator to serve as a moderator for 
                meetings of the Conservation Advisory Group or provide 
                additional logistical support; and
                    ``(C) grant any request for a facilitator by any 
                member of the Conservation Advisory Group.'';
            (3) in subsection (d), by adding at the end the following:
            ``(4) Payment of local share by state or federal 
        government.--
                    ``(A) In general.--The State or the Federal 
                Government may fund not more than the 17.5-percent local 
                share of the costs of the Basin Conservation Program in 
                exchange for the long-term use of conserved water, 
                subject to the requirement that the funding by the 
                Federal Government of the local share of the costs shall 
                provide a quantifiable public benefit in meeting Federal 
                responsibilities in the Yakima River basin and the 
                purposes of this title.
                    ``(B) Use of conserved water.--The Yakima Project 
                Manager may use water resulting from conservation 
                measures taken under this title, in addition to water 
                that the Bureau of Reclamation may acquire from any 
                willing seller through purchase, donation, or lease, for 
                water management uses pursuant to this title.'';
            (4) in subsection (e), by striking the first sentence and 
        inserting the following: ``To participate in the Basin 
        Conservation Program, as described in subsection (b), an entity 
        shall submit to the Secretary a proposed water conservation 
        plan.'';
            (5) in subsection (i)(3)--
                    (A) by striking ``purchase or lease'' each place it 
                appears and inserting ``purchase, lease, or 
                management''; and

[[Page 133 STAT. 819]]

                    (B) in the third sentence, by striking ``made 
                immediately upon availability'' and all that follows 
                through ``Committee'' and inserting ``continued as 
                needed to provide water to be used by the Yakima Project 
                Manager as recommended by the System Operations Advisory 
                Committee and the Conservation Advisory Group''; and
            (6) in subsection (j)(4), in the first sentence, by striking 
        ``initial acquisition'' and all that follows through ``flushing 
        flows'' and inserting ``acquisition of water from willing 
        sellers or lessors specifically to provide improved instream 
        flows for anadromous and resident fish and other aquatic life, 
        including pulse flows to facilitate outward migration of 
        anadromous fish''.
SEC. 8204. YAKIMA BASIN WATER PROJECTS, OPERATIONS, AND 
                          AUTHORIZATIONS.

    (a) Redesignation of Yakama Nation.--Section 1204(g) of Public Law 
103-434 (108 Stat. 4557) &lt;&lt;NOTE: 16 USC 544 note.&gt;&gt;  is amended--
            (1) by striking the subsection designation and heading and 
        all that follows through paragraph (1) and inserting the 
        following:

    ``(g) Redesignation of Yakama Indian Nation to Yakama Nation.--
            ``(1) Redesignation.--The Confederated Tribes and Bands of 
        the Yakama Indian Nation shall be known and designated as the 
        `Confederated Tribes and Bands of the Yakama Nation'.''; and
            (2) in paragraph (2), by striking ``deemed to be a reference 
        to the `Confederated Tribes and Bands of the Yakama Indian 
        Nation'.'' and inserting ``deemed to be a reference to the 
        `Confederated Tribes and Bands of the Yakama Nation'.''.

    (b) Operation of Yakima Basin Projects.--Section 1205 of Public Law 
103-434 (108 Stat. 4557) is amended--
            (1) in subsection (a)(4)--
                    (A) in subparagraph (A)--
                          (i) in clause (i)--
                                    (I) by inserting ``additional'' 
                                after ``secure'';
                                    (II) by striking ``flushing'' and 
                                inserting ``pulse''; and
                                    (III) by striking ``uses'' and 
                                inserting ``uses, in addition to the 
                                quantity of water provided under the 
                                treaty between the Yakama Nation and the 
                                United States'';
                          (ii) by striking clause (ii);
                          (iii) by redesignating clause (iii) as clause 
                      (ii); and
                          (iv) in clause (ii) (as so redesignated) by 
                      inserting ``and water rights mandated'' after 
                      ``goals''; and
                    (B) in subparagraph (B)(i), in the first sentence, 
                by inserting ``in proportion to the funding received'' 
                after ``Program'';
            (2) in subsection (b), in the second sentence, by striking 
        ``instream flows for use by the Yakima Project Manager as 
        flushing flows or as otherwise'' and inserting ``fishery 
        purposes, as''; and
            (3) in subsection (e), by striking paragraph (1) and 
        inserting the following:
            ``(1) In general.--Additional purposes of the Yakima Project 
        shall be any of the following:

[[Page 133 STAT. 820]]

                    ``(A) To recover and maintain self-sustaining 
                harvestable populations of native fish, both anadromous 
                and resident species, throughout their historic 
                distribution range in the Yakima River basin.
                    ``(B) To protect, mitigate, and enhance aquatic life 
                and wildlife.
                    ``(C) Recreation.
                    ``(D) Municipal, industrial, and domestic use.''.

    (c) Enhancement of Water Supplies for Yakima Basin Tributaries.--
Section 1207 of Public Law 103-434 (108 Stat. 4560) is amended--
            (1) in the section heading, by striking ``supplies'' and 
        inserting ``management'';
            (2) in subsection (a)--
                    (A) in the matter preceding paragraph (1), by 
                striking ``supplies'' and inserting ``management'';
                    (B) in paragraph (1), by inserting ``and water 
                supply entities'' after ``owners''; and
                    (C) in paragraph (2)--
                          (i) in subparagraph (A), by inserting ``that 
                      choose not to participate in, or opt out of, 
                      tributary enhancement projects pursuant to this 
                      section'' after ``water right owners''; and
                          (ii) in subparagraph (B), by inserting 
                      ``nonparticipating'' before ``tributary water 
                      users'';
            (3) in subsection (b)--
                    (A) in paragraph (1)--
                          (i) by striking the paragraph designation and 
                      all that follows through ``(but not limited to)--
                      '' and inserting the following:
            ``(1) In general.--The Secretary, following consultation 
        with the State of Washington, tributary water right owners, and 
        the Yakama Nation, and on agreement of appropriate water right 
        owners, is authorized to conduct studies to evaluate measures to 
        further Yakima Project purposes on tributaries to the Yakima 
        River. Enhancement programs that use measures authorized by this 
        subsection may be investigated and implemented by the Secretary 
        in tributaries to the Yakima River, including Taneum Creek, 
        other areas, or tributary basins that currently or could 
        potentially be provided supplemental or transfer water by 
        entities, such as the Kittitas Reclamation District or the 
        Yakima-Tieton Irrigation District, subject to the condition that 
        activities may commence on completion of applicable and required 
        feasibility studies, environmental reviews, and cost-benefit 
        analyses that include favorable recommendations for further 
        project development, as appropriate. Measures to evaluate 
        include--'';
                          (ii) by indenting subparagraphs (A) through 
                      (F) appropriately;
                          (iii) in subparagraph (A), by inserting before 
                      the semicolon at the end the following: ``, 
                      including irrigation efficiency improvements (in 
                      coordination with programs of the Department of 
                      Agriculture), consolidation of diversions or 
                      administration, and diversion scheduling or 
                      coordination'';
                          (iv) by redesignating subparagraphs (C) 
                      through (F) as subparagraphs (E) through (H), 
                      respectively;

[[Page 133 STAT. 821]]

                          (v) by inserting after subparagraph (B) the 
                      following:
                    ``(C) improvements in irrigation system management 
                or delivery facilities within the Yakima River basin 
                when those improvements allow for increased irrigation 
                system conveyance and corresponding reduction in 
                diversion from tributaries or flow enhancements to 
                tributaries through direct flow supplementation or 
                groundwater recharge;
                    ``(D) improvements of irrigation system management 
                or delivery facilities to reduce or eliminate 
                excessively high flows caused by the use of natural 
                streams for conveyance or irrigation water or return 
                water;'';
                          (vi) in subparagraph (E) (as redesignated by 
                      clause (iv)), by striking ``ground water'' and 
                      inserting ``groundwater recharge and'';
                          (vii) in subparagraph (G) (as so 
                      redesignated), by inserting ``or transfer'' after 
                      ``purchase''; and
                          (viii) in subparagraph (H) (as so 
                      redesignated), by inserting ``stream processes 
                      and'' before ``stream habitats'';
                    (B) in paragraph (2)--
                          (i) in the matter preceding subparagraph (A), 
                      by striking ``the Taneum Creek study'' and 
                      inserting ``studies under this subsection'';
                          (ii) in subparagraph (B)--
                                    (I) by striking ``and economic'' and 
                                inserting ``, infrastructure, economic, 
                                and land use''; and
                                    (II) by striking ``and'' at the end;
                          (iii) in subparagraph (C), by striking the 
                      period at the end and inserting ``; and''; and
                          (iv) by adding at the end the following:
                    ``(D) any related studies already underway or 
                undertaken.''; and
                    (C) in paragraph (3), in the first sentence, by 
                inserting ``of each tributary or group of tributaries'' 
                after ``study'';
            (4) in subsection (c)--
                    (A) in the subsection heading, by inserting ``and 
                Nonsurface Storage'' after ``Nonstorage''; and
                    (B) in the matter preceding paragraph (1), by 
                inserting ``and nonsurface storage'' after 
                ``nonstorage'';
            (5) by striking subsection (d);
            (6) by redesignating subsection (e) as subsection (d); and
            (7) in paragraph (2) of subsection (d) (as so 
        redesignated)--
                    (A) in the first sentence--
                          (i) by inserting ``and implementation'' after 
                      ``investigation'';
                          (ii) by striking ``other'' before ``Yakima 
                      River''; and
                          (iii) by inserting ``and other water supply 
                      entities'' after ``owners''; and
                    (B) by striking the second sentence.

    (d) Chandler Pumping Plant and Powerplant-operations at Prosser 
Diversion Dam.--Section 1208(d) of Public Law 103-434 (108 Stat. 4562; 
114 Stat. 1425) is amended by inserting ``negatively'' before 
``affected''.

[[Page 133 STAT. 822]]

         Subtitle D--Bureau of Reclamation Facility Conveyances

SEC. 8301. CONVEYANCE OF MAINTENANCE COMPLEX AND DISTRICT OFFICE 
                          OF THE ARBUCKLE PROJECT, OKLAHOMA.

    (a) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Agreement.--The term ``Agreement'' means the agreement 
        entitled ``Agreement between the United States and the Arbuckle 
        Master Conservancy District for Transferring Title to the 
        Federally Owned Maintenance Complex and District Office to the 
        Arbuckle Master Conservancy District'' and numbered 14AG640141.
            (2) District.--The term ``District'' means the Arbuckle 
        Master Conservancy District, located in Murray County, Oklahoma.
            (3) District office.--The term ``District Office'' means--
                    (A) the headquarters building located at 2440 East 
                Main, Davis, Oklahoma; and
                    (B) the approximately 0.83 acres of land described 
                in the Agreement.
            (4) Maintenance complex.--The term ``Maintenance Complex'' 
        means the caretaker's residence, shop buildings, and any 
        appurtenances located on the land described in the Agreement 
        comprising approximately 2 acres.

    (b) Conveyance to District.--As soon as practicable after the date 
of enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall convey to the District, 
all right, title, and interest of the United States in and to the 
Maintenance Complex and District Office, Arbuckle Project, Oklahoma, 
consistent with the terms and conditions of the Agreement.
    (c) Liability.--
            (1) In general.--Effective on the date of conveyance to the 
        District of the Maintenance Complex and District Office under 
        this section, the United States shall not be held liable by any 
        court for damages of any kind arising out of any act, omission, 
        or occurrence relating to the Maintenance Complex or District 
        Office, except for damages caused by acts of negligence 
        committed by the United States or by an employee or agent of the 
        United States prior to the date of conveyance.
            (2) Applicable law.--Nothing in this section increases the 
        liability of the United States beyond the liability provided in 
        chapter 171 of title 28, United States Code (commonly known as 
        the ``Federal Tort Claims Act''), on the date of enactment of 
        this Act.

    (d) Benefits.--After the conveyance of the Maintenance Complex and 
District Office to the District under this section--
            (1) the Maintenance Complex and District Office shall not be 
        considered to be a part of a Federal reclamation project; and
            (2) the District shall not be eligible to receive any 
        benefits with respect to any facility comprising that 
        Maintenance Complex and District Office, other than benefits 
        that would be available to a similarly situated person with 
        respect to a facility that is not part of a Federal reclamation 
        project.

    (e) Communication.--If the Secretary has not completed the 
conveyance required under subsection (b) by the date that is 1

[[Page 133 STAT. 823]]

year after the date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall submit 
to Congress a letter with sufficient detail that--
            (1) explains the reasons the conveyance has not been 
        completed; and
            (2) specifies the date by which the conveyance will be 
        completed.
SEC. 8302. CONTRA COSTA CANAL TRANSFER.

    (a) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Acquired land.--The term ``acquired land'' means land in 
        Federal ownership and land over which the Federal Government 
        holds an interest for the purpose of the construction and 
        operation of the Contra Costa Canal, including land under the 
        jurisdiction of--
                    (A) the Bureau of Reclamation;
                    (B) the Western Area Power Administration; and
                    (C) the Department of Defense in the case of the 
                Clayton Canal diversion traversing the Concord Naval 
                Weapons Station.
            (2) Contra costa canal.--
                    (A) In general.--The term ``Contra Costa Canal'' 
                means the Contra Costa Canal Unit of the Central Valley 
                Project, which exclusively serves the Contra Costa Water 
                District in an urban area of Contra Costa County, 
                California.
                    (B) Inclusions.--The term ``Contra Costa Canal'' 
                includes pipelines, conduits, pumping plants, aqueducts, 
                laterals, water storage and regulatory facilities, 
                electric substations, related works and improvements, 
                and all interests in land associated with the Contra 
                Costa Canal Unit of the Central Valley Project in 
                existence on the date of enactment of this Act.
                    (C) Exclusion.--The term ``Contra Costa Canal'' does 
                not include the Rock Slough fish screen facility.
            (3) Contra costa canal agreement.--The term ``Contra Costa 
        Canal Agreement'' means an agreement between the District and 
        the Bureau of Reclamation to determine the legal, institutional, 
        and financial terms surrounding the transfer of the Contra Costa 
        Canal, including compensation to the reclamation fund 
        established by the first section of the Act of June 17, 1902 (32 
        Stat. 388, chapter 1093), equal to the net present value of 
        miscellaneous revenues that the United States would otherwise 
        derive over the 10 years following the date of enactment of this 
        Act from the eligible land and facilities to be transferred, as 
        governed by reclamation law and policy and the contracts.
            (4) Contracts.--The term ``contracts'' means the existing 
        water service contract between the District and the United 
        States, Contract No. 175r-3401A-LTR1 (2005), Contract No. 14-06-
        200-6072A (1972, as amended), and any other contract or land 
        permit involving the United States, the District, and Contra 
        Costa Canal.
            (5) District.--The term ``District'' means the Contra Costa 
        Water District, a political subdivision of the State of 
        California.
            (6) Rock slough fish screen facility.--

[[Page 133 STAT. 824]]

                    (A) In general.--The term ``Rock Slough fish screen 
                facility'' means the fish screen facility at the Rock 
                Slough intake to the Contra Costa Canal.
                    (B) Inclusions.--The term ``Rock Slough fish screen 
                facility'' includes the screen structure, rake cleaning 
                system, and accessory structures integral to the screen 
                function of the Rock Slough fish screen facility, as 
                required under the Central Valley Project Improvement 
                Act (Public Law 102-575; 106 Stat. 4706).
            (7) Rock slough fish screen facility title transfer 
        agreement.--The term ``Rock Slough fish screen facility title 
        transfer agreement'' means an agreement between the District and 
        the Bureau of Reclamation to--
                    (A) determine the legal, institutional, and 
                financial terms surrounding the transfer of the Rock 
                Slough fish screen facility; and
                    (B) ensure the continued safe and reliable 
                operations of the Rock Slough fish screen facility.

    (b) Conveyance of Land and Facilities.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 180 days after the date of 
        enactment of this Act, in consideration for the District 
        assuming from the United States all liability for the 
        administration, operation, maintenance, and replacement of the 
        Contra Costa Canal, consistent with the terms and conditions set 
        forth in the Contra Costa Canal Agreement and subject to valid 
        existing rights and existing recreation agreements between the 
        Bureau of Reclamation and the East Bay Regional Park District 
        for Contra Loma Regional Park and other local agencies within 
        the Contra Costa Canal, the Secretary shall offer to convey and 
        assign to the District--
                    (A) all right, title, and interest of the United 
                States in and to--
                          (i) the Contra Costa Canal; and
                          (ii) the acquired land; and
                    (B) all interests reserved and developed as of the 
                date of enactment of this Act for the Contra Costa Canal 
                in the acquired land, including existing recreation 
                agreements between the Bureau of Reclamation and the 
                East Bay Regional Park District for Contra Loma Regional 
                Park and other local agencies within the Contra Costa 
                Canal.
            (2) Rock slough fish screen facility.--
                    (A) In general.--The Secretary shall convey and 
                assign to the District all right, title, and interest of 
                the United States in and to the Rock Slough fish screen 
                facility pursuant to the Rock Slough fish screen 
                facility title transfer agreement.
                    (B) Cooperation.--Not later than 180 days after the 
                conveyance of the Contra Costa Canal, the Secretary and 
                the District shall enter into good faith negotiations to 
                accomplish the conveyance and assignment under 
                subparagraph (A).
            (3) Payment of costs.--The District shall pay to the 
        Secretary any administrative and real estate transfer costs 
        incurred by the Secretary in carrying out the conveyances and 
        assignments under paragraphs (1) and (2), including the cost of 
        any boundary survey, title search, cadastral survey,

[[Page 133 STAT. 825]]

        appraisal, and other real estate transaction required for the 
        conveyances and assignments.
            (4) Compliance with environmental laws.--
                    (A) In general.--Before carrying out the conveyances 
                and assignments under paragraphs (1) and (2), the 
                Secretary shall comply with all applicable requirements 
                under--
                          (i) the National Environmental Policy Act of 
                      1969 (42 U.S.C. 4321 et seq.);
                          (ii) the Endangered Species Act of 1973 (16 
                      U.S.C. 1531 et seq.); and
                          (iii) any other law applicable to the Contra 
                      Costa Canal or the acquired land.
                    (B) Effect.--Nothing in this section modifies or 
                alters any obligations under--
                          (i) the National Environmental Policy Act of 
                      1969 (42 U.S.C. 4321 et seq.); or
                          (ii) the Endangered Species Act of 1973 (16 
                      U.S.C. 1531 et seq.).

    (c) Relationship to Existing Central Valley Project Contracts.--
            (1) In general.--Nothing in this section affects--
                    (A) the application of the reclamation laws to water 
                delivered to the District pursuant to any contract with 
                the Secretary; or
                    (B) subject to paragraph (2), the contracts.
            (2) Amendments to contracts.--The Secretary and the District 
        may modify the contracts as necessary to comply with this 
        section.
            (3) Liability.--
                    (A) In general.--Except as provided in subparagraph 
                (B), the United States shall not be liable for damages 
                arising out of any act, omission, or occurrence relating 
                to the Contra Costa Canal or the acquired land.
                    (B) Exception.--The United States shall continue to 
                be liable for damages caused by acts of negligence 
                committed by the United States or by any employee or 
                agent of the United States before the date of the 
                conveyance and assignment under subsection (b)(1), 
                consistent with chapter 171 of title 28, United States 
                Code (commonly known as the ``Federal Tort Claims 
                Act'').
                    (C) Limitation.--Nothing in this section increases 
                the liability of the United States beyond the liability 
                provided under chapter 171 of title 28, United States 
                Code (commonly known as the ``Federal Tort Claims 
                Act'').

    (d) Report.--If the conveyance and assignment authorized by 
subsection (b)(1) is not completed by the date that is 1 year after the 
date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall submit to Congress a 
report that--
            (1) describes the status of the conveyance and assignment;
            (2) describes any obstacles to completing the conveyance and 
        assignment; and
            (3) specifies an anticipated date for completion of the 
        conveyance and assignment.

[[Page 133 STAT. 826]]

                   Subtitle E--Project Authorizations

SEC. 8401. EXTENSION OF EQUUS BEDS DIVISION OF THE WICHITA 
                          PROJECT.

    Section 10(h) of Public Law 86-787 (74 Stat. 1026; 120 Stat. 1474) 
is amended by striking ``10 years'' and inserting ``20 years''.

             Subtitle F--Modifications of Existing Programs

SEC. 8501. WATERSMART.

    Section 9504 of the Omnibus Public Land Management Act of 2009 (42 
U.S.C. 10364) is amended in subsection (a)--
            (1) in paragraph (2)(A)--
                    (A) by striking ``within the States'' and inserting 
                the following: ``within--
                          ``(i) the States'';
                    (B) in clause (i) (as so designated), by striking 
                ``and'' at the end; and
                    (C) by adding at the end the following:
                          ``(ii) the State of Alaska; or
                          ``(iii) the State of Hawaii; and''; and
            (2) in paragraph (3)(B)--
                    (A) by redesignating clauses (i) and (ii) as 
                subclauses (I) and (II), respectively, and indenting 
                appropriately;
                    (B) in the matter preceding subclause (I) (as so 
                redesignated), by striking ``In carrying'' and inserting 
                the following:
                          ``(i) In general.--Except as provided in 
                      clause (ii), in carrying''; and
                    (C) by adding at the end the following:
                          ``(ii) Indian tribes.--In the case of an 
                      eligible applicant that is an Indian tribe, in 
                      carrying out paragraph (1), the Secretary shall 
                      not provide a grant, or enter into an agreement, 
                      for an improvement to conserve irrigation water 
                      unless the Indian tribe agrees not--
                                    ``(I) to use any associated water 
                                savings to increase the total irrigated 
                                acreage more than the water right of 
                                that Indian tribe, as determined by--
                                            ``(aa) a court decree;
                                            ``(bb) a settlement;
                                            ``(cc) a law; or
                                            ``(dd) any combination of 
                                        the authorities described in 
                                        items (aa) through (cc); or
                                    ``(II) to otherwise increase the 
                                consumptive use of water more than the 
                                water right of the Indian tribe 
                                described in subclause (I).''.

[[Page 133 STAT. 827]]

             Subtitle G--Bureau of Reclamation Transparency

SEC. 8601. &lt;&lt;NOTE: 43 USC 505a.&gt;&gt;  DEFINITIONS.

    In this part:
            (1) Asset.--
                    (A) In general.--The term ``asset'' means any of the 
                following assets that are used to achieve the mission of 
                the Bureau to manage, develop, and protect water and 
                related resources in an environmentally and economically 
                sound manner in the interest of the people of the United 
                States:
                          (i) Capitalized facilities, buildings, 
                      structures, project features, power production 
                      equipment, recreation facilities, or quarters.
                          (ii) Capitalized and noncapitalized heavy 
                      equipment and other installed equipment.
                    (B) Inclusions.--The term ``asset'' includes assets 
                described in subparagraph (A) that are considered to be 
                mission critical.
            (2) Asset management report.--The term ``Asset Management 
        Report'' means--
                    (A) the annual plan prepared by the Bureau known as 
                the ``Asset Management Plan''; and
                    (B) any publicly available information relating to 
                the plan described in subparagraph (A) that summarizes 
                the efforts of the Bureau to evaluate and manage 
                infrastructure assets of the Bureau.
            (3) Major repair and rehabilitation need.--The term ``major 
        repair and rehabilitation need'' means major nonrecurring 
        maintenance at a Reclamation facility, including maintenance 
        related to the safety of dams, extraordinary maintenance of 
        dams, deferred major maintenance activities, and all other 
        significant repairs and extraordinary maintenance.
SEC. 8602. &lt;&lt;NOTE: 43 USC 505a-1.&gt;&gt;  ASSET MANAGEMENT REPORT 
                          ENHANCEMENTS FOR RESERVED WORKS.

    (a) In General.--Not later than 2 years after the date of enactment 
of this Act, the Secretary shall submit to Congress an Asset Management 
Report that--
            (1) describes the efforts of the Bureau--
                    (A) to maintain in a reliable manner all reserved 
                works at Reclamation facilities; and
                    (B) to standardize and streamline data reporting and 
                processes across regions and areas for the purpose of 
                maintaining reserved works at Reclamation facilities; 
                and
            (2) expands on the information otherwise provided in an 
        Asset Management Report, in accordance with subsection (b).

    (b) Infrastructure Maintenance Needs Assessment.--
            (1) In general.--The Asset Management Report submitted under 
        subsection (a) shall include--
                    (A) a detailed assessment of major repair and 
                rehabilitation needs for all reserved works at all 
                Reclamation projects; and

[[Page 133 STAT. 828]]

                    (B) to the maximum extent practicable, an itemized 
                list of major repair and rehabilitation needs of 
                individual Reclamation facilities at each Reclamation 
                project.
            (2) Inclusions.--To the maximum extent practicable, the 
        itemized list of major repair and rehabilitation needs under 
        paragraph (1)(B) shall include--
                    (A) a budget level cost estimate of the 
                appropriations needed to complete each item; and
                    (B) an assignment of a categorical rating for each 
                item, consistent with paragraph (3).
            (3) Rating requirements.--
                    (A) In general.--The system for assigning ratings 
                under paragraph (2)(B) shall be--
                          (i) consistent with existing uniform 
                      categorization systems to inform the annual budget 
                      process and agency requirements; and
                          (ii) subject to the guidance and instructions 
                      issued under subparagraph (B).
                    (B) Guidance.--As soon as practicable after the date 
                of enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall issue 
                guidance that describes the applicability of the rating 
                system applicable under paragraph (2)(B) to Reclamation 
                facilities.
            (4) Public availability.--Except as provided in paragraph 
        (5), the Secretary shall make publicly available, including on 
        the internet, the Asset Management Report required under 
        subsection (a).
            (5) Confidentiality.--The Secretary may exclude from the 
        public version of the Asset Management Report made available 
        under paragraph (4) any information that the Secretary 
        identifies as sensitive or classified, but shall make available 
        to the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources of the Senate 
        and the Committee on Natural Resources of the House of 
        Representatives a version of the report containing the sensitive 
        or classified information.

    (c) Updates.--Not later than 2 years after the date on which the 
Asset Management Report is submitted under subsection (a) and biennially 
thereafter, the Secretary shall update the Asset Management Report, 
subject to the requirements of section 8603(b)(2).
    (d) Consultation.--To the extent that such consultation would assist 
the Secretary in preparing the Asset Management Report under subsection 
(a) and updates to the Asset Management Report under subsection (c), the 
Secretary shall consult with--
            (1) the Secretary of the Army (acting through the Chief of 
        Engineers); and
            (2) water and power contractors.
SEC. 8603. &lt;&lt;NOTE: 43 USC 505a-2.&gt;&gt;  ASSET MANAGEMENT REPORT 
                          ENHANCEMENTS FOR TRANSFERRED WORKS.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary shall coordinate with the non-Federal 
entities responsible for the operation and maintenance of transferred 
works in developing reporting requirements for Asset Management Reports 
with respect to major repair and rehabilitation needs for transferred 
works that are similar to the reporting requirements described in 
section 8602(b).
    (b) Guidance.--

[[Page 133 STAT. 829]]

            (1) In general.--After considering input from water and 
        power contractors of the Bureau, the Secretary shall develop and 
        implement a rating system for transferred works that 
        incorporates, to the maximum extent practicable, the rating 
        system for major repair and rehabilitation needs for reserved 
        works developed under section 8602(b)(3).
            (2) Updates.--The ratings system developed under paragraph 
        (1) shall be included in the updated Asset Management Reports 
        under section 8602(c).

                         TITLE IX--MISCELLANEOUS

SEC. 9001. &lt;&lt;NOTE: 16 USC 6804 note.&gt;&gt;  EVERY KID OUTDOORS ACT.

    (a) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Federal land and waters.--The term ``Federal land and 
        waters'' means any Federal land or body of water under the 
        jurisdiction of any of the Secretaries to which the public has 
        access.
            (2) Program.--The term ``program'' means the Every Kid 
        Outdoors program established under subsection (b)(1).
            (3) Secretaries.--The term ``Secretaries'' means--
                    (A) the Secretary, acting through--
                          (i) the Director of the National Park Service;
                          (ii) the Director of the United States Fish 
                      and Wildlife Service;
                          (iii) the Director of the Bureau of Land 
                      Management; and
                          (iv) the Commissioner of Reclamation;
                    (B) the Secretary of Agriculture, acting through the 
                Chief of the Forest Service;
                    (C) the Secretary of Commerce, acting through the 
                Administrator of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric 
                Administration; and
                    (D) the Secretary of the Army, acting through the 
                Assistant Secretary of the Army for Civil Works.
            (4) State.--The term ``State'' means each of the several 
        States, the District of Columbia, American Samoa, Guam, the 
        Northern Mariana Islands, Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands of the 
        United States, and any other territory or possession of the 
        United States.
            (5) Student or students.--The term ``student'' or 
        ``students'' means any fourth grader or home-schooled learner 10 
        years of age residing in the United States, including any 
        territory or possession of the United States.

    (b) Every Kid Outdoors Program.--
            (1) Establishment.--The Secretaries shall jointly establish 
        a program, to be known as the ``Every Kid Outdoors program'', to 
        provide free access to Federal land and waters for students and 
        accompanying individuals in accordance with this subsection.
            (2) Annual passes.--
                    (A) In general.--At the request of a student, the 
                Secretaries shall issue a pass to the student, which 
                allows access to Federal lands and waters for which 
                access is subject to an entrance, standard amenity, or 
                day use fee, free of charge for the student and--

[[Page 133 STAT. 830]]

                          (i) in the case of a per-vehicle fee area--
                                    (I) any passengers accompanying the 
                                student in a private, noncommercial 
                                vehicle; or
                                    (II) not more than three adults 
                                accompanying the student on bicycles; or
                          (ii) in the case of a per-person fee area, not 
                      more than three adults accompanying the student.
                    (B) Term.--A pass described in subparagraph (A) 
                shall be effective during the period beginning on 
                September 1 and ending on August 31 of the following 
                year.
                    (C) Presence of a student in grade four required.--A 
                pass described in subparagraph (A) shall be effective 
                only if the student to which the pass was issued is 
                present at the point of entry to the applicable Federal 
                land or water.
            (3) Other activities.--In carrying out the program, the 
        Secretaries--
                    (A) may collaborate with State Park systems that opt 
                to implement a complementary Every Kid Outdoors State 
                park pass;
                    (B) may coordinate with the Secretary of Education 
                to implement the program;
                    (C) shall maintain a publicly available website with 
                information about the program;
                    (D) may provide visitor services for the program; 
                and
                    (E) may support approved partners of the Federal 
                land and waters by providing the partners with 
                opportunities to participate in the program.
            (4) Reports.--The Secretary, in coordination with each 
        Secretary described in subparagraphs (B) through (D) of 
        subsection (a)(3), shall prepare a comprehensive report to 
        Congress each year describing--
                    (A) the implementation of the program;
                    (B) the number and geographical distribution of 
                students who participated in the program; and
                    (C) the number of passes described in paragraph 
                (2)(A) that were distributed.
            (5) Sunset.--The authorities provided in this section, 
        including the reporting requirement, shall expire on the date 
        that is 7 years after the date of enactment of this Act.
SEC. 9002. &lt;&lt;NOTE: 43 USC 1742a.&gt;&gt;  GOOD SAMARITAN SEARCH AND 
                          RECOVERY ACT.

    (a) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Eligible.--The term ``eligible'', with respect to an 
        organization or individual, means that the organization or 
        individual, respectively, is--
                    (A) acting in a not-for-profit capacity; and
                    (B) composed entirely of members who, at the time of 
                the good Samaritan search-and-recovery mission, have 
                attained the age of majority under the law of the State 
                where the mission takes place.
            (2) Good samaritan search-and-recovery mission.--The term 
        ``good Samaritan search-and-recovery mission'' means a search 
        conducted by an eligible organization or individual for 1 or 
        more missing individuals believed to be deceased at the time 
        that the search is initiated.

[[Page 133 STAT. 831]]

            (3) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary 
        or the Secretary of Agriculture, as applicable.

    (b) Process.--
            (1) In general.--Each Secretary shall develop and implement 
        a process to expedite access to Federal land under the 
        administrative jurisdiction of the Secretary for eligible 
        organizations and individuals to request access to Federal land 
        to conduct good Samaritan search-and-recovery missions.
            (2) Inclusions.--The process developed and implemented under 
        this subsection shall include provisions to clarify that--
                    (A) an eligible organization or individual granted 
                access under this section--
                          (i) shall be acting for private purposes; and
                          (ii) shall not be considered to be a Federal 
                      volunteer;
                    (B) an eligible organization or individual 
                conducting a good Samaritan search-and-recovery mission 
                under this section shall not be considered to be a 
                volunteer under section 102301(c) of title 54, United 
                States Code;
                    (C) chapter 171 of title 28, United States Code 
                (commonly known as the ``Federal Tort Claims Act''), 
                shall not apply to an eligible organization or 
                individual carrying out a privately requested good 
                Samaritan search-and-recovery mission under this 
                section; and
                    (D) chapter 81 of title 5, United States Code 
                (commonly known as the ``Federal Employees Compensation 
                Act''), shall not apply to an eligible organization or 
                individual conducting a good Samaritan search-and-
                recovery mission under this section, and the conduct of 
                the good Samaritan search-and-recovery mission shall not 
                constitute civilian employment.

    (c) Release of Federal Government From Liability.--The Secretary 
shall not require an eligible organization or individual to have 
liability insurance as a condition of accessing Federal land under this 
section, if the eligible organization or individual--
            (1) acknowledges and consents, in writing, to the provisions 
        described in subparagraphs (A) through (D) of subsection (b)(2); 
        and
            (2) signs a waiver releasing the Federal Government from all 
        liability relating to the access granted under this section and 
        agrees to indemnify and hold harmless the United States from any 
        claims or lawsuits arising from any conduct by the eligible 
        organization or individual on Federal land.

    (d) Approval and Denial of Requests.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary shall notify an eligible 
        organization or individual of the approval or denial of a 
        request by the eligible organization or individual to carry out 
        a good Samaritan search-and-recovery mission under this section 
        by not later than 48 hours after the request is made.
            (2) Denials.--If the Secretary denies a request from an 
        eligible organization or individual to carry out a good 
        Samaritan search-and-recovery mission under this section, the 
        Secretary shall notify the eligible organization or individual 
        of--
                    (A) the reason for the denial of the request; and
                    (B) any actions that the eligible organization or 
                individual can take to meet the requirements for the 
                request to be approved.

[[Page 133 STAT. 832]]

    (e) Partnerships.--Each Secretary shall develop search-and-recovery-
focused partnerships with search-and-recovery organizations--
            (1) to coordinate good Samaritan search-and-recovery 
        missions on Federal land under the administrative jurisdiction 
        of the Secretary; and
            (2) to expedite and accelerate good Samaritan search-and-
        recovery mission efforts for missing individuals on Federal land 
        under the administrative jurisdiction of the Secretary.

    (f) Report.--Not later than 180 days after the date of enactment of 
this Act, the Secretaries shall submit to Congress a joint report 
describing--
            (1) plans to develop partnerships described in subsection 
        (e)(1); and
            (2) efforts carried out to expedite and accelerate good 
        Samaritan search-and-recovery mission efforts for missing 
        individuals on Federal land under the administrative 
        jurisdiction of each Secretary pursuant to subsection (e)(2).
SEC. 9003. JOHN S. MCCAIN III 21ST CENTURY CONSERVATION SERVICE 
                          CORPS ACT.

    (a) Definitions.--Section 203 of the Public Lands Corps Act of 1993 
(16 U.S.C. 1722) is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (2), by striking ``under section 204'' and 
        inserting ``by section 204(a)(1)'';
            (2) by redesignating paragraphs (8) through (13) as 
        paragraphs (9) through (14), respectively;
            (3) by inserting after paragraph (7) the following:
            ``(8) Institution of higher education.--
                    ``(A) In general.--The term `institution of higher 
                education' has the meaning given the term in section 102 
                of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1002).
                    ``(B) Exclusion.--The term `institution of higher 
                education' does not include--
                          ``(i) an institution described in section 
                      101(b) of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (20 
                      U.S.C. 1001(b)); or
                          ``(ii) an institution outside the United 
                      States, as described in section 102(a)(1)(C) of 
                      the Higher Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 
                      1002(a)(1)(C)).'';
            (4) in paragraph (9) (as so redesignated)--
                    (A) in the matter preceding subparagraph (A), by 
                striking ``, as follows'' and inserting ``and other 
                conservation and restoration initiatives, as follows''; 
                and
                    (B) by adding at the end the following:
                    ``(E) To protect, restore, or enhance marine, 
                estuarine, riverine, and coastal habitat ecosystem 
                components--
                          ``(i) to promote the recovery of threatened 
                      species, endangered species, and managed 
                      fisheries;
                          ``(ii) to restore fisheries, protected 
                      resources, and habitats impacted by oil and 
                      chemical spills and natural disasters; or
                          ``(iii) to enhance the resilience of coastal 
                      ecosystems, communities, and economies through 
                      habitat conservation.'';
            (5) in subparagraph (A) of paragraph (11) (as so 
        redesignated), by striking ``individuals between the ages of 16 
        and

[[Page 133 STAT. 833]]

        30, inclusive,'' and inserting ``individuals between the ages of 
        16 and 30, inclusive, or veterans age 35 or younger'';
            (6) in paragraph (13) (as so redesignated)--
                    (A) in subparagraph (A), by striking ``and'' at the 
                end;
                    (B) in subparagraph (B), by striking the period at 
                the end and inserting ``; and''; and
                    (C) by adding at the end the following:
                    ``(C) with respect to the National Marine Sanctuary 
                System, coral reefs, and other coastal, estuarine, and 
                marine habitats, and other land and facilities 
                administered by the National Oceanic and Atmospheric 
                Administration, the Secretary of Commerce.''; and
            (7) by adding at the end the following:
            ``(15) Veteran.--The term `veteran' has the meaning given 
        the term in section 101 of title 38, United States Code.''.

    (b) Public Lands Corps Program.--Section 204 of the Public Lands 
Corps Act of 1993 (16 U.S.C. 1723) is amended--
            (1) by striking subsection (a) and inserting the following:

    ``(a) Establishment of Public Lands Corps.--
            ``(1) In general.--There is established in the Department of 
        the Interior, the Department of Agriculture, and the Department 
        of Commerce a corps, to be known as the `Public Lands Corps'.
            ``(2) No effect on other agencies.--Nothing in this 
        subsection precludes the establishment of a public lands corps 
        by the head of a Federal department or agency other than a 
        department described in paragraph (1), in accordance with this 
        Act.'';
            (2) in subsection (b)--
                    (A) in the first sentence, by striking ``individuals 
                between the ages of 16 and 30, inclusive,'' and 
                inserting ``individuals between the ages of 16 and 30, 
                inclusive, and veterans age 35 or younger''; and
                    (B) in the second sentence, by striking ``section 
                137(b) of the National and Community Service Act of 
                1990'' and inserting ``paragraphs (1), (2), (4), and (5) 
                of section 137(a) of the National and Community Service 
                Act of 1990 (42 U.S.C. 12591(a))''; and
            (3) by adding at the end the following:

    ``(g) Effect.--Nothing in this section authorizes the use of the 
Public Lands Corps for projects on or impacting real property owned by, 
operated by, or within the custody, control, or administrative 
jurisdiction of the Administrator of General Services without the 
express permission of the Administrator of General Services.''.
    (c) Transportation.--Section 205 of the Public Lands Corps Act of 
1993 (16 U.S.C. 1724) is amended by adding at the end the following:
    ``(e) Transportation.--The Secretary may provide to Corps 
participants who reside in their own homes transportation to and from 
appropriate conservation project sites.''.
    (d) Resource Assistants.--
            (1) In general.--Section 206(a) of the Public Lands Corps 
        Act of 1993 (16 U.S.C. 1725(a)) is amended by striking the first 
        sentence and inserting the following: ``The Secretary may 
        provide individual placements of resource assistants to carry 
        out research or resource protection activities on behalf of the 
        Secretary.''.

[[Page 133 STAT. 834]]

            (2) Direct hire authority.--Section 121(a) of the Department 
        of the Interior, Environment, and Related Agencies 
        Appropriations Act, 2012 (16 U.S.C. 1725a), is amended--
                    (A) in paragraph (1)--
                          (i) by striking ``Secretary of the Interior'' 
                      and inserting ``Secretary (as defined in section 
                      203 of the Public Lands Corps Act of 1993 (16 
                      U.S.C. 1722))'';
                          (ii) by striking ``paragraph (1)'' and 
                      inserting ``paragraph (2)''; and
                          (iii) by striking ``with a land managing 
                      agency of the Department of the Interior''; and
                    (B) in paragraph (2)(A), by striking ``with a land 
                managing agency'' and inserting ``with the Secretary (as 
                so defined)''.

    (e) Compensation and Employment Standards.--Section 207 of the 
Public Lands Corps Act of 1993 (16 U.S.C. 1726) is amended--
            (1) by striking the section heading and inserting 
        ``compensation and terms of service'';
            (2) by redesignating subsections (b) and (c) as subsections 
        (c) and (d), respectively;
            (3) by inserting after subsection (a) the following:

    ``(b) Educational Credit.--The Secretary may provide a Corps 
participant with an educational credit that may be applied toward a 
program of postsecondary education at an institution of higher education 
that agrees to award the credit for participation in the Corps.'';
            (4) in subsection (c) (as so redesignated)--
                    (A) by striking ``Each participant'' and inserting 
                the following:
            ``(1) In general.--Each participant''; and
                    (B) by adding at the end the following:
            ``(2) Indian youth service corps.--With respect to the 
        Indian Youth Service Corps established under section 210, the 
        Secretary shall establish the term of service of participants in 
        consultation with the affected Indian tribe.'';
            (5) in subsection (d) (as so redesignated)--
                    (A) by redesignating paragraphs (1) and (2) as 
                subparagraphs (A) and (B), respectively, and indenting 
                the subparagraphs appropriately;
                    (B) in the matter preceding subparagraph (A) (as so 
                redesignated), by striking ``The Secretary'' and 
                inserting the following:
            ``(1) In general.--The Secretary''; and
                    (C) by adding at the end the following:
            ``(2) Time-limited appointment.--For purposes of section 
        9602 of title 5, United States Code, a former member of the 
        Corps hired by the Secretary under paragraph (1)(B) for a time-
        limited appointment shall be considered to be appointed 
        initially under open, competitive examination.''; and
            (6) by adding at the end the following:

    ``(e) Applicability to Qualified Youth or Conservation Corps.--The 
hiring and compensation standards described in this section shall apply 
to any individual participating in an appropriate conservation project 
through a qualified youth or conservation corps, including an individual 
placed through a contract or cooperative agreement, as approved by the 
Secretary.''.

[[Page 133 STAT. 835]]

    (f) Reporting and Data Collection.--Title II of the Public Lands 
Corps Act of 1993 (16 U.S.C. 1721 et seq.) is amended--
            (1) by redesignating sections 209 through 211 &lt;&lt;NOTE: 16 
        USC 1728-1730.&gt;&gt;  as sections 211 through 213, respectively;
            (2) by inserting after section 208 the following:
``SEC. 209. &lt;&lt;NOTE: 16 USC 1727a.&gt;&gt;  REPORTING AND DATA 
                        COLLECTION.

    ``(a) Report.--Not later than 2 years after the date of enactment of 
the John D. Dingell, Jr. Conservation, Management, and Recreation Act, 
and annually thereafter, the Chief Executive Officer of the Corporation 
for National and Community Service, in coordination with the 
Secretaries, shall submit to Congress a report that includes data on the 
Corps, including--
            ``(1) the number of participants enrolled in the Corps and 
        the length of the term of service for each participant;
            ``(2) the projects carried out by Corps participants, 
        categorized by type of project and Federal agency;
            ``(3) the total amount and sources of funding provided for 
        the service of participants;
            ``(4) the type of service performed by participants and the 
        impact and accomplishments of the service; and
            ``(5) any other similar data determined to be appropriate by 
        the Chief Executive Officer of the Corporation for National and 
        Community Service or the Secretaries.

    ``(b) Data.--Not later than 1 year after the date of enactment of 
the John D. Dingell, Jr. Conservation, Management, and Recreation Act, 
and annually thereafter, the Secretaries shall submit to the Chief 
Executive Officer of the Corporation for National and Community Service 
the data described in subsection (a).
    ``(c) Data Collection.--The Chief Executive Officer of the 
Corporation for National and Community Service may coordinate with 
qualified youth or conservation corps to improve the collection of the 
required data described in subsection (a).
    ``(d) Coordination.--
            ``(1) In general.--The Secretaries shall, to the maximum 
        extent practicable, coordinate with each other to carry out 
        activities authorized under this Act, including--
                    ``(A) the data collection and reporting requirements 
                of this section; and
                    ``(B) implementing and issuing guidance on 
                eligibility for noncompetitive hiring status under 
                section 207(d).
            ``(2) Designation of coordinators.--The Secretary shall 
        designate a coordinator to coordinate and serve as the primary 
        point of contact for any activity of the Corps carried out by 
        the Secretary.''; and
            (3) &lt;&lt;NOTE: 16 USC 1729.&gt;&gt;  in subsection (c) of section 212 
        (as so redesignated), by striking ``211'' and inserting ``213''.

    (g) Indian Youth Service Corps.--Title II of the Public Lands Corps 
Act of 1993 (16 U.S.C. 1721 et seq.) (as amended by subsection (f)) is 
amended by inserting after section 209 the following:
``SEC. 210. &lt;&lt;NOTE: 16 USC 1727b.&gt;&gt;  INDIAN YOUTH SERVICE CORPS.

    ``(a) In General.--There is established within the Public Lands 
Corps a program to be known as the `Indian Youth Service Corps' that--
            ``(1) enrolls participants between the ages of 16 and 30, 
        inclusive, and veterans age 35 or younger, a majority of whom 
        are Indians;

[[Page 133 STAT. 836]]

            ``(2) is established pursuant to an agreement between an 
        Indian tribe and a qualified youth or conservation corps for the 
        benefit of the members of the Indian tribe; and
            ``(3) carries out appropriate conservation projects on 
        eligible service land.

    ``(b) Authorization of Cooperative Agreements.--The Secretary may 
enter into cooperative agreements with Indian tribes and qualified youth 
or conservation corps for the establishment and administration of the 
Indian Youth Service Corps.
    ``(c) Guidelines.--Not later than 18 months after the date of 
enactment of the John D. Dingell, Jr. Conservation, Management, and 
Recreation Act, the Secretary of the Interior, in consultation with 
Indian tribes, shall issue guidelines for the management of the Indian 
Youth Service Corps, in accordance with this Act and any other 
applicable Federal laws.''.
SEC. 9004. NATIONAL NORDIC MUSEUM ACT.

    (a) Designation.--The Nordic Museum located at 2655 N.W. Market 
Street, Seattle, Washington, is designated as the ``National Nordic 
Museum''.
    (b) Effect of Designation.--
            (1) In general.--The museum designated by subsection (a) is 
        not a unit of the National Park System.
            (2) Use of federal funds.--The designation of the museum by 
        subsection (a) shall not require Federal funds to be expended 
        for any purpose related to the museum.
SEC. 9005. DESIGNATION OF NATIONAL GEORGE C. MARSHALL MUSEUM AND 
                          LIBRARY.

    (a) Designation.--The George C. Marshall Museum and the George C. 
Marshall Research Library in Lexington, Virginia, are designated as the 
``National George C. Marshall Museum and Library'' (referred to in this 
section as the ``museum)''.
    (b) Effect of Designation.--
            (1) In general.--The museum designated by subsection (a) is 
        not a unit of the National Park System.
            (2) Use of federal funds.--The designation of the museum by 
        subsection (a) shall not require Federal funds to be expended 
        for any purpose related to the museum.
SEC. 9006. 21ST CENTURY RESPECT ACT.

    (a) Amendments to Regulations Required.--
            (1) Secretary of agriculture.--The Secretary of Agriculture 
        shall amend section 1901.202 of title 7, Code of Federal 
        Regulations, for purposes of--
                    (A) replacing the reference to the term ``Negro or 
                Black'' with ``Black or African American'';
                    (B) replacing the reference to the term ``Spanish 
                Surname'' with ``Hispanic''; and
                    (C) replacing the reference to the term ``Oriental'' 
                with ``Asian American or Pacific Islander''.
            (2) Administrator of general services.--The Administrator of 
        General Services shall amend section 906.2 of title 36, Code of 
        Federal Regulations, for purposes of--
                    (A) replacing the references to the term ``Negro'' 
                with ``Black or African American'';

[[Page 133 STAT. 837]]

                    (B) replacing the definition of ``Negro'' with the 
                definition of ``Black or African American'' as `` an 
                individual having origins in any of the Black racial 
                groups of Africa'';
                    (C) replacing the references to the term 
                ``Oriental'' with ``Asian American or Pacific 
                Islander''; and
                    (D) replacing the references to the terms ``Eskimo'' 
                and ``Aleut'' with ``Alaska Native''.

    (b) Rule of Construction.--Nothing in this section, or the 
amendments required by this section, shall be construed to affect 
Federal law, except with respect to the use of terms by the Secretary of 
Agriculture and the Administrator of General Services, respectively, to 
the regulations affected by this section.
SEC. 9007. &lt;&lt;NOTE: 36 USC 101 note prec.&gt;&gt;  AMERICAN WORLD WAR II 
                          HERITAGE CITIES.

    (a) Designation.--In order to recognize and ensure the continued 
preservation and importance of the history of the United States 
involvement in World War II, each calendar year the Secretary may 
designate 1 or more cities located in 1 of the several States or a 
territory of the United States as an ``American World War II Heritage 
City''. Not more than 1 city in each State or territory may be 
designated under this section.
    (b) Application for Designation.--The Secretary may--
            (1) establish and publicize the process by which a city may 
        apply for designation as an American World War II Heritage City 
        based on the criteria in subsection (c); and
            (2) encourage cities to apply for designation as an American 
        World War II Heritage City.

    (c) Criteria for Designation.--The Secretary, in consultation with 
the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution or the President of the 
National Trust for Historic Preservation, shall make each designation 
under subsection (a) based on the following criteria:
            (1) Contributions by a city and its environs to the World 
        War II home-front war effort, including contributions related 
        to--
                    (A) defense manufacturing, such as ships, aircraft, 
                uniforms, and equipment;
                    (B) production of foodstuffs and consumer items for 
                Armed Forces and home consumption;
                    (C) war bond drives;
                    (D) adaptations to wartime survival;
                    (E) volunteer participation;
                    (F) civil defense preparedness;
                    (G) personnel serving in the Armed Forces, their 
                achievements, and facilities for their rest and 
                recreation; or
                    (H) the presence of Armed Forces camps, bases, 
                airfields, harbors, repair facilities, and other 
                installations within or in its environs.
            (2) Achievements by a city and its environs to preserve the 
        heritage and legacy of the city's contributions to the war 
        effort and to preserve World War II history, including--
                    (A) the identification, preservation, restoration, 
                and interpretation of World War II-related structures, 
                facilities and sites;
                    (B) establishment of museums, parks, and markers;
                    (C) establishment of memorials to area men who lost 
                their lives in service;

[[Page 133 STAT. 838]]

                    (D) organizing groups of veterans and home-front 
                workers and their recognition;
                    (E) presentation of cultural events such as dances, 
                plays, and lectures;
                    (F) public relations outreach through the print and 
                electronic media, and books; and
                    (G) recognition and ceremonies remembering wartime 
                event anniversaries.
SEC. 9008. &lt;&lt;NOTE: 54 USC 320101 note.&gt;&gt;  QUINDARO TOWNSITE 
                          NATIONAL COMMEMORATIVE SITE.

    (a) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Commemorative site.--The term ``Commemorative Site'' 
        means the Quindaro Townsite National Commemorative Site 
        designated by subsection (b)(1).
            (2) State.--The term ``State'' means the State of Kansas.

    (b) Designation.--
            (1) In general.--The Quindaro Townsite in Kansas City, 
        Kansas, as listed on the National Register of Historic Places, 
        is designated as the ``Quindaro Townsite National Commemorative 
        Site''.
            (2) Effect of designation.--The Commemorative Site shall not 
        be considered to be a unit of the National Park System.

    (c) Cooperative Agreements.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary, in consultation with the 
        State, Kansas City, Kansas, and affected subdivisions of the 
        State, may enter into cooperative agreements with appropriate 
        public or private entities, for the purposes of--
                    (A) protecting historic resources at the 
                Commemorative Site; and
                    (B) providing educational and interpretive 
                facilities and programs at the Commemorative Site for 
                the public.
            (2) Technical and financial assistance.--The Secretary may 
        provide technical and financial assistance to any entity with 
        which the Secretary has entered into a cooperative agreement 
        under paragraph (1).

    (d) No Effect on Actions of Property Owners.--Designation of the 
Quindaro Townsite as a National Commemorative Site shall not prohibit 
any actions that may otherwise be taken by a property owner (including 
any owner of the Commemorative Site) with respect to the property of the 
owner.
    (e) No Effect on Administration.--Nothing in this section affects 
the administration of the Commemorative Site by Kansas City, Kansas, or 
the State.
SEC. 9009. DESIGNATION OF NATIONAL COMEDY CENTER IN JAMESTOWN, NEW 
                          YORK.

    (a) Congressional Recognition.--Congress--
            (1) recognizes that the National Comedy Center, located in 
        Jamestown, New York, is the only museum of its kind that exists 
        for the exclusive purpose of celebrating comedy in all its 
        forms; and
            (2) officially designates the National Comedy Center as the 
        ``National Comedy Center'' (referred to in this section as the 
        ``Center'').

    (b) Effect of Recognition.--The National Comedy Center recognized in 
this section is not a unit of the National Park System and the 
designation of the Center shall not be construed to require

[[Page 133 STAT. 839]]

or permit Federal funds to be expended for any purpose related to the 
Center.

    Approved March 12, 2019.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY--S. 47:
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD, Vol. 165 (2019):
            Feb. 7, 11, 12, considered and passed Senate.
            Feb. 26, considered and passed House.
DAILY COMPILATION OF PRESIDENTIAL DOCUMENTS (2019):
            Mar. 12, Presidential statement.

                                  &lt;all&gt;
</pre></body></html>
