<html><body><pre>
[Congressional Bills 110th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[S. 2758 Introduced in Senate (IS)]







110th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                S. 2758

  To authorize the exploration, leasing, development, production, and 
economically feasible and prudent transportation of oil and gas in and 
                   from the Coastal Plain in Alaska.


_______________________________________________________________________


                   IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

                             March 13, 2008

 Ms. Murkowski (for herself and Mr. Stevens) introduced the following 
bill; which was read twice and referred to the Committee on Energy and 
                           Natural Resources

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
  To authorize the exploration, leasing, development, production, and 
economically feasible and prudent transportation of oil and gas in and 
                   from the Coastal Plain in Alaska.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``American Energy Independence and 
Security Act of 2008''.

SEC. 2. DEFINITIONS.

    In this Act:
            (1) Coastal plain.--The term ``Coastal Plain'' means that 
        area identified as the ``1002 Coastal Plain Area'' on the map.
            (2) Federal agreement.--The term ``Federal Agreement'' 
        means the Federal Agreement and Grant Right-of-Way for the 
        Trans-Alaska Pipeline issued on January 23, 1974, in accordance 
        with section 28 of the Mineral Leasing Act (30 U.S.C. 185) and 
        the Trans-Alaska Pipeline Authorization Act (43 U.S.C. 1651 et 
        seq.).
            (3) Final statement.--The term ``Final Statement'' means 
        the final legislative environmental impact statement on the 
        Coastal Plain, dated April 1987, and prepared pursuant to 
        section 1002 of the Alaska National Interest Lands Conservation 
        Act (16 U.S.C. 3142) and section 102(2)(C) of the National 
        Environmental Policy Act of 1969 (42 U.S.C. 4332(2)(C)).
            (4) Map.--The term ``map'' means the map entitled ``Arctic 
        National Wildlife Refuge'', dated September 2005, and prepared 
        by the United States Geological Survey.
            (5) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary 
        of the Interior (or the designee of the Secretary), acting 
        through the Director of the Bureau of Land Management in 
        consultation with the Director of the United States Fish and 
        Wildlife Service and in coordination with a State coordinator 
        appointed by the Governor of the State of Alaska.

SEC. 3. LEASING PROGRAM FOR LAND WITHIN THE COASTAL PLAIN.

    (a) In General.--
            (1) Authorization.--Subject to section 14, Congress 
        authorizes the exploration, leasing, development, production, 
        and economically feasible and prudent transportation of oil and 
        gas in and from the Coastal Plain.
            (2) Actions.--Subject to section 14, the Secretary shall 
        take such actions as are necessary--
                    (A) to establish and implement, in accordance with 
                this Act, a competitive oil and gas leasing program 
                that will result in an environmentally sound program 
                for the exploration, development, and production of the 
                oil and gas resources of the Coastal Plain while taking 
                into consideration the interests and concerns of 
                residents of the Coastal Plain, which is the homeland 
                of the Kaktovikmiut Inupiat; and
                    (B) to administer this Act through regulations, 
                lease terms, conditions, restrictions, prohibitions, 
                stipulations, and other provisions that--
                            (i) ensure the oil and gas exploration, 
                        development, and production activities on the 
                        Coastal Plain will result in no significant 
                        adverse effect on fish and wildlife, their 
                        habitat, subsistence resources, and the 
                        environment; and
                            (ii) require the application of the best 
                        commercially available technology for oil and 
                        gas exploration, development, and production to 
                        all exploration, development, and production 
                        operations under this Act in a manner that 
                        ensures the receipt of fair market value by the 
                        public for the mineral resources to be leased.
    (b) Repeal.--
            (1) Repeal.--Section 1003 of the Alaska National Interest 
        Lands Conservation Act (16 U.S.C. 3143) is repealed.
            (2) Conforming amendment.--The table of contents contained 
        in section 1 of that Act (16 U.S.C. 3101 note) is amended by 
        striking the item relating to section 1003.
    (c) Compliance With Requirements Under Certain Other Laws.--
            (1) Compatibility.--For purposes of the National Wildlife 
        Refuge System Administration Act of 1966 (16 U.S.C. 668dd et 
        seq.)--
                    (A) the oil and gas pre-leasing and leasing 
                program, and activities authorized by this section in 
                the Coastal Plain, shall be considered to be compatible 
                with the purposes for which the Arctic National 
                Wildlife Refuge was established; and
                    (B) no further findings or decisions shall be 
                required to implement that program and those 
                activities.
            (2) Adequacy of the department of the interior's 
        legislative environmental impact statement.--The Final 
        Statement shall be considered to satisfy the requirements under 
        the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 (42 U.S.C. 4321 
        et seq.) that apply with respect to pre-leasing activities, 
        including exploration programs and actions authorized to be 
        taken by the Secretary to develop and promulgate the 
        regulations for the establishment of a leasing program 
        authorized by this Act before the conduct of the first lease 
        sale.
            (3) Compliance with nepa for other actions.--
                    (A) In general.--Before conducting the first lease 
                sale under this Act, the Secretary shall prepare an 
                environmental impact statement in accordance with the 
                National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 (42 U.S.C. 
                4321 et seq.) with respect to the actions authorized by 
                this Act that are not referred to in paragraph (2).
                    (B) Identification and analysis.--Notwithstanding 
                any other provision of law, in carrying out this 
                paragraph, the Secretary shall not be required--
                            (i) to identify nonleasing alternative 
                        courses of action; or
                            (ii) to analyze the environmental effects 
                        of those courses of action.
                    (C) Identification of preferred action.--Not later 
                than 18 months after the date of enactment of this Act, 
                the Secretary shall--
                            (i) identify only a preferred action and a 
                        single leasing alternative for the first lease 
                        sale authorized under this Act; and
                            (ii) analyze the environmental effects and 
                        potential mitigation measures for those 2 
                        alternatives.
                    (D) Public comments.--In carrying out this 
                paragraph, the Secretary shall consider only public 
                comments that are filed not later than 20 days after 
                the date of publication of a draft environmental impact 
                statement.
                    (E) Effect of compliance.--Notwithstanding any 
                other provision of law, compliance with this paragraph 
                shall be considered to satisfy all requirements for the 
                analysis and consideration of the environmental effects 
                of proposed leasing under this Act.
    (d) Relationship to State and Local Authority.--Nothing in this Act 
expands or limits any State or local regulatory authority.
    (e) Special Areas.--
            (1) Designation.--
                    (A) In general.--The Secretary, after consultation 
                with the State of Alaska, the North Slope Borough, 
                Alaska, and the City of Kaktovik, Alaska, may designate 
                not more than 45,000 acres of the Coastal Plain as a 
                special area if the Secretary determines that the 
                special area would be of such unique character and 
                interest as to require special management and 
                regulatory protection.
                    (B) Sadlerochit spring area.--The Secretary shall 
                designate as a special area in accordance with 
                subparagraph (A) the Sadlerochit Spring area, 
                comprising approximately 4,000 acres as depicted on the 
                map.
            (2) Management.--The Secretary shall manage each special 
        area designated under this subsection in a manner that--
                    (A) respects and protects the Native people of the 
                area; and
                    (B) preserves the unique and diverse character of 
                the area, including fish, wildlife, subsistence 
                resources, and cultural values of the area.
            (3) Exclusion from leasing or surface occupancy.--
                    (A) In general.--The Secretary may exclude any 
                special area designated under this subsection from 
                leasing.
                    (B) No surface occupancy.--If the Secretary leases 
                all or a portion of a special area for the purposes of 
                oil and gas exploration, development, production, and 
                related activities, there shall be no surface occupancy 
                of the land comprising the special area.
            (4) Directional drilling.--Notwithstanding any other 
        provision of this subsection, the Secretary may lease all or a 
        portion of a special area under terms that permit the use of 
        horizontal drilling technology from sites on leases located 
        outside the special area.
    (f) Limitation on Closed Areas.--The Secretary may not close land 
within the Coastal Plain to oil and gas leasing or to exploration, 
development, or production except in accordance with this Act.
    (g) Regulations.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 15 months after the date of 
        enactment of this Act, in consultation with appropriate 
        agencies of the State of Alaska, the North Slope Borough, 
        Alaska, and the City of Kaktovik, Alaska, the Secretary shall 
        issue such regulations as are necessary to carry out this Act, 
        including rules and regulations relating to protection of the 
        fish and wildlife, fish and wildlife habitat, and subsistence 
        resources of the Coastal Plain.
            (2) Revision of regulations.--The Secretary may 
        periodically review and, as appropriate, revise the rules and 
        regulations issued under paragraph (1) to reflect any 
        significant scientific or engineering data that come to the 
        attention of the Secretary.

SEC. 4. LEASE SALES.

    (a) In General.--Land may be leased pursuant to this Act to any 
person qualified to obtain a lease for deposits of oil and gas under 
the Mineral Leasing Act (30 U.S.C. 181 et seq.).
    (b) Procedures.--The Secretary shall, by regulation, establish 
procedures for--
            (1) receipt and consideration of sealed nominations for any 
        area in the Coastal Plain for inclusion in, or exclusion (as 
        provided in subsection (c)) from, a lease sale;
            (2) the holding of lease sales after that nomination 
        process; and
            (3) public notice of and comment on designation of areas to 
        be included in, or excluded from, a lease sale.
    (c) Lease Sale Bids.--Bidding for leases under this Act shall be by 
sealed competitive cash bonus bids.
    (d) Acreage Minimum in First Sale.--For the first lease sale under 
this Act, the Secretary shall offer for lease those tracts the 
Secretary considers to have the greatest potential for the discovery of 
hydrocarbons, taking into consideration nominations received pursuant 
to subsection (b)(1), but in no case less than 200,000 acres.
    (e) Timing of Lease Sales.--The Secretary shall--
            (1) not later than 22 months after the date of enactment of 
        this Act, conduct the first lease sale under this Act;
            (2) not later than September 30, 2010, conduct a second 
        lease sale under this Act; and
            (3) conduct additional sales at appropriate intervals if 
        sufficient interest in exploration or development exists to 
        warrant the conduct of the additional sales.

SEC. 5. GRANT OF LEASES BY THE SECRETARY.

    (a) In General.--Upon payment by a lessee of such bonus as may be 
accepted by the Secretary, the Secretary may grant to the highest 
responsible qualified bidder in a lease sale conducted pursuant to 
section 4 a lease for any land on the Coastal Plain.
    (b) Subsequent Transfers.--
            (1) In general.--No lease issued under this Act may be 
        sold, exchanged, assigned, sublet, or otherwise transferred 
        except with the approval of the Secretary.
            (2) Condition for approval.--Before granting any approval 
        described in paragraph (1), the Secretary shall consult with 
        and give due consideration to the opinion of the Attorney 
        General.

SEC. 6. LEASE TERMS AND CONDITIONS.

    (a) In General.--An oil or gas lease issued pursuant to this Act 
shall--
            (1) provide for the payment of a royalty of not less than 
        12\1/2\ percent of the amount or value of the production 
        removed or sold from the lease, as determined by the Secretary 
        in accordance with regulations applicable to other Federal oil 
        and gas leases;
            (2) provide that the Secretary may close, on a seasonal 
        basis, such portions of the Coastal Plain to exploratory 
        drilling activities as are necessary to protect caribou calving 
        areas and other species of fish and wildlife;
            (3) require that each lessee of land within the Coastal 
        Plain shall be fully responsible and liable for the reclamation 
        of land within the Coastal Plain and any other Federal land 
        that is adversely affected in connection with exploration, 
        development, production, or transportation activities within 
        the Coastal Plain conducted by the lessee or by any of the 
        subcontractors or agents of the lessee;
            (4) provide that the lessee may not delegate or convey, by 
        contract or otherwise, that reclamation responsibility and 
        liability to another person without the express written 
        approval of the Secretary;
            (5) provide that the standard of reclamation for land 
        required to be reclaimed under this Act shall be, to the 
        maximum extent practicable--
                    (A) a condition capable of supporting the uses that 
                the land was capable of supporting prior to any 
                exploration, development, or production activities; or
                    (B) upon application by the lessee, to a higher or 
                better standard, as approved by the Secretary;
            (6) contain terms and conditions relating to protection of 
        fish and wildlife, fish and wildlife habitat, subsistence 
        resources, and the environment as required under section 
        3(a)(2);
            (7) provide that each lessee, and each agent and contractor 
        of a lessee, use their best efforts to provide a fair share of 
        employment and contracting for Alaska Natives and Alaska Native 
        Corporations from throughout the State of Alaska, as determined 
        by the level of obligation previously agreed to in the Federal 
        Agreement; and
            (8) contain such other provisions as the Secretary 
        determines to be necessary to ensure compliance with this Act 
        and regulations issued under this Act.
    (b) Project Labor Agreements.--The Secretary, as a term and 
condition of each lease under this Act, and in recognizing the 
proprietary interest of the Federal Government in labor stability and 
in the ability of construction labor and management to meet the 
particular needs and conditions of projects to be developed under the 
leases issued pursuant to this Act (including the special concerns of 
the parties to those leases), shall require that each lessee, and each 
agent and contractor of a lessee, under this Act negotiate to obtain a 
project labor agreement for the employment of laborers and mechanics on 
production, maintenance, and construction under the lease.

SEC. 7. COASTAL PLAIN ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION.

    (a) No Significant Adverse Effect Standard To Govern Authorized 
Coastal Plain Activities.--In accordance with section 3, the Secretary 
shall administer this Act through regulations, lease terms, conditions, 
restrictions, prohibitions, stipulations, or other provisions that--
            (1) ensure, to the maximum extent practicable, that oil and 
        gas exploration, development, and production activities on the 
        Coastal Plain will result in no significant adverse effect on 
        fish and wildlife, fish and wildlife habitat, and the 
        environment;
            (2) require the application of the best commercially 
        available technology for oil and gas exploration, development, 
        and production on all new exploration, development, and 
        production operations; and
            (3) ensure that the maximum surface acreage covered in 
        connection with the leasing program by production and support 
        facilities, including airstrips and any areas covered by gravel 
        berms or piers for support of pipelines, does not exceed 2,000 
        acres on the Coastal Plain.
    (b) Site-Specific Assessment and Mitigation.--The Secretary shall 
require, with respect to any proposed drilling and related activities 
on the Coastal Plain, that--
            (1) a site-specific environmental analysis be made of the 
        probable effects, if any, that the drilling or related 
        activities will have on fish and wildlife, fish and wildlife 
        habitat, subsistence resources, subsistence uses, and the 
        environment;
            (2) a plan be implemented to avoid, minimize, and mitigate 
        (in that order and to the maximum extent practicable) any 
        significant adverse effect identified under paragraph (1); and
            (3) the development of the plan occur after consultation 
        with--
                    (A) each agency having jurisdiction over matters 
                mitigated by the plan;
                    (B) the State of Alaska;
                    (C) North Slope Borough, Alaska; and
                    (D) the City of Kaktovik, Alaska.
    (c) Regulations To Protect Coastal Plain Fish and Wildlife 
Resources, Subsistence Users, and the Environment.--Before implementing 
the leasing program authorized by this Act, the Secretary shall prepare 
and issue regulations, lease terms, conditions, restrictions, 
prohibitions, stipulations, or other measures designed to ensure, to 
the maximum extent practicable, that the activities carried out on the 
Coastal Plain under this Act are conducted in a manner consistent with 
the purposes and environmental requirements of this Act.
    (d) Compliance With Federal and State Environmental Laws and Other 
Requirements.--The proposed regulations, lease terms, conditions, 
restrictions, prohibitions, and stipulations for the leasing program 
under this Act shall require--
            (1) compliance with all applicable provisions of Federal 
        and State environmental law (including regulations);
            (2) implementation of and compliance with--
                    (A) standards that are at least as effective as the 
                safety and environmental mitigation measures, as 
                described in items 1 through 29 on pages 167 through 
                169 of the Final Statement, on the Coastal Plain;
                    (B) seasonal limitations on exploration, 
                development, and related activities, as necessary, to 
                avoid significant adverse effects during periods of 
                concentrated fish and wildlife breeding, denning, 
                nesting, spawning, and migration;
                    (C) design safety and construction standards for 
                all pipelines and any access and service roads that 
                minimize, to the maximum extent practicable, adverse 
                effects on--
                            (i) the passage of migratory species (such 
                        as caribou); and
                            (ii) the flow of surface water by requiring 
                        the use of culverts, bridges, or other 
                        structural devices;
                    (D) prohibitions on general public access to, and 
                use of, all pipeline access and service roads;
                    (E) stringent reclamation and rehabilitation 
                requirements in accordance with this Act for the 
                removal from the Coastal Plain of all oil and gas 
                development and production facilities, structures, and 
                equipment on completion of oil and gas production 
                operations, except in a case in which the Secretary 
                determines that those facilities, structures, or 
                equipment--
                            (i) would assist in the management of the 
                        Arctic National Wildlife Refuge; and
                            (ii) are donated to the United States for 
                        that purpose;
                    (F) appropriate prohibitions or restrictions on--
                            (i) access by all modes of transportation;
                            (ii) sand and gravel extraction; and
                            (iii) use of explosives;
                    (G) reasonable stipulations for protection of 
                cultural and archaeological resources;
                    (H) measures to protect groundwater and surface 
                water, including--
                            (i) avoidance, to the maximum extent 
                        practicable, of springs, streams, and river 
                        systems;
                            (ii) the protection of natural surface 
                        drainage patterns and wetland and riparian 
                        habitats; and
                            (iii) the regulation of methods or 
                        techniques for developing or transporting 
                        adequate supplies of water for exploratory 
                        drilling; and
                    (I) research, monitoring, and reporting 
                requirements;
            (3) that exploration activities (except surface geological 
        studies) be limited to the period between approximately 
        November 1 and May 1 of each year and be supported, if 
        necessary, by ice roads, winter trails with adequate snow 
        cover, ice pads, ice airstrips, and air transport methods 
        (except that those exploration activities may be permitted at 
        other times if the Secretary determines that the exploration 
        will have no significant adverse effect on fish and wildlife, 
        fish and wildlife habitat, subsistence resources, and the 
        environment of the Coastal Plain);
            (4) consolidation of facility siting;
            (5) avoidance or reduction of air traffic-related 
        disturbance to fish and wildlife;
            (6) treatment and disposal of hazardous and toxic wastes, 
        solid wastes, reserve pit fluids, drilling muds and cuttings, 
        and domestic wastewater, including, in accordance with 
        applicable Federal and State environmental laws (including 
        regulations)--
                    (A) preparation of an annual waste management 
                report;
                    (B) development and implementation of a hazardous 
                materials tracking system; and
                    (C) prohibition on the use of chlorinated solvents;
            (7) fuel storage and oil spill contingency planning;
            (8) conduct of periodic field crew environmental briefings;
            (9) avoidance of significant adverse effects on subsistence 
        hunting, fishing, and trapping;
            (10) compliance with applicable air and water quality 
        standards;
            (11) appropriate seasonal and safety zone designations 
        around well sites, within which subsistence hunting and 
        trapping shall be limited; and
            (12) development and implementation of such other 
        protective environmental requirements, restrictions, terms, or 
        conditions as the Secretary, after consultation with the State 
        of Alaska, North Slope Borough, Alaska, and the City of 
        Kaktovik, Alaska, determines to be necessary.
    (e) Considerations.--In preparing and issuing regulations, lease 
terms, conditions, restrictions, prohibitions, or stipulations under 
this section, the Secretary shall take into consideration--
            (1) the stipulations and conditions that govern the 
        National Petroleum Reserve--Alaska leasing program, as set 
        forth in the 1999 Northeast National Petroleum Reserve--Alaska 
        Final Integrated Activity Plan/Environmental Impact Statement;
            (2) the environmental protection standards that governed 
        the initial Coastal Plain seismic exploration program under 
        parts 37.31 through 37.33 of title 50, Code of Federal 
        Regulations (or successor regulations); and
            (3) the land use stipulations for exploratory drilling on 
        the KIC-ASRC private land described in Appendix 2 of the 
        agreement between Arctic Slope Regional Corporation and the 
        United States dated August 9, 1983.
    (f) Facility Consolidation Planning.--
            (1) In general.--After providing for public notice and 
        comment, the Secretary shall prepare and periodically update a 
        plan to govern, guide, and direct the siting and construction 
        of facilities for the exploration, development, production, and 
        transportation of oil and gas resources from the Coastal Plain.
            (2) Objectives.--The objectives of the plan shall be--
                    (A) the avoidance of unnecessary duplication of 
                facilities and activities;
                    (B) the encouragement of consolidation of common 
                facilities and activities;
                    (C) the location or confinement of facilities and 
                activities to areas that will minimize impact on fish 
                and wildlife, fish and wildlife habitat, subsistence 
                resources, and the environment;
                    (D) the use of existing facilities, to the maximum 
                extent practicable; and
                    (E) the enhancement of compatibility between 
                wildlife values and development activities.
    (g) Access to Public Land.--The Secretary shall--
            (1) manage public land in the Coastal Plain in accordance 
        with subsections (a) and (b) of section 811 of the Alaska 
        National Interest Lands Conservation Act (16 U.S.C. 3121); and
            (2) ensure that local residents shall have reasonable 
        access to public land in the Coastal Plain for traditional 
        uses.

SEC. 8. EXPEDITED JUDICIAL REVIEW.

    (a) Filing of Complaints.--
            (1) Deadline.--A complaint seeking judicial review of a 
        provision of this Act or an action of the Secretary under this 
        Act shall be filed--
                    (A) except as provided in subparagraph (B), during 
                the 90-day period beginning on the date on which the 
                action being challenged was carried out; or
                    (B) in the case of a complaint based solely on 
                grounds arising after the 90-day period described in 
                subparagraph (A), by not later than 90 days after the 
                date on which the complainant knew or reasonably should 
                have known about the grounds for the complaint.
            (2) Venue.--A complaint seeking judicial review of a 
        provision of this Act or an action of the Secretary under this 
        Act shall be filed in the United States Court of Appeals for 
        the District of Columbia.
            (3) Scope.--
                    (A) In general.--Judicial review of a decision of 
                the Secretary under this Act (including an 
                environmental analysis of such a lease sale) shall be--
                            (i) limited to a review of whether the 
                        decision is in accordance with this Act; and
                            (ii) based on the administrative record of 
                        the decision.
                    (B) Presumptions.--Any identification by the 
                Secretary of a preferred course of action relating to a 
                lease sale, and any analysis by the Secretary of 
                environmental effects, under this Act shall be presumed 
                to be correct unless proven otherwise by clear and 
                convincing evidence.
    (b) Limitation on Other Review.--Any action of the Secretary that 
is subject to judicial review under this section shall not be subject 
to judicial review in any civil or criminal proceeding for enforcement.

SEC. 9. RIGHTS-OF-WAY AND EASEMENTS ACROSS COASTAL PLAIN.

    For purposes of section 1102(4)(A) of the Alaska National Interest 
Lands Conservation Act (16 U.S.C. 3162(4)(A)), any rights-of-way or 
easements across the Coastal Plain for the exploration, development, 
production, or transportation of oil and gas shall be considered to be 
established incident to the management of the Coastal Plain under this 
section.

SEC. 10. CONVEYANCE.

    Notwithstanding section 1302(h)(2) of the Alaska National Interest 
Lands Conservation Act (16 U.S.C. 3192(h)(2)), to remove any cloud on 
title to land, and to clarify land ownership patterns in the Coastal 
Plain, the Secretary shall--
            (1) to the extent necessary to fulfill the entitlement of 
        the Kaktovik Inupiat Corporation under sections 12 and 14 of 
        the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act (43 U.S.C. 1611, 1613), 
        as determined by the Secretary, convey to that Corporation the 
        surface estate of the land described in paragraph (1) of Public 
        Land Order 6959, in accordance with the terms and conditions of 
        the agreement between the Secretary, the United States Fish and 
        Wildlife Service, the Bureau of Land Management, and the 
        Kaktovik Inupiat Corporation, dated January 22, 1993; and
            (2) convey to the Arctic Slope Regional Corporation the 
        remaining subsurface estate to which that Corporation is 
        entitled under the agreement between that corporation and the 
        United States, dated August 9, 1983.

SEC. 11. LOCAL GOVERNMENT IMPACT AID AND COMMUNITY SERVICE ASSISTANCE.

    (a) Establishment of Fund.--
            (1) In general.--As a condition on the receipt of funds 
        under section 13(1), the State of Alaska shall establish in the 
        treasury of the State, and administer in accordance with this 
        section, a fund to be known as the ``Coastal Plain Local 
        Government Impact Aid Assistance Fund'' (referred to in this 
        section as the ``Fund'').
            (2) Deposits.--Subject to paragraph (1), the Secretary of 
        the Treasury shall deposit into the Fund, $35,000,000 each year 
        from the amount available under section 13(1).
            (3) Investment.--The Governor of the State of Alaska 
        (referred to in this section as the ``Governor'') shall invest 
        amounts in the Fund in interest-bearing securities of the 
        United States or the State of Alaska.
    (b) Assistance.--The Governor, in cooperation with the Mayor of the 
North Slope Borough, shall use amounts in the Fund to provide 
assistance to North Slope Borough, Alaska, the City of Kaktovik, 
Alaska, and any other borough, municipal subdivision, village, or other 
community in the State of Alaska that is directly impacted by 
exploration for, or the production of, oil or gas on the Coastal Plain 
under this Act, or any Alaska Native Regional Corporation acting on 
behalf of the villages and communities within its region whose lands 
lie along the right-of-way of the Trans-Alaska Pipeline System, as 
determined by the Governor.
    (c) Application.--
            (1) In general.--To receive assistance under subsection 
        (b), a community or Regional Corporation described in that 
        subsection shall submit to the Governor, or to the Mayor of the 
        North Slope Borough, an application in such time, in such 
        manner, and containing such information as the Governor may 
        require.
            (2) Action by north slope borough.--The Mayor of the North 
        Slope Borough shall submit to the Governor each application 
        received under paragraph (1) as soon as practicable after the 
        date on which the application is received.
            (3) Assistance of governor.--The Governor shall assist 
        communities in submitting applications under this subsection, 
        to the maximum extent practicable.
    (d) Use of Funds.--A community or Regional Corporation that 
receives funds under subsection (b) may use the funds--
            (1) to plan for mitigation, implement a mitigation plan, or 
        maintain a mitigation project to address the potential effects 
        of oil and gas exploration and development on environmental, 
        social, cultural, recreational, and subsistence resources of 
        the community;
            (2) to develop, carry out, and maintain--
                    (A) a project to provide new or expanded public 
                facilities; or
                    (B) services to address the needs and problems 
                associated with the effects described in paragraph (1), 
                including firefighting, police, water and waste 
                treatment, first responder, and other medical services;
            (3) to compensate residents of the Coastal Plain for 
        significant damage to environmental, social, cultural, 
        recreational, or subsistence resources; and
            (4) in the City of Kaktovik, Alaska--
                    (A) to develop a mechanism for providing members of 
                the Kaktovikmiut Inupiat community an opportunity to--
                            (i) monitor development on the Coastal 
                        Plain; and
                            (ii) provide information and 
                        recommendations to the Governor based on 
                        traditional aboriginal knowledge of the natural 
                        resources, flora, fauna, and ecological 
                        processes of the Coastal Plain; and
                    (B) to establish a local coordination office, to be 
                managed by the Mayor of the North Slope Borough, in 
                coordination with the City of Kaktovik, Alaska--
                            (i) to coordinate with and advise 
                        developers on local conditions and the history 
                        of areas affected by development;
                            (ii) to provide to the Committee on 
                        Resources of the House of Representatives and 
                        the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources 
                        of the Senate annual reports on the status of 
                        the coordination between developers and 
                        communities affected by development;
                            (iii) to collect from residents of the 
                        Coastal Plain information regarding the impacts 
                        of development on fish, wildlife, habitats, 
                        subsistence resources, and the environment of 
                        the Coastal Plain; and
                            (iv) to ensure that the information 
                        collected under clause (iii) is submitted to--
                                    (I) developers; and
                                    (II) any appropriate Federal 
                                agency.

SEC. 12. PROHIBITION ON EXPORTS.

    An oil or gas lease issued under this Act shall prohibit the 
exportation of oil or gas produced under the lease.

SEC. 13. ALLOCATION OF REVENUES.

    Notwithstanding any other provision of law, all adjusted bonus, 
rental, and royalty receipts from Federal oil and gas leasing and 
operations authorized under this Act, plus an appropriated amount equal 
to the amount of Federal income tax attributable to sales of oil and 
gas produced from those operations, shall be deposited in an account in 
the Treasury which shall be available, without further appropriation or 
fiscal year limitation, each fiscal year as follows:
            (1) $35,000,000 shall be deposited by the Secretary of the 
        Treasury into the fund created under section 11(a)(1).
            (2) The remainder shall be available as follows:
                    (A) 50 percent shall be available to the Department 
                of Energy to carry out alternative energy programs 
                established under the Energy Policy Act of 2005 (42 
                U.S.C. 15801 et seq.), the Energy Independence and 
                Security Act of 2007 (42 U.S.C. 17001 et seq.), or an 
                amendment made by either of those Acts, as determined 
                by the Secretary of Energy.
                    (B) 16.67 percent shall be available to the 
                Department of Health and Human Services to provide low-
                income home energy assistance under title XXVI of the 
                Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1981 (42 U.S.C. 
                8621 et seq.).
                    (C) 16.67 percent shall be available to the 
                Department of Energy to carry out the Weatherization 
                Assistance Program for Low-Income Persons established 
                under part A of title IV of the Energy Conservation and 
                Production Act (42 U.S.C. 6861 et seq.).
                    (D) 16.66 percent shall be available to the 
                Department of Agriculture to carry out the special 
                supplemental nutrition program for women, infants, and 
                children established by section 17 of the Child 
                Nutrition Act of 1966 (42 U.S.C. 1786).

SEC. 14. SEVERABILITY.

    If any provision of this Act, or the application of such provision 
to any person or circumstance, is held to be unconstitutional, the 
remainder of this Act and the application of such provisions to any 
person or circumstance shall not be affected thereby.

SEC. 15. EFFECTIVE DATE.

    This Act takes effect on the date that the Secretary notifies 
Congress that the Secretary has determined that the weighted average 
price of petroleum in the United States for 5 or more consecutive days 
is $125 or more per barrel (in 2008 dollars).
                                 &lt;all&gt;
</pre></body></html>
