<html><body><pre>
[Congressional Bills 116th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H.R. 7301 Introduced in House (IH)]

&lt;DOC&gt;






116th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                H. R. 7301

   To prevent evictions, foreclosures, and unsafe housing conditions 
     resulting from the COVID-19 pandemic, and for other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                             June 24, 2020

  Ms. Waters introduced the following bill; which was referred to the 
 Committee on Financial Services, and in addition to the Committee on 
   the Judiciary, for a period to be subsequently determined by the 
  Speaker, in each case for consideration of such provisions as fall 
           within the jurisdiction of the committee concerned

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
   To prevent evictions, foreclosures, and unsafe housing conditions 
     resulting from the COVID-19 pandemic, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE; TABLE OF CONTENTS.

    (a) Short Title.--This Act may be cited as the ``Emergency Housing 
Protections and Relief Act of 2020''.
    (b) Table of Contents.--The table of contents for this Act is as 
follows:

Sec. 1. Short title; table of contents.
     TITLE I--PROTECTING RENTERS AND HOMEOWNERS FROM EVICTIONS AND 
                              FORECLOSURES

Sec. 101. Emergency rental assistance.
Sec. 102. Homeowner Assistance Fund.
Sec. 103. Protecting renters and homeowners from evictions and 
                            foreclosures.
Sec. 104. Liquidity for mortgage servicers and residential rental 
                            property owners.
Sec. 105. Rural rental assistance.
Sec. 106. Funding for public housing and tenant-based rental 
                            assistance.
Sec. 107. Supplemental funding for supportive housing for the elderly, 
                            supportive housing for persons with 
                            disabilities, supportive housing for 
                            persons with AIDS, and project-based 
                            section 8 rental assistance.
Sec. 108. Fair Housing.
Sec. 109. Funding for housing counseling services.
         TITLE II--PROTECTING PEOPLE EXPERIENCING HOMELESSNESS

Sec. 201. Homeless assistance funding.
Sec. 202. Emergency rental assistance voucher program.

     TITLE I--PROTECTING RENTERS AND HOMEOWNERS FROM EVICTIONS AND 
                              FORECLOSURES

SEC. 101. EMERGENCY RENTAL ASSISTANCE.

    (a) Authorization of Appropriations.--There is authorized to be 
appropriated to the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development 
(referred to in this section as the ``Secretary'') $100,000,000,000 for 
an additional amount for grants under the Emergency Solutions Grants 
program under subtitle B of title IV of the McKinney-Vento Homeless 
Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 11371 et seq.), to remain available until 
expended (subject to subsections (d) and (n) of this section), to be 
used for providing short- or medium-term assistance with rent and rent-
related costs (including tenant-paid utility costs, utility- and rent-
arrears, fees charged for those arrears, and security and utility 
deposits) in accordance with paragraphs (4) and (5) of section 415(a) 
of such Act (42 U.S.C. 11374(a)) and this section.
    (b) Definition of at Risk of Homelessness.--Notwithstanding section 
401(1) of the McKinney-Vento Homeless Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 
11360(1)), for purposes of assistance made available with amounts made 
available pursuant to subsection (a), the term ``at risk of 
homelessness'' means, with respect to an individual or family, that the 
individual or family--
            (1) has an income below 80 percent of the median income for 
        the area as determined by the Secretary; and
            (2) has an inability to attain or maintain housing 
        stability or has insufficient resources to pay for rent or 
        utilities due to financial hardships.
    (c) Income Targeting and Calculation.--For purposes of assistance 
made available with amounts made available pursuant to subsection (a)--
            (1) each recipient of such amounts shall use--
                    (A) not less than 40 percent of the amounts 
                received only for providing assistance for individuals 
                or families experiencing homelessness, or for persons 
                or families at risk of homelessness who have incomes 
                not exceeding 30 percent of the median income for the 
                area as determined by the Secretary;
                    (B) not less than 70 percent of the amounts 
                received only for providing assistance for individuals 
                or families experiencing homelessness, or for persons 
                or families at risk of homelessness who have incomes 
                not exceeding 50 percent of the median income for the 
                area as determined by the Secretary; and
                    (C) the remainder of the amounts received only for 
                providing assistance to individuals or families 
                experiencing homelessness, or for persons or families 
                at risk of homelessness who have incomes not exceeding 
                80 percent of the median income for the area as 
                determined by the Secretary, but such recipient may 
                establish a higher percentage limit for purposes of 
                subsection (b)(1), which shall not in any case exceed 
                120 percent of the area median income, if the recipient 
                states that it will serve such population in its plan; 
                and
            (2) in determining the income of a household for 
        homelessness prevention assistance--
                    (A) the calculation of income performed at the time 
                of application for such assistance, including 
                arrearages, shall consider only income that the 
                household is currently receiving at such time and any 
                income recently terminated shall not be included;
                    (B) any calculation of income performed with 
                respect to households receiving ongoing assistance 
                (such as medium-term rental assistance) 3 months after 
                initial receipt of assistance shall consider only the 
                income that the household is receiving at the time of 
                such review; and
                    (C) the calculation of income performed with 
                respect to households receiving assistance for 
                arrearages shall consider only the income that the 
                household was receiving at the time such arrearages 
                were incurred.
    (d) 3-Year Availability.--
            (1) In general.--Each recipient of amounts made available 
        pursuant to subsection (a) shall--
                    (A) expend not less than 60 percent of such grant 
                amounts within 2 years of the date that such funds 
                became available to the recipient for obligation; and
                    (B) expend 100 percent of such grant amounts within 
                3 years of such date.
            (2) Reallocation after 2 years.--The Secretary may 
        recapture any amounts not expended in compliance with paragraph 
        (1)(A) and reallocate such amounts to recipients in compliance 
        with the formula referred to in subsection (h)(1)(A).
    (e) Rent Restrictions.--
            (1) Inapplicability.--Section 576.106(d) of title 24, Code 
        of Federal Regulations, shall not apply with respect to 
        homelessness prevention assistance made available with amounts 
        made available under subsection (a).
            (2) Amount of rental assistance.--In providing homelessness 
        prevention assistance with amounts made available under 
        subsection (a), the maximum amount of rental assistance that 
        may be provided shall be the greater of--
                    (A) 120 percent of the higher of--
                            (i) the Fair Market Rent established by the 
                        Secretary for the metropolitan area or county; 
                        or
                            (ii) the applicable Small Area Fair Market 
                        Rent established by the Secretary; or
                    (B) such higher amount as the Secretary shall 
                determine is needed to cover market rents in the area.
    (f) Subleases.--A recipient shall not be prohibited from providing 
assistance authorized under subsection (a) with respect to subleases 
that are valid under State law.
    (g) Housing Relocation or Stabilization Activities.--A recipient of 
amounts made available pursuant to subsection (a) may expend up to 25 
percent of its allocation for activities under section 415(a)(5) of the 
McKinney-Vento Homeless Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 11374(a)(5)), except 
that notwithstanding such section, activities authorized under this 
subsection may be provided only for individuals or families who have 
incomes not exceeding 50 percent of the area median income and meet the 
criteria in subsection (b)(2) of this section or section 103 of the 
McKinney-Vento Homeless Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 11302). This 
subsection shall not apply to rent-related costs that are specifically 
authorized under subsection (a) of this section.
    (h) Allocation of Assistance.--
            (1) In general.--In allocating amounts made available 
        pursuant to subsection (a), the Secretary shall--
                    (A)(i) for any purpose authorized in this section--
                            (I) allocate 2 percent of such amount for 
                        Indian tribes and tribally designated housing 
                        entities (as such terms are defined in section 
                        4 of the Native American Housing Assistance and 
                        Self-Determination Act of 1996 (25 U.S.C. 
                        4103)) under the formula established pursuant 
                        to section 302 of such Act (25 U.S.C. 4152), 
                        except that 0.3 percent of the amount allocated 
                        under this clause shall be allocated for the 
                        Department of Hawaiian Home Lands; and
                            (II) allocate 0.3 percent of such amount 
                        for the Virgin Islands, Guam, American Samoa, 
                        and the Northern Mariana Islands;
                    (ii) not later than 30 days after the date of 
                enactment of this Act, obligate and disburse the 
                amounts allocated pursuant to clause (i) in accordance 
                with such allocations and provide such recipient with 
                any necessary guidance for use of the funds; and
                    (B)(i) not later than 7 days after the date of 
                enactment of this Act and after setting aside amounts 
                under subparagraph (A), allocate 50 percent of any such 
                remaining amounts under the formula specified in 
                subsections (a), (b), and (e) of section 414 of the 
                McKinney-Vento Homeless Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 
                11373) for, and notify, each State, metropolitan city, 
                and urban county that is to receive a direct grant of 
                such amounts; and
                    (ii) not later than 30 days after the date of 
                enactment of this Act, obligate and disburse the 
                amounts allocated pursuant to clause (i) in accordance 
                with such allocations and provide such recipient with 
                any necessary guidance for use of the funds; and
                    (C)(i) not later than 45 days after the date of 
                enactment of this Act, allocate any remaining amounts 
                for eligible recipients according to a formula to be 
                developed by the Secretary that takes into 
                consideration the formula referred to in subparagraph 
                (A) and the need for emergency rental assistance under 
                this section, including the severe housing cost burden 
                among extremely low- and very low-income renters and 
                disruptions in housing and economic conditions, 
                including unemployment; and
                    (ii) not later than 30 days after the date of the 
                allocation of such amounts pursuant to clause (i), 
                obligate and disburse such amounts in accordance with 
                such allocations.
            (2) Allocations to states.--
                    (A) In general.--Notwithstanding subsection (a) of 
                section 414 of the McKinney-Vento Homeless Assistance 
                Act (42 U.S.C. 11373(a)) and section 576.202(a) of 
                title 24, Code of Federal Regulations, a State 
                recipient of an allocation under this section may elect 
                to use up to 100 percent of its allocation to carry out 
                activities eligible under this section directly.
                    (B) Requirement.--Any State recipient making an 
                election described in subparagraph (A) shall serve 
                households throughout the entire State, including 
                households in rural communities and small towns.
            (3) Election not to administer.--If a recipient other than 
        a State elects not to receive funds under this section, such 
        funds shall be allocated to the State recipient in which the 
        recipient is located.
            (4) Partnerships, subgrants, and contracts.--A recipient of 
        a grant under this section may distribute funds through 
        partnerships, subgrants, or contracts with an entity, such as a 
        public housing agency (as such term is defined in section 3(b) 
        of the United States Housing Act of 1937 (42 U.S.C. 1437a(b))), 
        that is capable of carrying activities under this section.
            (5) Revision to rule.--The Secretary shall revise section 
        576.3 of tile 24, Code of Federal Regulations, to change the 
        set aside for allocation to the territories to exactly 0.3 
        percent.
    (i) Inapplicability of Matching Requirement.--Subsection (a) of 
section 416 of the McKinney-Vento Homeless Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 
11375(a)) shall not apply to any amounts made available pursuant to 
subsection (a) of this section.
    (j) Reimbursement of Eligible Activities.--Amounts made available 
pursuant to subsection (a) may be used by a recipient to reimburse 
expenditures incurred for eligible activities under this section after 
March 27, 2020.
    (k) Prohibition on Prerequisites.--None of the funds made available 
pursuant to this section may be used to require any individual 
receiving assistance under the program under this section to receive 
treatment or perform any other prerequisite activities as a condition 
for receiving shelter, housing, or other services.
    (l) Waivers and Alternative Requirements.--
            (1) In general.--
                    (A) Authority.--In administering the amounts made 
                available pursuant to subsection (a), the Secretary may 
                waive, or specify alternative requirements for, any 
                provision of any statute or regulation that the 
                Secretary administers in connection with the obligation 
                by the Secretary or the use by the recipient of such 
                amounts (except for requirements related to fair 
                housing, nondiscrimination, labor standards, 
                prohibition on prerequisites, minimum data reporting, 
                and the environment), if the Secretary finds that good 
                cause exists for the waiver or alternative requirement 
                and such waiver or alternative requirement is necessary 
                to expedite the use of funds made available pursuant to 
                this section, to respond to public health orders or 
                conditions related to the COVID-19 emergency, or to 
                ensure that eligible individuals can attain or maintain 
                housing stability.
                    (B) Public notice.--The Secretary shall notify the 
                public through the Federal Register or other 
                appropriate means of any waiver or alternative 
                requirement under this paragraph, and that such public 
                notice shall be provided, at a minimum, on the internet 
                at the appropriate Government website or through other 
                electronic media, as determined by the Secretary.
                    (C) Eligibility requirements.--Eligibility for 
                rental assistance or housing relocation and 
                stabilization services shall not be restricted based 
                upon the prior receipt of assistance under the program 
                during the preceding three years.
            (2) Public hearings.--
                    (A) Inapplicability of in-person hearing 
                requirements during the covid-19 emergency.--
                            (i) In general.--A recipient under this 
                        section shall not be required to hold in-person 
                        public hearings in connection with its citizen 
                        participation plan, but shall provide citizens 
                        with notice, including publication of its plan 
                        for carrying out this section on the internet, 
                        and a reasonable opportunity to comment of not 
                        less than 5 days.
                            (ii) Resumption of in-person hearing 
                        requirements.--After the period beginning on 
                        the date of enactment of this Act and ending on 
                        the date of the termination by the Federal 
                        Emergency Management Agency of the emergency 
                        declared on March 13, 2020, by the President 
                        under the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief 
                        and Emergency Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 4121 et 
                        seq.) relating to the Coronavirus Disease 2019 
                        (COVID-19) pandemic, and after the period 
                        described in subparagraph (B), the Secretary 
                        shall direct recipients under this section to 
                        resume pre-crisis public hearing requirements.
                    (B) Virtual public hearings.--
                            (i) In general.--During the period that 
                        national or local health authorities recommend 
                        social distancing and limiting public 
                        gatherings for public health reasons, a 
                        recipient may fulfill applicable public hearing 
                        requirements for all grants from funds made 
                        available pursuant to this section by carrying 
                        out virtual public hearings.
                            (ii) Requirements.--Any virtual hearings 
                        held under clause (i) by a recipient under this 
                        section shall provide reasonable notification 
                        and access for citizens in accordance with the 
                        recipient's certifications, timely responses 
                        from local officials to all citizen questions 
                        and issues, and public access to all questions 
                        and responses.
    (m) Consultation.--In addition to any other citizen participation 
and consultation requirements, in developing and implementing a plan to 
carry out this section, each recipient of funds made available pursuant 
to this section shall consult with the applicable Continuum or 
Continuums of Care for the area served by the recipient and 
organizations representing underserved communities and populations and 
organizations with expertise in affordable housing, fair housing, and 
services for people with disabilities.
    (n) Administration.--
            (1) By secretary.--Of any amounts made available pursuant 
        to subsection (a)--
                    (A) not more than the lesser of 0.5 percent, or 
                $15,000,000, may be used by the Secretary for staffing, 
                training, technical assistance, technology, monitoring, 
                research, and evaluation activities necessary to carry 
                out the program carried out under this section, and 
                such amounts shall remain available until September 30, 
                2024; and
                    (B) not more than $2,000,000 shall be available to 
                the Office of the Inspector General for audits and 
                investigations of the program authorized under this 
                section.
            (2) By recipients.--Notwithstanding section 576.108 of 
        title 24 of the Code of Federal Regulations, with respect to 
        amounts made available pursuant to this section, a recipient 
        may use up to 10 percent of the recipient's grant for payment 
        of administrative costs related to the planning and execution 
        of activities.

SEC. 102. HOMEOWNER ASSISTANCE FUND.

    (a) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Fund.--The term ``Fund'' means the Homeowner Assistance 
        Fund established under subsection (b).
            (2) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary 
        of the Treasury.
            (3) State.--The term ``State'' means any State of the 
        United States, the District of Columbia, any territory of the 
        United States, Puerto Rico, Guam, American Samoa, the Virgin 
        Islands, and the Northern Mariana Islands.
    (b) Establishment of Fund.--There is established at the Department 
of the Treasury a Homeowner Assistance Fund to provide such funds as 
are made available under subsection (g) to State housing finance 
agencies for the purpose of preventing homeowner mortgage defaults, 
foreclosures, and displacements of individuals and families 
experiencing financial hardship after January 21, 2020.
    (c) Allocation of Funds.--
            (1) Administration.--Of any amounts made available for the 
        Fund, the Secretary of the Treasury may allocate, in the 
        aggregate, an amount not exceeding 5 percent--
                    (A) to the Office of Financial Stability 
                established under section 101(a) of the Emergency 
                Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 (12 U.S.C. 5211(a)) 
                to administer and oversee the Fund, and to provide 
                technical assistance to States for the creation and 
                implementation of State programs to administer 
                assistance from the Fund; and
                    (B) to the Inspector General of the Department of 
                the Treasury for oversight of the program under this 
                section.
            (2) For states.--The Secretary shall establish such 
        criteria as are necessary to allocate the funds available 
        within the Fund for each State. The Secretary shall allocate 
        such funds among all States taking into consideration the 
        number of unemployment claims within a State relative to the 
        nationwide number of unemployment claims.
            (3) Small state minimum.--The amount allocated for each 
        State shall not be less than $250,000,000.
            (4) Set-aside for insular areas.--Notwithstanding any other 
        provision of this section, of any amounts authorized to be 
        appropriated pursuant to subsection (g), the Secretary shall 
        reserve $200,000,000 to be disbursed to Guam, American Samoa, 
        the Virgin Islands, and the Northern Mariana Islands based on 
        each such territory's share of the combined total population of 
        all such territories, as determined by the Secretary. For the 
        purposes of this paragraph, population shall be determined 
        based on the most recent year for which data are available from 
        the United States Census Bureau.
            (5) Set-aside for indian tribes and native hawaiians.----
                    (A) Indian tribes.--Notwithstanding any other 
                provision of this section, of any amounts authorized to 
                be appropriated pursuant to subsection (g), the 
                Secretary shall use 5 percent to make grants in 
                accordance with subsection (f) to eligible recipients 
                for the purposes described in subsection (e)(1).
                    (B) Native hawaiians.-- Of the funds set aside 
                under subparagraph (A), the Secretary shall use 0.3 
                percent to make grants to the Department of Hawaiian 
                Home Lands in accordance with subsection (f) for the 
                purposes described in subsection (e)(1).
    (d) Disbursement of Funds.--
            (1) Administration.--Except for amounts made available for 
        assistance under subsection (f), State housing finance agencies 
        shall be primarily responsible for administering amounts 
        disbursed from the Fund, but may delegate responsibilities and 
        sub-allocate amounts to community development financial 
        institutions and State agencies that administer Low-Income Home 
        Energy Assistance Program of the Department of Health and Human 
        Services.
            (2) Notice of funding.--The Secretary shall provide public 
        notice of the amounts that will be made available to each State 
        and the method used for determining such amounts not later than 
        the expiration of the 14-day period beginning on the date of 
        the enactment of this Act of enactment.
            (3) SHFA plans.--
                    (A) Eligibility.--To be eligible to receive funding 
                allocated for a State under the section, a State 
                housing finance agency for the State shall submit to 
                the Secretary a plan for the implementation of State 
                programs to administer, in part or in full, the amount 
                of funding the state is eligible to receive, which 
                shall provide for the commencement of receipt of 
                applications by homeowners for assistance, and funding 
                of such applications, not later than the expiration of 
                the 6-month period beginning upon the approval under 
                this paragraph of such plan.
                    (B) Multiple plans.--. A State housing finance 
                agency may submit multiple plans, each covering a 
                separate portion of funding for which the State is 
                eligible.
                    (C) Timing.--The Secretary shall approve or 
                disapprove a plan within 30 days after the plan's 
                submission and, if disapproved, explain why the plan 
                could not be approved.
                    (D) Disbursement upon approval.--The Secretary 
                shall disburse to a State housing finance agency the 
                appropriate amount of funding upon approval of the 
                agency's plan.
                    (E) Amendments.--A State housing finance agency may 
                subsequently amend a plan that has previously been 
                approved, provided that any plan amendment shall be 
                subject to the approval of the Secretary. The Secretary 
                shall approve any plan amendment or disapprove such 
                amendment explain why the plan amendment could not be 
                approved within 45 days after submission to the 
                Secretary of such amendment.
                    (F) Technical assistance.--The Secretary shall 
                provide technical assistance for any State housing 
                finance agency that twice fails to have a submitted 
                plan approved.
            (4) Plan templates.--The Secretary shall, not later than 30 
        days after the date of the enactment of this Act, publish 
        templates that States may utilize in drafting the plans 
        required under paragraph (3)(A). The template plans shall 
        include standard program terms and requirements, as well as any 
        required legal language, which State housing finance agencies 
        may modify with the consent of the Secretary.
    (e) Permissible Uses of Fund.--
            (1) In general.--Funds made available to State housing 
        finance agencies pursuant to this section may be used for the 
        purposes established under subsection (b), which may include--
                    (A) mortgage payment assistance, including 
                financial assistance to allow a borrower to reinstate 
                their mortgage or to achieve a more affordable mortgage 
                payment, which may include principal reduction or rate 
                reduction, provided that any mortgage payment 
                assistance is tailored to a borrower's needs and their 
                ability to repay, and takes into consideration the loss 
                mitigation options available to the borrower;
                    (B) assistance with payment of taxes, hazard 
                insurance, flood insurance, mortgage insurance, or 
                homeowners' association fees;
                    (C) utility payment assistance, including electric, 
                gas, water, and internet service, including broadband 
                internet access service (as such term is defined in 
                section 8.1(b) of title 47, Code of Federal Regulations 
                (or any successor regulation));
                    (D) reimbursement of funds expended by a State or 
                local government during the period beginning on January 
                21, 2020, and ending on the date that the first funds 
                are disbursed by the State under the Fund, for the 
                purpose of providing housing or utility assistance to 
                individuals or otherwise providing funds to prevent 
                foreclosure or eviction of a homeowner or prevent 
                mortgage delinquency or loss of housing or critical 
                utilities as a response to the coronavirus disease 2019 
                (COVID-19) pandemic; and
                    (E) any other assistance for homeowners to prevent 
                eviction, mortgage delinquency or default, foreclosure, 
                or the loss of essential utility services.
            (2) Targeting.--
                    (A) Requirement.--Not less than 60 percent of 
                amounts made available for each State or other entity 
                allocated amounts under subsection (c) shall be used 
                for activities under paragraph (1) that assist 
                homeowners having incomes equal to or less than 80 
                percent of the area median income.
                    (B) Determination of income.-- In determining the 
                income of a household for purposes of this paragraph, 
                income shall be considered to include only income that 
                the household is receiving at the time of application 
                for assistance from the Fund and any income recently 
                terminated shall not be included, except that for 
                purposes of households receiving assistance for 
                arrearages income shall include only the income that 
                the household was receiving at the time such arrearages 
                were incurred.
                    (C) Language assistance.--Each State housing 
                finance agency or other entity allocated amounts under 
                subsection (c) shall make available to each applicant 
                for assistance from amounts from the Fund language 
                assistance in any language that such language 
                assistance is available in and shall provide notice to 
                each such applicant that such language assistance is 
                available.
            (3) Administrative expenses.--Not more than 15 percent of 
        the amount allocated to a State pursuant to subsection (c) may 
        be used by a State housing financing agency for administrative 
        expenses. Any amounts allocated to administrative expenses that 
        are no longer necessary for administrative expenses may be used 
        in accordance with paragraph (1).
    (f) Tribal and Native Hawaiian Assistance.--
            (1) Definitions.--In this subsection:
                    (A) Department of hawaiian home lands.--The term 
                ``Department of Hawaiian Home Lands'' has the meaning 
                given the term in section 801 of the Native American 
                Housing Assistance and Self-Determination Act of 1996 
                (42 U.S.C. 4221).
                    (B) Eligible recipient.--The term ``eligible 
                recipient'' means any entity eligible to receive a 
                grant under section 101 of the Native American Housing 
                Assistance and Self-Determination Act of 1996 (25 
                U.S.C. 4111).
            (2) Requirements.--
                    (A) Allocation.--Except for the funds set aside 
                under subsection (c)(5)(B), the Secretary shall 
                allocate the funds set aside under subsection (c)(5)(A) 
                using the allocation formula described in subpart D of 
                part 1000 of title 24, Code of Federal Regulations (or 
                any successor regulations).
                    (B) Native hawaiians.--The Secretary shall use the 
                funds made available under subsection (c)(5)(B) in 
                accordance with part 1006 of title 24, Code of Federal 
                Regulations (or successor regulations).
            (3) Transfer.--The Secretary shall transfer any funds made 
        available under subsection (c)(5) that have not been allocated 
        by an eligible recipient or the Department of Hawaiian Home 
        Lands, as applicable, to provide the assistance described in 
        subsection (e)(1) by December 31, 2030, to the Secretary of 
        Housing and Urban Development to carry out the Native American 
        Housing Assistance and Self-Determination Act of 1996 (25 
        U.S.C. 4101 et seq.).
    (g) Funding.--There is authorized to be appropriated to the 
Homeowner Assistance Fund established under subsection (b) 
$75,000,000,000, to remain available until expended or transferred or 
credited under subsection (i).
    (h) Use of Housing Finance Agency Innovation Fund for the Hardest 
Hit Housing Markets Funds.--A State housing finance agency may 
reallocate any administrative or programmatic funds it has received as 
an allocation from the Housing Finance Agency Innovation Fund for the 
Hardest Hit Housing Markets created pursuant to section 101(a) of the 
Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 (12 U.S.C. 5211(a)) that 
have not been otherwise allocated or disbursed as of the date of 
enactment of this Act to supplement any administrative or programmatic 
funds received from the Housing Assistance Fund. Such reallocated funds 
shall not be considered when allocating resources from the Housing 
Assistance Fund using the process established under subsection (c) and 
shall remain available for the uses permitted and under the terms and 
conditions established by the contract with Secretary created pursuant 
to subsection (d)(1) and the terms of subsection (i).
    (i) Reporting Requirements.--The Secretary shall provide public 
reports not less frequently than quarterly regarding the use of funds 
provided by the Homeowner Assistance Fund. Such reports shall include 
the following data by State and by program within each State, both for 
the past quarter and throughout the life of the program--
            (1) the amount of funds allocated;
            (2) the amount of funds disbursed;
            (3) the number of households and individuals assisted;
            (4) the acceptance rate of applicants;
            (5) the type or types of assistance provided to each 
        household;
            (6) whether the household assisted had a federally backed 
        loan and identification of the Federal entity backing such 
        loan;
            (7) the average amount of funding provided per household 
        receiving assistance and per type of assistance provided;
            (8) the average number of monthly payments that were 
        covered by the funding amount that a household received, as 
        applicable, disaggregated by type of assistance provided;
            (9) the income level of each household receiving 
        assistance; and
            (10) the outcome 12 months after the household has received 
        assistance.
Each report under this subsection shall disaggregate the information 
provided under paragraphs (3) through (10) by State, zip code, racial 
and ethnic composition of the household, and whether or not the person 
from the household applying for assistance speaks English as a second 
language.

SEC. 103. PROTECTING RENTERS AND HOMEOWNERS FROM EVICTIONS AND 
              FORECLOSURES.

    (a) Eviction Moratorium.--The CARES Act is amended by striking 
section 4024 (15 U.S.C. 9058; Public Law 116-136; 134 Stat. 492) and 
inserting the following new section:

``SEC. 4024. TEMPORARY MORATORIUM ON EVICTION FILINGS.

    ``(a) Congressional Findings.--The Congress finds that--
            ``(1) according to the 2018 American Community Survey, 36 
        percent of households in the United States--more than 43 
        million households--are renters;
            ``(2) in 2019 alone, renters in the United States paid $512 
        billion in rent;
            ``(3) according to the Joint Center for Housing Studies of 
        Harvard University, 20.8 million renters in the United States 
        spent more than 30 percent of their incomes on housing in 2018 
        and 10.9 million renters spent more than 50 percent of their 
        incomes on housing in the same year;
            ``(4) according to data from the Department of Labor, more 
        than 30 million people have filed for unemployment since the 
        COVID-19 pandemic began;
            ``(5) the impacts of the spread of COVID-19, which is now 
        considered a global pandemic, are expected to negatively impact 
        the incomes of potentially millions of renter households, 
        making it difficult for them to pay their rent on time; and
            ``(6) evictions in the current environment would increase 
        homelessness and housing instability which would be 
        counterproductive towards the public health goals of keeping 
        individuals in their homes to the greatest extent possible.
    ``(b) Moratorium.--During the period beginning on the date of the 
enactment of this Act and ending 12 months after such date of 
enactment, the lessor of a covered dwelling located in such State may 
not make, or cause to be made, any filing with the court of 
jurisdiction to initiate a legal action to recover possession of the 
covered dwelling from the tenant for nonpayment of rent or other fees 
or charges.
    ``(c) Definitions.--For purposes of this section, the following 
definitions shall apply:
            ``(1) Covered dwelling.--The term `covered dwelling' means 
        a dwelling that is occupied by a tenant--
                    ``(A) pursuant to a residential lease; or
                    ``(B) without a lease or with a lease terminable at 
                will under State law.
            ``(2) Dwelling.--The term `dwelling' has the meaning given 
        such term in section 802 of the Fair Housing Act (42 U.S.C. 
        3602) and includes houses and dwellings described in section 
        803(b) of such Act (42 U.S.C. 3603(b)).
    ``(d) Notice To Vacate After Moratorium Expiration Date.--After the 
expiration of the period described in subsection (b), the lessor of a 
covered dwelling may not require the tenant to vacate the covered 
dwelling by reason of nonpayment of rent or other fees or charges 
before the expiration of the 30-day period that begins upon the 
provision by the lessor to the tenant, after the expiration of the 
period described in subsection (b), of a notice to vacate the covered 
dwelling.''.
    (b) Mortgage Relief.--
            (1) Forbearance and foreclosure moratorium for covered 
        mortgage loans.--Section 4022 of the CARES Act (15 U.S.C. 9056) 
        is amended--
                    (A) by striking ``Federally backed mortgage loan'' 
                each place such term appears and inserting ``covered 
                mortgage loan''; and
                    (B) in subsection (a)--
                            (i) by amending paragraph (2) to read as 
                        follows:
            ``(2) Covered mortgage loan.--The term `covered mortgage 
        loan' means any credit transaction that is secured by a 
        mortgage, deed of trust, or other equivalent consensual 
        security interest on a 1- to 4-unit dwelling or on residential 
        real property that includes a 1- to 4-unit dwelling, except 
        that it shall not include a credit transaction under an open 
        end credit plan other than a reverse mortgage.''; and
                            (ii) by adding at the end the following:
            ``(3) Covered period.--With respect to a loan, the term 
        `covered period' means the period beginning on the date of 
        enactment of this Act and ending 12 months after such date of 
        enactment.''.
            (2) Automatic forbearance for delinquent borrowers.--
        Section 4022(c) of the CARES Act (15 U.S.C. 9056(c)), as 
        amended by paragraph (5) of this subsection, is further amended 
        by adding at the end the following:
            ``(9) Automatic forbearance for delinquent borrowers.--
                    ``(A) In general.--Notwithstanding any other law 
                governing forbearance relief--
                            ``(i) any borrower whose covered mortgage 
                        loan became 60 days delinquent between March 
                        13, 2020, and the date of enactment of this 
                        paragraph, and who has not already received a 
                        forbearance under subsection (b), shall 
                        automatically be granted a 60-day forbearance 
                        that begins on the date of enactment of this 
                        paragraph, provided that a borrower shall not 
                        be considered delinquent for purposes of this 
                        paragraph while making timely payments or 
                        otherwise performing under a trial modification 
                        or other loss mitigation agreement; and
                            ``(ii) any borrower whose covered mortgage 
                        loan becomes 60 days delinquent between the 
                        date of enactment of this paragraph and the end 
                        of the covered period, and who has not already 
                        received a forbearance under subsection (b), 
                        shall automatically be granted a 60-day 
                        forbearance that begins on the 60th day of 
                        delinquency, provided that a borrower shall not 
                        be considered delinquent for purposes of this 
                        paragraph while making timely payments or 
                        otherwise performing under a trial modification 
                        or other loss mitigation agreement.
                    ``(B) Initial extension.--An automatic forbearance 
                provided under subparagraph (A) shall be extended for 
                up to an additional 120 days upon the borrower's 
                request, oral or written, submitted to the borrower's 
                servicer affirming that the borrower is experiencing a 
                financial hardship that prevents the borrower from 
                making timely payments on the covered mortgage loan 
                due, directly or indirectly, to the COVID-19 emergency.
                    ``(C) Subsequent extension.--A forbearance extended 
                under subparagraph (B) shall be extended for up to an 
                additional 180 days, up to a maximum of 360 days 
                (including the period of automatic forbearance), upon 
                the borrower's request, oral or written, submitted to 
                the borrower's servicer affirming that the borrower is 
                experiencing a financial hardship that prevents the 
                borrower from making timely payments on the covered 
                mortgage loan due, directly or indirectly, to the 
                COVID-19 emergency.
                    ``(D) Right to elect to continue making payments.--
                With respect to a forbearance provided under this 
                paragraph, the borrower of such loan may elect to 
                continue making regular payments on the loan. A 
                borrower who makes such election shall be offered a 
                loss mitigation option pursuant to subsection (d) 
                within 30 days of resuming regular payments to address 
                any payment deficiency during the forbearance.
                    ``(E) Right to shorten forbearance.--At a 
                borrower's request, any period of forbearance provided 
                under this paragraph may be shortened. A borrower who 
                makes such a request shall be offered a loss mitigation 
                option pursuant to subsection (d) within 30 days of 
                resuming regular payments to address any payment 
                deficiency during the forbearance.
            ``(10) Automatic forbearance for certain reverse mortgage 
        loans.--
                    ``(A) In general.--When any covered mortgage loan 
                which is also a federally-insured reverse mortgage 
                loan, during the covered period, is due and payable due 
                to the death of the last borrower or end of a deferral 
                period or eligible to be called due and payable due to 
                a property charge default, or if the borrower defaults 
                on a property charge repayment plan, or if the borrower 
                defaults for failure to complete property repairs, or 
                if an obligation of the borrower under the Security 
                Instrument is not performed, the mortgagee 
                automatically shall be granted a six-month extension 
                of--
                            ``(i) the mortgagee's deadline to request 
                        due and payable status from the Department of 
                        Housing and Urban Development;
                            ``(ii) the mortgage's deadline to send 
                        notification to the mortgagor or his or her 
                        heirs that the loan is due and payable;
                            ``(iii) the deadline to initiate 
                        foreclosure;
                            ``(iv) any reasonable diligence period 
                        related to foreclosure or the Mortgagee 
                        Optional Election;
                            ``(v) if applicable, the deadline to obtain 
                        the due and payable appraisal; and
                            ``(vi) any claim submission deadline, 
                        including the 6-month acquired property 
                        marketing period.
                    ``(B) Forbearance period.--The mortgagee shall not 
                request due and payable status from the Secretary of 
                Housing and Urban Development nor initiate foreclosure 
                during this six-month period described under 
                subparagraph (A), which shall be considered a 
                forbearance period.
                    ``(C) Extension.--A forbearance provided under 
                subparagraph (B) and related deadline extension 
                authorized under subparagraph (A) shall be extended for 
                an additional 180 days upon--
                            ``(i) the borrower's request, oral or 
                        written, submitted to the borrower's servicer 
                        affirming that the borrower is experiencing a 
                        financial hardship that prevents the borrower 
                        from making payments on property charges, 
                        completing property repairs, or performing an 
                        obligation of the borrower under the Security 
                        Instrument due, directly or indirectly, to the 
                        COVID-19 emergency;
                            ``(ii) a non-borrowing spouse's request, 
                        oral or written, submitted to the servicer 
                        affirming that the non-borrowing spouse has 
                        been unable to satisfy all criteria for the 
                        Mortgagee Optional Election program due, 
                        directly or indirectly, to the COVID-19 
                        emergency, or to perform all actions necessary 
                        to become an eligible non-borrowing spouse 
                        following the death of all borrowers; or
                            ``(iii) a successor-in-interest of the 
                        borrower's request, oral or written, submitted 
                        to the servicer affirming the heir's difficulty 
                        satisfying the reverse mortgage loan due, 
                        directly or indirectly, to the COVID-19 
                        emergency.
                    ``(D) Curtailment of debenture interest.--Where any 
                covered mortgage loan which is also a federally insured 
                reverse mortgage loan is in default during the covered 
                period and subject to a prior event which provides for 
                curtailment of debenture interest in connection with a 
                claim for insurance benefits, the curtailment of 
                debenture interest shall be suspended during any 
                forbearance period provided herein.''.
            (3) Additional foreclosure and repossession protections.--
        Section 4022(c) of the CARES Act (15 U.S.C. 9056(c)) is 
        amended--
                    (A) in paragraph (2), by striking ``may not 
                initiate any judicial or non-judicial foreclosure 
                process, move for a foreclosure judgment or order of 
                sale, or execute a foreclosure-related eviction or 
                foreclosure sale for not less than the 60-day period 
                beginning on March 18, 2020'' and inserting ``may not 
                initiate or proceed with any judicial or non-judicial 
                foreclosure process, schedule a foreclosure sale, move 
                for a foreclosure judgment or order of sale, execute a 
                foreclosure related eviction or foreclosure sale for 
                six months after the date of enactment of the Emergency 
                Housing Protections and Relief Act of 2020''; and
                    (B) by adding at the end the following:
            ``(3) Repossession moratorium.--In the case of personal 
        property, including any recreational or motor vehicle, used as 
        a dwelling, no person may use any judicial or non-judicial 
        procedure to repossess or otherwise take possession of such 
        property for six months after date of enactment of this 
        paragraph.''.
            (4) Mortgage forbearance reforms.--Section 4022 of the 
        CARES Act (15 U.S.C. 9056) is amended--
                    (A) in subsection (b), by striking paragraphs (1), 
                (2), and (3) and inserting the following:
            ``(1) In general.--During the covered period, a borrower 
        with a covered mortgage loan who has not obtained automatic 
        forbearance pursuant to this section and who is experiencing a 
        financial hardship that prevents the borrower from making 
        timely payments on the covered mortgage loan due, directly or 
        indirectly, to the COVID-19 emergency may request forbearance 
        on the loan, regardless of delinquency status, by--
                    ``(A) submitting a request, orally or in writing, 
                to the servicer of the loan; and
                    ``(B) affirming that the borrower is experiencing a 
                financial hardship that prevents the borrower from 
                making timely payments on the covered mortgage loan 
                due, directly or indirectly, to the COVID-19 emergency.
            ``(2) Duration of forbearance.--
                    ``(A) In general.--Upon a request by a borrower to 
                a servicer for forbearance under paragraph (1), such 
                forbearance shall be granted by the servicer for the 
                period requested by the borrower, up to an initial 
                length of 180 days, the length of which shall be 
                extended by the servicer, at the request of the 
                borrower for the period or periods requested, for a 
                total forbearance period of up to 12-months.
                    ``(B) Minimum forbearance amounts.--For purposes of 
                granting a forbearance under this paragraph, a servicer 
                may grant an initial forbearance with a term of not 
                less than 90 days, provided that it is automatically 
                extended for an additional 90 days unless the servicer 
                confirms the borrower does not want to renew the 
                forbearance or that the borrower is no longer 
                experiencing a financial hardship that prevents the 
                borrower from making timely mortgage payments due, 
                directly or indirectly, to the COVID-19 emergency.
                    ``(C) Right to shorten forbearance.--At a 
                borrower's request, any period of forbearance described 
                under this paragraph may be shortened. A borrower who 
                makes such a request shall be offered a loss mitigation 
                option pursuant to subsection (d) within 30 days of 
                resuming regular payments to address any payment 
                deficiency during the forbearance.
            ``(3) Accrual of interest or fees.--A servicer shall not 
        charge a borrower any fees, penalties, or interest (beyond the 
        amounts scheduled or calculated as if the borrower made all 
        contractual payments on time and in full under the terms of the 
        mortgage contract) in connection with a forbearance, provided 
        that a servicer may offer the borrower a modification option at 
        the end of a forbearance period granted hereunder that includes 
        the capitalization of past due principal and interest and 
        escrow payments as long as the borrower's principal and 
        interest payment under such modification remains at or below 
        the contractual principal and interest payments owed under the 
        terms of the mortgage contract before such forbearance period 
        except as the result of a change in the index of an adjustable 
        rate mortgage.
            ``(4) Communication with servicers.--Any communication 
        between a borrower and a servicer described under this section 
        may be made in writing or orally, at the borrower's choice.
            ``(5) Communication with borrowers with a disability.--Upon 
        request from a borrower, servicers shall communicate with 
        borrowers who have a disability in the borrower's preferred 
        method of communication. For purposes of this paragraph, the 
        term `disability' has the meaning given that term in the Fair 
        Housing Act, the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990, or 
        the Rehabilitation Act of 1973.''; and
                    (B) in subsection (c), by amending paragraph (1) to 
                read as follows:
            ``(1) No documentation required.--A servicer of a covered 
        mortgage loan shall not require any documentation with respect 
        to a forbearance under this section other than the borrower's 
        affirmation (oral or written) to a financial hardship that 
        prevents the borrower from making timely payments on the 
        covered mortgage loan due, directly or indirectly, to the 
        COVID-19 emergency. An oral request for forbearance and oral 
        affirmation of hardship by the borrower shall be sufficient for 
        the borrower to obtain or extend a forbearance.''.
            (5) Other servicer requirements during forbearance.--
        Section 4022(c) of the CARES Act (15 U.S.C. 9056(c)), as 
        amended by paragraph (3) of this subsection, is further amended 
        by adding at the end the following:
            ``(4) Forbearance terms notice.--Within 30 days of a 
        servicer of a covered mortgage loan providing forbearance to a 
        borrower under subsection (b) or paragraph (9) or (10), or 10 
        days if the forbearance is for a term of less than 60 days, but 
        only where the forbearance was provided in response to a 
        borrower's request for forbearance or when an automatic 
        forbearance was initially provided under paragraph (9) or (10), 
        and not when an existing forbearance is automatically extended, 
        the servicer shall provide the borrower with a notice in 
        accordance with the terms in paragraph (5).
            ``(5) Contents of notice.--The written notice required 
        under paragraph (4) shall state in plain language--
                    ``(A) the specific terms of the forbearance;
                    ``(B) the beginning and ending dates of the 
                forbearance;
                    ``(C) that the borrower is eligible for up to 12 
                months of forbearance;
                    ``(D) that the borrower may request an extension of 
                the forbearance unless the borrower will have reached 
                the maximum period at the end of the forbearance;
                    ``(E) that the borrower may request that the 
                initial or extended period be shortened at any time;
                    ``(F) that the borrower should contact the servicer 
                before the end of the forbearance period;
                    ``(G) a description of the loss mitigation options 
                that may be available to the borrower at the end of the 
                forbearance period based on the borrower's specific 
                loan;
                    ``(H) information on how to find a housing 
                counseling agency approved by the Department of Housing 
                and Urban Development;
                    ``(I) in the case of a forbearance provided 
                pursuant to paragraph (9) or (10), that the forbearance 
                was automatically provided and how to contact the 
                servicer to make arrangements for further assistance, 
                including any renewal; and
                    ``(J) where applicable, that the forbearance is 
                subject to an automatic extension including the terms 
                of any such automatic extensions and when any further 
                extension would require a borrower request.
            ``(6) Treatment of escrow accounts.--During any forbearance 
        provided under this section, a servicer shall pay or advance 
        funds to make disbursements in a timely manner from any escrow 
        account established on the covered mortgage loan.
            ``(7) Notification for borrowers.--During the period that 
        begins 90 days after the date of the enactment of this 
        paragraph and ends at the end of the covered period, each 
        servicer of a covered mortgage loan shall be required to--
                    ``(A) make available in a clear and conspicuous 
                manner on their webpage accurate information, in 
                English and Spanish, for borrowers regarding the 
                availability of forbearance as provided under 
                subsection (b); and
                    ``(B) notify every borrower whose payments on a 
                covered mortgage loan are delinquent in any oral 
                communication with or to the borrower that the borrower 
                may be eligible to request forbearance as provided 
                under subsection (b), except that such notice shall not 
                be required if the borrower already has requested 
                forbearance under subsection (b).
            ``(8) Certain treatment under respa.--As long as a 
        borrower's payment on a covered mortgage loan was not more than 
        30 days delinquent on March 13, 2020, a servicer may not deem 
        the borrower as delinquent while a forbearance granted under 
        subsection (b) is in effect for purposes of the application of 
        sections 6 and 10 of the Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act 
        and any applicable regulations.''.
            (6) Post-forbearance loss mitigation.--
                    (A) Amendment to cares act.--Section 4022 of the 
                CARES Act (15 U.S.C. 9056) is amended by adding at the 
                end the following:
    ``(d) Post-Forbearance Loss Mitigation.--
            ``(1) Notice of availability of additional forbearance.--
        With respect to any covered mortgage loan as to which 
        forbearance under this section has been granted and not 
        otherwise extended, including by automatic extension, a 
        servicer shall, no later than 30 days before the end of the 
        forbearance period, in writing, notify the borrower that 
        additional forbearance may be available and how to request such 
        forbearance, except that no such notice is required where the 
        borrower already has requested an extension of the forbearance 
        period, is subject to automatic extension pursuant to 
        subsection (b)(2)(B), or no additional forbearance is 
        available.
            ``(2) Loss mitigation offer before expiration of 
        forbearance.--No later than 30 days before the end of any 
        forbearance period that has not been extended or 30 days after 
        a request by a consumer to terminate the forbearance, which 
        time shall be before the servicer initiates or engages in any 
        foreclosure activity listed in subsection (c)(2), including 
        incurring or charging to a borrower any fees or corporate 
        advances related to a foreclosure, the servicer shall, in 
        writing--
                    ``(A) offer the borrower a loss mitigation option, 
                without the charging of any fees or penalties other 
                than interest, such that the borrower's principal and 
                interest payment remains the same as it was prior to 
                the forbearance, subject to any adjustment of the index 
                pursuant to the terms of an adjustable rate mortgage, 
                and that either--
                            ``(i) defers the payment of total 
                        arrearages, including any escrow advances, to 
                        the end of the existing term of the loan, 
                        without the charging or collection of any 
                        additional interest on the deferred amounts; or
                            ``(ii) extends the term of the mortgage 
                        loan, and capitalizes, defers, or forgives all 
                        escrow advances and other arrearages;
                provided, however, that the servicer may offer the 
                borrower a loss mitigation option that reduces the 
                principal and interest payment on the loan and 
                capitalizes, defers, or forgives all escrow advances or 
                arrearages if the servicer has information indicating 
                that the borrower cannot resume the pre-forbearance 
                mortgage payments; and
                    ``(B) concurrent with the loss mitigation offer in 
                subparagraph (A), notify the borrower that the borrower 
                has the right to be evaluated for other loss mitigation 
                options if the borrower is not able to make the payment 
                under the option offered in subparagraph (A).
            ``(3) Evaluation for loss mitigation prior to foreclosure 
        initiation.--Before a servicer may initiate or engage in any 
        foreclosure activity listed in subsection (c)(2), including 
        incurring or charging to a borrower any fees or corporate 
        advances related to a foreclosure on the basis that the 
        borrower has failed to perform under the loss mitigation offer 
        in paragraph (2)(A) within the first 90 days after the option 
        is offered, including a failure to accept the loss mitigation 
        offer in paragraph (2)(A), the servicer shall--
                    ``(A) unless the borrower has already submitted a 
                complete application that the servicer is reviewing--
                            ``(i) notify the borrower in writing of the 
                        documents and information, if any, needed by 
                        the servicer to enable the servicer to consider 
                        the borrower for all available loss mitigation 
                        options;
                            ``(ii) exercise reasonable diligence to 
                        obtain the documents and information needed to 
                        complete the borrower's loss mitigation 
                        application;
                    ``(B) upon receipt of a complete application or if, 
                despite the servicer's exercise of reasonable 
                diligence, the loss mitigation application remains 
                incomplete sixty days after the notice in paragraph 
                (2)(A) is sent, conduct an evaluation of the complete 
                or incomplete loss mitigation application without 
                reference to whether the borrower has previously 
                submitted a complete loss mitigation application and 
                offer the borrower all available loss mitigation 
                options for which the borrower qualifies under 
                applicable investor guidelines, including guidelines 
                regarding required documentation.
            ``(4) Effect on future requests for loss mitigation 
        review.--An application, offer, or evaluation for loss 
        mitigation under this section shall not be the basis for the 
        denial of a borrower's application as duplicative or for a 
        reduction in the borrower's appeal rights under Regulation X 
        (12 C.F.R. 1024) in regard to any loss mitigation application 
        submitted after the servicer has complied with the requirements 
        of paragraphs (2) and (3).
            ``(5) Safe harbor.--Any loss mitigation option authorized 
        by the Federal National Mortgage Association, the Federal Home 
        Loan Corporation, or the Federal Housing Administration that 
        either--
                    ``(A) defers the payment of total arrearages, 
                including any escrow advances, to the end of the 
                existing term of the loan, without the charging or 
                collection of any additional interest on the deferred 
                amounts, or
                    ``(B) extends the term of the mortgage loan, and 
                capitalizes, defers, or forgives all escrow advances 
                and other arrearages, without the charging of any fees 
                or penalties beyond interest on any amount capitalized 
                into the loan principal,
        shall be deemed to comply with the requirements of paragraph 
        (1)(B).
            ``(6) Home retention options for certain reverse mortgage 
        loans.--
                    ``(A) In general.--For a covered mortgage loan 
                which is also a federally-insured reverse mortgage 
                loan, a servicer's conduct shall be deemed to comply 
                with this section provided that if the loan is eligible 
                to be called due and payable due to a property charge 
                default, the mortgagee shall, as a precondition to 
                sending a due and payable request to the Secretary or 
                initiating or continuing a foreclosure process--
                            ``(i) make a good faith effort to 
                        communicate with the borrower regarding 
                        available home retention options to cure the 
                        property charge default, including encouraging 
                        the borrower to apply for home retention 
                        options; and
                            ``(ii) consider the borrower for all 
                        available home retention options as allowed by 
                        the Secretary.
                    ``(B) Permissible repayment plans.--The Secretary 
                shall amend its allowable home retention options to 
                permit a repayment plan of up to 120 months in length, 
                and to permit a repayment plan without regard to prior 
                defaults on repayment plans.
                    ``(C) Limitation on interest curtailment.--The 
                Secretary may not curtail interest paid to mortgagees 
                who engage in loss mitigation or home retention actions 
                through interest curtailment during such loss 
                mitigation or home retention review or during the 
                period when a loss mitigation or home retention plan is 
                in effect and ending 90 days after any such plan 
                terminates.''.
                    (B) Amendment to housing act of 1949.--Section 505 
                of the Housing Act of 1949 (42 U.S.C. 1475) is 
                amended--
                            (i) by striking the section heading and 
                        inserting ``loss mitigation and foreclosure 
                        procedures'';
                            (ii) in subsection (a), by striking the 
                        section designation and all that follows 
                        through ``During any'' and inserting the 
                        following:
    ``Sec. 505. (a) Moratorium.--(1) In determining a borrower's 
eligibility for relief, the Secretary shall make all eligibility 
decisions based on the borrower's household's income, expenses, and 
circumstances.
    ``(2) During any''.
                            (iii) by redesignating subsection (b) as 
                        subsection (c); and
                            (iv) by inserting after subsection (a) the 
                        following new subsection:
    ``(b) Loan Modification.--(1) Notwithstanding any other provision 
of this title, for any loan made under section 502 or 504, the 
Secretary may modify the interest rate and extend the term of such loan 
for up to 30 years from the date of such modification.
    ``(2) At the end of any moratorium period granted under this 
section or under the Emergency Housing Protections and Relief Act of 
2020, the Secretary shall determine whether the borrower can reasonably 
resume making principal and interest payments after the Secretary 
modifies the borrower's loan obligations in accordance with paragraph 
(1).''.
            (7) Multifamily mortgage forbearance.--Section 4023 of the 
        CARES Act (15 U.S.C. 9057) is amended--
                    (A) by striking ``Federally backed multifamily 
                mortgage loan'' each place such term appears and 
                inserting ``multifamily mortgage loan'';
                    (B) in subsection (b), by striking ``during'' and 
                inserting ``due, directly or indirectly, to'';
                    (C) in subsection (c)(1)--
                            (i) in subparagraph (A), by adding ``and'' 
                        at the end;
                            (ii) by striking subparagraphs (B) and (C) 
                        and inserting the following:
                    ``(B) provide the forbearance for up to the end of 
                the period described under section 4024(b).''; and
                    (D) by redesignating subsection (f) as subsection 
                (g);
                    (E) by inserting after subsection (e) the 
                following:
    ``(f) Treatment After Forbearance.--With respect to a multifamily 
mortgage loan provided a forbearance under this section, the servicer 
of such loan--
            ``(1) shall provide the borrower with a 12-month period 
        beginning at the end of such forbearance to become current on 
        the payments under such loan;
            ``(2) may not charge any late fees, penalties, or other 
        charges with respect to payments on the loan that were due 
        during the forbearance period, if such payments are made before 
        the end of the 12-month period; and
            ``(3) may not report any adverse information to a credit 
        rating agency (as defined under section 603 of the Fair Credit 
        Reporting Act with respect to any payments on the loan that 
        were due during the forbearance period, if such payments are 
        made before the end of the 12-month period.).''; and
                    (F) in subsection (g), as so redesignated--
                            (i) in paragraph (2)--
                                    (I) by striking ``that--'' and all 
                                that follows through ``(A) is secured 
                                by'' and inserting ``that is secured 
                                by'';
                                    (II) by striking ``; and'' and 
                                inserting a period; and
                                    (III) by striking subparagraph (B); 
                                and
                            (ii) by amending paragraph (5) to read as 
                        follows:
            ``(5) Covered period.--With respect to a loan, the term 
        `covered period' has the meaning given that term under section 
        4022(a)(3).''.
            (8) Renter protections during forbearance period.-- A 
        borrower that receives a forbearance pursuant to section 4022 
        or 4023 of the CARES Act (15 U.S.C. 9056 or 9057) may not, for 
        the duration of the forbearance--
                    (A) evict or initiate the eviction of a tenant 
                solely for nonpayment of rent or other fees or charges; 
                or
                    (B) charge any late fees, penalties, or other 
                charges to a tenant for late payment of rent.
            (9) Extension of gse patch.--
                    (A) Non-applicability of existing sunset.--Section 
                1026.43(e)(4)(iii)(B) of title 12, Code of Federal 
                Regulations, shall have no force or effect.
                    (B) Extended sunset.--The special rules in section 
                1026.43(e)(4) of title 12, Code of Federal Regulations, 
                shall apply to covered transactions consummated prior 
                to June 1, 2022, or such later date as the Director of 
                the Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection may 
                determine, by rule.
            (10) Servicer safe harbor from investor liability.--
                    (A) Safe harbor.--
                            (i) In general.--A servicer of covered 
                        mortgage loans or multifamily mortgage loans 
                        shall be deemed not to have violated any duty 
                        or contractual obligation owed to investors or 
                        other parties regarding such mortgage loans on 
                        account of offering or implementing in good 
                        faith forbearance during the covered period or 
                        offering or implementing in good faith post-
                        forbearance loss mitigation (including after 
                        the expiration of the covered period) in 
                        accordance with the terms of sections 4022 and 
                        4023 of the CARES Act to borrowers, 
                        respectively, on covered or multifamily 
                        mortgage loans that it services and shall not 
                        be liable to any party who is owed such a duty 
                        or obligation or subject to any injunction, 
                        stay, or other equitable relief to such party 
                        on account of such offer or implementation of 
                        forbearance or post-forbearance loss 
                        mitigation.
                            (ii) Other persons.--Any person, including 
                        a trustee of a securitization vehicle or other 
                        party involved in a securitization or other 
                        investment vehicle, who in good faith 
                        cooperates with a servicer of covered or 
                        multifamily mortgage loans held by that 
                        securitization or investment vehicle to comply 
                        with the terms of section 4022 and 4023 of the 
                        CARES Act, respectively, to borrowers on 
                        covered or multifamily mortgage loans owned by 
                        the securitization or other investment vehicle 
                        shall not be liable to any party who is owed 
                        such a duty or obligation or subject to any 
                        injunction, stay, or other equitable relief to 
                        such party on account of its cooperation with 
                        an offer or implementation of forbearance 
                        during the covered period or post-forbearance 
                        loss mitigation, including after the expiration 
                        of the covered period.
                    (B) Standard industry practice.--During the covered 
                period, notwithstanding any contractual restrictions, 
                it is deemed to be standard industry practice for a 
                servicer to offer forbearance or loss mitigation 
                options in accordance with the terms of sections 4022 
                and 4023 of the CARES Act to borrowers, respectively, 
                on all covered or multifamily mortgage loans it 
                services.
                    (C) Rule of construction.--Nothing in this 
                paragraph may be construed as affecting the liability 
                of a servicer or other person for actual fraud in the 
                servicing of a mortgage loan or for the violation of a 
                State or Federal law.
                    (D) Definitions.--In this paragraph:
                            (i) Covered mortgage loan.--The term 
                        ``covered mortgage loan'' has the meaning given 
                        that term under section 4022(a) of the CARES 
                        Act.
                            (ii) Covered period.--The term ``covered 
                        period'' has the meaning given that term under 
                        section 4023(g) of the CARES Act.
                            (iii) Multifamily mortgage loan.--The term 
                        ``multifamily mortgage loan'' has the meaning 
                        given that term under section 4023(g) of the 
                        CARES Act.
                            (iv) Servicer.--The term ``servicer''--
                                    (I) has the meaning given the term 
                                under section 6(i) of the Real Estate 
                                Settlement Procedures Act of 1974 (12 
                                U.S.C. 2605(i)); and
                                    (II) means a master servicer and a 
                                subservicer, as such terms are defined, 
                                respectively, under section 1024.31 of 
                                title 12, Code of Federal Regulations.
                            (v) Securitization vehicle.--The term 
                        ``securitization vehicle'' has the meaning give 
                        that term under section 129A(f) of the Truth in 
                        Lending Act (15 U.S.C. 1639a(f)).
    (c) Bankruptcy Protections.--
            (1) Bankruptcy protections for federal coronavirus relief 
        payments.--Section 541(b) of title 11, United States Code, is 
        amended--
                    (A) in paragraph (9), in the matter following 
                subparagraph (B), by striking ``or'';
                    (B) in paragraph (10)(C), by striking the period at 
                the end and inserting ``; or''; and
                    (C) by inserting after paragraph (10) the 
                following:
            ``(11) payments made under Federal law relating to the 
        national emergency declared by the President under the National 
        Emergencies Act (50 U.S.C. 1601 et seq.) with respect to the 
        coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19).''.
            (2) Protection against discriminatory treatment of 
        homeowners in bankruptcy.--Section 525 of title 11, United 
        States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following:
    ``(d) A person may not be denied any forbearance, assistance, or 
loan modification relief made available to borrowers by a mortgage 
creditor or servicer because the person is or has been a debtor, or has 
received a discharge, in a case under this title.''.
            (3) Increasing the homestead exemption.--Section 522 of 
        title 11, United States Code, is amended--
                    (A) in subsection (d)(1), by striking ``$15,000'' 
                and inserting ``$100,000''; and
                    (B) by adding at the end the following:
    ``(r) Notwithstanding any other provision of applicable 
nonbankruptcy law, a debtor in any State may exempt from property of 
the estate the property described in subsection (d)(1) not to exceed 
the value in subsection (d)(1) if the exemption for such property 
permitted by applicable nonbankruptcy law is lower than that amount.''.
            (4) Effect of missed mortgage payments on discharge.--
        Section 1328 of title 11, United States Code, is amended by 
        adding at the end the following:
    ``(i) A debtor shall not be denied a discharge under this section 
because, as of the date of discharge, the debtor did not make 6 or 
fewer payments directly to the holder of a debt secured by real 
property.
    ``(j) Notwithstanding subsections (a) and (b), upon the debtor's 
request, the court shall grant a discharge of all debts provided for in 
the plan that are dischargeable under subsection (a) if the debtor--
            ``(1) has made payments under a confirmed plan for at least 
        1 year; and
            ``(2) is experiencing or has experienced a material 
        financial hardship due, directly or indirectly, to the 
        coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) pandemic.''.
            (5) Expanded eligibility for chapter 13.--Section 109(e) of 
        title 11, United States Code, is amended--
                    (A) by striking ``$250,000'' each place the term 
                appears and inserting ``$850,000''; and
                    (B) by striking ``$750,000'' each place the term 
                appears and inserting ``$2,600,000''.
            (6) Extended cure period for homeowners harmed by covid-19 
        pandemic.--
                    (A) In general.--Chapter 13 of title 11, United 
                States Code, is amended by adding at the end thereof 
                the following:
``Sec. 1331. Special provisions related to COVID-19 pandemic
    ``(a) Notwithstanding subsections (b)(2) and (d) of section 1322, 
if the debtor is experiencing or has experienced a material financial 
hardship due, directly or indirectly, to the coronavirus disease 2019 
(COVID-19) pandemic, a plan may provide for the curing of any default 
within a reasonable time, not to exceed 7 years after the time that the 
first payment under the original confirmed plan was due, and 
maintenance of payments while the case is pending on any unsecured 
claim or secured claim on which the last payment is due after the 
expiration of such time. Any such plan provision shall not affect the 
applicable commitment period under section 1325(b).
    ``(b) For purposes of sections 1328(a) and 1328(b), any cure or 
maintenance payments under subsection (a) that are made after the end 
of the period during which the plan provides for payments (other than 
payments under subsection (a)) shall not be treated as payments under 
the plan.
    ``(c) Notwithstanding section 1329(c), a plan modified under 
section 1329 at the debtor's request may provide for cure or 
maintenance payments under subsection (a) over a period that is not 
longer than 7 years after the time that the first payment under the 
original confirmed plan was due.
    ``(d) Notwithstanding section 362(c)(2), during the period after 
the debtor receives a discharge and the period during which the plan 
provides for the cure of any default and maintenance of payments under 
the plan, section 362(a) shall apply to the holder of a claim for which 
a default is cured and payments are maintained under subsection (a) and 
to any property securing such claim.
    ``(e) Notwithstanding section 1301(a)(2), the stay of section 
1301(a) terminates upon the granting of a discharge under section 1328 
with respect to all creditors other than the holder of a claim for 
which a default is cured and payments are maintained under subsection 
(a).''.
                    (B) Table of contents.--The table of sections of 
                chapter 13, title 11, United States Code, is amended by 
                adding at the end thereof the following:

``Sec. 1331. Special provisions related to COVID-19 Pandemic.''.
                    (C) Application.--The amendments made by this 
                paragraph shall apply only to any case under title 11, 
                United States Code, commenced before 3 years after the 
                date of enactment of this Act and pending on or 
                commenced after such date of enactment, in which a plan 
                under chapter 13 of title 11, United States Code, was 
                not confirmed before March 27, 2020.

SEC. 104. LIQUIDITY FOR MORTGAGE SERVICERS AND RESIDENTIAL RENTAL 
              PROPERTY OWNERS.

    (a) In General.--Section 4003 of the CARES Act (15 U.S.C. 9042), is 
amended by adding at the end the following:
    ``(i) Liquidity for Mortgage Servicers.--
            ``(1) In general.--Subject to paragraph (2), the Secretary 
        shall ensure that servicers of covered mortgage loans (as 
        defined under section 4022) and multifamily mortgage loans (as 
        defined under section 4023) are provided the opportunity to 
        participate in the loans, loan guarantees, or other investments 
        made by the Secretary under this section. The Secretary shall 
        ensure that servicers are provided with access to such 
        opportunities under equitable terms and conditions regardless 
        of their size.
            ``(2) Mortgage servicer eligibility.--In order to receive 
        assistance under subsection (b)(4), a mortgage servicer shall--
                    ``(A) demonstrate that the mortgage servicer has 
                established policies and procedures to use such funds 
                only to replace funds used for borrower assistance, 
                including to advance funds as a result of forbearance 
                or other loss mitigation provided to borrowers;
                    ``(B) demonstrate that the mortgage servicer has 
                established policies and procedures to provide 
                forbearance, post-forbearance loss mitigation, and 
                other assistance to borrowers in compliance with the 
                terms of section 4022 or 4023, as applicable;
                    ``(C) demonstrate that the mortgage servicer has 
                established policies and procedures to ensure that 
                forbearance and post-forbearance assistance is 
                available to all borrowers in a non-discriminatory 
                fashion and in compliance with the Fair Housing Act, 
                the Equal Credit Opportunity Act, and other applicable 
                fair housing and fair lending laws; and
                    ``(D) comply with the limitations on compensation 
                set forth in section 4004.
            ``(3) Mortgage servicer requirements.--A mortgage servicer 
        receiving assistance under subsection (b)(4) may not, while the 
        servicer is under any obligation to repay funds provided or 
        guaranteed under this section--
                    ``(A) pay dividends with respect to the common 
                stock of the mortgage servicer or purchase an equity 
                security of the mortgage servicer or any parent company 
                of the mortgage servicer if the security is listed on a 
                national securities exchange, except to the extent 
                required under a contractual obligation that is in 
                effect on the date of enactment of this subsection; or
                    ``(B) prepay any debt obligation.''.
    (b) Credit Facility for Residential Rental Property Owners.--
            (1) In general.--The Board of Governors of the Federal 
        Reserve System shall--
                    (A) establish a facility, using amounts made 
                available under section 4003(b)(4) of the CARES Act (15 
                U.S.C. 9042(b)(4)), to make long-term, low-cost loans 
                to residential rental property owners as to temporarily 
                compensate such owners for documented financial losses 
                caused by reductions in rent payments; and
                    (B) defer such owners' required payments on such 
                loans until after six months after the date of 
                enactment of this Act.
            (2) Requirements.--A borrower that receives a loan under 
        this subsection may not, for the duration of the loan--
                    (A) evict or initiate the eviction of a tenant 
                solely for nonpayment of rent or other fees or charges;
                    (B) charge any late fees, penalties, or other 
                charges to a tenant for late payment of rent; and
                    (C) with respect to a person or entity described 
                under paragraph (4), discriminate on the basis of 
                source of income.
            (3) Report on residential rental property owners.--The 
        Board of Governors shall issue a report to the Congress 
        containing the following, with respect to each property owner 
        receiving a loan under this subsection:
                    (A) The number of borrowers that received 
                assistance under this subsection.
                    (B) The average total loan amount that each 
                borrower received.
                    (C) The total number of rental units that each 
                borrower owned.
                    (D) The average rent charged by each borrower.
            (4) Report on large residential rental property owners.--
        The Board of Governors shall issue a report to Congress that 
        identifies any person or entity that in aggregate owns or holds 
        a controlling interest in any entity that, in aggregate, owns--
                    (A) more than 100 rental units that are located 
                within in a single Metropolitan Statistical Area;
                    (B) more than 1,000 rental units nationwide; or
                    (C) rental units in three or more States.
    (c) Amendments to National Housing Act.--Section 306(g)(1) of the 
National Housing Act (12 U.S.C. 1721(a)) is amended--
            (1) in the fifth sentence, by inserting after ``issued'' 
        the following: ``, subject to any pledge or grant of security 
        interest of the Federal Reserve under section 4003(a) of the 
        CARES Act (Public Law 116-136; 134 Stat. 470; 15 U.S.C. 
        9042(a)) and to any such mortgage or mortgages or any interest 
        therein and the proceeds thereon, which the Association may 
        elect to approve''; and
            (2) in the sixth sentence--
                    (A) by striking ``or (C)'' and inserting ``(C)''; 
                and
                    (B) by inserting before the period the following: 
                ``, or (D) its approval and honoring of any pledge or 
                grant of security interest of the Federal Reserve under 
                section 4003(a) of the CARES Act and to any such 
                mortgage or mortgages or any interest therein and 
                proceeds thereon as''.

SEC. 105. RURAL RENTAL ASSISTANCE.

    There is authorized to be appropriated for fiscal year 2020 
$309,000,000 for rural rental assistance, which shall remain available 
until September 30, 2021, of which--
            (1) up to $25,000,000 may be used for an additional amount 
        for rural housing vouchers for any low-income households 
        (including those not receiving rental assistance) residing in a 
        property financed with a section 515 loan which has been 
        prepaid after September 30, 2005, or has matured after 
        September 30, 2019; and
            (2) the remainder shall be used for an additional amount 
        for rural rental assistance agreements entered into or renewed 
        pursuant to section 521(a)(2) of the Housing Act of 1949 (42 
        U.S.C. 1490a(a)(2)) to--
                    (A) supplement the rental assistance of households 
                on whose behalf assistance is being provided; and
                    (B) provide rental assistance on behalf of 
                households who are not being assisted with such rental 
                assistance but who qualify for such assistance.

SEC. 106. FUNDING FOR PUBLIC HOUSING AND TENANT-BASED RENTAL 
              ASSISTANCE.

    (a) Public Housing Operating Fund.--There is authorized to be 
appropriated for an additional amount for fiscal year 2020 for the 
Public Housing Operating Fund under section 9(e) of the United States 
Housing Act of 1937 (42 U.S.C. 1437g(e)) $2,000,000,000, to remain 
available until September 30, 2021.
    (b) Tenant-Based Section 8 Rental Assistance.--There is authorized 
to be appropriated for an additional amount for fiscal year 2020 for 
the tenant-based rental assistance under section 8(o) of the United 
States Housing Act of 1937 (42 U.S.C. 1437f(o)) $3,000,000,000, to 
remain available until September 30, 2021, of which not more than 
$500,000,000 may be used for administrative fees under section 8(q) of 
such Act (42 U.S.C. 1437f(q)).
    (c) Applicability of Waivers.--Any waiver or alternative 
requirement made by the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development 
pursuant to the heading ``Tenant-Based Rental Assistance'' or ``Public 
Housing Operating Fund'' in title XII of division B of the CARES Act 
(Public Law 116-136) shall apply with respect to amounts made available 
pursuant to this section.

SEC. 107. SUPPLEMENTAL FUNDING FOR SUPPORTIVE HOUSING FOR THE ELDERLY, 
              SUPPORTIVE HOUSING FOR PERSONS WITH DISABILITIES, 
              SUPPORTIVE HOUSING FOR PERSONS WITH AIDS, AND PROJECT-
              BASED SECTION 8 RENTAL ASSISTANCE.

    (a) Authorization of Appropriations.--There is authorized to be 
appropriated $500,000,000 for fiscal year 2020 for additional 
assistance for supportive housing for the elderly, of which--
            (1) $200,000,000 shall be for rental assistance under 
        section 202 of the Housing Act of 1959 (12 U.S.C. 1701q) or 
        section 8 of the United States Housing Act of 1937 (42 U.S.C. 
        1437f), as appropriate, and for hiring additional staff and for 
        services and costs, including acquiring personal protective 
        equipment, to prevent, prepare for, or respond to the public 
        health emergency relating to Coronavirus Disease 2019 (COVID-
        19) pandemic; and
            (2) $300,000,000 shall be for grants under section 676 of 
        the Housing and Community Development Act of 1992 (42 U.S.C. 
        13632) for costs of providing service coordinators for purposes 
        of coordinating services to prevent, prepare for, or respond to 
        the public health emergency relating to Coronavirus Disease 
        2019 (COVID-19).
Any provisions of, and waivers and alternative requirements issued by 
the Secretary pursuant to, the heading ``Department of Housing and 
Urban Development--Housing Programs--Housing for the Elderly'' in title 
XII of division B of the CARES Act (Public Law 116-136) shall apply 
with respect to amounts made available pursuant to this subsection.  
    (b) Eligibility of Supportive Housing for Persons With 
Disabilities.--Subsection (a) of section 676 of the Housing and 
Community Development Act of 1992 (42 U.S.C. 13632(a)) shall be 
applied, for purposes of subsection (a) of this section, by 
substituting ``(G), and (H)'' for `` and (G)''.
    (c) Service Coordinators.--
            (1) Hiring.--In the hiring of staff using amounts made 
        available pursuant to this section for costs of providing 
        service coordinators, grantees shall consider and hire, at all 
        levels of employment and to the greatest extent possible, a 
        diverse staff, including by race, ethnicity, gender, and 
        disability status. Each grantee shall submit a report to the 
        Secretary of Housing and Urban Development describing 
        compliance with the preceding sentence not later than the 
        expiration of the 120-day period that begins upon the 
        termination of the emergency declared on March 13, 2020, by the 
        President under the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and 
        Emergency Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 4121 et seq.) relating to 
        the Coronavirus Disease 2019 (COVID-19) pandemic.
            (2) One-time grants.--Grants made using amounts made 
        available pursuant to subsection (a) for costs of providing 
        service coordinators shall not be renewable.
            (3) One-year availability.--Any amounts made available 
        pursuant to this section for costs of providing service 
        coordinators that are allocated for a grantee and remain 
        unexpended upon the expiration of the 12-month period beginning 
        upon such allocation shall be recaptured by the Secretary.
    (d) Funding for Supportive Housing for Persons With Disabilities.--
There is authorized to be appropriated $200,000,000 for fiscal year 
2020 for additional assistance for supportive housing for persons with 
disabilities under section 811 of the Cranston-Gonzalez National 
Affordable Housing Act (42 U.S.C. 8013). Any provisions of, and waivers 
and alternative requirements issued by the Secretary pursuant to, the 
heading ``Department of Housing and Urban Development--Housing 
Programs--Housing for Persons With Disabilities'' in title XII of 
division B of the CARES Act (Public Law 116-136) shall apply with 
respect to amounts made available pursuant to this subsection.
    (e) Funding for Housing Opportunities for People With AIDS 
Program.--There is authorized to be appropriated $15,000,000 for fiscal 
year 2020 for additional assistance for the Housing Opportunities for 
Persons with AIDS program under the AIDS Housing Opportunity Act (42 
U.S.C. 12901 et seq.). Any provisions of, and waivers and alternative 
requirements issued by the Secretary pursuant to, the heading 
``Department of Housing and Urban Development--Community Planning and 
Development--Housing Opportunities for Persons With AIDS'' in title XII 
of division B of the CARES Act (Public Law 116-136) shall apply with 
respect to amounts made available pursuant to this subsection.
    (f) Funding for Project-Based Section 8 Rental Assistance.--There 
is authorized to be appropriated $750,000,000 for fiscal year 2020 for 
additional assistance for project-based rental assistance under section 
8 of the United States Housing Act of 1937 (42 U.S.C. 1437f). Any 
provisions of, and waivers and alternative requirements issued by the 
Secretary pursuant to, the heading ``Department of Housing and Urban 
Development--Housing Programs--Project-Based Rental Assistance'' in 
title XII of division B of the CARES Act (Public Law 116-136) shall 
apply with respect to amounts made available pursuant to this 
subsection.

SEC. 108. FAIR HOUSING.

    (a) Definition of COVID-19 Emergency Period.-- For purposes of this 
Act, the term ``COVID-19 emergency period'' means the period that 
begins upon the date of the enactment of this Act and ends upon the 
date of the termination by the Federal Emergency Management Agency of 
the emergency declared on March 13, 2020, by the President under the 
Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act (42 
U.S.C. 4121 et seq.) relating to the Coronavirus Disease 2019 (COVID-
19) pandemic.
    (b) Fair Housing Activities.--
            (1) Authorization of appropriations.--To ensure existing 
        grantees have sufficient resource for fair housing activities 
        and for technology and equipment needs to deliver services 
        through use of the Internet or other electronic or virtual 
        means in response to the public health emergency related to the 
        Coronavirus Disease 2019 (COVID-19) pandemic, there is 
        authorized to be appropriated $4,000,000 for Fair Housing 
        Organization Initiative grants through the Fair Housing 
        Initiatives Program under section 561 of the Housing and 
        Community Development Act of 1987 (42 U.S.C. 3616a).
            (2) 3-year availability.--Any amounts made available 
        pursuant paragraph (1) that are allocated for a grantee and 
        remain unexpended upon the expiration of the 3-year period 
        beginning upon such allocation shall be recaptured by the 
        Secretary.
    (c) Fair Housing Education.--There is authorized to be appropriated 
$10,000,000 for the Office of Fair Housing and Equal Opportunity of the 
Department of Housing and Urban Development to carry out a national 
media campaign and local education and outreach to educate the public 
of increased housing rights during COVID-19 emergency period, that 
provides that information and materials used in such campaign are 
available--
            (1) in the languages used by communities with limited 
        English proficiency; and
            (2) to persons with disabilities.

SEC. 109. FUNDING FOR HOUSING COUNSELING SERVICES.

    (a) Congressional Findings.--The Congress finds that--
            (1) the spread of Coronavirus Disease 2019 (COVID-19), 
        which is now considered a global pandemic, is expected to 
        negatively impact the incomes of potentially millions of 
        homeowners, renters, individuals experiencing homelessness, and 
        individuals at risk of homelessness, making it difficult for 
        them to pay their mortgages or rents on time;
            (2) housing counseling is critical to ensuring that 
        homeowners, renters, individuals experiencing homelessness, and 
        individuals at risk of homelessness have the resources they 
        need to manage financial hardships from the COVID-19 crisis;
            (3) loan preservation and foreclosure mitigation services 
        are also critical to address the needs of homeowners who lose 
        employment and income because of the pandemic and who face 
        serious delinquency or home loan default, or are in foreclosing 
        proceedings during this period;
            (4) evaluations from the National Foreclosure Mitigation 
        Counseling program revealed that homeowners at risk of or 
        facing foreclosure are better served when they have access to a 
        housing counselor and a range of tools and resources to help 
        them avoid losing their home and have the support they need to 
        tailor the best possible response to their situation.
    (b) Authorization of Appropriations.--There is authorized to be 
appropriated to the Neighborhood Reinvestment Corporation (in this 
section referred to as the ``Corporation'') established under the 
Neighborhood Reinvestment Corporation Act (42 U.S.C. 8101 et seq.) 
$100,000,000 for fiscal year 2020 for housing counseling services, 
which shall remain available until September 30, 2023.
    (c) Prioritization of Housing Counseling Services.--Of any grant 
funds made available pursuant to subsection (b), not less than 40 
percent shall be provided to counseling organizations that target 
counseling services to minority and low-income homeowners, renters, 
individuals experiencing homelessness, and individuals at risk of 
homelessness or provide such services in neighborhoods with high 
concentrations of minority and low-income homeowners, renters, 
individuals experiencing homelessness, and individuals at risk of 
homelessness.
    (d) Eligible Uses.--Amounts made available pursuant to subsection 
(b) may be used in such amounts as the Corporation determines for costs 
of--
            (1) public education and outreach;
            (2) direct services, including the full range of services 
        provided by housing counselors to assist homeowners, including 
        manufactured homeowners, regardless of financing type, renters, 
        individuals experiencing homelessness, and individuals at risk 
        of homelessness, including the practices, tools, and 
        innovations in foreclosure mitigation that were utilized in the 
        National Foreclosure Mitigation Counseling Program, and 
        financial capability, credit counseling, homeless counseling, 
        and rental counseling;
            (3) equipment and technology, including broadband internet 
        and equipment upgrades needed to ensure timely and effective 
        service delivery;
            (4) training, including capacitating housing counseling 
        staff in various modes of counseling, including rental and 
        foreclosure, delivery of remote counseling utilizing improved 
        technology, enhanced network security, and supportive options 
        for the delivery of client services; and
            (5) administration and oversight of the program in 
        accordance with the Corporation's rate for program 
        administration.
    (e) Disbursement.--The Corporation shall disburse all grant funds 
made available pursuant to subsection (b) as expeditiously as possible, 
through grants to housing counseling intermediaries approved by the 
Department of Housing and Urban Development, State housing finance 
agencies, and NeighborWorks organizations. The aggregate amount 
provided to NeighborWorks organizations shall not exceed 15 percent of 
the total of grant funds made available pursuant to subsection (b).

         TITLE II--PROTECTING PEOPLE EXPERIENCING HOMELESSNESS

SEC. 201. HOMELESS ASSISTANCE FUNDING.

    (a) Emergency Homeless Assistance.--
            (1) Authorization of appropriations.--There is authorized 
        to be appropriated under the Emergency Solutions Grants program 
        under subtitle B of title IV of the McKinney-Vento Homeless 
        Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 11371 et seq.) $11,500,000,000 for 
        grants under such subtitle in accordance with this subsection 
        to respond to needs arising from the public health emergency 
        relating to Coronavirus Disease 2019 (COVID-19). Of such 
        amounts made available, $4,000,000,000 shall be allocated in 
        accordance with sections 413 and 414 of the McKinney-Vento 
        Homeless Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 11372, 11373).
            (2) Formula.--Notwithstanding sections 413 and 414 of the 
        McKinney-Vento Homeless Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 11372, 
        11373), the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development (in this 
        Act referred to as the ``Secretary'') shall allocate any 
        amounts remaining after amounts are allocated pursuant to 
        paragraph (1) in accordance with a formula to be established by 
        the Secretary that takes into consideration the following 
        factors:
                    (A) Risk of transmission of coronavirus in a 
                jurisdiction.
                    (B) Whether a jurisdiction has a high number or 
                rate of sheltered and unsheltered homeless individuals 
                and families.
                    (C) Economic and housing market conditions in a 
                jurisdiction.
            (3) Eligible activities.--In addition to eligible 
        activities under section 415(a) of the McKinney-Vento Homeless 
        Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 11374(a), amounts made available 
        pursuant to paragraph (1) may also be used for costs of the 
        following activities:
                    (A) Providing training on infectious disease 
                prevention and mitigation.
                    (B) Providing hazard pay, including for time worked 
                before the effectiveness of this subparagraph, for 
                staff working directly to prevent and mitigate the 
                spread of coronavirus or COVID-19 among people 
                experiencing or at risk of homelessness.
                    (C) Reimbursement of costs for eligible activities 
                (including activities described in this paragraph) 
                relating to preventing, preparing for, or responding to 
                the coronavirus or COVID-19 that were accrued before 
                the date of the enactment of this Act.
                    (D) Notwithstanding 24 CFR 576.102(a)(3), providing 
                a hotel or motel voucher for a homeless individual or 
                family.
        Use of such amounts for activities described in this paragraph 
        shall not be considered use for administrative purposes for 
        purposes of section 418 of the McKinney-Vento Homeless 
        Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 11377).
            (4) Inapplicability of procurement standards.--To the 
        extent amounts made available pursuant to paragraph (1) are 
        used to procure goods and services relating to activities to 
        prevent, prepare for, or respond to the coronavirus or COVID-
        19, the standards and requirements regarding procurement that 
        are otherwise applicable shall not apply.
            (5) Inapplicability of habitability and environmental 
        review standards.--Any Federal standards and requirements 
        regarding habitability and environmental review shall not apply 
        with respect to any emergency shelter that is assisted with 
        amounts made available pursuant to paragraph (1) and has been 
        determined by a State or local health official, in accordance 
        with such requirements as the Secretary shall establish, to be 
        necessary to prevent and mitigate the spread of coronavirus or 
        COVID-19, such shelters.
            (6) Inapplicability of cap on emergency shelter 
        activities.--Subsection (b) of section 415 of the McKinney-
        Vento Homeless Assistance Act shall not apply to any amounts 
        made available pursuant to paragraph (1) of this subsection.
            (7) Initial allocation of assistance.--Section 417(b) of 
        the McKinney-Vento Homeless Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 11376(b)) 
        shall be applied with respect to amounts made available 
        pursuant to paragraph (1) of this subsection by substituting 
        ``30-day'' for ``60-day''.
            (8) Waivers and alternative requirements.--
                    (A) Authority.--In administering amounts made 
                available pursuant to paragraph (1), the Secretary may 
                waive, or specify alternative requirements for, any 
                provision of any statute or regulation (except for any 
                requirements related to fair housing, 
                nondiscrimination, labor standards, and the 
                environment) that the Secretary administers in 
                connection with the obligation or use by the recipient 
                of such amounts, if the Secretary finds that good cause 
                exists for the waiver or alternative requirement and 
                such waiver or alternative requirement is consistent 
                with the purposes described in this subsection.
                    (B) Notification.--The Secretary shall notify the 
                public through the Federal Register or other 
                appropriate means 5 days before the effective date of 
                any such waiver or alternative requirement, and any 
                such public notice may be provided on the Internet at 
                the appropriate Government web site or through other 
                electronic media, as determined by the Secretary.
                    (C) Exemption.--The use of amounts made available 
                pursuant to paragraph (1) shall not be subject to the 
                consultation, citizen participation, or match 
                requirements that otherwise apply to the Emergency 
                Solutions Grants program, except that a recipient shall 
                publish how it has and will utilize its allocation at a 
                minimum on the Internet at the appropriate Government 
                web site or through other electronic media.
            (9) Inapplicability of matching requirement.--Subsection 
        (a) of section 416 of the McKinney-Vento Homeless Assistance 
        Act (42 U.S.C. 11375(a)) shall not apply to any amounts made 
        available pursuant to paragraph (1) of this subsection.
            (10) Prohibition on prerequisites.--None of the funds 
        authorized under this subsection may be used to require people 
        experiencing homelessness to receive treatment or perform any 
        other prerequisite activities as a condition for receiving 
        shelter, housing, or other services.
    (b) Continuum of Care Program.--Due to the emergency relating to 
the Coronavirus Disease 2019 (COVID-19) pandemic, the Notice of Funding 
Availability (NOFA) for fiscal year 2020 for the Continuum of Care 
program under subtitle C of title IV of the McKinney-Vento Homeless 
Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 11381 et seq.) shall have no force or effect 
and the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development shall distribute 
amounts made available for such fiscal year for such program based on 
the results of the competition for amounts made available for such 
program for fiscal year 2019 (FR-6300--25), except that grant amounts 
may be adjusted to account for changes in fair market rents.

SEC. 202. EMERGENCY RENTAL ASSISTANCE VOUCHER PROGRAM.

    (a) Authorization of Appropriations.--There is authorized to be 
appropriated to the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development (in this 
section referred to as the ``Secretary''), $1,000,000,000 for fiscal 
year 2020, to remain available until expended, for incremental 
emergency vouchers under subsection (b).
    (b) Emergency Vouchers.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary shall provide emergency 
        rental assistance vouchers under this subsection, which shall 
        be tenant-based rental assistance under section 8(o) the United 
        States Housing Act of 1937 (42 U.S.C. 1437f(o)).
            (2) Selection of families.--
                    (A) Mandatory preferences.--Each public housing 
                agency administering assistance under this section 
                shall provide preference for such assistance to 
                eligible families that are--
                            (i) homeless (as such term is defined in 
                        section 103(a) of the McKinney-Vento Homeless 
                        Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 11302(a));
                            (ii) at risk of homelessness (as such term 
                        is defined in section 401 of the McKinney-Vento 
                        Homeless Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 11360); or
                            (iii) fleeing, or attempting to flee, 
                        domestic violence, dating violence, sexual 
                        assault, or stalking.
                    (B) Allocation.--In allocating amounts made 
                available under this section, the Secretary shall--
                            (i) not later than 60 days after the date 
                        of the enactment of this Act, allocate at least 
                        50 percent of such amounts to public housing 
                        agencies in accordance with a formula that 
                        considers--
                                    (I) the capability of public 
                                housing agencies to promptly use 
                                emergency vouchers provided under this 
                                section; and
                                    (II) the need for emergency 
                                vouchers provided under this section in 
                                the geographical area, based on factors 
                                determined by the Secretary, including 
                                risk of transmission of coronavirus, 
                                high numbers or rates of sheltered and 
                                unsheltered homelessness, and economic 
                                and housing market conditions;
                            (ii) allocate remaining amounts in 
                        accordance with a formula that considers--
                                    (I) the criteria under clause (i) 
                                and the success of a public housing 
                                agency in promptly utilizing vouchers 
                                awarded under clause (i); and
                                    (II) the capability of the public 
                                housing agency to create and manage 
                                structured partnerships with service 
                                providers for the delivery of 
                                appropriate community-based services; 
                                and
                            (iii) designate the number of vouchers 
                        under this section that each public housing 
                        agency that is awarded funds under this section 
                        is authorized to administer.
                    (C) Election not to administer.--If a public 
                housing agency elects not to administer amounts under 
                this section, the Secretary shall award such amounts to 
                other public housing agencies according to the criteria 
                in subparagraph (B).
                    (D) Failure to use vouchers promptly.--If a public 
                housing agency fails to issue all of its authorized 
                vouchers under this section on behalf of eligible 
                families within a reasonable period of time as 
                determined by the Secretary, the Secretary shall 
                reallocate any unissued vouchers and associated funds 
                to others public housing agencies according to the 
                criteria under subparagraph (B)(ii).
            (3) Waivers and alternative requirements.--Any waiver or 
        alternative requirement that the Secretary makes available to 
        all public housing agencies in connection with assistance made 
        available under the heading ``Tenant-Based Rental Assistance'' 
        in title XII of division B of the CARES Act (Public Law 116-
        136; 134 Stat.601) shall apply to assistance under this section 
        until the expiration of such waiver or alternative requirement.
            (4) Termination of vouchers upon turnover.--
                    (A) In general.--A public housing agency may not 
                reissue any vouchers made available under this section 
                when assistance for the family initially assisted is 
                terminated.
                    (B) Reallocation.--Upon termination of assistance 
                for one or more families assisted by a public housing 
                agency under this section, the Secretary shall 
                reallocate amounts that are no longer needed by such 
                public housing agency for assistance under this section 
                to another public housing agency for the renewal of 
                vouchers previously authorized under this section.
                                 &lt;all&gt;
</pre></body></html>
