<html><body><pre>
[Congressional Bills 107th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H.R. 3555 Introduced in House (IH)]







107th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                H. R. 3555

  To prevent, prepare for, and respond to the threat of terrorism in 
                    America, and for other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                           December 20, 2001

  Mr. Menendez (for himself, Mr. Gephardt, Ms. Harman, Mr. Scott, Mr. 
   Skelton, Mr. Borski, Mr. Pascrell, Mr. Bishop, Mrs. Tauscher, Mr. 
Turner, Mr. Costello, Ms. Roybal-Allard, Mr. Honda, Ms. Jackson-Lee of 
Texas, Ms. Pelosi, Ms. DeLauro, Mr. Conyers, Mr. Tierney, Mr. Udall of 
   New Mexico, Mr. Israel, Mr. Baca, Mr. Larson of Connecticut, Mr. 
 Berman, Mr. Thompson of California, Ms. Kaptur, Mrs. Christensen, Mr. 
 Hoeffel, Ms. Millender-McDonald, Mr. Sherman, Mr. Lantos, Mr. Ortiz, 
  Ms. Berkley, Ms. McCarthy of Missouri, Mr. Hastings of Florida, Ms. 
   Kilpatrick, Mr. Holt, Mr. Green of Texas, Mr. Owens, Ms. Lee, Mr. 
 Acevedo-Vila, Mr. Jackson of Illinois, Mr. Rothman, Mr. Sandlin, Mr. 
 Crowley, Mr. Kildee, Mrs. Maloney of New York, Mrs. Capps, Mr. Reyes, 
     Mr. Allen, Mr. Wynn, Mr. Rodriguez, Mr. Baldacci, Mr. Farr of 
   California Mr. Langevin, Mr. Delahunt, Mr. Udall of Colorado, Mr. 
  Hinojosa, Mr. McIntyre, Mr. Towns, Mr. Oberstar, Mr. Gonzalez, Mr. 
McGovern, Ms. Woolsey, Mr. Stupak, Mr. Engel, Mr. Larsen of Washington, 
Ms. Schakowsky, Mr. Pastor, Ms. Solis, Mr. Markey, Mrs. McCarthy of New 
York, Mr. Fattah, Mr. Barcia, Ms. McCollum, Mr. Etheridge, Mr. Schiff, 
 Mr. Lynch, Mr. Hinchey, Mr. Davis of Illinois, Mr. Frank, Mr. Maloney 
 of Connecticut, Mr. Cardin, Mrs. Lowey, Mr. Holden, Mr. Serrano, Mr. 
Dicks, Mr. Sabo, Mr. Meehan, Mr. Neal of Massachusetts, Mr. Olver, Ms. 
 Hooley of Oregon, Mr. Moran of Virginia, Mr. Clyburn, Mr. Underwood, 
Mr. Lampson, Mr. Price of North Carolina, Mr. Lipinski, Mr. Cramer, Mr. 
   Faleomavaega, Mrs. Jones of Ohio, Mrs. Thurman, Mr. Ackerman, Mr. 
   Hoyer, Mr. Cummings, Mr. Deutsch, Mr. Brady of Pennsylvania, Mr. 
 Kennedy of Rhode Island, Mr. Pallone, Mr. Kucinich, Mr. Blagojevich, 
 Mr. Ford, Mr. Thompson of Mississippi, Ms. Slaughter, Mr. Frost, Ms. 
Carson of Indiana, Mr. Baird, and Mr. Sawyer) introduced the following 
 bill; which was referred to the Committee on Energy and Commerce, and 
  in addition to the Committees on Transportation and Infrastructure, 
 Education and the Workforce, Government Reform, Ways and Means, Armed 
  Services, International Relations, Intelligence (Permanent Select), 
Financial Services, and the Judiciary, for a period to be subsequently 
   determined by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of such 
 provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the committee concerned

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
  To prevent, prepare for, and respond to the threat of terrorism in 
                    America, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE AND TABLE OF CONTENTS.

    (a) Short Title.--This Act may be cited as the ``United States 
Security (`USA') Act of 2001''.
    (b) Table of Contents.--The table of contents for this Act is as 
follows:

Sec. 1. Short title and table of contents.
Sec. 2. Findings and purposes.
Sec. 3. Buy America.
Sec. 4. Definition.
    TITLE I--ADAPT OUR PUBLIC HEALTH AND EMERGENCY PREPAREDNESS AND 
                    RESPONSE SYSTEMS TO NEW THREATS

  Subtitle A--Better Prepared and Equipped Public Health Institutions

Sec. 101. New facilities for Centers for Disease Control and Prevention 
                            for combating bioterrorism.
Sec. 102. Establishment of Scientific Communications Center.
Sec. 103. Improvement of inadequate security at Centers for Disease 
                            Control and Prevention.
Sec. 104. Potassium iodide stockpiles.
Sec. 105. Expansion of National Marrow Donor Program.
Sec. 106. Establishment of national standards for quarantines.
Sec. 107. Sequencing the genomes of biological pathogens.
    Subtitle B--Improve American Communities' Response to Emergency 
                               Incidents

Sec. 111. Planning, training, and equipment for first responders.
Sec. 112. Staffing for adequate fire and emergency response.
Sec. 113. Respiratory protection for civilian safety personnel.
        Subtitle C--Prepare Our Schools for Emergency Incidents

Sec. 124. School security action grants.
              TITLE II--SECURE ALL MODES OF TRANSPORTATION

             Subtitle A--Secure Bridges, Tunnels, and Dams

Sec. 201. Highway infrastructure.
Sec. 202. Transportation recovery and response capabilities.
Sec. 203. Public communications and support.
Sec. 204. Security for locks and dams.
                      Subtitle B--Secure Seaports

Sec. 211. Secretary defined.
Sec. 212. Vulnerability assessments.
Sec. 213. Purchase of equipment to screen cargo.
Sec. 214. Efficient screening of cargo.
Sec. 215. Waterborne marine patrols to deter maritime threats.
Sec. 216. Tracking of foreign-flag vessels operating in U.S. Waters.
Sec. 217. Funding for port security infrastructure facilities.
Sec. 218. Assistant commandant for maritime security.
Sec. 219. Sea Marshall program.
Sec. 220. Hiring of permanent coast guard personnel.
Sec. 221. Purchase of secure communications equipment.
Sec. 222. Vhf-Dsc communications.
Sec. 223. Increased staffing.
Sec. 224. National port security task force.
Sec. 225. Local port security committees.
Sec. 226. Standards for maritime transportation security program.
Sec. 227. Maritime security institute.
Sec. 228. Computerized database on crime and security at ports.
Sec. 229. Maritime terrorism response plans.
           Subtitle C--Secure Passenger Rail and Freight Rail

Sec. 241. Passenger rail and freight rail protection.
               Subtitle D--Secure Public Transit Systems

Sec. 251. Security staffing.
Sec. 252. Security training.
Sec. 253. Technical support.
Sec. 254. Infrastructure and rolling stock security.
Sec. 255. Emergency response support equipment.
Sec. 256. Support of national defense.
Sec. 257. Research and development.
               Subtitle E--Energy Pipeline Security Study

Sec. 261. Energy pipeline security study.
                      Subtitle F--Secure Aviation

Sec. 271. Security reporting.
Sec. 272. Real-time reporting of flight data.
Sec. 273. Installation of fuel cells at airports.
 TITLE III--SECURE AMERICA'S PHYSICAL AND INFORMATIONAL INFRASTRUCTURE

          Subtitle A--Protect America's Energy Infrastructure

Sec. 301. Secure our oil refineries and natural gas storage facilities.
Sec. 302. Secure our chemical facilities.
Sec. 303. Secure our nuclear facilities and nuclear waste.
Sec. 304. Secure our electric power grid.
Sec. 305. Transportation of nuclear materials.
Sec. 306. Design basis threat.
Sec. 307. Defense of facilities.
        Subtitle B--Secure America's Information Infrastructure

Sec. 311. Secure our fiber optic infrastructure.
Sec. 312. Enhance cyber security.
                Subtitle C--Secure Our Federal Buildings

Sec. 321. Secure our Federal buildings.
  TITLE IV--GIVE LAW ENFORCEMENT WHAT IT NEEDS TO EFFECTIVELY COMBAT 
                               TERRORISM

Subtitle A--Give law enforcement the tools it needs to combat terrorism

Sec. 401. Improve computer assessment technology.
Sec. 402. Supplement local law enforcement.
      Subtitle B--Protect the US Postal Service and its employees

Sec. 411. Protect the postal service and its employees.
          Subtitle C--Improve border and customs capabilities

Sec. 421. Update border and customs technology and detection 
                            capabilities and increase personnel
Sec. 422. Improve Customs Service reconnaissance.
  TITLE V--IMPROVE INTERAGENCY AND INTERGOVERNMENTAL COORDINATION AND 
                          INFORMATION SHARING

       Subtitle A--Interagency and Intergovernmental Coordination

Sec. 501. Improve interagency and intergovernmental coordination.
    Subtitle B--Increase Capabilities for Federal, State, and Local 
                        Terrorism and Prevention

Sec. 511. Authority to share electronic, wire, and oral interception 
                            information.
Sec. 512. Foreign intelligence information.
Sec. 513. Disclosures to governmental agencies for counterterrorism 
                            purposes.
Sec. 514. Multilateral cooperation against terrorists.
Sec. 515. Information acquired from an electronic surveillance.
Sec. 516. Information acquired from a physical search.
Sec. 517. Purpose of authority.
Subtitle C--Increasing Capabilities and Coordination within and between 
                          Levels of Government

Sec. 521. Increase efficiency of information sharing and of background 
                            security clearances.
Sec. 522. Prevention of delay in reassignment of 24 megahertz for 
                            public safety purposes.
Sec. 523. Establishment of emerging threat workspaces.
Sec. 524. Maintenance of secure bioagent database.
Sec. 525. Establishment of joint task force for interagency 
                            clearinghouse.
    TITLE VI--THE MILITARY: PREPARE, RESPOND, AND ASSIST COMMUNITIES

Sec. 601. Threat reduction.
Sec. 602. Research and development.
Sec. 603. Readiness, training, and force protection.
Sec. 604. Command and control, threat assessment, and analysis.
            TITLE VII--HOMELAND SECURITY STRATEGY AND BUDGET

Sec. 701. Director for Homeland Security and Program Associate Director 
                            for Homeland Security.
Sec. 702. Five-year homeland security strategy and budget.
Sec. 703. Fiscal year 2003 budget.

SEC. 2. FINDINGS AND PURPOSES.

    (a) Findings.--
            (1) In general.--The United States Security (`USA') Act of 
        2001 is a pact between the people and their government, working 
        together, marshaling our vast resources, to keep America safe 
        from terrorism, drawing upon the American spirit, intellect and 
        creativity, breaking new frontiers, and setting a standard for 
        the world. The United States Security (`USA') Act of 2001 is 
        the product of a collaborative effort of Members of Congress in 
        consultation with constituents and local, State and Federal 
        officials from throughout America.
            (2) Comprehensive approach to protecting america from 
        terrorism.--The Congress finds that to better enable America's 
        cities, towns, and rural communities to prevent, prepare for 
        and respond comprehensively to the threat of terrorism, the 
        United States must--
                    (A) adapt its public health infrastructure and 
                emergency preparedness and response systems to new 
                threats;
                    (B) secure all modes of transportation and the 
                national transportation infrastructure;
                    (C) protect our national physical and information 
                infrastructure;
                    (D) while preserving the fullness of our 
                constitutional rights and liberties, in the wake of 
                September 11th, enhance its law enforcement 
                capabilities;
                    (E) better utilize intelligence assets to prevent 
                terrorist acts and better coordinate and share 
                information among intelligence agencies and law 
                enforcement organizations and between levels of 
                government;
                    (F) prepare, train and equip our military to assist 
                in the appropriate manner to combat terrorism; and
                    (G) ensure the Office of Homeland Security has the 
                responsibility and authority to effectively coordinate 
                the various Federal agencies and departments and to 
                integrate Federal, State, local, and private efforts to 
                combat terrorism.
    (b) Purposes.--The purposes of this Act are as follows:
            (1) With respect to adapting our public health 
        infrastructure and emergency preparedness and response:
                    (A) Ensure that our public health care system is 
                fully prepared and equipped to prevent, prepare, and 
                respond to mass acts of terror.
                    (B) Ensure that the Centers for Disease Control and 
                its scientists are equipped with modern facilities and 
                communications systems and that the staff and 
                facilities of the CDC are adequately protected.
                    (C) Assist hospitals in close proximity to 
                potential terrorist targets, such as nuclear 
                facilities, in obtaining sufficient stockpiles for any 
                outbreaks that may ensue.
                    (D) Create unified standards for quarantines, so 
                that all areas of the country can be prepared and 
                equipped to react to the unthinkable.
                    (E) Provide the National Institutes of Health with 
                the necessary resources and tools to enable its 
                scientists to develop better research and treatments 
                for smallpox, anthrax, and other leading biological 
                threats.
                    (F) Ensure that communities have sufficiently 
                adequately trained and equipped fire fighting personnel 
                needed to save lives and property and effectively 
                respond to all types of emergencies.
                    (G) Ensure that our children will be in schools 
                that have the planning, resources and coordination to 
                respond to emergency incidents.
            (2) With respect to securing all modes of transportation 
        and transportation infrastructure:
                    (A) Strengthen critical bridge and tunnel 
                structures, improve surveillance monitoring of 
                highways, and improve tracking of Hazmat material.
                    (B) Improve training and communication of first 
                responders and develop real-time information for the 
                traveling public to respond to terrorist attacks.
                    (C) Provide adequate security for locks and dams.
                    (D) Deploy container x-ray equipment and require 
                ships to carry transponders in U.S. waters.
                    (E) Increase resources, manpower and training of an 
                increasingly burdened Coast Guard.
                    (F) Establish new Coast Guard port security units 
                to better secure ports.
                    (G) Deploy Sea Marshals to board and escort high-
                risk vessels.
                    (H) Complete life safety investments in Amtrak 
                tunnel ventilation, lighting, and emergency exits.
                    (I) Improve access control and communication on 
                Amtrak trains and deploy more security personnel and K-
                9 units.
                    (J) Secure access points to tracks, bridges and 
                tunnels.
                    (K) Improve monitoring of and encase launch sites 
                of pipelines, and hire and adequately train additional 
                security personnel.
                    (L) Hire and adequately train additional personnel 
                for security planning, surveillance and patrolling, and 
                improve communication and monitoring of rolling stock 
                equipment, stations, and rights of way.
                    (M) Develop and refine evacuation plans involving 
                the mobilization of mass transit.
            (3) With respect to protecting our physical and information 
        infrastructure:
                    (A) The Federal government should use risk 
                management as an important element in developing a 
                national strategy for preventing, preparing for, and 
                responding to terrorism.
                    (B) Secure the country's limited oil refining 
                capacity, which is essential to economic stability and 
                prosecution of the military effort against far-flung 
                terrorist groups.
                    (C) Secure our chemical manufacturing facilities 
                and secure the transport of chemical substances from 
                terrorist attack.
                    (D) Secure United States nuclear plants, many of 
                which are located near densely populated urban areas, 
                from sabotage, terrorist use of small tactical fissile 
                weapons or catastrophic attack.
                    (E) Secure nuclear waste transportation and 
                storage.
                    (F) Secure our national fiber optic infrastructure 
                from physical attacks, sophisticated exploitation, 
                sabotage, and hacker attacks.
                    (G) Secure our nation's information networks from 
                cyber attacks.
                    (H) Secure our Federal buildings from terrorist 
                attacks by improving detection, prevention, and 
                hardening security measures.
                    (I) Secure our national electic power grid.
            (4) With respect to providing law enforcement with what it 
        needs to combat terrorism:
                    (A) To preserve our way of life against the threat 
                of terrorism, enhance the tools of law enforcement 
                through the effective use of state of the art 
                technology while maintaining the full complement of our 
                Constitutional rights and liberties.
                    (B) Enhance the readiness of Federal, State, and 
                local law enforcement personnel to prevent, prepare for 
                and respond to terrorism through increased manpower, 
                state of the art equipment and training.
                    (C) Enhance the security of United States Postal 
                Service employees and the ability of the Postal Service 
                to detect and neutralize or otherwise appropriately 
                respond to unauthorized use of the mail system that 
                might be dangerous or injurious to life, health, or 
                property.
                    (D) Enhance the ability of border security and 
                customs personnel to protect against terrorism through 
                increased manpower, state of the art equipment and 
                training.
                    (E) Repel the threat of terrorism by promoting 
                greater public awareness, a sense of individual 
                responsibility and participation, and citizen 
                preparedness.
            (5) With respect to improving intelligence collection and 
        analysis:
                    (A) The role of intelligence for homeland security 
                is first and foremost one of identifying and preventing 
                terrorist attacks.
                    (B) Improve preventive measures by increasing the 
                capacity of the intelligence community to collect and 
                analyze information and to improve information sharing 
                mechanisms.
            (6) With respect to military preparedness, response and 
        disaster assistance:
                    (A) Consider chemical, biological, radiological, 
                nuclear, and other high-yield explosive weapons as a 
                potential threat to any part of the United States or 
                any military installation, especially given the 
                relative insecurity of fissile material stockpiles in 
                locations such as areas of the Former Soviet Union.
                    (B) Reduce the relative threat to American 
                territory and territories and military installations 
                posed by the existence or proliferation of radiological 
                or nuclear weapons, expertise, or related materials 
                existing within, or exported from, states that were 
                part of the former Soviet Union.
                    (C) In the wake of the 11 September events, support 
                the Department of Defense's increased emphasis on 
                Asymmetric Threats.
                    (D) Provide sufficient resources to the Department 
                of Defense for it to simultaneously address evolving 
                terrorist threats and meet all other necessary 
                operational commitments. Currently, the Department of 
                Defense has significant infrastructure, maintenance, 
                and force protection requirements. Because of its 
                worldwide nature, additional resources in the 
                Department of Defense community, both domestically and 
                internationally, are necessary to retain a high-level 
                of readiness.

SEC. 3. BUY AMERICA.

    (a) Preference.--The head of a Federal department or agency may 
provide financial assistance for a project with any increase in funds 
authorized or made available by, or with any increase in obligation 
authority made available by, this Act (including the amendments made by 
this Act) only if steel and manufactured goods used in the project are 
melted and poured in the United States.
    (b) Waiver.--The head of a Federal department or agency may waive 
subsection (a) if the head of the Federal department or agency finds 
that--
            (1) applying subsection (a) would be inconsistent with the 
        public interest;
            (2) the steel and goods melted and poured in the United 
        States are not produced in a sufficient and reasonably 
        available amount or are not of a satisfactory quality;
            (3) when procuring a facility or equipment with any 
        increase in funds or obligation authority described in 
        subsection (a)--
                    (A) the cost of components and subcomponents 
                produced in the United States is more than 60 percent 
                of the cost of all components of the facility or 
                equipment; and
                    (B) final assembly of the facility or equipment has 
                occurred in the United States; or
            (4) including domestic material will increase the cost of 
        the overall project by more than 25 percent.
    (c) Labor Costs.--In this section, labor costs involved in final 
assembly are not included in calculating the cost of components.

SEC. 4. DEFINITION.

    For the purposes of this Act and any amendment made by this Act, 
the term ``State'' includes the territories of the United States.

    TITLE I--ADAPT OUR PUBLIC HEALTH AND EMERGENCY PREPAREDNESS AND 
                    RESPONSE SYSTEMS TO NEW THREATS

    Subtitle A--Better Prepared and Equipped Public Health Institutions

SEC. 101. NEW FACILITIES FOR CENTERS FOR DISEASE CONTROL AND PREVENTION 
              FOR COMBATING BIOTERRORISM.

    (a) In General.--The Director of the Centers for Disease Control 
and Prevention may design, construct, and equip new facilities and 
renovate existing facilities (including laboratories, laboratory 
support buildings, scientific communication facilities, transshipment 
complexes, secured and isolated parking structures, office buildings, 
and other facilities and infrastructure) for defending against and 
combating bioterrorism and other public health threats.
    (b) Multiyear Contracting Authority.--
            (1) In general.--For any project of designing, 
        constructing, equipping, or renovating any facility under 
        subsection (a), the Director of the Centers for Disease Control 
        and Prevention may, using appropriate competitive procedures, 
        enter into a single contract or related contracts that 
        collectively include the full scope of the project, to the 
        extent or in the amounts provided in advance in appropriations 
        Acts.
            (2) Availability of funds clause.--Any contract entered 
        into pursuant to paragraph (1) shall include the availability 
        of funds clause provided at section 52.232-18 of title 48, Code 
        of Federal Regulations, as in effect on the date of the 
        enactment of this section.
    (c) Authorization of Appropriations.--There are authorized to be 
appropriated to the Director of the Centers for Disease Control and 
Prevention $300,000,000 for fiscal year 2002 to carry out this section. 
Such sums shall remain available until expended. Such authorization is 
in addition to other authorizations of appropriations that are 
available for the purposes of this section.

SEC. 102. ESTABLISHMENT OF SCIENTIFIC COMMUNICATIONS CENTER.

    There are authorized to be appropriated to the Director of the 
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention $85,000,000 for fiscal year 
2002 to establish a Scientific Communications Center, consistent with 
priorities as outlined in section 524 of this Act. Such sums shall 
remain available until expended.

SEC. 103. IMPROVEMENT OF INADEQUATE SECURITY AT CENTERS FOR DISEASE 
              CONTROL AND PREVENTION.

    There are authorized to be appropriated to the Director of the 
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention $96,000,000 for fiscal year 
2002 to improve security at the facilities of the Centers for Disease 
Control and Prevention. Such sums shall remain available until 
expended.

SEC. 104. POTASSIUM IODIDE STOCKPILES.

    Section 170 of the Atomic Energy Act of 1954 (42 U.S.C. 2210) is 
amended by adding at the end the following new subsection:
    ``v. Not later than 6 months after the date of the enactment of 
this subsection, the Nuclear Regulatory Commission shall--
            ``(1) ensure that sufficient stockpiles of potassium iodide 
        tablets have been established at public facilities such as 
        schools and hospitals within 50 miles of facilities indemnified 
        under this section;
            ``(2) establish a plan for the distribution of the 
        stockpiles described in paragraph (1) to all individuals 
        located within 50 miles of facilities indemnified under this 
        section in the event of a release of radionuclides; and
            ``(3) transmit to the Congress a report--
                    ``(A) certifying that stockpiles have been 
                established as described in paragraph (1); and
                    ``(B) including the plan described in paragraph 
                (2).''.

SEC. 105. EXPANSION OF NATIONAL MARROW DONOR PROGRAM.

    Section 379(b) of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 274k(b)) 
is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (7), by striking ``and'' after the 
        semicolon at the end;
            (2) in paragraph (8), by striking the period at the end and 
        inserting ``; and''; and
            (3) by adding at the end the following paragraph:
            ``(9) develop a contingency plan to provide bone marrow to 
        individuals needing such treatment because of nuclear 
        accidents, disaster, or war, including terrorist attacks 
        involving chemical and biological weapons.''.

SEC. 106. ESTABLISHMENT OF NATIONAL STANDARDS FOR QUARANTINES.

    Not later than 6 months after the enactment of this Act, the 
Secretary of Health and Human Services shall establish and implement 
national standards for the imposition of quarantines in the United 
States.

SEC. 107. SEQUENCING THE GENOMES OF BIOLOGICAL PATHOGENS.

    There are authorized to be appropriated to the Director of the 
National Institutes of Health $10,000,000 for fiscal year 2002 to 
sequence the genomes of smallpox, anthrax, and other leading biological 
pathogens. Such sums shall remain available until expended.

      Subtitle B--Improve American Communities' Response to Emergency 
                               Incidents

SEC. 111. PLANNING, TRAINING, AND EQUIPMENT FOR FIRST RESPONDERS.

    (a) Authorization.--The Director of the Federal Emergency 
Management Agency shall make grants on a competitive basis to units of 
local government and emergency response units.
    (b) Use of Grants.--Grants made under this section shall be used 
to--
            (1) develop strategic response plans that--
                    (A) provide for a clearly defined and unified 
                response to a terrorist attack or other catastrophe;
                    (B) coordinate the activities and procedures of 
                various emergency response units;
                    (C) define the relationship, roles, 
                responsibilities, jurisdictions, command structures, 
                and communication protocols of emergency response 
                units;
                    (D) coordinate response procedures with similar 
                emergency response units in neighboring units of local 
                government as well as with State and Federal agencies;
                    (E) identify potential local targets of terrorism 
                and include specific response procedures for each 
                potential target;
                    (F) assess and address threats and outline 
                coordinated response procedures; and
                    (G) identify areas where additional training, 
                equipment, or other assistance is needed to implement 
                such procedures;
            (2) prepare and issue reports to units of local government, 
        State legislatures, and Congress that include recommendations 
        for specific legislative action; and
            (3) conduct public forums or other appropriate activities 
        to educate the public about--
                    (A) potential threats and steps the public can take 
                to prepare for them;
                    (B) the contents of the strategic response plans;
                    (C) how to communicate with authorities in the 
                event of an emergency;
                    (D) the location of safe public assembly areas or 
                other emergency shelters; and
                    (E) other appropriate information, including how to 
                access medical care in response to a biological attack 
                despite one's insurance status or coverage.
    (c) State Emergency Management Coordinators.--The Director of the 
Federal Emergency Management Agency shall designate for each State a 
representative of the Federal Emergency Management Agency to--
            (1) advise and assist units of local government of the 
        State with the development of strategic response plans;
            (2) act as a liaison between units of local government of 
        the State and the Federal Government; and
            (3) coordinate the sharing of information about Federal 
        Government initiatives and protocol.
    (d) Authorization of Appropriations.--For the purpose of carrying 
out this section, there are authorized to be appropriated to the 
Director of the Federal Emergency Management Agency $500,000,000 for 
fiscal year 2002. Amounts appropriated under the preceding sentence 
shall remain available until expended.

SEC. 112. STAFFING FOR ADEQUATE FIRE AND EMERGENCY RESPONSE.

    (a) In General.--Title III of the Workforce Investment Act of 1998 
(Public Law 105-220; 112 Stat. 1080) is amended by adding at the end 
the following:

    ``Subtitle E--Staffing for Adequate Fire and Emergency Response

``SEC. 351. AUTHORITY TO MAKE GRANTS.

    ``(a) Definition.--In this section, the term `qualifying entity', 
used with respect to a fiscal year, means any eligible entity 
(including a State) that has submitted an application under section 355 
for the fiscal year that meets the requirements of this subtitle and 
such additional requirements as the Secretary may prescribe.
    ``(b) Grant Authorization.--The Secretary may make grants to 
eligible entities to pay for the Federal share of the cost of carrying 
out projects to hire firefighters.
    ``(c) Minimum Amount.--
            ``(1) Amount.--For any fiscal year, the Secretary shall 
        ensure that the qualifying entities in each State shall 
        receive, through grants made under this section, a total amount 
        that is not less than \1/2\ of 1 percent of the amount 
        appropriated under section 362 for the fiscal year.
            ``(2) Exception.--Paragraph (1) shall not apply for a 
        fiscal year if the Secretary makes a grant under this section 
        to every qualifying entity for the fiscal year.
    ``(d) Grant Periods.--The Secretary may make grants under this 
section for periods of 3 years.
    ``(e) Federal Share.--
            ``(1) In general.--The Federal share of the cost of 
        carrying out a project to hire firefighters under this subtitle 
        shall be not more than 75 percent.
            ``(2) Non-federal share.--The non-Federal share shall be 
        provided--
                    ``(A) in cash;
                    ``(B) in the case of a State or unit of local 
                government, from assets received through an asset 
                forfeiture program; or
                    ``(C) in the case of a tribal organization or the 
                Bureau of Indian Affairs, from any Federal funds made 
                available for fire fighting functions to assist an 
                Indian tribe.
            ``(3) Waiver.--The Secretary may waive the requirements of 
        paragraphs (1) and (2) for an eligible entity.

``SEC. 352. APPLICATIONS.

    ``(a) In General.--To be eligible to receive a grant under this 
subtitle, an entity shall submit an application to the Secretary at 
such time, in such manner, and containing such information as the 
Secretary may prescribe.
    ``(b) Contents.--Each such application shall--
            ``(1) include a long-term strategy and detailed 
        implementation plan, for the hiring to be conducted under the 
        grant, that reflects consultation with community groups and 
        appropriate private and public agencies and reflects 
        consideration of a statewide strategy for such hiring;
            ``(2) specify the reasons why the entity is unable to hire 
        sufficient firefighters to address the entity's needs, without 
        Federal assistance;
            ``(3)(A) specify the average number of firefighters 
        employed by the entity during the fiscal year prior to the 
        fiscal year for which the application is submitted; and
            ``(B) outline the initial and planned level of community 
        support for implementing the strategy and plan, including the 
        level of financial and in-kind contributions or other tangible 
        commitments;
            ``(4)(A) specify plans for obtaining necessary support and 
        continuing the employment of a greater number of firefighters 
        than the number specified under paragraph (3)(A), following the 
        conclusion of Federal assistance under this subtitle; and
            ``(B) include an assurance that the entity will continue 
        the employment of firefighters hired with funds made available 
        through the grant for at least 1 year after the end of the 
        grant period; and
            ``(5) include assurances that the entity will, to the 
        extent practicable, seek, recruit, and hire members of racial 
        and ethnic minority groups and women in order to increase the 
        ranks of minorities and women within the entity's firefighter 
        units.
    ``(c) Small Jurisdictions.--Notwithstanding any other provision of 
this subtitle, the Secretary may waive 1 or more of the requirements of 
subsection (b), and may make special provisions to facilitate the 
expedited submission, processing, and approval of an application under 
this section, for an eligible entity that is a unit of local 
government, or an eligible entity serving a fire district, that has 
jurisdiction over an area with a population of less than 50,000.
    ``(d) Preference.--In awarding grants under this subtitle, the 
Secretary--
            ``(1) shall give preference to a unit of local government; 
        and
            ``(2) may give preference, where feasible, to an eligible 
        entity that submits an application containing a plan that--
                    ``(A) provides for hiring (including rehiring) 
                career firefighters; and
                    ``(B) requires the entity to contribute a non-
                Federal share of more than 25 percent of the cost of 
                carrying out a project to hire the firefighters.
    ``(e) State and Local Applications.--If a unit of local government 
for a community, and the State in which the community is located, 
submit applications under this section for a fiscal year to carry out a 
project in a community, and the unit of local government and State are 
qualifying entities under section 353(a), the Secretary--
            ``(1) shall make a grant under this subtitle to the unit of 
        local government for that year; and
            ``(2) shall not make a grant under this subtitle to the 
        State to carry out a project in that community for that year.

``SEC. 353. USE OF FUNDS.

    ``(a) In General.--An eligible entity that receives a grant under 
this subtitle shall use the funds made available through the grant to 
hire career firefighters. The funds may only be used to increase the 
number of firefighters employed by the agency from the number specified 
under section 354(b)(3)(A). The funds may be used for salaries and 
benefits for the firefighters.
    ``(b) Hiring Costs.--
            ``(1) Fiscal year 2002.--For fiscal year 2002, in hiring 
        any 1 firefighter, the entity may not use more than $90,000 of 
        such funds.
            ``(2) Subsequent years.--For each subsequent fiscal year, 
        in hiring any 1 firefighter, the entity may not use more than 
        $90,000 of such funds, increased or decreased by the same 
        percentage as the percentage by which the Consumer Price Index 
        for All Urban Consumers (United States city average), published 
        by the Secretary of Labor, has increased or decreased by 
        September of the preceding fiscal year from such Index for 
        September 2001.
            ``(3) Waivers.--The Secretary may waive the requirements of 
        paragraph (1) or (2) for an eligible entity.
    ``(c) Supplement, Not Supplant.--Funds appropriated pursuant to the 
authority of this subtitle shall be used to supplement and not supplant 
other Federal, State, and local public funds expended to hire 
firefighters.

``SEC. 354. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE.

    ``The Secretary may provide technical assistance to eligible 
entities to further the purposes of this Act.

``SEC. 355. MONITORING AND EVALUATIONS.

    ``(a) Monitoring Components.--Each project funded through a grant 
made under this subtitle shall contain a monitoring component, 
developed pursuant to regulations established by the Secretary. The 
monitoring required by this subsection shall include systematic 
identification and collection of data about the project throughout the 
period of the project and presentation of such data in a usable form.
    ``(b) Evaluation Components.--The Secretary may require that 
selected grant recipients under this subtitle conduct local evaluations 
or participate in a national evaluation, pursuant to regulations 
established by the Secretary. Such local or national evaluations may 
include assessments of the implementation of different projects. The 
Secretary may require selected grant recipients under this subtitle to 
conduct local outcome evaluations to determine the effectiveness of 
projects under this subtitle.
    ``(c) Periodic Reports.--The Secretary may require a grant 
recipient under this subtitle to submit to the Secretary the results of 
the monitoring and evaluations required under subsections (a) and (b) 
and such other data and information as the Secretary determines to be 
reasonably necessary.
    ``(d) Revocation or Suspension of Funding.--If the Secretary 
determines, as a result of the monitoring or evaluations required by 
this section, or otherwise, that a grant recipient under this subtitle 
is not in substantial compliance with the terms and requirements of an 
approved grant application submitted under section 355, the Secretary 
may revoke the grant or suspend part or all of the funding provided 
under the grant.

``SEC. 356. ACCESS TO DOCUMENTS.

    ``For the purpose of conducting an audit or examination of a grant 
recipient that carries out a project under this subtitle, the Secretary 
and the Comptroller General of the United States shall have access to 
any pertinent books, documents, papers, or records of the grant 
recipient and any State or local government, person, business, or other 
entity, that is involved in the project.

``SEC. 357. REPORT TO CONGRESS.

    ``Not later than September 30 of each year, the Secretary shall 
submit an annual report to Congress concerning the experiences of 
eligible entities in carrying out projects under this subtitle, and the 
effects of the grants made under this subtitle. The final report shall 
be submitted on September 30, 2008, and shall contain recommendations 
for such legislation as the Secretary may consider appropriate, which 
may include reauthorization of this subtitle.

``SEC. 358. REGULATIONS.

    ``The Secretary may issue regulations to carry out this subtitle.

``SEC. 359. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.

    ``(a) In General.--There is authorized to be appropriated to carry 
out this subtitle $750,000,000 for fiscal year 2002.
    ``(b) Availability.--Funds appropriated under subsection (a) for a 
fiscal year shall remain available until the end of the second 
succeeding fiscal year.

``SEC. 360. DEFINITIONS.

    ``In this subtitle:
            ``(1) Eligible entity.--The term `eligible entity' means--
                    ``(A) a State, a unit of local government, a tribal 
                organization, or another public entity; or
                    ``(B) a multijurisdictional or regional consortia 
                of entities described in subparagraph (A).
            ``(2) Firefighter.--The term `firefighter' has the meaning 
        given the term `employee in fire protection activities' in 
        section 3 of the Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938 (29 U.S.C. 
        203).
            ``(3) Indian tribe; tribal organization.--The terms `Indian 
        tribe' and `tribal organization' have the meanings given the 
        terms in section 4 of the Indian Self-Determination and 
        Education Assistance Act (25 U.S.C. 450b).
            ``(4) Secretary.--The term `Secretary' means the Secretary 
        of Labor, acting after consultation with the Director of the 
        Federal Emergency Management Agency.
            ``(5) State.--The term `State' means each of the several 
        States of the United States, the District of Columbia, the 
        Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the United States Virgin Islands, 
        Guam, American Samoa, and the Commonwealth of the Northern 
Mariana Islands.
    (b) Conforming Amendment.--The table of contents in section 1(b) of 
the Workforce Investment Act of 1998 (Public Law 105-220; 112 Stat. 
936) is amended, in the items relating to title III, by adding at the 
end the following:

    ``Subtitle E--Staffing for Adequate Fire and Emergency Response

        ``Sec. 351. Authority to make grants.
        ``Sec. 352. Applications.
        ``Sec. 353. Use of funds.
        ``Sec. 354. Technical assistance.
        ``Sec. 355. Monitoring and evaluations.
        ``Sec. 356. Access to documents.
        ``Sec. 357. Report to Congress.
        ``Sec. 358. Regulations.
        ``Sec. 359. Authorization of appropriations.
        ``Sec. 360. Definitions.''.

SEC. 113. RESPIRATORY PROTECTION FOR CIVILIAN SAFETY PERSONNEL.

    (a) In General.--For the purpose of protecting against exposure to 
biological and chemical agents, the Secretary of Health and Human 
Services, acting through the Office of Emergency Preparedness, shall 
provide appropriate, approved respiratory protective devices to all 
firefighters and emergency medical personnel within a 15-mile radius of 
the Nation's 157 largest cities.
    (b) Authorization of Appropriations.--There are authorized to be 
appropriated to the Secretary of Health and Human Services $60,000,000 
for fiscal year 2002 to carry out this section. Such sums shall remain 
available until expended.

          Subtitle C--Prepare Our Schools For Emergency Incidents

SEC. 124. SCHOOL SECURITY ACTION GRANTS.

    (a) School Security Action Grants.--The Secretary of Education 
shall make grants to local educational agencies and institutions of 
higher learning to enhance security and emergency preparedness.
    (b) Restriction.--The Secretary of Education may award a grant 
under subsection (b) only to a local educational agency or an 
institution of higher learning that demonstrates a need for financial 
assistance and a lack of resources to implement emergency preparedness 
and security improvements.
    (c) Use of Funds.--A grant may be made under this section only if 
the applicant involved agrees to use the funds received under the grant 
to--
            (1) prepare and implement emergency preparedness and 
        response plans;
            (2) coordinate emergency preparedness and response plans 
        with local law enforcement, public safety, health, and mental 
        health agencies;
            (3) train school personnel, students, and parents in crisis 
        preparedness, emergency response, and other school safety 
        procedures;
            (4) implement security measures, including computer and 
        Internet security measures, for high-risk areas and facilities, 
        including facilities containing hazardous materials; and
            (5) install or upgrade security equipment and technology, 
        including electronic access control and intrusion detection 
        systems, video surveillance equipment, metal detection 
        equipment, emergency management systems and communications 
        equipment, lighting, perimeter fencing, and other security 
        measures.
    (d) Authorization of Appropriations.--There are authorized to be 
appropriated to the Secretary of Education $300,000,000 for fiscal year 
2002 to carry out this section. Such sums shall remain available until 
expended.

              TITLE II--SECURE ALL MODES OF TRANSPORTATION

             Subtitle A--Secure Bridges, Tunnels, and Dams

SEC. 201. HIGHWAY INFRASTRUCTURE.

    There is authorized to be appropriated to the Secretary of 
Transportation $2,550,000,000 for fiscal year 2002 to establish and 
implement a program to address the lack of security on critical highway 
infrastructure by--
            (1) strengthening critical bridge and tunnel structures;
            (2) improving inspection facilities at approaches to 
        critical structures;
            (3) installing surveillance monitoring systems;
            (4) improving border crossing clearance;
            (5) improving tracking of hazardous material shipments;
            (6) improving roads and bridges to facilitate military 
        transport;
            (7) enhancing bridge and tunnel management systems to 
        include vulnerability assessments; and
            (8) improving signing and providing for technological and 
        other physical improvements to evacuation routes.
Such sums shall remain available until expended.

SEC. 202. TRANSPORTATION RECOVERY AND RESPONSBE CAPABILITIES.

    There is authorized to be appropriated to the Secretary of 
Transportation $500,000,000 for fiscal year 2002 to establish and 
implement a program to improve interagency training for and 
communication among first responders by--
            (1) conducting training to facilitate rapid repair and 
        stabilization to temporarily reopen structures to traffic;
            (2) providing improved, interoperable communications 
        equipment;
            (3) deploying, maintaining, and operating emergency command 
        center facilities;
            (4) developing, testing, and implementing evacuation plans;
            (5) supporting permanent service restoration after an 
        emergency;
            (6) providing emergency response training for public safety 
        organizations;
            (7) acquiring equipment to facilitate incident clearance; 
        and
            (8) improving response time to highway incidents.
Such sums shall remain available until expended.

SEC. 203. PUBLIC COMMUNICATIONS AND SUPPORT.

    There is authorized to be appropriated to the Secretary of 
Transportation $500,000,000 for fiscal year 2002 to--
            (1) provide real-time information for the traveling public 
        using variable message, dedicated short-range radio frequency, 
        highway advisory radios, or other methods;
            (2) develop real-time information and guidance for the 
        public at large, including communications systems and protocols 
        for the general media; and
            (3) enhance the 511 system.
Such sums shall remain available until expended.

SEC. 204. SECURITY FOR LOCKS AND DAMS.

    (a) In General.--There is authorized to be appropriated to the 
Secretary of Transportation $100,000,000 for fiscal year 2002 to 
establish and implement a program to address--
            (1) the lack of adequate security for locks and dams;
            (2) the lack of cargo information; and
            (3) the inability to share information in a timely fashion 
        with agencies such as the Coast Guard.
Such sums shall remain available until expended.
    (b) Assessment.--In carrying out the program, the Secretary shall 
assess the threat at each critical infrastructure component and 
implement measures to address shortcomings.

                      Subtitle B--Secure Seaports

SEC. 211. SECRETARY DEFINED.

    In this subtitle, the term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary of the 
department in which the Coast Guard is operating.

SEC. 212. VULNERABILITY ASSESSMENTS.

    There is authorized to be appropriated to the Secretary $50,000,000 
for fiscal year 2002 to conduct vulnerability assessments at the 50 
busiest seaports in the United States. Such sums shall remain available 
until expended.

SEC. 213. PURCHASE OF EQUIPMENT TO SCREEN CARGO.

    There is authorized to be appropriated to the Secretary 
$200,000,000 for fiscal year 2002 to purchase x-ray equipment to screen 
cargo transported by vessels. Such sums shall remain available until 
expended.

SEC. 214. EFFICIENT SCREENING OF CARGO.

    There is authorized to be appropriated to the Secretary $30,000,000 
for fiscal year 2002 to establish a research and development program to 
develop terrorism detection technologies for the efficient screening of 
cargo. Such sums shall remain available until expended.

SEC. 215. WATERBORNE MARINE PATROLS TO DETER MARITIME THREATS.

    There is authorized to be appropriated to the Secretary 
$164,000,000 for fiscal year 2002 to--
            (1) establish a port security unit within the Coast Guard;
            (2) purchase 60 harbor patrol craft for such unit; and
            (3) require the unit to operate such craft at all times.
Such sums shall remain available until expended.

SEC. 216. TRACKING OF FOREIGN-FLAG VESSELS OPERATING IN U.S. WATERS.

    There is authorized to be appropriated to the Secretary $14,000,000 
for fiscal year 2002 to require vessels to carry transponders in United 
States waters and to provide the Coast Guard with data from those 
transponders. Such sums shall remain available until expended.

SEC. 217. FUNDING FOR PORT SECURITY INFRASTRUCTURE FACILITIES.

    There is authorized to be appropriated to the Secretary $50,000,000 
for fiscal year 2002 to provide grants and loans for the purchase of 
port security infrastructure facilities, including security gates, 
surveillance systems, and video systems. Such sums shall remain 
available until expended.

SEC. 218. ASSISTANT COMMANDANT FOR MARITIME SECURITY.

    There is authorized to be appropriated to the Secretary $5,000,000 
for fiscal year 2002 to establish in the Coast Guard the position of 
Assistant Commandant for Maritime Security. Such sums shall remain 
available until expended. The Assistant Commandant shall be responsible 
for the Coast Guard's maritime border security operations.

SEC. 219. SEA MARSHALL PROGRAM.

    There is authorized to be appropriated to the Secretary 
$155,000,000 for fiscal year 2002 to establish a sea marshal program 
under which Coast Guard personnel will board and escort high risk 
vessels (such as oil and chemical tankers) entering a port in the 
United States. The Secretary shall use at least 1,500 employees of the 
Coast Guard to carry out the program. Such sums shall remain available 
until expended.

SEC. 220. HIRING OF PERMANENT COAST GUARD PERSONNEL.

    There is authorized to be appropriated to the Secretary 
$155,000,000 for fiscal year 2002 to hire 1,000 additional Coast Guard 
personnel. Such sums shall remain available until expended.

SEC. 221. PURCHASE OF SECURE COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT.

    There is authorized to be appropriated to the Secretary $70,000,000 
for fiscal year 2002 to purchase secure communications equipment to 
link Coast Guard groups with vessels. Such sums shall remain available 
until expended.

SEC. 222. VHF-DSC COMMUNICATIONS.

    There is authorized to be appropriated to the Secretary $4,000,000 
for fiscal year 2002 to enter into a service contract with a commercial 
communications company to provide VHF-DSC communications. Such sums 
shall remain available until expended.

SEC. 223. INCREASED STAFFING.

    There is authorized to be appropriated to the Secretary $20,000,000 
for fiscal year 2002 to increase staffing at 44 Coast Guard groups to 
carry out security responsibilities. Such sums shall remain available 
until expended.

SEC. 224. NATIONAL PORT SECURITY TASK FORCE.

    There is authorized to be appropriated to the Secretary $1,000,000 
for fiscal year 2002 to establish a national port security task force 
to improve coordination between Federal, State, and local governmental 
entities, industry, and labor. Such sums shall remain available until 
expended.

SEC. 225. LOCAL PORT SECURITY COMMITTEES.

    There is authorized to be appropriated to the Secretary $5,000,000 
for fiscal year 2002 to establish local port security committees to 
improve coordination between Federal, State, and local governmental 
entities, industry, and labor. Such sums shall remain available until 
expended.

SEC. 226. STANDARDS FOR MARITIME TRANSPORTATION SECURITY PROGRAM.

    There is authorized to be appropriated to the Secretary $1,000,000 
for fiscal year 2002 to establish regulations concerning standards for 
the maritime transportation security program. Such sums shall remain 
available until expended.

SEC. 227. MARITIME SECURITY INSTITUTE.

    There is authorized to be appropriated to the Secretary $7,500,000 
for fiscal year 2002 to establish a maritime security institute to 
train and certify maritime security professionals. Such sums shall 
remain available until expended.

SEC. 228. COMPUTERIZED DATABASE ON CRIME AND SECURITY AT PORTS.

    There is authorized to be appropriated to the President $10,000,000 
for fiscal year 2002 to require Federal agencies to gather and share 
data on crime and security at seaports. Such sums shall remain 
available until expended.

SEC. 229. MARITIME TERRORISM RESPONSE PLANS.

    There is authorized to be appropriated to the Secretary $50,000,000 
for fiscal year 2002 to develop terrorism response plans for responding 
to a maritime terrorist attack and providing for periodic exercise of 
those plans. Such sums shall remain available until expended.

     Subtitle C--Secure Passenger Rail and Freight Rail Protection

SEC. 241. PASSENGER RAIL AND FREIGHT RAIL PROTECTION.

    There are authorized to be appropriated to the Secretary of 
Transportation for fiscal year 2002--
            (1) $748,000,000 for the National Railroad Passenger 
        Corporation for completing life safety investments in 
        ventilation, lighting, emergency exits, and tunnel integrity 
        for Penn Station;
            (2) $100,000,000 for the National Railroad Passenger 
        Corporation for rehabilitation of tunnels in Baltimore and 
        Washington, D.C.;
            (3) $180,000,000 for the National Railroad Passenger 
        Corporation to--
                    (A) improve access control;
                    (B) develop an incident command system; and
                    (C) introduce satellite communication systems;
            (4) $41,000,000 for the National Railroad Passenger 
        Corporation for--
                    (A) the hiring the training of 150 new police 
                officers and 250 new security personnel; and
                    (B) the establishment of terrorism and K-9 units; 
                and
            (5) $100,000,000 for the training and hiring of security 
        personnel to protect key freight rail facilities.
Such sums shall remain available until expended.

               Subtitle D--Secure Public Transit Systems

SEC. 251. SECURITY STAFFING.

    There is authorized to be appropriated to the Secretary of 
Transportation $300,000,000 for fiscal year 2002 to hire additional 
personnel for public transit security planning, surveillance, patrols, 
and response. Such sums shall remain available until expended.

SEC. 252. SECURITY TRAINING.

    There is authorized to be appropriated to the Secretary of 
Transportation $25,000,000 for fiscal year 2002 to improve security at 
public transit facilities by--
            (1) developing security programs;
            (2) participating in programs external to transit agencies;
            (3) conducting emergency preparedness drills; and
            (4) conducting workshops and symposiums.
Such sums shall remain available until expended.

SEC. 253. TECHNICAL SUPPORT.

    There is authorized to be appropriated to the Secretary of 
Transportation $100,000,000 for fiscal year 2002 to improve security at 
public transit facilities by--
            (1) securing support for development of emergency 
        preparedness plans;
            (2) conducting security needs assessments; and
            (3) developing infrastructure security plans.
Such sums shall remain available until expended.

SEC. 254. INFRASTRUCTURE AND ROLLING STOCK SECURITY.

    There is authorized to be appropriated to the Secretary of 
Transportation $2,550,000,000 for fiscal year 2002 to install 
communications, surveillance, detection systems, and equipment at 
public transit facilities for enhancing the security of rolling stock, 
stations, facilities, rights-of-way, bridges, tunnels, electronic 
systems, and other systems. Such sums shall remain available until 
expended.

SEC. 255. EMERGENCY RESPONSE SUPPORT EQUIPMENT.

    There is authorized to be appropriated to the Secretary of 
Transportation $100,000,000 for fiscal year 2002 to improve security at 
public transit facilities by acquiring personal protective and 
detection equipment, support vehicles, and equipment for emergency 
response and recovery. Such sums shall remain available until expended.

SEC. 256. SUPPORT OF NATIONAL DEFENSE.

    There is authorized to be appropriated to the Secretary of 
Transportation $50,000,000 for fiscal year 2002 to develop and refine 
evacuation plans, including plans for mobilization of transit systems 
for evacuation needs. Such sums shall remain available until expended.

SEC. 257. RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT.

    There is authorized to be appropriated to the Secretary of 
Transportation $25,000,000 for fiscal year 2002 to research and develop 
systems and facilities that will mitigate threats and enhance detection 
of security threats in mass transit environments. Such sums shall 
remain available until expended.

               Subtitle E--Energy Pipeline Security Study

SEC. 261. ENERGY PIPELINE SECURITY STUDY.

    There are authorized to be appropriated to the Secretary of 
Transportation $5,000,000 for fiscal year 2002 for the Secretary to 
enter into an arrangement with the National Academy of Sciences for a 
comprehensive study by the National Academy of Sciences's 
Transportation Research Board of the security of energy pipelines, 
including issues related to monitoring, hardening of facilities, and 
hiring and training of security personnel. Such sums shall remain 
available until expended.

                      Subtitle F--Secure Aviation

SEC. 271. SECURITY REPORTING.

    There is authorized to be appropriated $1,000,000 for fiscal year 
2003 for upgrading and expanding the current infrastructure of the 
Aviation Safety Reporting System of the Federal Aviation Administration 
and National Aeronautics and Space Administration to collect and 
process reports on deficiencies and lapses in the Nation's aviation 
security system from employees of public and private aviation-related 
entities.

SEC. 272. REAL-TIME REPORTING OF FLIGHT DATA.

    (a) Pilot Projects.--The Secretary of Transportation shall carry 
out pilot projects with air carriers for the real-time transmission to 
the Federal Aviation Administration of cockpit voice and flight data 
and cabin video data from aircraft of such air carriers. The Secretary 
shall provide funding for the installation and operation of equipment 
necessary for the transmission of such data under the pilot projects.
    (b) Authorization of Appropriations.--There is authorized to be 
appropriated $60,000,000 to carry out this section.

SEC. 273. INSTALLATION OF FUEL CELLS AT AIRPORTS.

    (a) Establishment of Pilot Program.--The Secretary of 
Transportation shall establish a pilot program to deploy commercially 
available fuel cells at public use airports to ensure a reliable energy 
supply for new and emerging aviation security technologies, airport 
control towers, airport terminals, and other airport facilities.
    (b) Authorization of Appropriations.--There is authorized to be 
appropriated $20,000,000 to carry out this section.

 TITLE III--PROTECT AMERICA'S PHYSICAL AND INFORMATIONAL INFRASTRUCTURE

           Subtitle A--Secure America's Energy Infrastructure

SEC. 301. SECURE OUR OIL REFINERIES AND NATURAL GAS STORAGE FACILITIES.

    (a) Risk Management Assessment.--Not later than one year after the 
date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Energy shall transmit 
to Congress a report describing the results of a risk management 
assessment of oil refineries and natural gas and liquid natural gas 
storage facilities in the United States. Such report shall include the 
results of a threat assessment, vulnerabilty assessment and criticality 
assessment of oil refineries and natural gas and liquid natural gas 
storage facilities in the United States, and make recommendations on 
actions that may reduce the risk and mitigate the consequences of an 
attack or event. Such report shall assess but not be limited to:
            (1) construction of interactive, distributed security 
        architecture with control over network, establishment of 
        automated intrusion detection, alert, response, and forensic 
        information gathering, and  encryption of all wireless and 
Internet-based communications;
            (2) dedicated backup and alternate power supplies and 
        telecommunications capability;
            (3) enhanced background investigation and personnel 
        security procedures;
            (4) hardening perimeter and internal security of refineries 
        and natural gas and liquid natural gas storage facilities and 
        improving monitoring of pipelines;
            (5) conducting physical and logical penetration tests using 
        government or private security specialists;
            (6) physical inspections of tankers before they access 
        facilities; and
            (7) establishment of alternate and backup modes of 
        transportation, and facility ingress and egress.
    (b) Demonstration Projects.--The Secretary of Energy shall provide 
support for projects to demonstrate the best practices identified under 
subsection (a) and other appropriate topics.
    (c) Authorization of Appropriations.--There are authorized to be 
appropriated to the Secretary of Energy for fiscal year 2002 to carry 
out this section--
            (1) $25,000,000 for subsection (a); and
            (2) $25,000,000 for subsection (b).
Such sums shall remain available until expended.

SEC. 302. SECURE OUR CHEMICAL FACILITIES.

    (a) In General.--The Administrator of the Environmental Protection 
Agency, in consultation with the Office of Homeland Security, shall 
transmit to Congress a report describing the results of a risk 
management assessment of chemical manufacturing facilities in the 
United States. Such report shall include the results of a threat 
assessment, vulnerability assessment and criticality assessment of 
chemical manufacturing facilities in the United States, and make 
recommendations on actions that may reduce the risk and mitigate the 
consequences of an attack or event.
    (b) Demonstration Projects.--The Administrator of the Environmental 
Protection Agency shall provide support for projects to demonstrate 
best practices identified under subsection (a).
    (c) Authorization of Appropriations.--There are authorized to be 
appropriated to the Administrator the Environmental Protection Agency 
for fiscal year 2002 to carry out this section--
            (1) $25,000,000 for subsection (a); and
            (2) $25,000,000 for subsection (b).
Such sums shall remain available until expended.

SEC. 303. SECURE OUR NUCLEAR FACILITIES AND NUCLEAR WASTE.

    (a) Risk Management Assessment.--Not later than one year after the 
date of enactment of this Act, the Chairman of the Nuclear Regulatory 
Commission shall transmit to Congress a report describing the results 
of a risk management assessment of nuclear facilities in the United 
States. Such report shall include the results of a threat assessment, 
vulnerabilty assessment and criticality assessment of nuclear 
facilities in the United States, and make recommendations on actions 
that may reduce the risk and mitigate the consequences of an attack or 
event.
    (b) Nuclear Waste Transportation and Storage.--
            (1) Terrorist attack defense interagency plan.--
                    (A) In general.--The Secretary of Energy shall 
                coordinate the development and implementation of an 
                interagency plan to prepare for and defend against 
                terrorist attacks against high-level nuclear waste 
                transportation facilities and infrastructure, interim 
                storage facilities, intermodal transfer facilities, or 
                central repositories. Such plan shall--
                            (i) include an assessment of terrorism 
                        risks and economic feasibility of defending 
                        against attacks on all transportation and 
                        storage of high-level nuclear waste;
                            (ii) give special attention to the risks of 
                        nuclear waste being used as a radiological 
                        weapon; and
                            (iii) include an analysis of the economic, 
                        public health, and environmental costs of 
                        implementing the plan.
                    (B) Interim report.--Not later than April 15, 2002, 
                the Secretary of Energy shall transmit to the Congress 
                an interim report on the development of the plan under 
                subparagraph (A).
                    (C) Final report.--Not later than December 31, 
                2002, the Secretary of Energy shall transmit to the 
                Congress a report containing the final plan developed 
                under subparagraph (A).
            (2) Response plan.--
                    (A) In general.--The Federal Emergency Management 
                Agency shall coordinate and develop a plan to ensure 
                that Federal, State, and local governments can respond 
                adequately to the consequences of a terrorist attack 
                against the transportation or storage of high-level 
                nuclear waste. Such plan shall--
                            (i) include procedures for notifying State 
                        and local emergency response units when nuclear 
                        waste is transported through their 
                        jurisdictions; and
                            (ii) include necessary preresponse 
                        preparations to ensure the adequate response of 
                        ``first responders''.
                    (B) Interim report.--Not later than March 31, 2003, 
                the Federal Emergency Management Agency shall transmit 
                to the Congress an interim report on the development of 
                the plan under subparagraph (A).
                    (C) Final report.--Not later than March 31, 2004, 
                the Federal Emergency Management Agency shall transmit 
                to the Congress a report containing the final plan 
                developed under subparagraph (A).
    (c) Demonstration Projects.--The Chairman of the Nuclear Regulatory 
Commission shall provide support for projects to demonstrate best 
practices indentified under subsection (a).
    (d) Authorization of Appropriations.--There are authorized to be 
appropriated to the Chairman of the Nuclear Regulatory Commission for 
fiscal year 2002 to carry out this section--
            (1) $25,000,000 for subsection (a); and
            (2) $25,000,000 for subsection (b).
Such sums shall remain available until expended.

SEC. 304. SECURE OUR ELECTRIC POWER GRID.

    (a) Risk Management Assessment.--Not later than one year after the 
date of enactment of this Act, the Chairman of the Federal Energy 
Regulatory Commission shall transmit to Congress a report describing 
the results of a risk management assessment of the electric power grid 
in the United States. Such report shall include the results of a threat 
assessment, vulnerabilty assessment and criticality assessment of 
electic power generation, transmission, and local distribution 
facilities in the United States, and make recommendations on actions 
that may reduce the risk and mitigate the consequences of an attack or 
event.
    (b) Demonstration Projects.--The Chairman of the Federal Energy 
Regulatory Commission shall provide support for projects to demonstrate 
best practices indentified under subsection (a).
    (c) Authorization of Appropriations.--There are authorized to be 
appropriated to the Chairman of the Federal Energy Regulatory 
Commission for fiscal year 2002 to carry out this section--
            (1) $25,000,000 for subsection (a); and
            (2) $25,000,000 for subsection (b).
Such sums shall remain available until expended.

SEC. 305. TRANSPORTATION OF NUCLEAR MATERIALS.

    (a) Amendment.--Chapter 14 of the Atomic Energy Act of 1954 (42 
U.S.C. 2201-2210b) is amended by adding at the end the following new 
section:
    ``Sec. 170C. Transportation of Nuclear Materials.--
    ``a. The Nuclear Regulatory Commission shall establish a system to 
ensure that--
            ``(1) with respect to activities by any party pursuant to a 
        license issued under this Act, each vehicle transporting 
        materials described in subsection b. in the United States--
                    ``(A) from a facility licensed by the Nuclear 
                Regulatory Commission;
                    ``(B) from a facility licensed by an agreement 
                State; or
                    ``(C) from a country with whom the United States 
                has an agreement for cooperation under section 123,
        carries a manifest describing the type and amount of materials 
        being transported;
            ``(2) each individual driving or traveling with such a 
        vehicle has been subject to a security background check by 
        appropriate Federal entities; and
            ``(3) no such vehicle transports such materials to a 
        destination other than a facility licensed by the Nuclear 
        Regulatory Commission or an agreement State under this Act or 
        other appropriate Federal facility, or to a destination outside 
        the United States in a country with whom the United States has 
        an agreement for cooperation under section 123.
    ``b. Except as otherwise provided by the Commission by regulation, 
the materials referred to in subsection a.(1) are byproduct materials, 
source materials, special nuclear materials, high-level radioactive 
waste, spent nuclear fuel, transuranic waste, and low-level radioactive 
waste (as defined in section 2(16) of the Nuclear Waste Policy Act of 
1982 (42 U.S.C. 10101(16))).''.
    (b) Regulations.--Not later than 6 months after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, and from time to time thereafter as it considers 
necessary, the Nuclear Regulatory Commission shall issue regulations 
identifying radioactive materials that, consistent with the protection 
of public health and safety and the common defense and security, are 
appropriate exceptions to the transportation requirements of section 
170C of the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as added by subsection (a) of 
this section.
    (c) Effective Date.--The amendment made by subsection (a) shall 
take effect upon the issuance of regulations under subsection (b).
    (d) Table of Sections Amendment.--The table of sections for chapter 
14 of the Atomic Energy Act of 1954 is amended by adding at the end the 
following new item:

``Sec. 170C. Transportation of nuclear materials.''.

SEC. 306. DESIGN BASIS THREAT.

    (a) Rulemaking.--Chapter 14 of the Atomic Energy Act of 1954 (42 
U.S.C. 2201-2210b) is amended by adding at the end the following new 
section:
    ``Sec. 170D. Design Basis Threat.--
    ``a. The Nuclear Regulatory Commission, not later than 120 days 
after the date of the enactment of this section, after consultation 
with the Secretary of Defense, the Director of Central Intelligence, 
the Director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation, the National 
Security Advisor, the Director of Homeland Security (or any successor 
official), and any other appropriate Federal, State, or nongovernmental 
entities, shall commence a rulemaking to consider changes to the design 
basis threat for facilities licensed by the Commission under this Act. 
Within 18 months after the date of the enactment of this section, the 
Commission shall issue a final rule revising the design basis threat 
and shall revise associated regulations, guidance, and orders 
accordingly.
    ``b. Actions taken under subsection a. shall take into account, but 
not be limited to--
            ``(1) the events of September 11, 2001;
            ``(2) the potential for attack on facilities by multiple 
        coordinated teams totaling in the aggregate a larger number of 
        individuals;
            ``(3) the potential for assistance in an attack from 
        several persons employed at the facility;
            ``(4) the potential for suicide attacks;
            ``(5) water-based and air-based threats;
            ``(6) the potential use of explosive devices of 
        considerable size and other modern weaponry;
            ``(7) the potential for attacks by persons with a 
        sophisticated knowledge of facility operations;
            ``(8) the threat of fires, especially fires of long 
        duration;
            ``(9) protection of spent fuel storage pools and dry cask 
        storage, including after reactor closure; and
            ``(10) any new security role assumed by other Federal 
        entities at facilities licensed by the Commission under this 
        Act.
    ``c. Regulations, guidance, and orders issued under this section 
shall establish requirements for licensees relating to construction, 
operation, security procedures, and emergency response. The Commission, 
through such regulations, guidance, and orders shall require conforming 
amendments to existing licenses.
    ``d. Actions taken under subsection a. shall require licensees to 
provide for armed escorts for all spent fuel shipments, capable of 
repelling attacks by a large number of attackers working as several 
coordinated teams and using sophisticated techniques and equipment.
    ``e. (1) Actions taken under subsection a. shall include the 
establishment of an operational safeguards response evaluation program, 
whose Director shall report directly to the Nuclear Regulatory 
Commission, which shall ensure that the operational safeguards response 
of each facility described in paragraph (2) is tested at least once 
every 2 years through Commission designed, supervised, and evaluated 
force-on-force exercises to determine whether the ability to defeat the 
design basis threat is being maintained.
    ``(2) Facilities subject to testing under paragraph (1) include 
commercial nuclear powerplants, research reactors, spent fuel storage 
facilities and associated support facilities and equipment, and any 
other licensed facility the Nuclear Regulatory Commission considers 
appropriate.
    ``f. Regulations, guidance, and orders issued under this section 
shall be reviewed and revised as appropriate at least once every 5 
years.
    ``g. In carrying out this section, the Commission shall control the 
dissemination of restricted data, safeguards information, and other 
classified national security information in such a manner as to assure 
the common defense and security, consistent with chapter 12.''.
    (b) Table of Sections Amendment.--The table of sections for chapter 
14 of the Atomic Energy Act of 1954 is amended by adding at the end the 
following new item:

``Sec. 170D. Design basis threat.''.

SEC. 307. DEFENSE OF FACILITIES.

    (a) Amendment.--Chapter 14 of the Atomic Energy Act of 1954 (42 
U.S.C. 2201-2210b) is amended by adding at the end the following new 
section:
    ``Sec. 170E. Defense of Facilities.--
    ``Whenever a state of war or national emergency exists, the 
President is authorized to deploy the Armed Forces of the United 
States, or the National Guard, to defend facilities licensed by the 
Nuclear Regulatory Commission under this Act from terrorist attack or 
threat from any foreign power. The President is also authorized to 
restrict air space in the vicinity of such facilities.''.
    (b) Table of Sections Amendment.--The table of sections for chapter 
14 of the Atomic Energy Act of 1954 is amended by adding at the end the 
following new item:

``Sec. 170E. Defense of facilities.''.
    (c) Savings.--Nothing in the amendment made by subsection (a) shall 
be construed to limit the President's authority under any other Act or 
under the Constitution.

        Subtitle B--Secure America's Information Infrastructure

SEC. 311. SECURE OUR FIBER OPTIC INFRASTRUCTURE.

    (a) Risk Management Assessment.--Not later than one year after the 
date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Commerce, acting 
through the National Telecommunications and Information Administration 
of the Department of Commerce, shall transmit to Congress a report 
describing the results of a risk management assessment of the Nation's 
fiber optic infrastructure. Such report shall include the results of a 
threat assessment, vulnerabilty assessment and criticality assessment 
of such infrastructure in the United States, and make recommendations 
on actions that may reduce the risk and mitigate the consequences of an 
attack or event. Such report shall assess but not be limited to:
            (1) Physical attacks.--Physical attack against Network 
        Operations Centers (NOC's), Point of Presence facilities 
        (POP's), or signal amplification/regeneration facilities: 
        computer equipment, mechanical systems, electrical systems.
            (2) Sophisticated exploitation.--Use of sophisticated 
        techniques to exploit active fiber optic cable, to extract data 
        or degrade or permanently darken fiber over time.
            (3) Sabotage.--Sabotage (cutting/bending) of in-ground or 
        aerial cable lines.
            (4) Hacker attacks.--Logical (hacker) attacks against 
        network to deactivate one or more runs, alter repeater 
        synchronization, or cripple monitoring ability.
    (b) Report.--The National Telecommunications and Information 
Administration shall submit a report on the evaluation and assessment 
conducted under this section to the Congress not later than December 
31, 2002.
    (c) Demonstration Projects.--The Secretary of Commerce shall 
provide support for projects to demonstrate best practices indentified 
under subsection (a).
    (d) Authorization of Appropriations.--There are authorized to be 
appropriated to the Secretary of Commerce for fiscal year 2002 to carry 
out this section--
            (1) $25,000,000 for subsection (a); and
            (2) $25,000,000 for subsection (b).
Such sums shall remain available until expended.

SEC. 312. ENHANCE CYBER SECURITY.

    (a) Protection of Federal Information Technology Infrastructure.--
The Secretary or Director of every Federal department or agency shall 
ensure that the Chief Information Officer of that department or 
agency--
            (1) upgrades information and security systems to protect 
        from denial-of-service or other attacks against information 
        systems;
            (2) implements an early-warning system to assist law 
        enforcement officials in the event of an attack; and
            (3) supports the development of new technologies (including 
        digital encryption) for protecting Federal database systems.
    (b) Protection of State and Local Information Systems.--There is 
authorized to be appropriated for fiscal year 2002--
            (1) $2,000,000,000 for matching grants to State and local 
        Governments for improving information and security systems and 
        employee training; and
            (2) $50,000,000 for recruitment by the Corporation for 
        National Service, in association with the Department of 
        Justice, of information technology security specialists to work 
        with local government agencies and law enforcement authorities 
        and improve network security at the local municipal level.
Such sums shall remain available until expended.
    (c) University Grants.--There is authorized to be appropriated 
$325,000,000 for fiscal year 2002 to make Federal grants to public and 
private universities to provide greater educational opportunities in 
information security for approximately 10,000 students. Such sums shall 
remain available until expended.

                Subtitle C--Secure Our Federal Buildings

SEC. 321. SECURE OUR FEDERAL BUILDINGS.

    (a) Vulnerability Assessment.--The Attorney General shall update 
the June 28, 1995 study entitled ``Vulnerability Assessment of Federal 
Facilities. Such update shall take into account the events of September 
11, 2001. The update shall address the screening of employees, the 
adequacy of currents identification systems, the adequacy of current 
surveillance measures, the potential increased need for magnetometers, 
need for mail processing at offsite secure locations, and 
cybersecurity.
    (b) Risk Management Assessment.--Not later than one year after the 
date of enactment of this Act, the Administrator of the General 
Services Administration shall transmit to Congress a report describing 
the results of a risk management assessment of Federal buildings. Such 
report shall include the results of a threat assessment, vulnerabilty 
assessment and criticality assessment of Federal buildings, and make 
recommendations on actions that may reduce the risk and mitigate the 
consequences of an attack or event.
    (c) Demonstration Projects.--The Administrator of General Services 
Administrationr shall provide support for projects to demonstrate best 
practices indentified under subsection (a).
    (d) Authorization of Appropriations.--There are authorized to be 
appropriated to the Administrator of General Services Administration 
for fiscal year 2002 to carry out this section--
            (1) $25,000,000 for subsection (a); and
            (2) $25,000,000 for subsection (b).
Such sums shall remain available until expended.

  TITLE IV--GIVE LAW ENFORCEMENT WHAT IT NEEDS TO EFFECTIVELY COMBAT 
                               TERRORISM

Subtitle A--Give Law Enforcement the Tools It Needs To Combat Terrorism

SEC. 401. IMPROVE COMPUTER ASSESSMENT TECHNOLOGY.

    The Director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation and the 
Director of Central Intelligence, in cooperation with the Department of 
Transportation and the Department of Defense, shall investigate whether 
computer knowledge assessment technologies already known and previously 
tested, with a 90 percent accuracy level, by either the Federal Bureau 
of Investigation or the Central Intelligence Agency, can be used to 
detect individuals with terrorist training. The Directors shall report 
the results of the investigation to Congress.

SEC. 402. SUPPLEMENT LOCAL LAW ENFORCEMENT.

    (a) Pilot Program.--(1) From amounts available to carry out this 
section, the Attorney General shall create a pilot program for 
eventually establishing civilian supplemental incident response teams, 
comprised of volunteers from the general public, in 120 of the largest 
metropolitan areas, with funding made available for materials, 
equipment, and training.
    (2) In accordance with accepted Federal crisis response and 
consequence management plans, these teams shall, as much as is 
practicable, provide assistance to State and local law enforcement 
agencies in a manner similar to that provided by the Civilian Emergency 
Response Teams of the Federal Emergency Management Agency. Volunteers 
shall receive training in life-saving skills, rescuer safety, civic 
assistance, general civil support, and other similar training as 
appropriate.
    (3) In creating the pilot program, due deference shall be afforded 
(to avoid duplication, redundancy, and overlap, and achieve as high a 
level of coordination as possible and necessary) to each of the 
following:
            (A) The program created and defined under section 1403(1) 
        of the Defense Against Weapons of Mass Destruction Act of 1996 
        (title XIV of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
        Year 1997; 50 U.S.C. 2302(1)).
            (B) Section 523.
            (C) The initiatives included under Section 603(1) and 
        603(2).
    (b) Authorization of Appropriations.--There are authorized to be 
appropriated $15,000,000 to carry  out this section. Such sums shall 
remain available until expended.
    (c) CONTOMS Funding.--There is authorized to be appropriated 
$2,400,000 for fiscal year 2002 to fully fund the counter narcotics 
tactical operations medical support program in the Department of 
Justice. Such sums shall remain available until expended.

     Subtitle B--Protect the U.S. Postal Service and Its Employees

SEC. 411. PROTECT THE POSTAL SERVICE AND ITS EMPLOYEES.

    (a) In General.--There is authorized to be appropriated for fiscal 
year 2002 the sum of $1,089,300,000, to be used by the United States 
Postal Service to enhance the Postal Service's ability to detect and 
neutralize, or otherwise appropriately respond to, any substance or 
other matter (whether biological, chemical, or otherwise) entered into 
the mails, without authorization, that might be dangerous or injurious 
to life, health, or property. Such sums shall remain available until 
expended.
    (b) Specific Purposes.--The amount authorized by subsection (a) 
consists of the following:
            (1) $13,000,000 for medical expenses and emergency 
        treatment costs.
            (2) $33,200,000 for protective equipment (gloves and 
        masks).
            (3) $25,600,000 for environmental testing (equipment and 
        services).
            (4) $45,000,000 for communications and education for all 
        customers and employees.
            (5) $245,000,000 for acquisition and installation of 
        antibiological systems using sanitation technology.
            (6) $53,000,000 for deployment of sanitation technology 
        (testing and employee training).
            (7) $9,500,000 for off-site irradiation services.
            (8) $306,500,000 for hazard detection equipment (with 
        Department of Justice Joint Program Office for Biological 
        Warfare Detection).
            (9) $67,000,000 for equipment and building cleaning 
        modifications.
            (10) $97,900,000 for building heating, ventilation, and 
        air-conditioning system modifications (based on recommendations 
        of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention).
            (11) $145,100,000 for major equipment modification (to 
        include automatic vacuuming).
            (12) $48,500,000 for implementation of new security 
        initiatives.

          Subtitle C--Improve Border and Customs Capabilities

SEC. 421. UPDATE BORDER AND CUSTOMS TECHNOLOGY AND DETECTION 
              CAPABILITIES AND INCREASE PERSONNEL

    (a) Neutron Scanner Technology.--The Customs Service shall expedite 
the development and deployment of pulsed fast neutron analysis (PFNA) 
technology for use by the Customs Service.
    (b) Technology To Detect Biological or Chemical Agents.--There is 
authorized to appropriated for fiscal year 2002 $500,000,000 for the 
development of scanners, for use by the Customs Service, that are 
capable of sensing biological and chemical contaminants in microscopic 
airborne quantities. Such sums shall remain available until expended.
    (c) Identification of Individuals Crossing U.S. Borders.--
            (1) Identification.--
                    (A) In general.--The Attorney General shall develop 
                a program to--
                            (i) encourage the use of biometrics to 
                        identify in a racially and ethnically neutral 
                        manner individuals crossing the borders into 
                        the United States;
                            (ii) integrate Federal databases and watch 
                        lists so as to better identify those who should 
                        not be permitted entry into the United States;
                            (iii) provide for the use of better 
                        production techniques, including holograms, 
                        magnetic strips, and embedded chips, for 
                        official Federal, State, and territory-issued 
                        forms of identification; and
                            (iv) implement biometric scanning 
                        techniques, including fingerprint recognition 
                        and ``laser visas'' to speed and automate 
                        security scanning techniques at border 
                        checkpoints (including airports) while 
                        increasing accuracy.
                    (B) Authorization of appropriations.--For the 
                purpose of carrying out subparagraph (A), there is 
                authorized to be appropriated $30,000,000 for fiscal 
                year 2002. Amounts appropriated under the preceding 
                sentence shall remain available until expended.
    (d) Increased Numbers of Border Patrol, Immigration Officers, 
Customs Inspectors, and U.S. Marshals.--
            (1) Border patrol.--(A) The Attorney General shall carry 
        out a program to increase the number of United States Border 
        Patrol personnel (from the number authorized under current law) 
        to 10,500 by fiscal year 2003.
            (B) There is authorized to be appropriated $136,000,000 for 
        fiscal year 2002 to carry out subparagraph (A). Such sums shall 
        remain available until expended.
            (2) INS.--(A) The Attorney General shall carry out a 
        program to increase the number of Immigration and 
        Naturalization Service inspectors at ports of entry to 6000 by 
        fiscal year 2003.
            (B) There is authorized to be appropriated $71,850,000 for 
        fiscal year 2002 to carry out subparagraph (A). Such sums shall 
        remain available until expended.
            (3) Customs inspectors.--(A) The Secretary of the Treasury 
        shall carry out a program to increase the number of Customs 
        Service inspectors at ports of entry to 9000 by fiscal year 
        2003.
            (B) There is authorized to be appropriated $71,850,000 for 
        fiscal year 2002 to carry out subparagraph (A). Such sums shall 
        remain available until expended.
            (4) U.S. marshals.--(A) The Attorney General shall carry 
        out a program to increase the number of United States marshals 
        to 5200 by fiscal year 2003.
            (B) There is authorized to be appropriated $12,500,000 for 
        fiscal year 2002 to carry out subparagraph (A). Such sums shall 
        remain available until expended.
    (e) Border Health Inspectors.--
            (1) Establishment.--The Commissioner of Immigration and 
        Naturalization, in consultation with the heads of appropriate 
        departments and agencies, shall establish a corps of border 
        health inspectors, to be composed of medical doctors or other 
        medical professionals, whose function shall be to inspect 
        individuals entering the United States at the borders for signs 
        of infectious disease who may be intending purposefully to 
        infect others.
            (2) Authorization of appropriations.--There is authorized 
        to be appropriated $10,000,000 for fiscal year 2002 for--
                    (A) the corps of border health inspectors 
                established under paragraph (1); and
                    (B) equipment and technology necessary for the 
                corps to carry out its functions effectively, including 
                on site communications technology, laboratories, 
                medicines, medical equipment, and medical instruments 
                and technology.
Such sums shall remain available until expended.
    (f) Amounts To Remain Available.--Amounts appropriated under this 
section shall remain available until expended.
    (g) District Judges for the District Courts.--
            (1) In general.--The President shall appoint, by and with 
        the advice and consent of the Senate--
                    (A) 5 additional district judges for the southern 
                district of California;
                    (B) 1 additional district judge for the district of 
                New Mexico;
                    (C) 1 additional district judge for the southern 
                district of Texas; and
                    (D) 2 additional district judges for the western 
                district of Texas.
            (2) Tables.--In order that the table contained in section 
        133 of title 28, United States Code, will, with respect to each 
        judicial district, reflect the changes in the total number of 
        permanent district judgeships authorized as a result of 
        paragraph (1) of this subsection, such table is amended--
                    (A) by striking the item relating to California and 
                inserting the following:

``California:
    Northern................................................        14 
    Eastern.................................................         6 
    Central.................................................        27 
    Southern................................................      13'';
                    (B) by striking the item relating to New Mexico and 
                inserting the following:

``New Mexico................................................       7'';
                and
                    (C) by striking the item relating to Texas and 
                inserting the following:

``Texas:
    Northern................................................        12 
    Southern................................................        20 
    Eastern.................................................         7 
    Western.................................................      13''.
    (h) Temporary Judgeships.--The President shall appoint, by and with 
the advice and consent of the Senate--
            (1) 4 additional district judges for the district of 
        Arizona;
            (2) 3 additional district judges for the southern district 
        of California;
            (3) 1 additional district judge for the district of New 
        Mexico; and
            (4) 1 additional district judge for the western district of 
        Texas.
For the district of Arizona, the first 4 vacancies arising on the 
district court 7 years or more after judges are first confirmed to fill 
all 4 temporary district judgeships created in that district by this 
subsection shall not be filled. For the southern district of 
California, the first 3 vacancies arising on the district court 7 years 
or more after judges are first confirmed to fill all 3 temporary 
district judgeships created in that district by this subsection shall 
not be filled. For each of the other judicial districts named in this 
subsection, the first vacancy arising on the district court 7 years or 
more after a judge is first confirmed to fill the temporary district 
judgeship created in that district by this subsection shall not be 
filled.
    (i) Authorization of Appropriations.--There are authorized to be 
appropriated $15,200,000 for fiscal year 2002 to carry out the 
provisions of subsections (g) and (h), including such sums as may be 
necessary to provide appropriate space and facilities for the judicial 
positions created by this Act. Such sums shall remain available until 
expended.

SEC. 422. IMPROVE CUSTOMS SERVICE RECONNAISSANCE.

    (a) Program.--The Director of Homeland Security, in consultation 
with the United States Custom Service, shall consider a program to 
improve aerial reconnaissance activities on the United States borders, 
to include the acquisition and deployment of unmanned aerial vehicle 
systems.
    (b) Use of Unmanned Aerial Vehicles.--Under the program, the United 
States Customs Service may acquire and deploy unmanned aerial vehicle 
systems.
    (c) Commencement.--If approved, the program under this section 
shall begin during fiscal year 2003.
    (d) Authorization.--There is authorized to be appropriated $300,000 
for fiscal year 2002 and $26,000,000 to purchase, using appropriate 
competitive procedures equipment to meet the requirements established 
under subsection (a). Such sums shall remain available until expended.

  TITLE V--IMPROVE INTERAGENCY AND INTERGOVERNMENTAL COORDINATION AND 
                          INFORMATION SHARING

       Subtitle A--Interagency and Intergovernmental Coordination

SEC. 501. IMPROVE INTERAGENCY AND INTERGOVERNMENTAL COORDINATION.

    (a) Sense of Congress.--It is the Sense of Congress that the 
organization and culture of various Federal entities prevent maximally 
effective and timely sharing of  vital information relevant to 
preventing, preparing for, or responding to acts of terrorism.
    (b) Duty of President.--The President shall, through the Office of 
Homeland Security, oversee the appropriate sharing of information among 
Federal, State, and local agencies involved in intelligence collection 
and law enforcement for the purpose of protecting homeland security.
    (c) Establishment of Entity.--The Assistant to the President for 
Homeland Security shall establish an entity within Office of Homeland 
Security to develop a system-wide information network to reduce 
interagency compartmentalization of vital intelligence, to provide 
coordination in areas in which agency responsibilities overlap, and to 
avoid duplication of unnecessary efforts and resources.
    (d) Specific Duties.--The entity established under subsection (b) 
shall--
            (1) integrate in the information network the databases of 
        existing watch lists of suspected terrorists now collected and 
        maintained by the Federal Bureau of Investigation, the 
        Immigration and Naturalization Service, the Department of 
        Justice and the State Department and any other appropriate 
        intelligence or law enforcement agencies;
            (2) ensure appropriate access to the information network on 
        a timely basis by Federal, State, and local intelligence and 
        law enforcement entities;
            (3) ensure appropriate training exists for the use of the 
        network for all Federal, State, and local users;
            (4) protect personal privacy and other relevant personal 
        liberties by ensuring access to the network to authorized users 
        only and protection of sensitive information on the network as 
        needed;
            (5) include in the network all such data from biometric and 
        other technologies as are available, including fingerprints, 
        DNA, and other biological information of suspected terrorists; 
        and
            (6) consider possible consolidation of other Federal 
        entities, especially in the area of border control, that may 
        duplicate information sharing.
    (e) Protecting Confidentiality.--In establishing and maintaining 
the network under subsection (c), the Assistant to the President for 
Homeland Security Affairs shall ensure that the information in the 
database is only provided to individuals who are approved for access to 
the information involved, and shall ensure that the network is operated 
in compliance with requirements under law regarding protection against 
unauthorized disclosure of information for reasons of national 
security.
    (f) Authorization.--There is authorized to be appropriated 
$5,000,000 for fiscal year 2002 to the Executive Office of the 
President for the establishment of the information network under this 
section. Such sums shall remain available until expended.

    Subtitle B--Increase Capabilities for Federal, State, and Local 
                        Terrorism and Prevention

SEC. 511. AUTHORITY TO SHARE ELECTRONIC, WIRE, AND ORAL INTERCEPTION 
              INFORMATION.

    Section 2517(6) of title 18, United States Code, is amended as 
follows:
            (1) In the first sentence, by inserting after ``national 
        security official'' the following: ``or to law enforcement 
        personnel of a State or political subdivision of a State 
        (including the chief executive officer of that State or 
        political subdivision who has the authority to appoint or 
        direct the chief law enforcement officer of that State or 
        political subdivision)''.
            (2) In the second sentence, by striking ``Federal''.
            (3) By adding at the end the following: ``Any chief 
        executive officer or law enforcement personnel of a State or 
        political subdivision of a State who receives information 
        pursuant to this paragraph shall only use that information 
        consistent with such guidelines as the Attorney General shall 
        issue to protect confidentiality.''.

SEC. 512. FOREIGN INTELLIGENCE INFORMATION.

    Section 203(d)(1) of the Uniting and Strengthening America by 
Providing Appropriate Tools Required to Intercept and Obstruct 
Terrorism Act (USA PATRIOT ACT) of 2001 (Public Law 107-56) is amended 
as follows:
            (1) In the first sentence, by inserting after ``national 
        security official'' the following: ``or to law enforcement 
        personnel of a State or political subdivision of a State 
        (including the chief executive officer of that State or 
        political subdivision who has the authority to appoint or 
        direct the chief law enforcement officer of that State or 
        political subdivision)''.
            (2) In the second sentence, by striking ``Federal''.
            (3) By adding at the end the following: ``Any chief 
        executive officer or law enforcement personnel of a State or 
        political subdivision of a State who receives information 
        pursuant to this paragraph shall only use that information 
        consistent with such guidelines as the Attorney General shall 
        issue to protect confidentiality.''.

SEC. 513. DISCLOSURES TO GOVERNMENTAL AGENCIES FOR COUNTERTERRORISM 
              PURPOSES.

    Section 626(a) of the Fair Credit Reporting Act (15 U.S.C. 1681 et 
seq.) is amended by adding at the end the following: ``The recipient of 
that consumer report or information may further disclose the contents 
of that report or information to law enforcement personnel of a State 
or political subdivision of a State (including the chief executive 
officer of that State or political subdivision who has the authority to 
appoint or direct the chief law enforcement officer of that State or 
political subdivision) to assist the official who is to receive that 
information in the performance of the official duties of that official. 
Any chief executive officer or law enforcement personnel of a State or 
political subdivision of a State who receives information pursuant to 
this subsection shall only use that information consistent with such 
guidelines as the Attorney General shall issue to protect 
confidentiality.''.

SEC. 514. MULTILATERAL COOPERATION AGAINST TERRORISTS.

    Section 222(f) of the Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 
1202(f)) is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (1), by striking the period at the end and 
        inserting a semicolon;
            (2) by redesignating paragraph (2) as paragraph (3); and
            (3) by inserting after paragraph (1) the following:
            ``(2) the Secretary of State may provide copies of any 
        record of the Department of State and of diplomatic and 
        consular offices of the United States pertaining to the 
        issuance or refusal of visas or permits to enter the United 
        States, or any information contained in those records, to law 
        enforcement personnel of a State or political subdivision of a 
        State (including the chief executive officer of that State or 
        political subdivision who has the authority to appoint or 
        direct the chief law enforcement officer of that State or 
        political subdivision), if the Secretary determines that it is 
        necessary and appropriate, however, any chief executive officer 
        or law enforcement personnel of a State or political 
        subdivision of a State who receives information pursuant to 
        this paragraph shall only use that information consistent with 
        such guidelines as the Attorney General shall issue to protect 
        confidentiality; and''.

SEC. 515. INFORMATION ACQUIRED FROM AN ELECTRONIC SURVEILLANCE.

    Section 160(k)(1) of the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act of 
1978 (50 U.S.C. 1806) is amended by inserting after ``law enforcement 
officers'' the following: ``or law enforcement personnel of a State or 
political subdivision of a State (including the chief executive officer 
of that State or political subdivision who has the authority to appoint 
or direct the chief law enforcement officer of that State or political 
subdivision)''.

SEC. 516. INFORMATION ACQUIRED FROM A PHYSICAL SEARCH.

    Section 305(k)(1) of the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act of 
1978 (50 U.S.C. 1825) is amended by inserting after ``law enforcement 
officers'' the following: ``or law enforcement personnel of a State or 
political subdivision of a State (including the chief executive officer 
of that State or political subdivision who has the authority to appoint 
or direct the chief law enforcement officer of that State or political 
subdivision)''.

SEC. 517. PURPOSE OF AUTHORITY.

    The authorities provided by the amendments made by sections 511 
through 516 are for the purpose of protecting the territory, critical 
infrastructures, and citizens of the United States by Federal, State, 
and local government entities from the threat or use of chemical, 
biological, radiological, nuclear, cyber, or conventional weapons by 
military or other means.

Subtitle C--Increasing Capabilities and Coordination within and between 
                          Levels of Government

SEC. 521. INCREASE EFFICIENCY OF INFORMATION SHARING AND OF BACKGROUND 
              SECURITY CLEARANCES.

    (a) Background Security Clearances.--The President shall make such 
adjustments to the conduct of background investigations by agencies and 
Departments of the United States for access to classified information 
as are required to provide for the following:
            (1) Background investigations are conducted for access to 
        such information on elected State officials if the officials 
        elect to have such access.
            (2) Background investigations are conducted for access to 
        such information on elected local officials as the President 
        determines appropriate.
            (3) Background investigations are conducted for access to 
        such information on State and local law enforcement personnel 
        so that--
                    (A) in the case of a State law enforcement 
                official, at least one such official in the State has 
                access to such information; and
                    (B) in the case of a local law enforcement 
                official, at least one such official for each Field 
                Office of the Federal Bureau of Investigation in the 
                State has access to such information.
            (4) Expeditious completion of background investigations.
            (5) Increase in personnel within agencies and Departments 
        of the United States to conduct background investigations.
    (b) Authorization of Appropriations.--There are authorized to be 
appropriated $10,000,000 for fiscal year 2002 to be available until 
expended, and such sums as are necessary in succeeding fiscal years, to 
carry out paragraph (1). Such sums shall remain available until 
expended.

SEC. 522. PREVENTION OF DELAY IN REASSIGNMENT OF 24 MEGAHERTZ FOR 
              PUBLIC SAFETY PURPOSES.

    Section 309(j)(14) of the Communications Act of 1934 (47 U.S.C. 
309(j)(14) is amended by adding at the end the following new 
subparagraph:
                    ``(D) Extensions not permitted for channels (63, 
                64, 68 and 69) reassigned for public safety services.--
                Notwithstanding subparagraph (B), the Commission shall 
                not grant any extension under such subparagraph from 
                the limitation of subparagraph (A) with respect to the 
                frequencies assigned, pursuant to section 337(a)(1), 
                for public safety services. The Commission shall take 
                all actions necessary to complete assignment of the 
                electromagnetic spectrum between 764 and 776 megahertz, 
                inclusive, and between 794 and 806 megahertz, 
                inclusive, for public safety services and to permit 
                operations by public safety services on those 
                frequencies commencing no later than January 1, 
                2007.''.

SEC. 523. ESTABLISHMENT OF EMERGING THREAT WORKSPACES.

    (a) In General.--The Attorney General shall establish, in 
conjunction with appropriate crisis response and consequence management 
officials, emerging threat workspaces in 56 regions throughout the 
United States to prepare for and respond to states of emergency 
resulting from acts of terrorism committed in or around the region. 
Such emerging threat workspaces shall be operated in accordance with 
accepted crisis response and consequence management activities and 
procedures from funds made available under subsection (c).
    (b) Functions of Emerging Threat Workspaces.--An emerging threat 
workspace shall be used in  non-military efforts to coordinate Federal, 
State, and local personnel--
            (1) to develop and test technologies and protocols for 
        command, control, communications, computers, intelligence, and 
        surveillance for urban operations, and to develop response 
        procedures for a state of emergency; and
            (2) to assist with the coordination, training, planning, 
        and response operations of all pertinent officials and 
        personnel involved in responding to a state of emergency.
    (c) Authorization of Appropriations.--There are authorized to be 
appropriated to the Attorney General to carry out this section 
$168,000,000 for fiscal year 2002, such sums to be available until 
expended.

SEC. 524. MAINTENANCE OF SECURE BIOAGENT DATABASE.

    (a) In General.--In order to ensure access to information needed to 
prevent or investigate terrorist activity conducted through the use of 
biological agents, the Secretary of Health and Human Services, acting 
through the Director of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, 
shall maintain a database containing information on the possession and 
physical attributes (such as particular strain and physical 
characteristics) of select biological agents determined by the 
Secretary and the Director to pose a threat to public health by 
terrorist attack.
    (b) Access to Database.--The database maintained under subsection 
(a) shall be accessible by authorized personnel of the Department of 
Health and Human Services, the Federal Bureau of Investigation, 
agencies and Departments of the intelligence community, Federal, State, 
and local law enforcement agencies, and other departments and agencies 
of the United States relating to the national security.
    (c) Maintenance of Information Infrastructure.--In maintaining the 
database, the Secretary shall maintain an information technology 
infrastructure and communications connectivity for such database and 
existing databases of information with respect to genetic sequencing of 
known sources of anthrax or other biological or chemical weapon agents 
collected by the departments and agencies referred to in subsection (a) 
to provide for interoperability of those databases with the database 
maintained under such subsection.
    (d) Protecting Confidentiality.--In maintaining the database, the 
Secretary shall ensure that the information in the database is only 
provided to individuals who are approved for access to the information 
involved, and shall ensure that the database is operated in compliance 
with requirements under law regarding protection against unauthorized 
disclosure of information for reasons of national security.

SEC. 525. ESTABLISHMENT OF JOINT TASK FORCE FOR INTERAGENCY 
              CLEARINGHOUSE.

    (a) In General.--Not later than four months after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the President shall establish within the Office 
for Homeland Security a center for purposes of developing an 
interagency clearinghouse for new counterterrorism technologies.
    (b) Membership.--(1) The President shall appoint to the center such 
personnel of the Office for Homeland Security as the President 
determines appropriate.
    (2) The President shall provide for the detail of personnel to the 
center from--
            (A) the Federal Bureau of Investigation,
            (B) the intelligence community,
            (C) Federal law enforcement agencies,
            (D) the Department of Defense, and
            (E) departments and agencies of the United States relating 
        to the national security and research and development.
    (3) There shall be representation in the center from private sector 
technology organizations and any non-profit technology organizations, 
as appropriate. Private sector or non-profit personnel in the Center 
shall not receive a salary for their services but may be reimbursed for 
expenses incurred in the performance of duties for the Center.
    (4) The Assistant to the President for Homeland Security shall 
serve as the chairperson of the center, and may appoint an executive 
director to operate the center.
    (c) Duties.--The center shall--
            (1) solicit and analyze new counterterrorism technologies 
        from private sector vendors;
            (2) forward proposals and recommendations to the 
        departments and agencies of the United States relating to the 
        national security as appropriate;
            (3) conduct outreach to the private sector with respect to 
        needs of the Federal Government and conduct outreach to the 
        agencies and Departments of the United States with respect to 
        appropriate technologies available in the private sector; and
            (4) recommend to the President changes to the Federal 
        budget for technology procurement and research and development 
        as needed.

TITLE VI--PREVENT THE PROLIFERATION OF WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION AND 
          PREPARE THE MILITARY TO EFFECTIVELY FIGHT TERRORISM

SEC. 601. THREAT REDUCTION.

    (a) Findings.--Congress finds that the potential for the 
international proliferation of nuclear, chemical, biological, and other 
weapons of mass destruction poses perhaps the greatest threat to the 
security of the United States.
    (b) Statement of Policy.--It is the policy of the United States to 
work with other nations, especially Russia, to prevent the spread of 
nuclear, chemical, biological, and other weapons of mass destruction, 
and to prevent the proliferation of nuclear, chemical, and biological 
weapons materials and expertise.
    (c) Authorization of Appropriations.--In furtherance of the policy 
described in subsection (b), in addition to any funds otherwise 
authorized to be appropriated, there are authorized to be appropriated 
the following amounts for fiscal year 2002:
            (1) For cooperative threat reduction programs of the 
        Department of Defense, $50,000,000, of which not more than 
        $25,000,000 may be used for nuclear warhead storage and 
        transportation security.
            (2) For cooperative threat reduction programs and other 
        related programs of the Department Energy, $650,000,000, of 
        which not more than the following amounts may be obligated for 
        the purposes specified:
                    (A) $200,000,000 for the International Materials 
                Protection Control and Accounting Program.
                    (B) $200,000,000 for warhead dismantlement 
                transparency activities.
                    (C) $75,000,000 for the initiatives for 
                proliferation prevention and nuclear cities initiative.
                    (D) $75,000,000 for non-proliferation verification 
                research and development.
                    (E) $50,000,000 for U.S.--Russian fissile material 
                disposition.
                    (F) $38,000,000 for ending Russian civil plutonium 
                production.
            (3) For cooperative threat reduction programs and other 
        related programs the Department of State, $50,000,000, of which 
        not more than $30,000,000 may be used for export control 
        assistance.
    (d) Report on Debt for Security Programs and Other Sources of 
Funding for Nuclear Nonproliferation Programs.--
            (1) Study.--The President shall conduct a study of--
                    (A) the feasibility of creating a new source of 
                funds for nuclear nonproliferation programs in Russia 
                through establishment of a program providing for the 
                forgiveness of international debt of Russia in exchange 
                for payments by Russia into an independent fund that, 
                under strict conditions, would support the 
                implementation of agreed-upon nuclear nonproliferation 
                programs; and
                    (B) other potential alternative sources of funding 
                for nuclear nonproliferation programs, such as funding 
                through the establishment of a loan guarantee program.
            (2) Consultation.--In the conduct of the study under 
        paragraph (1), the President shall consult with appropriate 
        representatives of Russia and other nations whose participation 
        in such a program the President determines to be necessary or 
        desirable.
            (3) Report on presidential determinations.--Not later than 
        April 15, 2002, the President shall submit to Congress a report 
        on the study required by paragraph (1). The report shall 
        include the President's determinations, together with 
        supporting facts and reasoning, as to each of the following:
                    (A) The prospects for the participation of creditor 
                nations in addition to the United States in the program 
                of debt forgiveness.
                    (B) The extent to which payments by Russia into a 
                fund described in paragraph (1) should be made in 
                Russian currency.
                    (C) The appropriate ratio between the amount of 
                such payments and the amount of debt forgiven.
                    (D) The purposes for which amounts in the fund 
                should be permitted to be expended.
                    (E) The means for assuring that those amounts are 
                expended for those purposes.
                    (F) The feasibility of establishing such a program.
                    (G) The prospects for establishing a loan guarantee 
                program under which loan guarantees are made to private 
                lenders that provide loans to the Government of Russia 
                for one or more of the following purposes:
                            (i) Retirement of sovereign debt of Russia.
                            (ii) Support of nuclear nonproliferation 
                        programs and activities of Russia.
                            (iii) Development of the energy 
                        infrastructure of Russia, including development 
                        of peaceful uses of nuclear energy in a manner 
                        that complies with the Nuclear Nonproliferation 
                        Treaty.
            (4) Legislative proposal.--The report under paragraph (3) 
        shall include a legislative proposal for implementing any 
        program that the President recommends based on the 
        determinations under that paragraph.
            (5) Nuclear nonproliferation treaty defined.--In this 
        section, the term ``Nuclear Nonproliferation Treaty'' means the 
        Treaty on the Nonproliferation of Nuclear Weapons, as opened 
        for signature July 1, 1968.

SEC. 602. RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT.

    (a) Plan Required.--The Secretary of Defense shall develop an 
integrated plan for the Department of Defense for the use of technology 
to combat terrorism. The plan shall include the following elements:
            (1) An identification of the near-term, mid-term, and long-
        term requirements of the Department for the use of technology 
        for such purposes.
            (2) An identification of the core technologies of the 
        Department that are applicable for use for such purposes.
            (3) An action plan for the use of technology for such 
        purposes, including an identification of the participants and 
        resources required for such action plan.
    (b) Covered Technologies.--In preparing the plan required by 
subsection (a), the Secretary shall focus on technologies that 
emphasize survivability and denial, deterrence and warning, consequence 
management and recovery, and tracking and retaliation.
    (c) Investment.--From amounts made available to carry out this 
subsection, the Secretary shall invest in specific technologies that 
offer assurances for maintaining into the future the United States' 
advantage in technologies referred to in subsection (b). Such specific 
technologies shall include miniaturization, bulk explosives detection, 
advanced mapping and tracking, and robotics.
    (d) Authorization of Appropriations.--There are authorized to be 
appropriated $512,000,000 for fiscal year 2002 to carry out subsection 
(c). Such sums shall remain available until expended.

SEC. 603. READINESS, TRAINING, AND FORCE PROTECTION.

    There is authorized to be appropriated for the military functions 
of the Department of Defense $5,578,000,000 for fiscal year 2002, as 
follows:
            (1) For modernization of perimeter security and facility 
        upgrades at military installations, $767,000,000.
            (2) For enhancement of antiterrorism and force protection 
        measures through training initiatives and minor acquisitions, 
        $643,000,000, of which $10,000,000 shall be available for the 
        Fire and Emergency Services and Emergency Medical Services 
        Programs in the Department of Defense.
            (3) For readiness improvements through increased flying 
        hours and vehicle miles, $1,506,000,000.
            (4) For depot maintenance and procurement of spare parts, 
        $1,384,000,000.
            (5) For increased special duty pay, $1,278,000,000.
Such sums shall remain available until expended.

SEC. 604. COMMAND AND CONTROL, THREAT ASSESSMENT, AND ANALYSIS.

    There is authorized to be appropriated for the military functions 
of the Department of Defense $1,160,000,000 for fiscal year 2002 for 
the following purposes:
            (1) For improved communications and coordination, 
        $900,000,000.
            (2) For improved connectivity and information assurance, 
        $200,000,000.
            (3) For creating and instituting a comprehensive threat and 
        risk assessment process, $20,000,000.
            (4) For implementing new methodologies for intelligence 
        research and dissemination, $40,000,000.
Such sums shall remain available until expended.

            TITLE VII--HOMELAND SECURITY STRATEGY AND BUDGET

SEC. 701. DIRECTOR FOR HOMELAND SECURITY AND PROGRAM ASSOCIATE DIRECTOR 
              FOR HOMELAND SECURITY.

    (a) Director.--There shall be within the Executive Office of the 
President a Director of Homeland Security, who shall be appointed by 
the President with the advice and consent of the Senate.
    (b) Program Associate Director.--There shall be within the Office 
of Management and Budget a Program Associate Director for Homeland 
Security.

SEC. 702. FIVE-YEAR HOMELAND SECURITY STRATEGY AND BUDGET.

    (a) Comprehensive Risk Assessment.--The Director of Homeland 
Security shall conduct, in coordination with United States 
intelligence, law enforcement, and other appropriate agencies, a 
comprehensive risk assessment of threat to the United States. Such risk 
assessment shall--
            (1) include, to the extent the Director considers 
        appropriate and practicable, an identification of 
        vulnerabilities of the United States and terrorist groups that 
        may intend to conduct terrorist attacks on United States 
        territory;
            (2) attempt to prioritize risks and cover a period of at 
        least five years;
            (3) be provided to Congress not later than May 15, 2002; 
        and
            (4) be updated and provided to Congress annually not later 
        than May 15th.
    (b) Homeland Security Strategy.--The Director of Homeland Security 
shall develop a 5-year homeland security strategy to respond to the 
risk assessment required by subsection (a). Such strategy shall--
            (1) clearly define homeland security, including the 
        specific programs and activities of Federal agencies that 
        constitute homeland security;
            (2) specify the roles of Federal agencies in preventing, 
        preparing for, and responding to acts of terrorism, and 
        prioritize the activities of such agencies in accordance with 
        the risk assessment;
            (3) identify areas in which Federal agencies should 
        coordinate with State or local governments including those of 
        the District of Columbia, to prevent, prepare for, and respond 
        to acts of terrorism, and make recommendations on how such 
        coordination can be effectively implemented;
            (4) recommend an appropriate budget for each Federal agency 
        for a five-year period to meet the requirements of the homeland 
        security strategy;
            (5) identify those risks which the Director believes either 
        cannot be prevented or for which more than 5 years will be 
        required to adequately implement prevention measures;
            (6) be provided to Congress, in both classified and 
        unclassified form, not later than November 15, 2002; and
            (7) be updated and provided to Congress annually, in both 
        classified and unclassified form, not later than November 15th.
    (c) Homeland Security Budget.--(1) The Program Associate Director 
for Homeland Security shall be responsible for ensuring that, beginning 
with the President's budget submission to Congress for fiscal year 
2004, the President's budget submission is consistent with the budget 
recommended by the Director of Homeland Security. In carrying out such 
responsibility, the Program Associate Director shall notify the 
Director of Homeland Security and the Director of Office of Management 
and Budget of any case in which the budget request for an agency to the 
Office of Management and Budget is not consistent with the recommended 
budget of the Director of Homeland Security for such agency. In any 
such case, the head of the agency, the Program Associate Director, and 
the Director of Homeland Security shall seek to agree on an appropriate 
budget that meets homeland security requirements.
    (2) In the event that no agreement can be reached under paragraph 
(1) for an agency, the Director of Homeland Security and the Director 
of the Office of Management and Budget shall resolve the funding level 
for the agency to bring it into compliance with the Office of Homeland 
Security Budget. The head of the agency or the Director of Homeland 
Security may appeal such resolution to the President.

SEC. 703. FISCAL YEAR 2003 BUDGET.

    The Director of Homeland Security shall be involved, to the maximum 
extent practicable, in the formulation of the President's budget 
request to Congress for fiscal year 2003 in order to ensure an adequate 
budget for homeland security. Not later than the date that is 30 days 
after the date of the submission of such request, the Director of 
Homeland Security shall submit a report to Congress that identifies any 
budgetary shortfalls with respect to an agency budget for the purposes 
of homeland security.
                                 &lt;all&gt;
</pre></body></html>
