<html><body><pre>
[Congressional Bills 106th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[S. 2606 Introduced in Senate (IS)]







106th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                S. 2606

             To protect the privacy of American consumers.


_______________________________________________________________________


                   IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

                              May 23, 2000

Mr. Hollings (for himself, Mr. Rockefeller, Mr. Bryan, Mr. Breaux, Mr. 
Inouye, Mr. Feingold, Mr. Edwards, Mr. Kerrey, Mr. Cleland, Mr. Durbin, 
 and Mr. Byrd) introduced the following bill; which was read twice and 
   referred to the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
             To protect the privacy of American consumers.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Consumer Privacy Protection Act''.

SEC. 2. FINDINGS.

    The Congress makes the following findings:
            (1) The right to privacy is a personal and fundamental 
        right worthy of protection through appropriate legislation.
            (2) Consumers engaging in and interacting with companies 
        engaged in interstate commerce have an ownership interest in 
        their personal information, as well as a right to control how 
        that information is collected, used, or transferred.
            (3) Existing State, local, and Federal laws provide 
        virtually no privacy protection for Internet users.
            (4) Moreover, existing privacy regulation of the general, 
        or offline, marketplace provides inadequate consumer 
        protections in light of the significant data collection and 
        dissemination practices employed today.
            (5) The Federal Government thus far has eschewed general 
        Internet privacy laws in favor of industry self-regulation, 
        which has led to several self-policing schemes, none of which 
        are enforceable in any meaningful way or provide sufficient 
        consumer protection.
            (6) State governments have been reluctant to enter the 
        field of Internet privacy regulation because use of the 
        Internet often crosses State, or even national, boundaries.
            (7) States are nonetheless interested in providing greater 
        privacy protection to their citizens as evidenced by recent 
        lawsuits brought against offline and online companies by State 
        attorneys general to protect consumer privacy.
            (8) Personal information flowing over the Internet requires 
        greater privacy protection than is currently available today. 
        Vast amounts of personal information about individual Internet 
        users are collected on the Internet and sold or otherwise 
        transferred to third parties.
            (9) Poll after poll consistently demonstrates that 
        individual Internet users are highly troubled over their lack 
        of control over their personal information.
            (10) Research on the Internet industry demonstrates that 
        consumer concerns about their privacy on the Internet has a 
        correlative negative impact on the development of e-commerce.
            (11) Notwithstanding these concerns, the Internet is 
        becoming a major part of the personal and commercial lives of 
        millions of Americans, providing increased access to 
        information, as well as communications and commercial 
        opportunities.
            (12) It is important to establish personal privacy rights 
        and industry obligations now so that consumers have confidence 
        that their personal privacy is fully protected on our Nation's 
        telecommunications networks and on the Internet.
            (13) The social and economic costs of imposing obligations 
        on industry now will be lower than if Congress waits until the 
        Internet becomes more prevalent in our everyday lives in coming 
        years.
            (14) Absent the recognition of these rights and the 
        establishment of consequent industry responsibilities to 
        safeguard those rights, consumer privacy will soon be more 
        gravely threatened.
            (15) The ease of gathering and compiling personal 
        information on the Internet, both overtly and surreptitiously, 
        is becoming increasingly efficient and effortless due to 
        advances in digital communications technology which have 
        provided information gatherers the ability to seamlessly 
        compile highly detailed personal histories of Internet users.
            (16) Consumers must have--
                    (A) clear and conspicuous notice that information 
                is being collected about them;
                    (B) clear and conspicuous notice as to the 
                information gatherer's intent with respect to that 
                information;
                    (C) the ability to control the extent to which 
                information is collected about them; and
                    (D) the right to prohibit any unauthorized use, 
                reuse, disclosure, transfer, or sale of their 
                information.
            (17) Fair information practices include providing consumers 
        with knowledge of any data collection clear and conspicuous 
        notice of an entity's information practices, the ability to 
        control whether or not those practices will be applied to them 
        personally, access to information collected about them, and 
        safeguards to ensure the integrity and security of that 
        information.
            (18) Recent surveys of websites conducted by the Federal 
        Trade Commission and Georgetown University found that a small 
        minority of websites surveyed contained a privacy policy 
        embodying fair information practices such as notice, choice, 
        access, and security.
            (19) Americans expect that their purchases of written 
        materials, videos, and music will remain confidential, whether 
        they are shopping online or in the traditional workplace.
            (20) Consumer privacy with respect to written materials, 
        music, and movies should be protected vigilantly to ensure the 
        free exercise of First Amendment rights of expression, 
        regardless of medium.
            (21) Under current law, millions of American cable 
        customers are protected against disclosures of their personal 
        subscriber information without notice and choice, whereas no 
        similar protection is available to subscribers of multichannel 
        video programming via satellite.
            (22) Almost every American is a consumer of some form of 
        communications service, be it wireless, wireline, cable, 
        broadcast, or satellite.
            (23) In light of the convergence of and emerging 
        competition among and between wireless, wireline, satellite, 
        broadcast, and cable companies, privacy safeguards should be 
        applied uniformly across different communications media so as 
        to provide consistent consumer privacy protections as well as a 
        level competitive playing field for industry.
            (24) Notwithstanding the recent focus on Internet privacy, 
        privacy issues abound in the traditional, or offline, 
        marketplace that merit Federal attention.
            (25) The Congress would benefit from an exhaustive analysis 
        of general marketplace privacy issues conducted by the agency 
        with the most expertise in this area, the Federal Trade 
        Commission.
            (26) While American workers are growing increasingly 
        concerned that their employers may be violating their privacy, 
        many workers are unaware that their activities in the workplace 
        may be subject to significant and potentially invasive 
        monitoring.
            (27) While employers may have a legitimate need to maintain 
        an efficient and productive workforce, that need should not 
        improperly impinge on employee privacy rights in the workplace.
            (28) Databases containing personal information about 
        consumers' commercial purchasing, browsing, and shopping 
        habits, as well as their generalized product preferences, 
        represent considerable commercial value.
            (29) These databases should not be considered an asset with 
        respect to creditors' interests if the asset holder has availed 
        itself of the protection of State or Federal bankruptcy laws.

SEC. 3. PREEMPTION OF INCONSISTENT STATE LAW OR REGULATIONS.

    (a) In General.--Except as provided in subsection (b), this Act 
preempts any State law, regulation, or rule that is inconsistent with 
the provisions of this Act.
    (b) Exceptions.--
            (1) In general.--Nothing in this Act preempts--
                    (A) the law of torts in any State;
                    (B) the common law in any State; or
                    (C) any State law, regulation, or rule that 
                prohibits fraud or provides a remedy for fraud.
            (2) Private right-of-action.--Notwithstanding subsection 
        (a), if a State law provides for a private right-of-action 
        under a statute enacted to provide consumer protection, nothing 
        in this Act precludes a person from bringing such an action 
        under that statute, even if the statute is otherwise preempted 
        in whole or in part under subsection (a).

SEC. 4. TABLE OF CONTENTS.

    The table of contents of this Act is as follows:

Sec. 1. Short title.
Sec. 2. Findings.
Sec. 3. Preemption of inconsistent State law or regulations.
Sec. 4. Table of contents.
                              TITLE I--ONLINE PRIVACY
Sec. 101. Collection or disclosure of personally identifiable 
                            information.
Sec. 102. Notice, consent, access, and security requirements.
Sec. 103. Other kinds of information.
Sec. 104. Exceptions.
Sec. 105. Permanence of consent.
Sec. 106. Disclosure to law enforcement agency or under court order.
Sec. 107. Effective date.
Sec. 108. FTC rulemaking procedure required.
                              TITLE II--PRIVACY PROTECTION FOR 
                                        CONSUMERS OF BOOKS, RECORDED 
                                        MUSIC, AND VIDEOS
Sec. 201. Extension of video rental protections to books and recorded 
                            music.
Sec. 202. Effective Date.
                              TITLE III--ENFORCEMENT AND REMEDIES
Sec. 301. Enforcement.
Sec. 302. Violation is unfair or deceptive act or practice.
Sec. 303. Private right of action.
Sec. 304. Actions by States.
Sec. 305. Whistleblower protection.
Sec. 306. No effect on other remedies.
Sec. 307. FTC Office of Online Privacy.
                              TITLE IV--COMMUNICATIONS TECHNOLOGY 
                                        PRIVACY PROTECTIONS
Sec. 401. Privacy protection for subscribers of satellite television 
                            services for private home viewing.
Sec. 402. Customer proprietary network information.
                              TITLE V--RULEMAKING AND STUDIES
Sec. 501. Federal Trade Commission examination.
Sec. 502. Federal Communications Commission rulemaking.
Sec. 503. Department of Labor study of privacy issues in the workplace.
                              TITLE VI--PROTECTION OF PERSONALLY 
                                        IDENTIFIABLE INFORMATION IN 
                                        BANKRUPTCY
Sec. 601. Personally identifiable information not asset in bankruptcy.
                              TITLE VII--INTERNET SECURITY INITIATIVES
Sec. 701. Findings.
Sec. 702. Computer Security Partnership Council.
Sec. 703. Research and development.
Sec. 704. Computer security training programs.
Sec. 705. Government information security standards.
Sec. 706. Recognition of quality in computer security practices.
Sec. 707. Development of automated privacy controls.
                              TITLE VIII--CONGRESSIONAL INFORMATION 
                                        SECURITY STANDARDS
Sec. 801. Exercise of rulemaking power.
Sec. 802. Senate.
                              TITLE IX--DEFINITIONS
Sec. 901. Definitions.

                        TITLE I--ONLINE PRIVACY

SEC. 101. COLLECTION OR DISCLOSURE OF PERSONALLY IDENTIFIABLE 
              INFORMATION.

    An Internet service provider, online service provider, or operator 
of a commercial website on the Internet may not collect, use, or 
disclose personally identifiable information about a user of that 
service or website except in accordance with the provisions of this 
title.

SEC. 102. NOTICE, CONSENT, ACCESS, AND SECURITY REQUIREMENTS.

    (a) Notice.--An Internet service provider, online service provider, 
or operator of a commercial website may not collect personally 
identifiable information from a user of that service or website unless 
that provider or operator gives clear and conspicuous notice in a 
manner reasonably calculated to provide actual notice to any user or 
prospective user that personally identifiable information may be 
collected from that user. The notice shall disclose--
            (1) the specific information that will be collected;
            (2) the methods of collecting and using the information 
        collected; and
            (3) all disclosure practices of that provider or operator 
        for personally identifiable information so collected, including 
        whether it will be disclosed to third parties.
    (b) Consent.--An Internet service provider, online service 
provider, or operator of a commercial website may not--
            (1) collect personally identifiable information from a user 
        of that service or website, or
            (2) except as provided in section 107, disclose or 
        otherwise use such information about a user of that service or 
        website,
unless the provider or operator obtains that user's affirmative 
consent, in advance, to the collection and disclosure or use of that 
information.
    (c) Access.--An Internet service provider, online service provider, 
or operator of a commercial website shall--
            (1) upon request provide reasonable access to a user to 
        personally identifiable information that the provider or 
        operator has collected after the effective date of this title 
        relating to that user;
            (2) provide a reasonable opportunity for a user to correct, 
        delete, or supplement any such information maintained by that 
        provider or operator; and
            (3) make the correction or supplementary information a part 
        of that user's personally identifiable information for all 
        future disclosure and other use purposes.
    (d) Security.--An Internet service provider, online service 
provider, or operator of a commercial website shall establish and 
maintain reasonable procedures necessary to protect the security, 
confidentiality, and integrity of personally identifiable information 
maintained by that provider or operator.
    (e) Notice of Policy Change.--Whenever an Internet service 
provider, online service provider, or operator of a commercial website 
makes a material change in its policy for the collection, use, or 
disclosure of personally identifiable information, it--
            (1) shall notify all users of that service or website of 
        the change in policy; and
            (2) may not collect, disclose, or otherwise use any 
        personally identifiable information in accordance with the 
        changed policy unless the user has affirmatively consented, 
        under subsection (b), to its collection, disclosure, or use in 
        accordance with the changed policy.
    (f) Notice of Privacy Breach.--
            (1) In general.--If an Internet service provider, online 
        service provider, or operator of a commercial website commits a 
        breach of privacy with respect to the personally identifiable 
        information of a user, then it shall, as soon as reasonably 
        possible, notify all users whose personally identifiable 
        information was affected by that breach. The notice shall 
        describe the nature of the breach and the steps taken by the 
        provider or operator to remedy it.
            (2) Breach of privacy.--For purposes of paragraph (1), an 
        Internet service provider, online service provider, or operator 
        of a commercial website commits a breach of privacy with 
        respect to personally identifiable information of a user if--
                    (A) it collects, discloses, or otherwise uses 
                personally identifiable information in violation of any 
                provision of this title; or
                    (B) it knows that the security, confidentiality, or 
                integrity of personally identifiable information is 
                compromised by any act or failure to act on the part of 
                the provider or operator or by any function of the 
                Internet service or online service provided, or 
                commercial website operated, by that provider or 
                operator that resulted in a disclosure, or possible 
                disclosure, of that information.
    (g) Application to Certain Third-Party Operators.--The provisions 
of this section applicable to Internet service providers, online 
service providers, and commercial website operators apply to any third 
party, including an advertiser, that uses that service or website to 
collect information about users of that service or website.

SEC. 103. OTHER KINDS OF INFORMATION.

    (a) In General.--Except as provided in subsection (b), the 
provisions of sections 101 and 102 (except for subsections (b), (c), 
and (e)(2)) that apply to personally identifiable information apply 
also to the collection and disclosure or other use of information about 
users of an Internet service, online service, or commercial website 
that is not personally identifiable information.
    (b) Consent Rule.--An Internet service provider, online service 
provider, or operator of a commercial website may not--
            (1) collect information described in subsection (a) from a 
        user of that service or website, or
            (2) except as provided in section 107, disclose or 
        otherwise use such information about a user of that service or 
        website,
unless the provider or operator obtains that user's consent to the 
collection and disclosure or other use of that information. For 
purposes of this subsection, the user will be deemed to have consented 
unless the user objects to the collection and disclosure or other use 
of the information.
    (c) Application to Certain Third-Party Operators.--The provisions 
of this section applicable to Internet service providers, online 
service providers, and commercial website operators apply to any third 
party, including an advertiser, that uses that service or website to 
collect information about users of that service or website.

SEC. 104. EXCEPTIONS.

    (a) In General.--Sections 102 and 103 do not apply to the 
collection, disclosure, or use by an Internet service provider, online 
service provider, or operator of a commercial website of information 
about a user of that service or website--
            (1) to protect the security or integrity of the service or 
        website; or
            (2) to conduct a transaction, deliver a product or service, 
        or complete an arrangement for which the user provided the 
        information.
    (b) Disclosure to Parent Protected.--An Internet service provider, 
online service provider, or operator of a commercial website may not be 
held liable under this title, any other Federal law, or any State law 
for any disclosure made in good faith and following reasonable 
procedures in responding to a request for disclosure of personal 
information under section 1302(b)(1)(B)(iii) of the Children's Online 
Privacy Protection Act of 1998 to the parent of a child.

SEC. 105. PERMANENCE OF CONSENT.

    The consent or denial of consent by a user of permission to an 
Internet service provider, online service provider, or operator of a 
commercial website to collect, disclose, or otherwise use any 
information about that user for which consent is required under this 
title--
            (1) shall remain in effect until changed by the user;
            (2) except as provided in section 102(e), shall apply to 
        any revised, modified, new, or improved service provided by 
that provider or operator to that user; and
            (3) except as provided in section 102(e), shall apply to 
        the collection, disclosure, or other use of that information by 
        any entity that is a commercial successor of that provider or 
        operator, without regard to the legal form in which such 
        succession was accomplished.

SEC. 106. DISCLOSURE TO LAW ENFORCEMENT AGENCY OR UNDER COURT ORDER.

    (a) In General.--Notwithstanding any other provision of this title, 
an Internet service provider, online service provider, operator of a 
commercial website, or third party that uses such a service or website 
to collect information about users of that service or website may 
disclose personally identifiable information about a user of that 
service or website--
            (1) to a law enforcement agency in response to a warrant 
        issued under the Federal Rules of Criminal Procedure, an 
        equivalent State warrant, or a court order issued in accordance 
        with subsection (c); and
            (2) in response to a court order in a civil proceeding 
        granted upon a showing of compelling need for the information 
        that cannot be accommodated by any other means if--
                    (A) the user to whom the information relates is 
                given reasonable notice by the person seeking the 
                information of the court proceeding at which the order 
                is requested; and
                    (B) that user is afforded a reasonable opportunity 
                to appear and contest the issuance of requested order 
                or to narrow its scope.
    (b) Safeguards Against Further Disclosure.--A court that issues an 
order described in subsection (a) shall impose appropriate safeguards 
on the use of the information to protect against its unauthorized 
disclosure.
    (c) Court Orders.--A court order authorizing disclosure under 
subsection (a)(1) may issue only with prior notice to the user and only 
if the law enforcement agency shows that there is probable cause to 
believe that the user has engaged, is engaging, or is about to engage 
in criminal activity and that the records or other information sought 
are material to the investigation of such activity. In the case of a 
State government authority, such a court order shall not issue if 
prohibited by the law of such State. A court issuing an order pursuant 
to this subsection, on a motion made promptly by the Internet service 
provider, online service provider, or operator of the commercial 
website, may quash or modify such order if the information or records 
requested are unreasonably voluminous in nature or if compliance with 
such order otherwise would cause an unreasonable burden on the provider 
or operator.

SEC. 107. EFFECTIVE DATE.

    (a) In General.--This title takes effect after the Federal Trade 
Commission completes the rulemaking procedure under section 109.
    (b) Application to Pre-Existing Data.--
            (1) In general.--After the effective date of this title, 
        and except as provided in paragraphs (2) and (3), sections 101, 
        102, and 103 apply to information collected before the date of 
        enactment of this Act.
            (2) Collection of both kinds of information.--Section 
        102(b)(1) and 103(b)(1) do not apply to information collected 
        before the effective date of this title.
            (3) Access to personally identifiable information.--Section 
        102(c) applies to personally identifiable information collected 
        before the effective date of this title unless it is 
        economically unfeasible for the Internet service provider, 
        online service provider, or commercial website operator to 
        comply with that section for the information.

SEC. 108. FTC RULEMAKING PROCEDURE REQUIRED.

    The Federal Trade Commission shall initiate a rulemaking procedure 
within 90 days after the date of enactment of this Act to implement the 
provisions of this title. Notwithstanding any requirement of chapter 5 
of title 5, United States Code, the Commission shall complete the 
rulemaking procedure not later than 270 days after it is commenced.

 TITLE II--PRIVACY PROTECTION FOR CONSUMERS OF BOOKS, RECORDED MUSIC, 
                               AND VIDEOS

SEC. 201. EXTENSION OF VIDEO RENTAL PROTECTIONS TO BOOKS AND RECORDED 
              MUSIC.

    (a) In General.--Section 2710 of title 18, United States Code, is 
amended by striking the section designation and all that follows 
through the end of subsection (b) and inserting the following:
``Sec. 2710. Wrongful disclosure of information about video, book, or 
              recorded music rental, sale, or delivery
    ``(a) Definitions.--In this section:
            ``(1) The term `book dealer' means any person engaged in 
        the business, in or affecting interstate or foreign commerce, 
        of renting, selling, or delivering books, magazines, or other 
        written or printed material (regardless of the format or 
        medium), or any person or other entity to whom a disclosure is 
        made under subparagraph (D) or (E) of subsection (b)(2), but 
        only with respect to the information contained in the 
        disclosure.
            ``(2) The term `recorded music dealer' means any person, 
        engaged in the business, in or affecting interstate or foreign 
        commerce, of selling, renting, or delivering recorded music, 
        regardless of the format in which or medium on which it is 
        recorded, or any person or other entity to whom a disclosure is 
        made under subparagraph (D) or (E) of subsection (b)(2), but 
        only with respect to the information contained in the 
        disclosure.
            ``(3) The term `consumer' means any renter, purchaser, or 
        user of goods or services from a video provider, book dealer, 
        or recorded music dealer.
            ``(4) The term `ordinary course of business' means only 
        debt-collection activities, order fulfillment, request 
        processing, and the transfer of ownership.
            ``(5) The term `personally identifiable information' means 
        information that identifies a person as having requested or 
        obtained specific video materials or services, specific books, 
        magazines, or other written or printed materials, or specific 
        recorded music.
            ``(6) The term `video provider' means any person engaged in 
        the business, in or affecting interstate or foreign commerce, 
        of rental, sale, or delivery of recorded videos, regardless of 
        the format in which, or medium on which they are recorded, or 
        similar audio-visual materials, or any person or other entity 
        to whom a disclosure is made under subparagraph (D) or (E) of 
        subsection (b)(2), but only with respect to the information 
        contained in the disclosure.
    ``(b) Video, Book, or Recorded Music Rental, Sale, or Delivery.--
            ``(1) In general.--A video provider, book dealer, or 
        recorded music dealer who knowingly discloses, to any person, 
        personally identifiable information concerning any consumer of 
        such provider or seller, as the case may be, shall be liable to 
        the aggrieved person for the relief provided in subsection (d).
            ``(2) Disclosure.--A video provider, book dealer, or 
        recorded music dealer may disclose personally identifiable 
        information concerning any consumer--
                    ``(A) to the consumer;
                    ``(B) to any person with the informed, written 
                consent of the consumer given at the time the 
                disclosure is sought;
                    ``(C) to a law enforcement agency pursuant to a 
                warrant issued under the Federal Rules of Criminal 
                Procedure, an equivalent State warrant, or a court 
                order issued in accordance with paragraph (4);
                    ``(D) to any person if the disclosure is solely of 
                the names and addresses of consumers and if--
                            ``(i) the video provider, book dealer, or 
                        recorded music dealer, as the case may be, has 
                        provided the consumer, in a clear and 
                        conspicuous manner, with the opportunity to 
                        prohibit such disclosure; and
                            ``(ii) the disclosure does not identify the 
                        title, description, or subject matter of any 
                        video or other audio-visual material, books, 
                        magazines, or other printed material, or 
                        recorded music;
                    ``(E) to any person if the disclosure is incident 
                to the ordinary course of business of the video 
                provider, book dealer, or recorded music dealer; or
                    ``(F) pursuant to a court order, in a civil 
                proceeding upon a showing of compelling need for the 
                information that cannot be accommodated by any other 
                means, if--
                            ``(i) the consumer is given reasonable 
                        notice, by the person seeking the disclosure, 
                        of the court proceeding relevant to the 
                        issuance of the court order; and
                            ``(ii) the consumer is afforded the 
                        opportunity to appear and contest the claim of 
                        the person seeking the disclosure.
            ``(3) Safeguards.--If an order is granted pursuant to 
        subparagraph (C) or (F) of paragraph (2), the court shall 
        impose appropriate safeguards against unauthorized disclosure.
            ``(4) Court orders.--A court order authorizing disclosure 
        under paragraph (2)(C) shall issue only with prior notice to 
        the consumer and only if the law enforcement agency shows that 
        there is probable cause to believe that a person has engaged, 
        is engaging, or is about to engage in criminal activity and 
        that the records or other information sought are material to 
        the investigation of such activity. In the case of a State 
        government authority, such a court order shall not issue if 
        prohibited by the law of such State. A court issuing an order 
        pursuant to this subsection, on a motion made promptly by the 
        video provider, book dealer, or recorded music dealer, may 
        quash or modify such order if the information or records 
        requested are unreasonably voluminous in nature or if 
        compliance with such order otherwise would cause an 
        unreasonable burden on such video provider, book dealer, or 
        recorded music dealer, as the case may be.''.
    (b) Conforming Amendments.--
            (1) Subsections (c) through (f) of section 2701 of title 
        18, United States Code, are amended by striking ``video tape 
        service provider'' each place it appears and inserting ``video 
        provider''.
            (2) The item relating to section 2701 in the analysis for 
        chapter 121 of title 18, United States Code, is amended to read 
        as follows:

``2710. Wrongful disclosure of information about video, book, or 
                            recorded music rental or sales.''.

SEC. 202. EFFECTIVE DATE.

    The amendments made by section 201 take effect 12 months after the 
date of enactment of this Act.

                  TITLE III--ENFORCEMENT AND REMEDIES

SEC. 301. ENFORCEMENT.

    Except as provided in section 302(b) and section 2710(d) of title 
18, United States Code, this Act shall be enforced by the Federal Trade 
Commission. Except as otherwise provided in this Act, a violation of 
this Act may be punished in the same manner as a violation of a 
regulation of the Federal Trade Commission.

SEC. 302. VIOLATION IS UNFAIR OR DECEPTIVE ACT OR PRACTICE.

    (a) In General.--The violation of any provision of title I is an 
unfair or deceptive act or practice proscribed by section 18(a)(1)(B) 
of the Federal Trade Commission Act (15 U.S.C. 57a(a)(1)(B)).
    (b) Enforcement by Certain Other Agencies.--Compliance with title I 
of this Act shall be enforced under--
            (1) section 8 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 
        U.S.C. 1818), in the case of--
                    (A) national banks, and Federal branches and 
                Federal agencies of foreign banks, by the Office of the 
                Comptroller of the Currency;
                    (B) member banks of the Federal Reserve System 
                (other than national banks), branches and agencies of 
                foreign banks (other than Federal branches, Federal 
                agencies, and insured State branches of foreign banks), 
                commercial lending companies owned or controlled by 
                foreign banks, and organizations operating under 
                section 25 or 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act (12 
                U.S.C. 601 et seq. and 611 et seq.), by the Board; and
                    (C) banks insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance 
                Corporation (other than members of the Federal Reserve 
                System) and insured State branches of foreign banks, by 
                the Board of Directors of the Federal Deposit Insurance 
                Corporation;
            (2) section 8 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 
        U.S.C. 1818), by the Director of the Office of Thrift 
        Supervision, in the case of a savings association the deposits 
        of which are insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance 
        Corporation;
            (3) the Federal Credit Union Act (12 U.S.C. 1751 et seq.) 
        by the National Credit Union Administration Board with respect 
        to any Federal credit union;
            (4) part A of subtitle VII of title 49, United States Code, 
        by the Secretary of Transportation with respect to any air 
        carrier or foreign air carrier subject to that part;
            (5) the Packers and Stockyards Act, 1921 (7 U.S.C. 181 et 
        seq.) (except as provided in section 406 of that Act (7 U.S.C. 
        226, 227)), by the Secretary of Agriculture with respect to any 
        activities subject to that Act; and
            (6) the Farm Credit Act of 1971 (12 U.S.C. 2001 et seq.) by 
        the Farm Credit Administration with respect to any Federal land 
        bank, Federal land bank association, Federal intermediate 
        credit bank, or production credit association.
    (c) Exercise of Certain Powers.--For the purpose of the exercise by 
any agency referred to in subsection (b) of its powers under any Act 
referred to in that subsection, a violation of title I is deemed to be 
a violation of a requirement imposed under that Act. In addition to its 
powers under any provision of law specifically referred to in 
subsection (b), each of the agencies referred to in that subsection may 
exercise, for the purpose of enforcing compliance with any requirement 
imposed under title I of this Act, any other authority conferred on it 
by law.
    (d) Actions by the Commission.--The Commission shall prevent any 
person from violating title I in the same manner, by the same means, 
and with the same jurisdiction, powers, and duties as though all 
applicable terms and provisions of the Federal Trade Commission Act (15 
U.S.C. 41 et seq.) were incorporated into and made a part of this Act. 
Any entity that violates any provision of that title is subject to the 
penalties and entitled to the privileges and immunities provided in the 
Federal Trade Commission Act in the same manner, by the same means, and 
with the same jurisdiction, power, and duties as though all applicable 
terms and provisions of the Federal Trade Commission Act were 
incorporated into and made a part of that title.
    (e) Effect on Other Laws.--
            (1) Preservation of commission authority.--Nothing 
        contained in this title shall be construed to limit the 
        authority of the Commission under any other provision of law.
            (2) Relation to communications act.--Nothing in title I 
        requires an operator of a website or online service to take any 
        action that is inconsistent with the requirements of section 
        222 or 631 of the Communications Act of 1934 (47 U.S.C. 222 or 
        551, respectively).

SEC. 303. PRIVATE RIGHT OF ACTION.

    (a) Private Right of Action.--A person whose personally 
identifiable information is collected, disclosed or used, or is likely 
to be disclosed or used, in violation of title I may, if otherwise 
permitted by the laws or rules of court of a State, bring in an 
appropriate court of that State--
            (1) an action to enjoin or restrain such violation;
            (2) an action to recover for actual monetary loss from such 
        a violation, or to receive $5,000 in damages for each such 
        violation, whichever is greater; or
            (3) both such actions.
    (b) Willful and Knowing Violations.--If the court finds that the 
defendant willfully or knowingly violated title I, the court may, in 
its discretion, increase the amount of the award available under 
subsection (a)(2) to $50,000.
    (c) Exception.--Neither an action to enjoin or restrain a 
violation, nor an action to recover for loss or damage, may be brought 
under this section for the accidental disclosure of information if the 
disclosure was caused by an Act of God, network or systems failure, or 
other event beyond the control of the Internet service provider, online 
service provider, or operator of a commercial website if the provider 
or operator took reasonable precautions to prevent such disclosure in 
the event of such a failure or other event.
    (d) Attorneys Fees; Punitive Damages.--Notwithstanding subsection 
(a)(2), the court in an action brought under this section, may award 
reasonable attorneys fees and punitive damages to the prevailing party.

SEC. 304. ACTIONS BY STATES.

    (a) In General.--
            (1) Civil actions.--In any case in which the attorney 
        general of a State has reason to believe that an interest of 
        the residents of that State has been or is threatened or 
        adversely affected by the engagement of any person in a 
        practice that violates title I, the State, as parens patriae, 
        may bring a civil action on behalf of the residents of the 
        State in a district court of the United States of appropriate 
        jurisdiction to--
                    (A) enjoin that practice;
                    (B) enforce compliance with the rule;
                    (C) obtain damage, restitution, or other 
                compensation on behalf of residents of the State; or
                    (D) obtain such other relief as the court may 
                consider to be appropriate.
            (2) Notice.--
                    (A) In general.--Before filing an action under 
                paragraph (1), the attorney general of the State 
                involved shall provide to the Commission--
                            (i) written notice of that action; and
                            (ii) a copy of the complaint for that 
                        action.
                    (B) Exemption.--
                            (i) In general.--Subparagraph (A) shall not 
                        apply with respect to the filing of an action 
                        by an attorney general of a State under this 
                        subsection, if the attorney general determines 
                        that it is not feasible to provide the notice 
                        described in that subparagraph before the 
                        filing of the action.
                            (ii) Notification.--In an action described 
                        in clause (i), the attorney general of a State 
                        shall provide notice and a copy of the 
                        complaint to the Commission at the same time as 
                        the attorney general files the action.
    (b) Intervention.--
            (1) In general.--On receiving notice under subsection 
        (a)(2), the Commission shall have the right to intervene in the 
        action that is the subject of the notice.
            (2) Effect of intervention.--If the Commission intervenes 
        in an action under subsection (a), it shall have the right--
                    (A) to be heard with respect to any matter that 
                arises in that action; and
                    (B) to file a petition for appeal.
    (c) Construction.--For purposes of bringing any civil action under 
subsection (a), nothing in this Act shall be construed to prevent an 
attorney general of a State from exercising the powers conferred on the 
attorney general by the laws of that State to--
            (1) conduct investigations;
            (2) administer oaths or affirmations; or
            (3) compel the attendance of witnesses or the production of 
        documentary and other evidence.
    (d) Actions by the Commission.--In any case in which an action is 
instituted by or on behalf of the Commission for violation of title I, 
no State may, during the pendency of that action, institute an action 
under subsection (a) against any defendant named in the complaint in 
that action for violation of that rule.
    (e) Venue; Service of Process.--
            (1) Venue.--Any action brought under subsection (a) may be 
        brought in the district court of the United States that meets 
        applicable requirements relating to venue under section 1391 of 
        title 28, United States Code.
            (2) Service of process.--In an action brought under 
        subsection (a), process may be served in any district in which 
        the defendant--
                    (A) is an inhabitant; or
                    (B) may be found.

SEC. 305. WHISTLEBLOWER PROTECTION.

    (a) In General.--No Internet service provider, online service 
provider, or commercial website operator may discharge or otherwise 
discriminate against any employee with respect to compensation, terms, 
conditions, or privileges of employment because the employee (or any 
person acting pursuant to the request of the employee) provided 
information to any Federal or State agency or to the Attorney General 
of the United States or of any State regarding a possible violation of 
any provision of title I.
    (b) Enforcement.--Any employee or former employee who believes he 
has been discharged or discriminated against in violation of subsection 
(a) may file a civil action in the appropriate United States district 
court before the close of the 2-year period beginning on the date of 
such discharge or discrimination. The complainant shall also file a 
copy of the complaint initiating such action with the appropriate 
Federal agency.
    (c) Remedies.--If the district court determines that a violation of 
subsection (a) has occurred, it may order the Internet service 
provider, online service provider, or commercial website operator that 
committed the violation--
            (1) to reinstate the employee to his former position;
            (2) to pay compensatory damages; or
            (3) take other appropriate actions to remedy any past 
        discrimination.
    (d) Attorneys Fees; Punitive Damages.--Notwithstanding subsection 
(c)(2), the court in an action brought under this section, may award 
reasonable attorneys fees and punitive damages to the prevailing party.
    (e) Limitation.--The protections of this section shall not apply to 
any employee who--
            (1) deliberately causes or participates in the alleged 
        violation; or
            (2) knowingly or recklessly provides substantially false 
        information to such an agency or the Attorney General.
    (f) Burdens of Proof.--The legal burdens of proof that prevail 
under subchapter III of chapter 12 of title 5, United States Code (5 
U.S.C. 1221 et seq.) shall govern adjudication of protected activities 
under this section.

SEC. 306. NO EFFECT ON OTHER REMEDIES.

    The remedies provided by this sections 303 and 304 are in addition 
to any other remedy available under any provision of law.

SEC. 307. FTC OFFICE OF ONLINE PRIVACY.

    The Federal Trade Commission shall establish an Office of Online 
Privacy headed by a senior level position officer who reports directly 
to the Commission and its General Counsel. The Office shall study 
privacy issues associated with electronic commerce and the Internet, 
the operation of this Act and the effectiveness of the privacy 
protections provided by title I. The Office shall report its findings 
and recommendations from time to time to the Commission, and, 
notwithstanding any law, regulation, or executive order to the 
contrary, shall submit an annual report directly to the Senate 
Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation and the House of 
Representatives Committee on Commerce on the status of online and 
Internet privacy issues, together with any recommendations for 
additional legislation relating to those issues.

        TITLE IV--COMMUNICATIONS TECHNOLOGY PRIVACY PROTECTIONS

SEC. 401. PRIVACY PROTECTION FOR SUBSCRIBERS OF SATELLITE TELEVISION 
              SERVICES FOR PRIVATE HOME VIEWING.

    (a) In General.--Section 631 of the Communications Act of 1934 (47 
U.S.C. 551) is amended to read as follows:

``SEC. 631. PRIVACY OF SUBSCRIBER INFORMATION FOR SUBSCRIBERS OF CABLE 
              SERVICE AND SATELLITE TELEVISION SERVICE.

    ``(a) Notice to Subscribers Regarding Personally Identifiable 
Information.--At the time of entering into an agreement to provide any 
cable service, satellite home viewing service, or other service to a 
subscriber, and not less often than annually thereafter, a cable 
operator, satellite carrier, or distributor shall provide notice in the 
form of a separate, written statement to such subscriber that clearly 
and conspicuously informs the subscriber of--
            ``(1) the nature of personally identifiable information 
        collected or to be collected with respect to the subscriber as 
        a result of the provision of such service and the nature of the 
        use of such information;
            ``(2) the nature, frequency, and purpose of any disclosure 
        that may be made of such information, including an 
        identification of the types of persons to whom the disclosure 
        may be made;
            ``(3) the period during which such information will be 
        maintained by the cable operator, satellite carrier, or 
        distributor;
            ``(4) the times and place at which the subscriber may have 
        access to such information in accordance with subsection (d); 
        and
            ``(5) the limitations provided by this section with respect 
        to the collection and disclosure of information by the cable 
        operator, satellite carrier, or distributor and the right of 
        the subscriber under this section to enforce such limitations.
    ``(b) Collection of Personally Identifiable Information.--
            ``(1) In general.--Except as provided in paragraph (2), a 
        cable operator, satellite carrier, or distributor shall not use 
        its cable or satellite system to collect personally 
        identifiable information concerning any subscriber without the 
        prior written or electronic consent of the subscriber.
            ``(2) Exception.--A cable operator, satellite carrier, or 
        distributor may use its cable or satellite system to collect 
        information described in paragraph (1) in order to--
                    ``(A) obtain information necessary to render a 
                cable or satellite service or other service provided by 
                the cable operator, satellite carrier, or distributor 
                to the subscriber; or
                    ``(B) detect unauthorized reception of cable or 
                satellite communications.
    ``(c) Disclosure of Personally Identifiable Information.--
            ``(1) In general.--Except as provided in paragraph (2), a 
        cable operator, satellite carrier, or distributor may not 
        disclose personally identifiable information concerning any 
        subscriber without the prior written or electronic consent of 
        the subscriber and shall take such actions as are necessary to 
        prevent unauthorized access to such information by a person 
        other than the subscriber or the cable operator, satellite 
        carrier, or distributor.
            ``(2) Exceptions.--A cable operator, satellite carrier, or 
        distributor may disclose information described in paragraph (1) 
        if the disclosure is--
                    ``(A) necessary to render, or conduct a legitimate 
                business activity related to, a cable or satellite 
                service or other service provided by the cable 
                operator, satellite carrier, or distributor to the 
                subscriber;
                    ``(B) subject to paragraph (3), made pursuant to a 
                court order authorizing such disclosure, if the 
                subscriber is notified of such order by the person to 
                whom the order is directed; or
                    ``(C) a disclosure of the names and addresses of 
                subscribers to any other provider of cable or satellite 
                service or other service, if--
                            ``(i) the cable operator, satellite 
                        carrier, or distributor has provided the 
                        subscriber the opportunity to prohibit or limit 
                        such disclosure; and
                            ``(ii) the disclosure does not reveal, 
                        directly or indirectly--
                                    ``(I) the extent of any viewing or 
                                other use by the subscriber of a cable 
                                or satellite service or other service 
                                provided by the cable operator, 
                                satellite carrier, or distributor; or
                                    ``(II) the nature of any 
                                transaction made by the subscriber 
over the cable or satellite system of the cable operator, satellite 
carrier, or distributor.
            ``(3) Court orders.--A governmental entity may obtain 
        personally identifiable information concerning a cable or 
        satellite subscriber pursuant to a court order only if, in the 
        court proceeding relevant to such court order--
                    ``(A) such entity offers clear and convincing 
                evidence that the subject of the information is 
                reasonably suspected of engaging in criminal activity 
                and that the information sought would be material 
                evidence in the case; and
                    ``(B) the subject of the information is afforded 
                the opportunity to appear and contest such entity's 
                claim.
    ``(d) Subscriber Access to Information.--A cable or satellite 
subscriber shall be provided access to all personally identifiable 
information regarding that subscriber that is collected and maintained 
by a cable operator, satellite carrier, or distributor. Such 
information shall be made available to the subscriber at reasonable 
times and at a convenient place designated by such cable operator, 
satellite carrier, or distributor. A cable or satellite subscriber 
shall be provided reasonable opportunity to correct any error in such 
information.
    ``(e) Destruction of Information.--A cable operator, satellite 
carrier, or distributor shall destroy personally identifiable 
information if the information is no longer necessary for the purpose 
for which it was collected and there are no pending requests or orders 
for access to such information under subsection (d) or pursuant to a 
court order.
    ``(f) Relief.--
            ``(1) In general.--Any person aggrieved by any act of a 
        cable operator, satellite carrier, or distributor in violation 
        of this section may bring a civil action in a district court of 
        the United States.
            ``(2) Damages and costs.--In any action brought under 
        paragraph (1), the court may award a prevailing plaintiff--
                    ``(A) actual damages but not less than liquidated 
                damages computed at the rate of $100 a day for each day 
                of violation or $1,000, whichever is greater;
                    ``(B) punitive damages; and
                    ``(C) reasonable attorneys' fees and other 
                litigation costs reasonably incurred.
            ``(3) No effect on other remedies.--The remedy provided by 
        this subsection shall be in addition to any other remedy 
        available under any provision of law to a cable or satellite 
        subscriber.
    ``(g) Definitions.--In this section:
            ``(1) Distributor.--The term `distributor' means an entity 
        that contracts to distribute secondary transmissions from a 
        satellite carrier and, either as a single channel or in a 
        package with other programming, provides the secondary 
        transmission either directly to individual subscribers for 
        private home viewing or indirectly through other program 
        distribution entities.
            ``(2) Cable operator.--
                    ``(A) In general.--The term `cable operator' has 
                the meaning given that term in section 602.
                    ``(B) Inclusion.--The term includes any person 
                who--
                            ``(i) is owned or controlled by, or under 
                        common ownership or control with, a cable 
                        operator; and
                            ``(ii) provides any wire or radio 
                        communications service.
            ``(3) Other service.--The term `other service' includes any 
        wire, electronic, or radio communications service provided 
        using any of the facilities of a cable operator, satellite 
        carrier, or distributor that are used in the provision of cable 
        service or satellite home viewing service.
            ``(4) Personally identifiable information.--The term 
        `personally identifiable information' does not include any 
        record of aggregate data that does not identify particular 
        persons.
            ``(5) Satellite carrier.--The term `satellite carrier' 
        means an entity that uses the facilities of a satellite or 
        satellite service licensed by the Federal Communications 
        Commission and operates in the Fixed-Satellite Service under 
        part 25 of title 47 of the Code of Federal Regulations or the 
        Direct Broadcast Satellite Service under part 100 of title 47 
        of the Code of Federal Regulations, to establish and operate a 
        channel of communications for point-to-multipoint distribution 
        of television station signals, and that owns or leases a 
        capacity or service on a satellite in order to provide such 
        point-to-multipoint distribution, except to the extent that 
        such entity provides such distribution pursuant to tariff under 
        the Communications Act of 1934, other than for private home 
        viewing.''.
    (b) Notice With Respect to Certain Agreements.--
            (1) In general.--Except as provided in paragraph (2), a 
        cable operator, satellite carrier, or distributor who has 
        entered into agreements referred to in section 631(a) of the 
        Communications Act of 1934, as amended by subsection (a), 
        before the date of enactment of this Act, shall provide any 
        notice required under that section, as so amended, to 
        subscribers under such agreements not later than 180 days after 
        that date.
            (2) Exception.--Paragraph (1) shall not apply with respect 
        to any agreement under which a cable operator, satellite 
        carrier, or distributor was providing notice under section 
        631(a) of the Communications Act of 1934, as in effect on the 
        day before the date of enactment of this Act, as of such date.

SEC. 402. CUSTOMER PROPRIETARY NETWORK INFORMATION.

    Section 222 (c)(1) of the Communications Act of 1934 (47 U.S.C. 222 
(c)(1)) is amended by striking ``approval'' and inserting ``express 
prior authorization''.

                    TITLE V--RULEMAKING AND STUDIES

SEC. 501. FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION EXAMINATION.

    (a) Proceeding Required.--The Federal Trade Commission shall--
            (1) study consumer privacy issues in the traditional, 
        offline marketplace, including whether--
                    (A) consumers are able, and, if not, the methods by 
                which consumers may be enabled--
                            (i) to have knowledge that consumer 
                        information is being collected about them 
                        through their utilization of various offline 
                        services and systems;
                            (ii) to have clear and conspicuous notice 
                        that such information could be used, or is 
                        intended to be used, by the entity collecting 
                        the data for reasons unrelated to the original 
                        communications, or that such information could 
                        be sold, rented, shared, or otherwise disclosed 
                        (or is intended to be sold rented, shared, or 
                        otherwise disclosed) to other companies or 
                        entities; and
                            (iii) to stop the reuse, disclosure, or 
                        sale of that information;
                    (B) in the case of consumers who are children, the 
                abilities described in clauses (i), (ii), and (iii) of 
                subparagraph (A) are or can be exercised by their 
                parents; and
                    (C) changes in the Commission's regulations could 
                provide greater assurance of the offline privacy rights 
                and remedies of parents and consumers generally;
            (2) review responses and suggestions from affected 
        commercial and nonprofit entities to changes proposed under 
        paragraph (1)(C); and
            (3) make recommendations to the Congress for any 
        legislative changes necessary to ensure such rights and 
        remedies.
    (b) Schedule for Federal Trade Commission Responses.--The Federal 
Trade Commission shall, within 6 months after the date of enactment of 
this Act, submit to Congress a report containing the recommendations 
required by subsection (a)(3).

SEC. 502. FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION RULEMAKING.

    (a) Proceeding Required.--The Federal Communications Commission 
shall initiate a rulemaking proceeding to establish uniform consumer 
privacy rules for all communications providers. The rulemaking 
proceeding shall--
            (1) examine the privacy rights and remedies of the 
        consumers of all online and offline technologies, including 
        telecommunications providers, cable, broadcast, satellite, 
        wireless, and telephony services;
            (2) determine whether consumers are able, and, if not, the 
        methods by which consumers may be enabled to exercise such 
        rights and remedies; and
            (3) change the Commission's regulations to coordinate, 
        rationalize, and harmonize laws and regulations administered by 
        the Commission that relate to those rights and remedies.
    (b) Deadline for Changes.--The Federal Communications Commission 
shall complete the rulemaking within 6 months after the date of 
enactment of this Act.

SEC. 503. DEPARTMENT OF LABOR STUDY OF EMPLOYEE-MONITORING ACTIVITIES.

    The Secretary of Labor shall study the extent and nature of 
employer practices that involving monitoring employee activities both 
at the workplace and away from the workplace, by electronic or other 
remote means, including surveillance of electronic mail and Internet 
use, to determine whether and to what extent such practices constitute 
an inappropriate violation of employee privacy. The Secretary shall 
report the results of the study, including findings and 
recommendations, if any, for legislation or regulation to the Congress 
within 6 months after the date of enactment of this Act.

    TITLE VI--PROTECTION OF PERSONALLY IDENTIFIABLE INFORMATION IN 
                               BANKRUPTCY

SEC. 601. PERSONALLY IDENTIFIABLE INFORMATION NOT ASSET IN BANKRUPTCY.

    Section 541(b) of title 11, United States Code, is amended--
            (1) by striking ``or'' after the semicolon in paragraph 
        (4)(B)(ii);
            (2) by striking ``prohibition.'' in paragraph (5) and 
        inserting ``prohibition; or''; and
            (3) by inserting after paragraph (5) the following:
            ``(6) any personally identifiable information (as defined 
        in section 901(6) of the Consumer Privacy Protection Act), or 
        any compilation, or record (in electronic or any other form) of 
        such information.''.

                TITLE VII--INTERNET SECURITY INITIATIVES

SEC. 701. FINDINGS.

    The Congress finds the following:
            (1) Good computer security practices are an underpinning of 
        any privacy protection. The operator of a computer system 
        should protect that system from unauthorized use and secure any 
        private, personal information.
            (2) The Federal Government should be a role model in 
        securing its computer systems and should ensure the protection 
        of private, personal information controlled by Federal 
        agencies.
            (3) The National Institute of Standards and Technology has 
        the responsibility for developing standards and guidelines 
        needed to ensure the cost-effective security and privacy of 
        private, personal information in Federal computer systems.
            (4) This Nation faces a shortage of trained, qualified 
        information technology workers, including computer security 
        professionals. As the demand for information technology workers 
        grows, the Federal government will have an increasingly 
        difficult time attracting such workers into the Federal 
        workforce.
            (5) Some commercial off-the-shelf hardware and off-the-
        shelf software components to protect computer systems are 
        widely available. There is still a need for long-term computer 
        security research, particularly in the area of infrastructure 
        protection.
            (6) The Nation's information infrastructures are owned, for 
        the most part, by the private sector, and partnerships and 
        cooperation will be needed for the security of these 
        infrastructures.
            (7) There is little financial incentive for private 
        companies to enhance the security of the Internet and other 
        infrastructures as a whole. The Federal government will need to 
        make investments in this area to address issues and concerns 
        not addressed by the private sector.

SEC. 702. COMPUTER SECURITY PARTNERSHIP COUNCIL.

    (a) Establishment.--The Secretary of Commerce, in consultation with 
the President's Information Technology Advisory Committee established 
by Executive Order No. 13035 of February 11, 1997 (62 F.R. 7231), shall 
establish a 25-member Computer Security Partnership Council.
    (b) Chairman; Membership.--The Council shall have a chairman, 
appointed by the Secretary, and 24 additional members, appointed by the 
Secretary as follows:
            (1) 5 members, who are not officers or employees of the 
        United States, who are recognized as leaders in the networking 
        and computer security business, at least 1 of whom represents a 
        small or medium-sized company.
            (2) 5 members, who are--
                    (A) not officers or employees of the United States, 
                and
                    (B) not in the networking and computer security 
                business,
        at least 1 of whom represents a small or medium-sized company.
            (3) 5 members, who are not officers or employees of the 
        United States, who represent public interest groups or State or 
        local governments, of whom at least 2 represent such groups and 
        at least 2 represent such governments.
            (4) 5 members, who are not officers or employees of the 
        United States, affiliated with a college, university, or other 
        academic, research-oriented, or public policy institution, with 
        recognized expertise in the field of networking and computer 
        security, whose primary source of employment is by that 
        college, university, or other institution rather than a 
        business organization involved in the networking and computer 
        security business.
            (5) 4 members, who are officers or employees of the United 
        States, with recognized expertise in computer systems 
        management, including computer and network security.
    (c) Function.--The Council shall collect and share information 
about, and increase public awareness of, information security practices 
and programs, threats to information security, and responses to those 
threats.
    (d) Study.--Within 12 months after the date of enactment of this 
Act, the Council shall publish a report which evaluates and describes 
areas of computer security research and development that are not 
adequately developed or funded.
    (e) Additional Recommendations.--The Council shall periodically 
make recommendations to appropriate government and private sector 
entities for enhancing the security of networked computers operated or 
maintained by those entities.

SEC. 703. RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT.

    Section 20 of the National Institute of Standards and Technology 
Act (15 U.S.C. 278g-3) is amended--
            (1) by redesignating subsections (c) and (d) as subsections 
        (d) and (e), respectively; and
            (2) by inserting after subsection (b) the following:
    ``(c) Research and Development of Protection Technologies.--
            ``(1) In general.--The Institute shall establish a program 
        at the National Institute of Standards and Technology to 
        conduct, or to fund the conduct of, research and development of 
        technology and techniques to provide security for advanced 
        communications and computing systems and networks including the 
        Next Generation Internet, the underlying structure of the 
        Internet, and networked computers.
            ``(2) Purpose.--A purpose of the program established under 
        paragraph (1) is to address issues or problems that are not 
        addressed by market-driven, private-sector information security 
        research. This may include research--
                    ``(A) to identify Internet security problems which 
                are not adequately addressed by current security 
                technologies;
                    ``(B) to develop interactive tools to analyze 
                security risks in an easy-to-understand manner;
                    ``(C) to enhance the security and reliability of 
                the underlying Internet infrastructure while minimizing 
                any adverse operational impacts such as speed; and
                    ``(D) to allow networks to become self-healing and 
                provide for better analysis of the state of Internet 
                and infrastructure operations and security.
            ``(3) Matching grants.--A grant awarded by the Institute 
        under the program established under paragraph (1) to a 
        commercial enterprise may not exceed 50 percent of the cost of 
        the project to be funded by the grant.
            ``(4) Authorization of appropriations.--There are 
        authorized to be appropriated to the Institute to carry out 
        this subsection--
                    ``(A) $50,000,000 for fiscal year 2001;
                    ``(B) $60,000,000 for fiscal year 2002;
                    ``(C) $70,000,000 for fiscal year 2003;
                    ``(D) $80,000,000 for fiscal year 2004;
                    ``(E) $90,000,000 for fiscal year 2005; and
                    ``(F) $100,000,000 for fiscal year 2006.''.

SEC. 704. COMPUTER SECURITY TRAINING PROGRAMS.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary of Commerce, in consultation with 
appropriate Federal agencies, shall establish a program to support the 
training of individuals in computer security, Internet security, and 
related fields at institutions of higher education located in the 
United States.
    (b) Support Authorized.--Under the program established under 
subsection (a), the Secretary may provide scholarships, loans, and 
other forms of financial aid to students at institutions of higher 
education. The Secretary shall require a recipient of a scholarship 
under this program to provide a reasonable period of service as an 
employee of the United States government after graduation as a 
condition of the scholarship, and may authorize full or partial 
forgiveness of indebtedness for loans made under this program in 
exchange for periods of employment by the United States government.
    (c) Authorization of Appropriations.--There are authorized to be 
appropriated to the Secretary such sums as may be necessary to carry 
out this section--
            (A) $15,000,000 for fiscal year 2001;
            (B) $17,000,000 for fiscal year 2002;
            (C) $20,000,000 for fiscal year 2003;
            (D) $25,000,000 for fiscal year 2004;
            (E) $30,000,000 for fiscal year 2005; and
            (F) $35,000,000 for fiscal year 2006.

SEC. 705. GOVERNMENT INFORMATION SECURITY STANDARDS.

    (a) In General.--Section 20(b) of the National Institute of 
Standards and Technology Act (15 U.S.C. 278g-3(b)) is amended--
            (1) by striking ``and'' after the semicolon in paragraph 
        (4);
            (2) by redesignating paragraph (5) as paragraph (6); and
            (3) by inserting after paragraph (4) the following:
            ``(5) to provide guidance and assistance to Federal 
        agencies in the protection of interconnected computer systems 
        and to coordinate Federal response efforts related to 
        unauthorized access to Federal computer systems; and''.
    (b) Federal Computer System Security Training.--Section 5(b) of the 
Computer Security Act of 1987 (49 U.S.C. 759 note) is amended--
            (1) by striking ``and'' at the end of paragraph (1);
            (2) by striking the period at the end of paragraph (2) and 
        inserting in lieu thereof ``; and''; and
            (3) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
            ``(3) to include emphasis on protecting the availability of 
        Federal electronic citizen services and protecting sensitive 
        information in Federal databases and Federal computer sites 
        that are accessible through public networks.''.

SEC. 706. RECOGNITION OF QUALITY IN COMPUTER SECURITY PRACTICES.

    Section 20 of the National Institute of Standards and Technology 
Act (15 U.S.C. 278g-3), as amended by section 703, is further amended--
            (1) by redesignating subsections (d) and (e) as subsections 
        (e) and (f), respectively; and
            (2) by inserting after subsection (c), the following:
    ``(d) Award Program.--The Institute may establish a program for the 
recognition of excellence in Federal computer system security 
practices, including the development of a seal, symbol, mark, or logo 
that could be displayed on the website maintained by the operator of 
such a system recognized under the program. In order to be recognized 
under the program, the operator--
            ``(1) shall have implemented exemplary processes for the 
        protection of its systems and the information stored on that 
        system;
            ``(2) shall have met any standard established under 
        subsection (a);
            ``(3) shall have a process in place for updating the system 
        security procedures; and
            ``(4) shall meet such other criteria as the Institute may 
        require.''.

SEC. 707. DEVELOPMENT OF AUTOMATED PRIVACY CONTROLS.

    Section 20 of the National Institute of Standards and Technology 
Act (15 U.S.C. 278g-3), as amended by section 706, is further amended--
            (1) by redesignating subsection (f) as subsection (g); and
            (2) by inserting after subsection (e) the following:
    ``(f) Development of Internet Privacy Program.--The Institute shall 
encourage and support the development of one or more computer programs, 
protocols, or other software, such as the World Wide Web Consortium's 
P3P program, capable of being installed on computers, or computer 
networks, with Internet access that would reflect the user's 
preferences for protecting personally-identifiable or other sensitive, 
privacy-related information, and automatically execute the program, 
once activated, without requiring user intervention.''.

        TITLE VIII--CONGRESSIONAL INFORMATION SECURITY STANDARDS

SEC. 801. EXERCISE OF RULEMAKING POWER.

    This title is enacted by the Congress--
            (1) as an exercise of the rulemaking power of the House of 
        Representatives and the Senate, respectively, and as such it is 
        deemed a part of the rules of each House, respectively, but 
        applicable only with respect to that House; and it supersedes 
        other rules only to the extent that it are inconsistent 
        therewith; and
            (2) with full recognition of the constitutional right of 
        either House to change the rules (so far as relating to that 
        House) at any time, in the same manner and to the same extent 
        as in the case of any other rule of that House.

SEC. 802. SENATE.

    (a) In General.--The Sergeant at Arms of the United States Senate 
shall develop regulations setting forth an information security and 
electronic privacy policy governing use of the Internet by officers and 
employees of the Senate in accordance with the following 4 principles 
of privacy:
            (1) Notice and awareness.--Websites must provide users 
        notice of their information practices.
            (2) Choices and consent.--Websites must offer users choices 
        as to how personally identifiable information is used beyond 
        the use for which the information was provided.
            (3) Access and participation.--Websites must offer users 
        reasonable access to personally identifiable information and an 
opportunity to correct inaccuracies.
            (4) Security and integrity.--Websites must take reasonable 
        steps to protect the security and integrity of personally 
        identifiable information.
    (b) Procedure.--
            (1) Proposal.--The Sergeant at Arms shall publish a general 
        notice of proposed rulemaking under section 553(b) of title 5, 
        United States Code, but, instead of publication of a general 
        notice of proposed rulemaking in the Federal Register, the 
        Sergeant at Arms shall transmit such notice to the President 
        pro tempore of the Senate for publication in the Congressional 
        Record on the first day on which the Senate is in session 
        following such transmittal. Such notice shall set forth the 
        recommendations of the Sergeant at Arms for regulations under 
        subsection (a).
            (2) Comment.--Before adopting regulations, the Sergeant at 
        Arms shall provide a comment period of at least 30 days after 
        publication of general notice of proposed rulemaking.
            (3) Adoption.--After considering comments, the Sergeant at 
        Arms shall adopt regulations and shall transmit notice of such 
        action together with a copy of such regulations to the 
        President pro tempore of the Senate for publication in the 
        Congressional Record on the first day on which the Senate is in 
        session following such transmittal.
    (c) Approval of Regulations.--
            (1) In general.--The regulations adopted by the Sergeant at 
        Arms may be approved by the Senate by resolution.
            (2) Referral.--Upon receipt of a notice of adoption of 
        regulations under subsection (b)(3), the presiding officers of 
        the Senate shall refer such notice, together with a copy of 
        such regulations, to the Committee on Rules and Administration 
        of the Senate. The purpose of the referral shall be to consider 
        whether such regulations should be approved.
            (3) Joint referral and discharge.--The presiding officer of 
        the Senate may refer the notice of issuance of regulations, or 
        any resolution of approval of regulations, to one committee or 
        jointly to more than one committee. If a committee of the 
        Senate acts to report a jointly referred measure, any other 
        committee of the Senate must act within 30 calendar days of 
        continuous session, or be automatically discharged.
            (4) Resolution of approval.--In the case of a resolution of 
        the Senate, the matter after the resolving clause shall be the 
        following: ``the following regulations issued by the Sergeant 
        at Arms on ---------- ----, 2------ are hereby approved:'' (the 
        blank spaces being appropriately filled in and the text of the 
        regulations being set forth).
    (d) Issuance and Effective Date.--
            (1) Publication.--After approval of the regulations under 
        subsection (c), the Sergeant at Arms shall submit the 
        regulations to the President pro tempore of the Senate for 
        publication in the Congressional Record on the first day on 
        which the Senate is in session following such transmittal.
            (2) Date of issuance.--The date of issuance of the 
        regulations shall be the date on which they are published in 
        the Congressional Record under paragraph (1).
            (3) Effective date.--The regulations shall become effective 
        not less than 60 days after the regulations are issued, except 
        that the Sergeant at Arms may provide for an earlier effective 
        date for good cause found (within the meaning of section 
        553(d)(3) of title 5, United States Code) and published with 
        the regulation.
    (e) Amendment of Regulations.--Regulations may be amended in the 
same manner as is described in this section for the adoption, approval, 
and issuance of regulations, except that the Sergeant at Arms may 
dispense with publication of a general notice of proposed rulemaking of 
minor, technical, or urgent amendments that satisfy the criteria for 
dispensing with publication of such notice pursuant to section 
553(b)(B) of title 5, United States Code.
    (f) Right to Petition for Rulemaking.--Any interested party may 
petition to the Sergeant at Arms for the issuance, amendment, or repeal 
of a regulation.

                         TITLE IX--DEFINITIONS

SEC. 901. DEFINITIONS.

    In this Act:
            (1) Operator of a commercial website.--The term ``operator 
        of a commercial website''--
                    (A) means any person who operates a website located 
                on the Internet or an online service and who collects 
                or maintains personal information from or about the 
                users of or visitors to such website or online service, 
                or on whose behalf such information is collected or 
                maintained, where such website or online service is 
                operated for commercial purposes, including any person 
                offering products or services for sale through that 
                website or online service, involving commerce--
                            (i) among the several States or with 1 or 
                        more foreign nations;
                            (ii) in any territory of the United States 
                        or in the District of Columbia, or between any 
                        such territory and--
                                    (I) another such territory; or
                                    (II) any State or foreign nation; 
                                or
                            (iii) between the District of Columbia and 
                        any State, territory, or foreign nation; but
                    (B) does not include any nonprofit entity that 
                would otherwise be exempt from coverage under section 5 
                of the Federal Trade Commission Act (15 U.S.C. 45).
            (2) Disclose.--The term ``disclose'' means the release of 
        personally identifiable information about a user of an Internet 
        service, online service, or commercial website by an Internet 
        service provider, online service provider, or operator of a 
        commercial website for any purpose, except where such 
        information is provided to a person who provides support 
for the internal operations of the service or website and who does not 
disclose or use that information for any other purpose.
            (3) Release.--The term ``release of personally identifiable 
        information'' means the direct or indirect, active or passive, 
        sharing, selling, renting, or other provision of personally 
        identifiable information of a user of an Internet service, 
        online service, or commercial website to any other person other 
        than the user.
            (4) Internal operations support.--The term ``support for 
        the internal operations of a service or website'' means any 
        activity necessary to maintain the technical functionality of 
        that service or website.
            (5) Collect.--The term ``collect'' means the gathering of 
        personally identifiable information about a user of an Internal 
        service, online service, or commercial website by or on behalf 
        of the provider or operator of that service or website by any 
        means, direct or indirect, active or passive, including--
                    (A) an online request for such information by the 
                provider or operator, regardless of how the information 
                is transmitted to the provider or operator;
                    (B) the use of a chat room, message board, or other 
                online service to gather the information; or
                    (C) tracking or use of any identifying code linked 
                to a user of such a service or website, including the 
                use of cookies.
            (3) Cookie.--The term ``cookie'' means any program, 
        function, or device, commonly known as a ``cookie'', that makes 
        a record on the user's computer (or other electronic device) of 
        that user's access to an Internet service, online service, or 
        commercial website.
            (4) Federal agency.--The term ``Federal agency'' means an 
        agency, as that term is defined in section 551(1) of title 5, 
        United States Code.
            (5) Internet.--The term ``Internet'' means collectively the 
        myriad of computer and telecommunications facilities, including 
        equipment and operating software, which comprise the 
        interconnected world-wide network of networks that employ the 
        Transmission Control Protocol/Internet Protocol, or any 
        predecessor or successor protocols to such protocol, to 
        communicate information of all kinds by wire or radio.
            (6) Personally identifiable information.--The term 
        ``personally identifiable information'' means individually 
        identifiable information about an individual collected online, 
        including--
                    (A) a first and last name, whether given at birth 
                or adoption, assumed, or legally changed;
                    (B) a home or other physical address including 
                street name and name of a city or town;
                    (C) an e-mail address;
                    (D) a telephone number;
                    (E) a Social Security number;
                    (F) a credit card number;
                    (G) a birth date, birth certificate number, or 
                place of birth;
                    (H) any other identifier that the Commission 
                determines permits the physical or online contacting of 
                a specific individual; or
                    (I) unique identifying information that an Internet 
                service provider, online service provider, or operator 
                of a commercial website collects and combines with an 
                identifier described in this paragraph.
            (7) Internet service provider; online service provider; 
        website.--The Commission shall by rule define the terms 
        ``Internet service provider'', ``online service provider'', and 
        ``website'', and shall revise or amend such rule to take into 
        account changes in technology, practice, or procedure with 
        respect to the collection of personal information over the 
        Internet.
            (8) Offline.--The term ``offline'' refers to any activity 
        regulated by this Act or by section 2710 of title 18, United 
        States Code, that occurs other than by or through the active or 
        passive use of an Internet connection, regardless of the medium 
        by or through which that connection is established.
            (9) Online.--The term ``online'' refers to any activity 
        regulated by this Act or by section 2710 of title 18, United 
        States Code, that is effected by active or passive use of an 
        Internet connection, regardless of the medium by or through 
        which that connection is established.
                                 &lt;all&gt;
</pre></body></html>
